---
title: ".ace? how to open"
date: 2006-09-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by IngSoc on 2006-09-22
Hey just got a but load of new songs and ther in ace format... Any suggestions for a complete novice to open? PLEASEI WANNA LISTEN TO THE LONGBEACH ALL STARS!

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-22
Use synaptic and search for .ace and you will see the package to install.

unace

extract, test and view .ace archives
The unace utility is used for extracting, testing and viewing
the contents of archives created with the ACE archiver.

---

### Post by IngSoc on 2006-09-23
Yo I instaleld it and still nada. reason?

---

### Post by IngSoc on 2006-09-23
Anybody?

---

### Post by MWAAAHAAA on 2006-09-23
1. Contact your source and tell it to compress it in a proper format, e.g. .zip
2. If unace from the repositories does not work, check the winace website for their linux version.

And please, bumping your posts is not a nice thing to do.

---

### Post by Al_maverick on 2006-09-23
> **MWAAAHAAA said:**
> 1. Contact your source and tell it to compress it in a proper format, e.g. .zip
2. If unace from the repositories does not work, check the winace website for their linux version.

And please, bumping your posts is not a nice thing to do.

I downloaded linuxace 2.5 from the winace websiste, but I still cant uncompress the file.

I get this screen when I try to: 
> al@maverick:~/tmp$ ./unace e Ghost.ace

I get this screen: 
> UNACE v2.5     Copyright by ACE Compression Software       Jun 18 2003 22:25:55

Error: No such archive found:
 /home/al/tmp/Ghost.ace


Both the .ace file and unace are on the same folder.

---

### Post by IngSoc on 2006-09-23
> **MWAAAHAAA said:**
> 1. Contact your source and tell it to compress it in a proper format, e.g. .zip
2. If unace from the repositories does not work, check the winace website for their linux version.

And please, bumping your posts is not a nice thing to do.

Not nice? Why is that... Never in my life have I seen any one say somthing about bumping a post once.

---

### Post by ubuntuuser on 2006-09-23
Well, there's nothing wrong with bumping, but maybe you should wait a little more than just about half an hour. If you want/need instant help, use the ubuntu IRC channel, otherwise please be a bit more patient.

---

### Post by IngSoc on 2006-09-23
Well said...

---

### Post by MWAAAHAAA on 2006-09-24
> al@maverick:~/tmp$ ./unace e Ghost.ace 

Are you sure the file is called Ghost.ace, and not ghost.ace or similar (linux is case-sensitive)? Could you list the directory contents of the folder, i.e. 'ls /home/al/tmp'.

---

### Post by Al_maverick on 2006-09-25
> **MWAAAHAAA said:**
> Are you sure the file is called Ghost.ace, and not ghost.ace or similar (linux is case-sensitive)? Could you list the directory contents of the folder, i.e. 'ls /home/al/tmp'.

Im not at my computer right now, but Im positive that its the right name. I completed the name using tab.

I also tried by changing the name to all lower-case, but its always the same error.

---

### Post by Al_maverick on 2006-09-26
This is the list of files in that directory

> al@maverick:~/tmp$ ls
ati-driver-installer-8.28.8.run
Contactos.txt
fglrx-control_8.28.8-1_amd64.deb
fglrx-installer_8.28.8-1_amd64.changes
fglrx-kernel-source_8.28.8-1_amd64.deb
fglrx-sources_8.28.8-1_amd64.deb
file_id.diz
ghost.ace
linunace22.tgz
linunace25
linunace25.tgz
unace
VIDEO_TS
xorg.conf
xorg.conf.fglrx-0
xorg.conf.fglrx-1
xorg.conf.fglrx-2
xorg.conf.original-0
xorg-driver-fglrx_8.28.8-1_amd64.deb
xorg-driver-fglrx-dev_8.28.8-1_amd64.deb
al@maverick:~/tmp$

and this is the error I get:
> 
al@maverick:~/tmp$ ./unace x ghost.ace

UNACE v2.5     Copyright by ACE Compression Software       Jun 18 2003 22:25:55

Error: No such archive found:
 /home/al/tmp/ghost.ace
al@maverick:~/tmp$

---

### Post by tommytom on 2006-12-31
Here is another way to try seems to work for some people, but i only got so far with it.
 [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=324590&highlight=.ace](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=324590&highlight=.ace)

---

