---
title: "Connecting with dial up"
date: 2007-03-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Axme on 2007-03-20
I am trying to get help to connect with dial up
I am using 6.10 ubuntu with gnome-ppp
I can get the modem to dial and the log in gnome-ppp says

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!" 
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56 
--> Cannot set information for serial port. 
--> Initializing modem. 
--> Sending: ATZ 
ATZ 
OK 
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 
OK 
--> Modem initialized. 
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT1470,08089933031 
--> Waiting for carrier. 
ATM1L3DT1470,08089933031 
CONNECT 115200 
--> Carrier detected. Waiting for prompt. 
~[7f]}#@!}!}!} &}"}&} }*} } }#}%B#}%}%}&}'[7f]90}'}"}(}"}1}$}%t}3})}!BTMDIP+H~ 
--> PPP negotiation detected. 
--> Starting pppd at Sun Mar 18 20:59:14 2007 
--> Pid of pppd: 7325 
--> Using interface ppp0

When I open firefox and try to look at a web page it was it cannot be found on server.
After 30secs it disconnects.

If I change the password to a wrong one it does not make any difference.  I don't think that the password or username are being sent.

I did try connecting last night with puppy linux, the very small live distro, and had no problems at all, but that was using gkdial.

I would like to know what I am doing wrong.
I have tried setting up a connection manually using pppconfig but when this is done I do not know how to connect.

Sorry I am a complete newbie

---

### Post by unisol on 2007-03-20
try running:sudo wvdialconf/etc/wxvdial.conf it should tell you what port your modem is on. then open your networking and set up your modem from there. make sure that you have a hardware modem and not a winmodem.

---

### Post by Axme on 2007-03-20
I know which port the modem is on, I have connected through puppy linux.
The issue seems to be that my username and password are not being sent to the server.

---

### Post by baroing on 2007-03-20
Take my advice with a grain of salt, I'm a complete newbie too...
I'm running  Kubuntu 6.06 Dapper and using an external serial modem....

I had a similar problem getting dialup to work using KPPP (default dial up config tool that comes with Kubuntu)

I tried using wvdial with no luck, but in the end <sudo pppconfig> did the trick (don't ask me why it worked, considering i entered the same info in the KPPP setup)

Hang in there!

---

### Post by baroing on 2007-03-20
Sorry Axme, I just re-read the last line in your post...

If pppconfig worked, then to connect, open a terminal:

use:
pon  to connect
poff to disconnect
plog to see the log...aptly named (-_-)

Good luck!

---

### Post by baroing on 2007-03-20
here's the post that i used when trying to solve my connection problems (alternative #2 is the one that eventually worked):

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f5120acdc3ef62fe7d37bfd3f0c9157ebe9c8ef6](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-f5120acdc3ef62fe7d37bfd3f0c9157ebe9c8ef6)

---

