---
title: "nvidia 7600gt driver problems"
date: 2008-01-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Trower on 2008-01-29
I can not seem to get my card to work with ubuntu tryed envy didnt work. I did find a post and got some info on the card in terminal so here it is 

nick@nick-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GT] (rev a1)
nick@nick-desktop:~$ sudo lshw -C display
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: G70 [GeForce 7600 GT]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
nick@nick-desktop:~$ 


I am very very new to Ubuntu and linux so any help would be great, thanks Nick

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-01-29
Hi. To enable the nVidia drivers you can go to 'System->Administration->Restricted Drivers Manager' and check the box for your card.

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-01-29
Can you post the following file too:

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by Trower on 2008-01-29
It wont let me check the box 
here is the file you asked to post 

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GT]"
	Driver		"nv"

thanks agian, Nick

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-01-29
If you still have Envy installed, try removing it:
```
sudo aptitude remove --purge envy
```
or:
```
sudo dpkg -P envy
```
Then restart your display by pressing CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE, log in again and try to enable the restricted drivers again.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-01-29
Hi.  I have an NVidia 7600GS card.  The way I got Ubuntu to load the drivers was as follows:
1) Go to System - Preferences - Appearance
2) Select the Visual Effects Tab
3) Select the 'Extra' effects radio button.
4) A message will appear suggesting that you need to download the drivers.  Get drivers.
Hopefully this will resolve the problem, you shouldn't need to reboot.:)

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-01-29
If you still have the restricted drivers installed, change the following line:

Driver "nv"

to:

Driver "nvidia"

otherwise change it to:

Driver "vesa"

reboot and try again.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2008-01-29
I would suggest to get rid of envy and enable restricted drivers in ubuntu.

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-01-29
The latest version of envy has the new 169.09 drivers, does the resticted manager out of interest?

---

### Post by Trower on 2008-01-29
I got the drivers to work, removed envy and reinstalled found that some dependent files were corrupt so replaced and reinstalled envey now they work great:) Thanks for the help guys!

---

