---
title: "[SOLVED] Request help with one line is fstqab"
date: 2007-08-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by m9ke on 2007-08-26
Edit:
The link below leads to Ubuntu-specific directions for understanding and editing fstab.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131&highlight=How+to+fstab](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131&highlight=How+to+fstab)

m9ke
##
Hi all,

I am running Fiesty on a box with two physical hard drives installed.  Drive0 mounts at boot time and contains the Ubuntu.  I am not doing dual booting.  Drive1 is intended for storage only.  Logged in as me I can mount drive1 manually.  I would like it to mount automatically at startup time.

Here is my fstab

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=4f8abe06-41c2-4c6a-a81b-9592281e43a2 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=1a5b433c-aeb6-4fa1-9fd7-ef7fc763ffa2 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
```

I would appreciate it if some one could show me which line in the above applies to drive1, and parse thru it to teach me the meaning of the arguments and options.  And tell me what to change to make drive1 mount automagically at boot time.

Thanks.
m9ke

---

### Post by finer recliner on 2007-08-26
your fstab is a configuration file it does not tell you what drives are currently mounted. fstab is inteded to be run at startup so that it automounts partitions/drives.

look at /etc/mtab instead. this is the file that displays all devices currently mounted. (do NOT edit this file, it is autogenerated).


EDIT:
oh and without trying to sound too much like a jerk, this was the first link that came up when i googled for "how to edit fstab"
[http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html](http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html)

---

### Post by reset3x on 2007-08-26
> **m9ke said:**
> Hi all,

I am running Fiesty on a box with two physical hard drives installed.  Drive0 mounts at boot time and contains the Ubuntu.  I am not doing dual booting.  Drive1 is intended for storage only.  Logged in as me I can mount drive1 manually.  I would like it to mount automatically at startup time.

Here is my fstab

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=4f8abe06-41c2-4c6a-a81b-9592281e43a2 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=1a5b433c-aeb6-4fa1-9fd7-ef7fc763ffa2 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
```

I would appreciate it if some one could show me which line in the above applies to drive1, and parse thru it to teach me the meaning of the arguments and options.  And tell me what to change to make drive1 mount automagically at boot time.

Thanks.
m9ke

first and foremost backup your fstab

```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
```

Open Nautilus as root ```
sudo Nautilus
``` Just be extra careful about what you're doing so you dont hose your system.... and navigate to /etc/fstab and open it with gedit..

Make a duplicate entry of your primary drive in your fstab by copying and pasting the entry right below your primary drive... It's a good idea to make some space below it first... 

Nnavigate to /dev/disk/by-uuid... right click on the disks until you find the one you wish to mount by checking the link target... when you find the one you want right click and copy the uuid in the properties tab... Then change the entry you copiedin your fstab  to reflect the target ie:/dev/sda1, hda1 or what ever your target is... Then paste the uuid you copied  over the uuid in the new entry..

Close Gedit and Nautilus...

in the terminal enter ```
sudo mount -a
```

Your drive should now be mounted and usable.... Each time you boot..

---

### Post by m9ke on 2007-08-26
Thanks very much, finer recliner and reset3x.  I am sure I can do this with the info you have given me.  Special thanks for reminding me to back up my fstab file.  I won't fail to do so.

Cheers,
m9ke

---

