---
title: "6.06LTS will not boot"
date: 2007-04-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by conundrum on 2007-04-09
I am trying to run the live/demo version of Ubuntu 6.06LTS, but upon reboot the screen comes down to this;

isolinux3.11 Debian-2006-03-16 isolinux: Image checksum error, sorry...
isolinux 3.11 Debian-2006-03-16 cannot boot from this cd. Please use CDZ or try a BIOS update

  So...what is CDZ?  I checked to see BIOS was set to boot from CD first-still is.
This is an old(ancient to most of you)box.  Pentium II 350mhz, 327680 ram, 40 gig harddrive, with virtually nothing on it except win98se.
  The cd drive is old-I have made a copy of rawrite2-am wondering if this is the answer.  Peculiar thing happened a bit ago-the unit would NOT turn off after going through the usual shutdown routine-I wound up having to unplug it from the wall to shut down-I did remove Ubuntu cd before this antic.  Upon restart everything appears as normal.   Aliens??
    Thanks for any help. c.

Oh-I looked in my computer while CD was in and "running" and there were several files displayed from the CD.  No,  I did not poke around with them, tempting as it was!

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2007-04-09
since you're running a low powered pent. 2 machine you should use xubuntu 6.06.

---

### Post by terdon on 2007-04-09
It sounds like you may simply have a bad copy of the cd... Try downloading it again.

---

### Post by conundrum on 2007-04-09
No CD burner-oh well, it was a nice idea.  Can't justify a new computer-this one, while old, works fine overall.  Thanks for the responses.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2007-04-10
Likely a messed up CD drive. It likely stopped responding during the Linux boot process. 
Some CD drives have a bad habit of slowing down then stopping and never spinning up again!

---

