---
title: "help with grub"
date: 2007-04-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by joepye on 2007-04-03
For all the posts on grub I can find, I can't find the answer to this simple question, so I'm hoping somebody will take pity on me and point me in the right direction.  I have XP on one hard drive, Ubuntu on the other.  I came across some old Red Hat disks and thought, what the heck, I'll install it and see what it is like.  Installation went well, but apparently it installed a new copy of grub and it didn't find my Ubuntu.  So all I need is how to modify this second copy of grub so I have my Ubuntu show up on the boot menu.  My menu looks like this now:

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd1,0)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/hdb1
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/hda
default=1
timeout=10
splashimage=(hd1,0)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
title Red Hat Linux (2.4.20-6)
	root (hd1,0)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.4.20-6 ro root=LABEL=/
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.4.20-6.img
title DOS
	rootnoverify (hd0,0)
	chainloader +1


By analogy, I think I want to start my Ubuntu entry like so:

title Ubuntu (6.06 LTS)
        root(hd1,3)

How do I finish it off?

Thanks....

---

### Post by george29 on 2007-04-03
I believe that if you are not using a separate partition for /boot, that a copy of your ubuntu grub.conf will still be on the ubuntu partition. as long as you didn't install RH over ubuntu.

what you can do is mount the ubuntu partition and then find that file and copy across the info you need.

if you have xp on hda1, ubuntu on hdb1 and RH on hdb2

then make a mountpoint in RH..

change to root (su)

```
 mkdir /mnt/what you want to call it
```

then 

```
mount /dev/hdb2  /mnt/what you want to call it
```

hope that helps.

---

### Post by joepye on 2007-04-03
> **george29 said:**
> I believe that if you are not using a separate partition for /boot, that a copy of your ubuntu grub.conf will still be on the ubuntu partition. as long as you didn't install RH over ubuntu.

what you can do is mount the ubuntu partition and then find that file and copy across the info you need.

if you have xp on hda1, ubuntu on hdb1 and RH on hdb2

then make a mountpoint in RH..

change to root (su)

```
 mkdir /mnt/what you want to call it
```

then 

```
mount /dev/hdb2  /mnt/what you want to call it
```

hope that helps.

Thanks, that did help.  Exactly what I needed.  I'm back in business with Ubuntu.

---

