---
title: "7.04 machine very sluggish"
date: 2007-04-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by christo16 on 2007-04-27
Hello all,
My 7.04 machine is really sluggish, it is a good machine it has 1gb ram and an AMD 3200+ (2.0ghz) processor.  I often run Azureus which I know is a resource hog.  Is there anything I can do to speed up things?  
Here are some screenshots:
Thank you!!

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2007-04-27
Which program is using the most CPU resources? And have you installed video-cart drivers?

---

### Post by christo16 on 2007-04-27
It looks like my top two are java (Azureus) and vino-server.  I not sure what the second one is.

---

### Post by Cless on 2007-04-27
The same thing is happening to me when I run Azureus. When Azureus is running I get a CPU load that reaches 100 %, but when I'm not running it the CPU load is as low as 4%. Is there something wrong with Azureus or something? Or is it Java? Didn't have this problem before I formatted and upgraded from Dapper to Feisty.

---

### Post by dberg on 2007-04-27
Mine is also running very slow after the Feisty install. Even though my CPU is only running at 8%, opening new application takes around 11 seconds unless the application is already open (such as opening a second window of Firefox).  I would really like to solve this issue.

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-04-27
Easy answer to this, use bit tornado :D.

Its a very good downloader, definitely doesn't max out CPU. Though one drawback is you have to open each tracker in its own window.. but I think each is around 5-8 % not much overall. Just remember to seed :)

---

### Post by nickpaton on 2007-04-27
@ Christo - |Is your Feisty version 32 or 64bit? 

what graphics card are you using?  Have you installed the latest graphics drivers?

What happens when you uninstall Azureus? 

Is Java the latest version?  

May I suggest uninstalling Azureus and doing a reinstall via Automatix2.

What happens when you uninstall vino-server?

To help sort this out I suggest you try this route first.

Good luck!

---

### Post by nickpaton on 2007-04-27
Have a look at [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=402137") post.

---

### Post by shaneosullivan on 2007-04-30
I have the same issue as dberg - opening a new application can take a long time, much longer than on Edgy.  Even simple applications such as Text Editor or a Terminal window.

I'm running on a IBM Thinkpad X41, and have the same drivers that I used on Edgy (unless the upgrade replaced them with an inferior copy), so I see no reason for the slowdown

---

### Post by dberg on 2007-05-02
> **shaneosullivan said:**
> I have the same issue as dberg - opening a new application can take a long time, much longer than on Edgy.  Even simple applications such as Text Editor or a Terminal window.

I'm running on a IBM Thinkpad X41, and have the same drivers that I used on Edgy (unless the upgrade replaced them with an inferior copy), so I see no reason for the slowdown

Have you been able to find a solution yet, I have not found anything that works for me.

---

