---
title: "There Must Be a Way..NTFS-3G...."
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Thanatos10 on 2007-06-02
I've tried everyone's suggestions from my earlier post, read several wiki's, forum's, "official web pages" and nothing.  All I want is to be able to start Ubuntu 7.04 and be able to see and use my other three partitions (all Windows NTFS) using NTFS-3g.  I've installed  ntfs-config 0.5.5, and everything else closely associated with it, I think.

Is it possible to show three icon's labeled, "Windows_XP", "FIles" and "Vista" on my desk top?  And then access them normally, without any permission problems?

Here is a copy of my fstab file:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 hda2 hdb1:
/dev/hda1 /media/Windows_XP 	ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/hda2 /media/File downloads ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF 8 0 0
/dev/hdb1 /media/Vista 		         ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb3 :
UUID=c08703f0-babe-4253-b1cf-04c3aeaa5da7 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 

And here is the result of sudo fdisk -l command:

Disk /dev/hda: 163.9 GB, 163928604672 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19929 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1       12560   100888168+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda2           12561       19929    59191461    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/hdb: 200.0 GB, 200049647616 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24321 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdb1               1       17885   143661231    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hdb2   *       17886       24005    49158868+  83  Linux
/dev/hdb3           24006       24267     2104483+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
Note: sector size is 2048 (not 512)

Disk /dev/sda: 30.0 GB, 30005821440 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 912 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 2048 = 32901120 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1           3       96264    0  Empty
/dev/sda2               4         912    29206170    b  W95 FAT3

/dev/hda1 is my Windows XP partition
/dev/hda2 is a directory where data files, etc. are stored
/dev/hdb1 is my Windows Vista partition

The /dev/sta1 and sta2 are my IPod I believe.

What am I doing wrong?  My cdrom/dvd's seem to work OK, but I haven't really tried anything other then reading data files.

If anyone in privy to the secret please let me in on it.  I've hit the wall as far as my technical experience will take me.  

And as an aside (maybe a different forum) I get this error I run gksudo gedit /etc/fstab:

(gedit:11022): GnomeUI-WARNING **: While connecting to session manager:
Authentication Rejected, reason : None of the authentication protocols specified are supported and host-based authentication failed.

This just stated this afternoon and it only does it once after I open a new terminal window.

Thanks for your time and I apologize for such a long post.

Scott....

---

### Post by m!key on 2007-06-02
Have you started the ntfs config tool yet (applications -> system tools -> ntfs config tool methinks)? That's all i had to do to enable read / write support for my NTFS drives.

---

### Post by drowner on 2007-06-02
Before you do ANYTHING else, unmount that hda2, if it is mounted and get rid of that space between 'File' and 'downloads'.

Tell us EXACTLY what the problem is? CAn you not read to the drives? Or write? What happens?

If you mount a drive to the /media folder, it should show up on yer desktop.

Lets see the output of 

ls /media

as well

---

### Post by Thanatos10 on 2007-06-02
Yes, it starts and asks if I want to edit external and/or internal drives.  I check the radio button for the internal drives and the the program exits.

I did notice on he NTFS-3g web page that there should be a step where NTFS-3g asks what drive you want to mount.  But I never get the message box.

Thanks

---

### Post by drowner on 2007-06-02
So what's the problem? (apart from the space between File and downloads, you'll never mount anything with that there)

YOu've told us that there must be a way, you found the way, but i;m still not sure whats wrong?

---

### Post by gary0 on 2007-06-02
Did you install ntfs-3g? (not just the config frontend)

Try this:


[PHP]sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g

    * Read #How to list partition tables 

    * Create the local mount folder and edit the fstab file to mount the disks to this folder. 

    e.g. Assumed that /dev/hda1 is the location of Windows partition (NTFS) 
    Local mount folder: /media/windows 

sudo mkdir /media/windows
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab

    * Append the following line at the end of file. 

/dev/hda1    /media/windows    ntfs-3g    defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0

    * You can adjust your locale. Execute 'locale -a' in a terminal to know which one are supported by your system. 

    * Save the edited file. 

    * If you reboot now, the disk will be writable to every users. If you want the changes to take effect immediately without rebooting, execute the following command, ignoring the errors about "/" and others not being unmounted. 

sudo umount -a && sudo mount -a[/PHP]

So, install ntfs-3g (this brings down the fuse drivers too) - sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g 
edit you fstab as described above, in teminal 
sudo mkdir /media/windows 
sudo mkdir /media/data

and then reboot. BTW windows and data are my two partions, you can call them what you want.

This is my fstab:

[PHP]# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hdb1
UUID=5bcbd9a4-0549-4f45-8157-497a520dd72b /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hdb5
UUID=8919870d-fdd3-469b-983f-dbda934abcce none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
/dev/hda1	/media/windows	ntfs-3g	defaults,locale=en_gb.utf8	0	0
/dev/hda5	/media/data	ntfs-3g	defaults,locale=en_gb.utf8	0	0[/PHP]

note the last two lines. You need an entry for each partition you want access to. 

Gary.

---

### Post by Thanatos10 on 2007-06-02
> **drowner said:**
> So what's the problem? (apart from the space between File and downloads, you'll never mount anything with that there)

You’ve told us that there must be a way, you found the way, but I’m still not sure whats wrong?

When I start Ubuntu I have three icons, cdrom, ipo (my ipod) and HDrive(1).  If I try to open my hard drive, I can see all the files on the Ubuntu drive, /dev/hdb2. I wanted to (if possible) to start Ubuntu and see three drives listed, windows XP, files and Vista, my three other partitions.

I do apologize if I wasn't clear in my first post.  I'm new to Ubuntu (Linux) and I hate to say anything negative.  I think it's just something with my oddball setup.  If I’m still not clear please let me know.

Scott....

---

### Post by Clintonostra on 2007-06-02
This how to worked for me.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009)

---

### Post by Thanatos10 on 2007-06-02
Well, I now have three icons on my desktop with my Windows partitions and seem to be able to access them, so I guess I shouldn't complain.  However, if I could just figure out how to rename them from DSK1_VOL1, DSK1_VOL1(2) and DSK1_VOL1(3) to something recognizable like Windows, Files and Vista it would be perfect.

I tried renaming them by PLACES--> COMPUTER then selecting an icon -> right click ->rename.  It allows me to enter a new name, but then I get an error message saying that it can't be renamed.  Tried it as root, but I get the same error.  I looked in the media directory and there they are, files and all, correctly named.  Guess there's some kind of disconnect between there and my desktop. 

I guess it's the little things that make the difference.  I'll just have memorize what icon goes with which partition/drive.

Thanks for everyones time who tried to help.

Scott

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-06-02
Try this:
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html)

---

### Post by Thanatos10 on 2007-06-02
Yep, I tried that first.  I seem to skip the step where NTFS-3g asks me what what partitions I'd like to configure, I skip directly to the write support question.  Don't know why it never asks what partitions I'd like to configure.  Oh well.

---

