---
title: "Home partition at 100% -- what can I do?"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jerrynewt on 2007-10-21
When running the disc usage analyzer it says my home partition is 100%. I tried to remove wine, wine-doors, and picasa to free up some space but can't get them to go away!! I tried " sudo aptitude remove" command and they are still there taking up a bunch of space. Also tried apt-get autoclean with same result. Any ideas ??  Thanks for the time.

---

### Post by Mister.Vash on 2007-10-22
The first thing that comes to mind is the trash folder.  Have you emptied the trash?  If you have not done so, open it and then either remove individual files from it or empty it and delete everything.

If you have already done that and the trash is empty, go back into the Disk Usage Analyzer and check your home folder to find the out what is taking up the most space.  You can either sort on the column or mouse over the usage graphics to what is using all that space.  Once you find it, open a terminal and remove the large files and see if that works.

---

### Post by cfaulkner on 2007-10-22
are you using multiple partiton schemes?  like /usr  /home  /var  etc?

what's your /etc/fstab look like?

---

### Post by jerrynewt on 2007-10-22
etc/fstab is as follows:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=d3b26e76-123d-46ee-8057-2423fce291ab /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=b2adbd1e-a33a-4f04-b04d-c2839f7058df none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

---

### Post by jerrynewt on 2007-10-22
Bump**

---

### Post by Beggar on 2007-10-22
```

sudo rm -rf ~/.Trash/*
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get clean

```

---

