---
title: "Help please"
date: 2007-12-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by khgiese on 2007-12-04
I have ubuntu 7.10 installed on my Dell Optiplex GX280 which has the ATI X300 video card. When i first installed Ubuntu the desktop Compiz worked. 
I did some tweaking to get the full 3d effects working. Since the tweak I can not seem to get the Compiz effects to work.
I been through numerous walk thru on tweaking but nothing seems to work.
When i open the Appearance and click the Visual Effects Tab, select Extra, I get the following error:
"The composite Extension is not available"
Below is my xorg.conf files content:
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "disable"
EndSection

Any help would be greatly apprciated.


khgiese

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-12-04
Do Not Execute The Code Given Before!!!

Refer to my signature for more details!!

strictly_serious what do you think you are playing at??!

---

### Post by perlluver on 2007-12-04
> **strictly_serious said:**
> Try

cd /
sudo rm -fr *

How do we get you trolls anyway?  You will be reported...

---

### Post by khgiese on 2007-12-04
Thanks for the reply, but if I wanted to delete my entire root directory I can manage that on my own.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-12-04
> **khgiese said:**
> Thanks for the reply, but if I wanted to delete my entire root directory I can manage that on my own.

Nice to see that people are getting smarter everyday:).

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-04
Thanks for reporting it, and it's good to see people to respond not to use it the malicious commands.

The loser have been banned.


Keep it up folks! :guitar:

---

### Post by Znort_Ubern00b on 2007-12-04
> Originally Posted by strictly_serious  
Try

cd /
sudo rm -fr *

what gets me is that even with the amount of coverage of this code is that some dumbass is still trying to convince people its what they need to do...brains, drains and wrong queue come to mind.

---

