---
title: "md5sum and audio files question"
date: 2007-07-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by centipus on 2007-07-18
hi there... been using linux for about a month now, and having a great time...this forum has been a great help!

so i deal with lossless audio a lot, live shows and bootleg type stuff....most filesets come with an .md5 file. when i type

```
md5sum -c somefile.md5
```

to verify the checksum for a downloaded fileset
i get

```
 No such file or directory
: FAILED open or read
: No such file or directory
: FAILED open or read
: No such file or directory
```

so i've done some experiments....when I CREATE a .md5 file for a fileset, everything checks out just fine. when i open a .md5 in a text viewer and compare the hash(es) to the output of say

```
md5sum *.shn
```

for any given fileset, everything checks out.....when i tranfer a fileset to my partner's windows system, the .md5s all check out just fine. i've looked around and it seems that windows systems put a * in the filename of a .md5 file or something...could this be an issue? why can't i verify with 

```
md5sum -c somefile.md5
``` ??

i'll keep on looking and experimenting..... i'm probably just being an idiot

thanks for any help
centipus

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2007-07-18
```
sudo apt-get install sleuthkit
```

To check the file, just type in the terminal: md5 followed by the name of the file.

---

### Post by ron999 on 2007-07-18
Well, this is what I do.
Put the file in a folder.
Change directory to that folder.... cd /home/user/folder ...something similar.
Then if you have a file such as nameoffile.iso then command is just
md5sum nameoffile.iso
That's all there is to it, it just takes a few seconds to give a hexadecimal result.

This is an example:-

ron@ron-desktop:~$ cd /home/ron/Downloads
ron@ron-desktop:~/Downloads$ md5sum ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso
ff0cc7c9ed5157f0ff8c0f2213973f49  ubuntu-7.04-alternate-i386.iso
ron@ron-desktop:~/Downloads$

---

### Post by machoo02 on 2007-07-18
Make sure that you're .md5 file is in the same directory as all of the files that you want to compare, and be sure to issue the md5sum command within that directory

---

### Post by centipus on 2007-07-19
thanks for your help there folks!

 to quote from the wikipedia article on md5sum, the problem seems to be this..

"Microsoft offers an unsupported tool "Microsoft File Checksum Integrity Verifier" for Windows platform. The default mode of generating the checksum on Linux systems is in "text-mode", however, in MS-Windows, it is in binary. Hence, MD5 files created in MS-Windows systems will have an "*" before the filename."

examples...

i used my linux box to create a folder containing three empty files. used md5sum to create a checksum file named linux.md5. when i open linux.md5 in a text editor, i see....

d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e  01.txt
d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e  02.txt
d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e  03.txt

i took the same fileset over to my partner's windows box and used trader's little helper to create a checksum for the same files named windows.md5. in a text editor you see...

; wholefile md5 checksum file generated by Trader's Little Helper

; generated on July 18, 2007, at 8:48 pm



d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e *01.txt

d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e *02.txt

d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e *03.txt

hases are identical except for the *. strange...

more poking around revealed a program called md5deep. this seems to work. 
from [http://md5deep.sourceforge.net/](http://md5deep.sourceforge.net/)

"One of the more powerful features of md5deep is the ability to match the hashes of input files against a list of known hashes. You can do both postive matching, which displays those files that do match the list of known hashes"

example...
```

$ md5deep -m windows.md5 *
md5deep: windows.md5: No hash found in line 1
md5deep: windows.md5: No hash found in line 2
md5deep: windows.md5: No hash found in line 3
/media/LEXAR MEDIA/test/01.txt
/media/LEXAR MEDIA/test/02.txt
/media/LEXAR MEDIA/test/03.txt
```

viola! now i have a way of checking my *.md5s that were made on a windows system without manually comparing hashes! i'm guessing that the "no hash in line x" part is the trader's little helper signature in the top of the .md5 file.....

later
centipus

---

### Post by ron999 on 2007-07-19
OK, I see.
You wanted a method to check md5 sums automatically without having to line them up in a text editor.

---

