---
title: ".dmrc erroe"
date: 2006-04-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by micrologix on 2006-04-01
I am new to Linux and have been playing around with Wine and Samba with relevant success with both. I have just noticed that when I stated up the computer there was an error message: "Your $HOME/.dmrc file has incorrect permissions and is being ignored. This prevents the default session and language from being saved. File should be owned by user and have 644 permissions". When I look in the HOME directory for this file so I can change the permission I can't find it, any help would be appreciated, thanks.

---

### Post by Thirion on 2006-04-01
Go to the directory -> View -> Show hidden Files. Now you can change the permissions. But i think you have to change the permissions of your home folder to solve the problem.

Michael

---

### Post by Sutekh on 2006-04-01
The reason you can't see the file is that it is a hidden file.  It begins with a '.' (full-stop/period) which is used for hidden files.

If you open a terminal window you can type this from the command line
```
ls -la ~/.dmrc
```
This will list the information on the file, which is hidden in your user's home folder.  The ~/ is a shortcut for /home/<your username>

Can also use this command to list your home folder
```
ls -la /home/<your username>
```

I have a feeling that the permissions for your entire home folder have been incorrectly set.  The **ls** command will help shed some light.

---

### Post by micrologix on 2006-04-01
Thanks to both Thirion & Sutekh, problem solved :-)

---

### Post by nickpaton on 2006-06-30
To add to the replies already given (thanks!), I found that the following sorted out the permissions problem:

```
sudo chmod 755 /home/<username>/.dmrc
```

Change "<username>" to your name of course!

---

