---
title: "[SOLVED] unable to write to ntfs drive(somtimes)"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-03-27
Hey, i have this secondary hdd which i'm not able to write to.. its an ntfs drive.Writing works sometimes, its kind of weird, if i try creating a folder it gives me an erorr saying Error "Unsupporting Operation" Creating new folder .. but if i delete a file and then try.. the im able to create a folder.. but only one.. then no write access again.the system log says "Not enough space to extend mft data" but i have around 45gb free space in that drive..any help would be appreciated. THanks in advance..

---

### Post by wormser on 2008-03-27
Do you have NTFS installed?

```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
```

Applications> System Tools> NTFS Configuration Tool.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-03-27
yes..enable write support for internal drive is greyed out

---

### Post by wormser on 2008-03-27
Wow, that is strange and beyond my knowledge.  Post your /etc/fstab and hopefully somebody else will pick up on it.

```
less /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-03-27
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=163cc188-1844-4b1c-9df1-0fc25fea05b0 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=f8db8b78-efae-448c-bf3e-3bda5b157c88 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-03-28
any more ideas?

---

### Post by Trail on 2008-03-28
I am curious, are you using KDE?

I have had similar issues at times when using KIO-slaves through (specifically) ftp on some remote server. No issues as far as I remember on gnome, local filesystem, ssh, samba etc. Similar remedy for me, I would enter a folder then come back up, and I could work normally.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-03-28
no.. im using gnome

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-03-31
hey.. i managed to fix it.. thanks to all of you for trying..I removed the drive from my pc and made it an external usb drive and connected it to a xp pro machine.. and did that "safely remove hardware" thingy.. then connected it back to my ubuntu machine.. and all is well!!

---

