---
title: ".rar...Gutsy...Some Extract Properly, Some Don't."
date: 2008-01-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-18
Half the files i download are extracted properly using fileroller; however, the other half...ugh!  I have heard that unrar and winrar constantly war with each other.  Half my files ask for a password, and I know for a fact that they (1)are not corrupt, and (2)will extract properly on a window$ machine.  I have a folder for my files (properly extracted files) and one entitled "cannot open".  I have searched and searched.  This question has probably been answered, and I've probably seen it.  I just did not know it.  I'll send you errors or whatever you ask for, but please help me.  (running gutsy)

Thanks.

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2008-01-18
install [unrar]("apt:unrar") (click) then in terminal do ```
unrar e file.rar
```

or normally extract. :)
nikoPSK

---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-19
jacktheripper@jacktheripper-desktop:~$ cd /home/jacktheripper/Desktop
jacktheripper@jacktheripper-desktop:~/Desktop$ cd cannot_open
jacktheripper@jacktheripper-desktop:~/Desktop/cannot_open$ unrar e filename-DVDrip-XviD.rar

UNRAR 3.70 beta 3 freeware      Copyright (c) 1993-2007 Some Company


Extracting from filename-DVDrip-XviD.rar

Extracting  filename.avi                                                  99%
filename-DVDrip-XviD/filename.avi - CRC failed
Unexpected end of archive
Total errors: 2
jacktheripper@jacktheripper-desktop:~/Desktop/cannot_open$

---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-19
Also, some of my files are .tar files.  Does that matter?

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2008-01-19
well, maybe your *ahem* pirated movie *ahem* rar is corrupted?

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2008-01-19
> **giddy1945 said:**
> Also, some of my files are .tar files.  Does that matter?

tar files you extract normally. :)

---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-19
Thanks for the quick reply.  I think I'll edit now.  lol Just wanted to throw that out there.

---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-19
"well, maybe your *ahem* pirated movie *ahem* rar is corrupted?"

How do I fix them?  Is that possible?

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2008-01-19
not really, I've had a few *ahem* corrupted pirated movies *ahem* in the past. But try another rar file, see if it works.

---

### Post by gerscht on 2008-01-19
> **nikoPSK said:**
> install [unrar]("apt:unrar") ...

Wow, didn't know that works. Good to know!

---

### Post by Twizzle on 2008-01-19
A lot of 'files' that are downloaded from newsgroups have 'par' files available too. In Windows you can use programs like quickpar to fix corrupt rar and zip files.

I am not sure about an equivelant for Ubuntu (I am very new to it all), but I am sure that there will be one available.

You could always see if there are par files availble for the 'ahem' movies you are downloading...

---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-19
Guess it's just something you have to deal with when you  *ahem* xdcc  (xchat is the bomb).  By the way, I don't know much about window$, and I don't care to ever learn much more.  I'll stick with linux, and actually learn something.  Thanks for all your help, people.  I love this community.

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2008-01-19
> **gerscht said:**
> Wow, didn't know that works. Good to know!

yes, just do apt:PackageName name in your browser. :)

---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-19
Just opened Quickpar with wine.  It works very well.  I'm just going down the line, repairing all the ones that CAN be repaired, and I'm discarding the ones that are not repairable.  Like I said, this is just one of those things we have to deal with when we xdcc.  Thanks again.

---

### Post by GavinZac on 2008-01-19
One of the only things i use WINE for is WinRAR. Habit, I suppose, but it does fix some things.

---

### Post by giddy1945 on 2008-01-19
I did just that, and I came back here to let you know.  Why didn't I just do that sooner?  Opened winrar with wine, and not one single file did I have to discard!!!

---

