---
title: ".mkv problems"
date: 2007-10-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-12
i've tried to play a few .mkv files with two programs, vlc and totem movie player, but the same thing happens every time, the window just pops up for a second and closes. any suggestions?

---

### Post by yabbies on 2007-10-12
Have you installed all the codecs? even proprietary 

have you tried Mplayer?

---

### Post by Frak on 2007-10-12
Try
```
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

Or if your running gutsy gibbon 7.10, click this link
[apt:ubuntu-restricted-extras]("apt:ubuntu-restricted-extras")

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-12
where can i get the codecs?
i looked on the mkv site and there were only ones for windows
then i looked on my package manager and i couldn't find any
where do i go?

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-12
and installed that extras stuff and it didn't do anything
i think i just need the codecs

---

### Post by Grimgoil on 2007-10-12
There seems to be a certain type of .MKV that does the quick crashing for you, and me as well. It's not something that is common to most MKV's since i see them regularly with no problem. I really don't know what's unique about this mysterious MKV, but it just wont work regardless of the player.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-12
Hi. I posted this in your other thread in Multimedia & Video:

Launch them from a terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal) and see if they leave any error messages there when they crash. To launch them from the terminal, write **totem** or **vlc** and press enter. If they do leave errors there, please post them here.

Afterwards, if you have desktop effects on, try disabling them and then launching the programs again to see if they crash this time. Do you have an Intel video card?

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-12
this is what was displayed when i opened the mkv file:

[00000290] a52 decoder: A/52 channels:6 samplerate:48000 bitrate:640000
ALSA lib setup.c:555:(add_elem) Cannot obtain info for CTL elem (MIXER,'IEC958 Playback Default',0,0,0): No such file or directory
No accelerated IMDCT transform found
X Error of failed request:  BadAlloc (insufficient resources for operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  141 (XVideo)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  83
  Current serial number in output stream:  84


that doesn't look good lol

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-12
> X Error of failed request: BadAlloc (insufficient resources for operation)

This problem is frequently related to Compiz/Beryl. Try disabling desktop effects and try again. Also run this command and post the output here:
```
sudo lshw -C display
```

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-12
heres the output:

 *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@00:02.0
       version: 03
       size: 128MB
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: vga bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=i810_smbus latency=0
       resources: iomemory:e0000000-e7ffffff iomemory:ee000000-ee07ffff irq:16

and i'm not running any desktop effects

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-12
i just tried mplayer and it said "Error opening/initializing the selected video_out (-vo) device" when i tried to open the file

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-12
Try the solutions in this entry of [Ubuntu Guide]("http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Feisty#How_to_fix_black_windows_during_video_playback"); this problem might be related to [these]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/xorg-server/+bug/111257") [bugs]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/xorg-server/+bug/38939"). You could also try to add an option to your Xorg.conf. Open a terminal and enter:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and scroll down to **Section "Device"**; below **Driver "i810"** add:
```
Option "LinearAlloc" "16000"
```
Save the file, close Gedit, and press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to restart your display. See if Totem or Mplayer still crash.

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-13
alright i edited the xorg file
now the movie plays so that's good news
but it's very skippy and lags a ton
and for some reason lags to a greater degree in vlc

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-13
Yes, that's not so much a solution as it is a workaround. If, as you say, you're not using desktop effects, then you might want to switch to the **intel** driver instead of the **i810**:
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel
```
Close the terminal, and press CTRL+ALT+F1. Log in if you are asked to, and then enter:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
and
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
When you are asked which video driver to use, select **intel**; otherwise accept all the defaults. If your display doesn't start after finishing, enter:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```
and see if the problem persists.

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-13
i tried that and got all the way to the part where i enter the virtual terminal
but i can't see where my cursor is because the resolution is so large that i can only see a few words
how do i adjust the screen resolution for this terminal?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-13
Good question; I've seen a post around here dealing with that, but I don't have a link for it at the moment. Sorry.

EDIT: Try restarting your display (CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE). At the login screen, go to **Options**, and select "Failsafe Gnome", open a terminal and do the instructions there. Maybe then you'll be able to reconfigure the display.

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-13
a normal terminal or a funky ctrl alt f1 terminal?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-13
In Failsafe Gnome, try the normal terminal first. If that doesn't work, try CTRL+ALT+F1.

Or try selecting the Failsafe Terminal instead of Failsafe Gnome.

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-13
i went to the failsafe terminal 
and it was only in the bottom right part of the screen, i don't know if thats how it's supposed to be or if it even matters
but i typed in sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
and it said /etc/init.d/gdm was not a command and gave me another blinking cursor

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-13
Did you try running the dpkg-reconfigure there?

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-14
i did that and chose intel and everything and the file still won't play normally

---

### Post by qstraza on 2007-10-16
hello.

i too have problems with .mkv files. My error is:

==========================================================================
Opening video decoder: [ffmpeg] FFmpeg's libavcodec codec family
Selected video codec: [ffh264] vfm: ffmpeg (FFmpeg H.264)
==========================================================================
==========================================================================
Forced audio codec: mad
Opening audio decoder: [liba52] AC3 decoding with liba52
Using SSE optimized IMDCT transform
Using MMX optimized resampler
AUDIO: 48000 Hz, 2 ch, s16le, 448.0 kbit/29.17% (ratio: 56000->192000)
Selected audio codec: [a52] afm: liba52 (AC3-liba52)
==========================================================================
AO: [alsa] 48000Hz 2ch s16le (2 bytes per sample)
Starting playback...
VDec: vo config request - 1280 x 720 (preferred colorspace: Planar YV12)
VDec: using Planar YV12 as output csp (no 0)
Movie-Aspect is 1.78:1 - prescaling to correct movie aspect.
VO: [xv] 1280x720 => 1280x720 Planar YV12
X11 error: BadAlloc (insufficient resources for operation)?,?% 0 0


MPlayer interrupted by signal 6 in module: vo_check_events
- MPlayer crashed. This shouldn't happen.
  It can be a bug in the MPlayer code _or_ in your drivers _or_ in your
  gcc version. If you think it's MPlayer's fault, please read
  DOCS/HTML/en/bugreports.html and follow the instructions there. We can't and
  won't help unless you provide this information when reporting a possible bug.

==========

i have codecs, all other formats works except .mkv.
I have intel:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

kubuntu 7.04 with 2.6.20-16-generic.
and i used mplayer.

movie plays like 1 sec and closes...

i just tried another .mkv and it works...
i tried that .mkv which fails to play, on other kubuntu (laptop) and it plays...

im confused

---

### Post by dudleygb@gmail.com on 2007-10-23
I get this exact same problem, maybe its a bug that needs to be logged, but I'm sure as more people experience the problem, so will it be known more widely and hopefully get fixed. I have to say, GUTSY ROCKS!

---

