---
title: "2wire 802.11g USB"
date: 2007-12-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-02
hello again:)

got an old off brand laptop computer, has no built in wireless or ethernet, I looked in my house and found a USB dongle called a "2wire 802.11g USB adapter" the computer right now has WINDOWS ME on it:lolflag: ME is yet to crash, but I would prefer something I know more about such as UBUNTU:popcorn: is there anyway to get this thing to work.

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-03
any info guys??

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-22
hmm should I just give up?:confused:

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-25
well I guess I should just give up, youve answered every question of mine except this one, I guess it can't be done, or you dont care, any post about this thing always turns up nothing, at least you have posted that tis not possible, insteed of me waiting:(

---

### Post by anewguy on 2007-12-25
Do you have, or are there available, an XP driver for the device?  Are you familiar with ndiswrapper?  Have you tried ndiswrapper with the Windows driver?

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-25
I have windows xp drivers for this peticuar wireless device, I have no idea on how to use ndiswraper, some people say something about "orionco" or something, I have never heard of them, all I know is I got this from qwest, my ISP for use on my laptop/desktop computer

I'm just glad you answered, I knew you guys wouldn't let me down:guitar:

---

### Post by anewguy on 2007-12-26
> **darksidedude said:**
> I have windows xp drivers for this peticuar wireless device, I have no idea on how to use ndiswraper, some people say something about "orionco" or something, I have never heard of them, all I know is I got this from qwest, my ISP for use on my laptop/desktop computer

I'm just glad you answered, I knew you guys wouldn't let me down:guitar:

First, we need to see if ndiswrapper is installed yet or not.  Open up a terminal window and type this in:

ndiswrapper -l <-- that's a lower case "L" as we're telling ndiswrapper to "L"ist the drivers it knows

If it just returns nothing we're okay.  If it says something to the effect of ndiswrapper not found, then we need to install it.  Let me know if you need to install it.

I will proceed from here with the following assumptions:

- you have the windows .inf and .sys files for the driver loaded to your desktop - I'll call them windrv, but you'll need to use the actual .inf file name

In a terminal window:

sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Desktop/windrv.inf  <-- that's a lower case "I" for "I"nstall

sudo ndiswrapper -l  <-- this should show your driver loaded and active

sudo depmod -a

sudo modprobe ndiswrapper

sudo ndiswrapper -m


That takes care of loading the driver.  If by chance it shows as a Broadcom wireless chipset, then you also need to blacklist the existing driver:

cd /etc/modprobe.d

gksudo gedit blacklist

Move to the end of the file, then type:

<enter>
<enter>   you know, the REAL enter key, not <enter>
# disable existing broadcom driver
blacklist bcm43xx


Now save the file and exit.  At this point it would be easiest just to restart your PC.

Once your PC is back up, look for the network icon on the top bar - it may look like a terminal.  Click on that and see if your wireless network is listed.

Report back the results, we'll go from there!:)

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-26
ndiswrapper is not installed, I believe its on the install cd though correct?
I can use the cd as a apt source I believe

I will atempt that and follow the rest of the directions if it works

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-26
nvm not on the cd, Ill just download the .deb and go

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-26
I got NDISwrapper and ndiswrapper-utils and ndisgtk installed but when I try the perscribed method 

I get

```
 error: no ndiswrapper utils found!                                                  
```

---

### Post by anewguy on 2007-12-27
Sorry I didn't get back here sooner - I've been a little busy today.

It would appear you have wired access to the internet, correct?  If so, do the following:

go in to synaptic package manager and install ndiswrapper and the ndiswrapper-utils packages, then try again.:)

---

### Post by MFIC on 2007-12-27
I am beginner with the same problem and I'm wondering if there is a way i can use the ndiswrapper on a computer that does not need the adapter (aka already works) to 'transform" the files and then transfer them via CD to the other computer?

---

### Post by darksidedude on 2007-12-30
well insted of going thew all that werk I just begged my parents to get me a PCMCIA eth card, but at least we got somewhere,now everyone else with that card that cant do what I did, has a "Jumping of point" rather than flying blind

---

