---
title: "After setting up dual-boot, Vista bluescreens at loading splash."
date: 2007-12-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Starks on 2007-12-18
1. I recently resized and repositioned my Vista partition.

2. Super GRUB Disk doesn't fix the problem.


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=76ac049a-6eeb-461e-9e00-6989f2b29a47 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=577ff3ea-21ae-46d7-9b43-d57a26355175 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/main ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
eric@Kingfisher:~$ cat /boot/grub/menu.lst
# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not use 'savedefault' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=76ac049a-6eeb-461e-9e00-6989f2b29a47 ro

## Setup crashdump menu entries
## e.g. crashdump=1
# crashdump=0

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,1)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu hardy (development branch), kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=76ac049a-6eeb-461e-9e00-6989f2b29a47 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu hardy (development branch), kernel 2.6.22-14-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=76ac049a-6eeb-461e-9e00-6989f2b29a47 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic

title		Ubuntu hardy (development branch), memtest86+
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Windows Vista/Longhorn (loader)
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader	+1

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xd0f4738c

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       17061   137042451    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           17062       19351    18394425   83  Linux
/dev/sda3           19352       19457      851445    5  Extended
/dev/sda5           19352       19457      851413+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 512 MB, 512483328 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 62 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000884db

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1          63      498424+   7  HPFS/NTFS
Partition 1 has different physical/logical endings:
     phys=(61, 254, 63) logical=(62, 13, 63)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-12-18
I hope you used the vista disk management utility and not gparted or something else as vista doesn't like that.  You can reduce the vista partition size only with the inbuilt software, not third party programs, as far as I know.  If you have used gparted or something else you should at least still have all the files in the partition but you may need to backup using a live CD and then reinstall vista.

I hope I'm wrong, for your sake, but it is worth looking into further.

---

### Post by Starks on 2007-12-18
1. Reinstalling doesn't fix the dual-boot problem.

2. Repairing the MBR using Hiren BootCD fixes Vista but removes Ubuntu. When I reinstall Ubuntu, the problem returns.

---

### Post by Shinbu-Otaku on 2007-12-18
as far as im aware, but not 100% sure as i dont have vista, apparently vista can be a problem with dual-booting, as windows only want you to use vista and nothing, thus trying to remove the option from you.

The best thing i can think of is getting a second HDD and installing linux on there, therefore not having to re-size any partitions.

On the fact that u keep getting blue screen, i would personally wipe vista and reinstall it, but partition the drive during the installation.

---

