---
title: "7.10 desktop installation or first start after alternate doesn´t work"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Lotiopep on 2007-10-25
Hi guys.
I have tried to install ubuntu 7.10 several times, but I can´t get the desktop environtment.
I have a Dell Dimension E521 AMD64x2 +5000 so I tried the Desktop 64bit version, but after a while it didn´t proceed with the installation. It was just after adjusting the screen resolution and showing:

[B]RUNNING LOCAL BOOT SCRIPTS (/etc/rc.local)    [OK]
[/B]
Looks like it's trying to do something several times untill I decide to shutdown the pc

It happens the same with the 32bit version. If I choose the alternate version I can install it, but when starting ubuntu for the first time I get the same problem in the same place (it looks so).

When installing the alternate I realize that after "RUNNING LOCAL BOOT SCRIPTS (/etc/rc.local)    [OK]" there is the DHCP process. If I disconnect the router (Dlink DSL-2740B) it happens the same problem (when installing).

If I could start the system without graphics I think I would be able to see what happens and fix it, but I have no idea how to ask grub to start ubuntu that way.

Could you help me please?

---

### Post by davidjmayo on 2007-10-26
> If I could start the system without graphics I think I would be able to see what happens and fix it, but I have no idea how to ask grub to start ubuntu that way.

When the Grub menu comes up hit Esc key

At the bottom you see the options to type:
e   to edit before boot

or

c    for command line only

So hit c

---

### Post by molly_001 on 2007-10-26
Your solution to the problem is likely [U]here:
[/U][[SOLVED] 7.10 Boot Freeze, "Running local boot scripts"]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=587499")

( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=587499](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=587499) )

---

### Post by SpiritIsReality on 2007-10-26
howdy
this will probably get to you a day late and a dollar short, but ...

molly ... your link is a loop?(all ok now, tx)

Lotiopep ... either use david's method to reach command prompt, or could try
press and hold alt and press F2, or may have to press and hold ctrl and alt ... and press F2.
then try running 
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
then 
sudo shutdown -r now
to restart computer


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=dpkg-reconfigure+xserver-xorg](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=dpkg-reconfigure+xserver-xorg)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto)
trails

---

### Post by molly_001 on 2007-10-27
Spirit, 
Thanks for the heads up.  I've corrected my original post to include the intended link.

---

