---
title: "6.06.1 LTS freezes randomly"
date: 2006-11-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by luotinen on 2006-11-07
I recently installed Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS

The installation was fairly easy and everything seemed to work well.

Atleast for a while. Then I started to experience random crashes (freezes, tilting). Both programs (Nautilus, Firefox, Opera, Thunderbird ... ) and the system started to crash at random.

I installed all the updates - no change.

I installed new video card drivers - no change.

I installed sensors to check the temperatures - no change. (50C and 40C)

Can you suggest what to try next?

When programs crash, I can restore them (95% of the time) and continue my work as I was. When the system crashes everything locks up (even the mouse stops and all the daemon processes freeze) and I have no choice but to reset the computer.

System information:
- 700 MHz
- 512 MB RAM

I can also post system data here, if you can let me know what do you want posted.

---

### Post by kernco on 2006-11-08
Things like this are often caused by hardware problems.  It is possible that there is a problem with a driver you are using, or there is a problem with the hardware itself.  Try running memcheck (I think it's on the LiveCD) to see if it finds any problems with your memory.

Another possibility is that some program is going into an infininte forking loop.  Basically, it is cloning itself endlessly.  This will lock up the system as you've described, but it wouldn't be causing the random program crashes.  You can open a terminal and run "top".  Leave it running and see what it's displaying the next time the system freezes.  I had a problem in Dapper with a power management program (I think it was kacpi) that was doing this.  Upgrading to Edgy fixed it for me (but it broke my wireless and video card).

---

