---
title: "7.10 Server question"
date: 2008-01-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by nu2ooboontoo on 2008-01-05
If I install KDE on a "server" would that make it a desktop or would it still be a server with a GUI?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-01-05
If you are using it as a server, then yes, it's a server.  The Server edition doesn't come with a GUI installed, but you're certainly not the first person to install KDE or GNOME (with X) on one.  The Server edition has different processes enabled by default so the system is acting more like the server edition anyway, but other than that the 2 systems are basically the same.

---

### Post by fedex1993 on 2008-01-05
if you install kde on a server you would not be able to start the envirment unless you also installed xorg packages or install the kde desktop its self.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-01-05
> **fedex1993 said:**
> if you install kde on a server you would not be able to start the envirment unless you also installed xorg packages or install the kde desktop its self.

Indeed, to go about installing the GUI (KDE) with all necessary packages to accompany it, e.g. the entire X system, you would just run
```
sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop
(or for GNOME):
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by nu2ooboontoo on 2008-01-05
that's good to know as the command prompt is tough for me. I was good with DOS but the "sudo" stuff is slow learning. 

Could you direct me on installing a good GUI?:)

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-01-05
Just run one of the lines of code I listed above.  You expressed interest in KDE, so run the instlal command for kubuntu-desktop.  If you are connected to the internet, this will download and install everything you need for KDE.  Using sudo is just a way to get act as "root" which gives you the correct control over the system you need to run administrative tasks - just type out your password when prompted (it won't show anything as a security measure, but it's reading it!) and click enter.

---

### Post by nu2ooboontoo on 2008-01-06
Ok, I ran the gnome install and I am back to a command prompt, now what?

---

### Post by stump138 on 2008-01-06
if you are back at a prompt after doing the gui install by typing:
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

try typing:

```
startx
```

or 

```
xinit
```

---

