---
title: "lost xorg config"
date: 2007-11-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by neatokino on 2007-11-14
I have a macbook Pro running (well, it WAS).Gutsy.  I tried making changes in xorg.config to get my synaptics touchpad running, and after editing the xorg.config file (sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf), I seem to have made it not want to load;  now Gutsy starts up with a 'failsafe' xorg.config file.


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.

so, not only does my trackpad still not work, but now the display settings and everything else I hold dear and true gone gone gone.  Is there a way to find that xorg.config file that I edited, so I can take out the synaptics trackpad changes I made and leave everything else the way it was???

How do I get back the settings that were there before?  Or do I have to reinstall (ie. throw out ubuntu until hardy heron or whenever it's usable on this machine)?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-14
When you edited /etc/X11/xorg.conf, chances are there is a backup copy in /etc/X11.  Look in there and check out the date/time.

```
ls -la /etc/X11
```

Then, you can just copy the previous one back with

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/backup_copy_of_xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by philinux on 2007-11-14
you'll find a file called xorg.conf~ in the folder

The system made this backup file for you.

---

### Post by powder on 2007-11-14
You can reboot in recovery mode (or type Ctrl + Alt + F1) and then log in using CLI and edit your xorg.conf to remove or comment out the offending entry.

After you log in, edit xorg.conf with nano.

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

After editing the file, use Ctrl + X to save and exit.  Now restart GDM to see if it worked.

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

---

### Post by neatokino on 2007-11-14
yes, this file exists, but what do I do with it?

none of the other suggestions seem to work for me...  

also, how do I bootup in recovery mode?  the keystrokes suggested don't work on the macbook pro (F1 must have a different mapping or something)

---

### Post by powder on 2007-11-14
Sorry, I'm not familiar with Ubuntu on a Mac.  On a PC, you hit Ctrl + Alt + F1 to enter a virtual console.  I don't know how to do this on a Mac.  Also, when I boot up, I have an option in Grub to enter "recovery mode" which will also drop you into a text console.  I don't know if this option is present on a Mac???

---

### Post by neatokino on 2007-11-14
I figured out how to recover the old file from the xorg.conf~  and it's all back in place now!  Thank you all for your help.  Now, I'll root around in the intel mac forums and see if anyone can figure out how to make this trackpad work (I'm apparently not the only one with this problem)

thanks again all!

---

