---
title: "7.04 to 7.10 upgrade GUI problems"
date: 2008-01-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by 1976saint on 2008-01-14
Hi All,

I've just upgraded my Feisty to Gibbon (in place). The problem is it will not launch the GUI after login.

It boots to the GUI login prompt, I put in my user and password, the login box goes leaving a orange blank ground. 

On Feisty I had the NVIDIA drivers and the wobbly windows enabled. After installing the 7.10 upgrade I got a box about the graphics requiring reconfiguring which I think I did correctly but maybe not.

How can I recover the GUI ?

Appreciate any help,

Regards, Paul newbie !!

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-01-14
Boot into recovery mode. Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Find the section that looks like 
```

Section "Device" 
        Identifier      "NVIDIA Corporation NV10DDR [GeForce 256 DDR]"
        Driver         [COLOR="Red"]** "nvidia"**[/COLOR]
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection 

```
and change it to 
```

Section "Device" 
        Identifier      "NVIDIA Corporation NV10DDR [GeForce 256 DDR]"
        Driver          **[COLOR="SeaGreen"]"nv"[/COLOR]**
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection 

```

Save and Exit. Reboot normally.

Reinstall the binary driver as suggested in the wiki [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia")

---

### Post by arochester on 2008-01-14
From the prompt run> sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg This will start a text-based wizard. Answer the questions you can. Those you can't then go with the given default answer. If at first you don't succeed try again. If all else fails choose VESA as the graphics mode. That should get you a gui. You will probably need to install Nvidia agian. THEN Compiz probably only needs to be restarted - > compiz --replace (P.S I have found the utility compiz-switch very good for tuning it off and on)

---

### Post by 1976saint on 2008-01-14
OK thanks for your responses..I'll give them a try tonight and report back results, good or bad !

Many Thanks again, Paul.

---

