---
title: "5.10 or Dapper flight 6"
date: 2006-04-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rvergara on 2006-04-02
I have been a happy RH9 user for the last 3 years and I have planning to change my aging P4 1.6 MHZ and OS for some time.

Based on what I have seen in this project (I have played with Live CD of both 5.10 and Dapper) I decided to buy my new PC early April (now) and go ahead and install 6.04. However now it is 6.06 what we are talking about and hence my dilemma.

Given that I have my PC already in, I would like you opinion on what is the best approach to get to Dapper:

1. Install flight 6 and upgrade to flight 7, 8 until getting to the real Dapper (I assume upgrading would be seamlessly handled by the upgrade manager, is this right?).
2. Install 5.10 and upgrade (via upgrade manager) to 6.06 whenever available.

I am not really that concerned about the stability of the flight versions, I heve been testing them and they seem to be rock solid, however I would really like to hear what experienced Ubuntu users have to say about this.

Thanks

Ramiro

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-04-02
I think Flight 6 would be the last one because the next release should be a beta and then the final release of Dapper Drake on June 1st.  If you want stability, then go for Breezy but if you want to check out the lastest stuff like Gnome 2.14 and xgl, then go for the Flight 6.  Just remember one thing, Flight 6 could crash or freeze your system every now and then but so far, it runs like a dream and even faster than Breezy on my laptop.  :)

---

### Post by manicka on 2006-04-02
I'd recommend a clean Flight install. Some things may break temporarily between now and release, but mostly it's rock solid

---

### Post by rvergara on 2006-04-02
Thanks for the Advise.

Can you please confirm that the Upgrade Manager can handle the upgrade from flihgt 6 or Dapper Beta to 6.06?

Thanks

Ramiro

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-04-02
rvergara From dapper alpha to final just sudo apt-get dist-upgrade.
from 5.10 to dapper final you need to change your brezzy repos to dapper then apt-get dist-upgdrade.

---

### Post by rvergara on 2006-04-02
This is exactly why I chose Ubuntu to replace my RH9 PC. The Ubuntu community is its strongest asset.

Thank you all for the advise. I will go with Flight 6 and upgrade via apt-get to final as advised.

Regards

Ramiro

---

