---
title: "7.04 Server and Desktop"
date: 2007-06-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by maggs on 2007-06-30
I have successfully installed the server and I want a GUI desktop. I assumed I needed to install one so after reading the manual it says I need to run the following commands;
sudo tasksel install ubuntu-standard
sudo tasksel install ubuntu-desktop

The first command gets accepted but doesn't seem to do anything. The second one starts unpacking files then warns me about the file space and I enter y then enter and it just hangs with a flashing cursor. It just sits there so I CTRL C then enter it pops up a blue screen prompting for the Ubuntu Fiesty CD. The CD is already in the drive. I assumed that as I did the install from this CDROM it was ok. I reboot with the CD and do a CD integrity check.. All OK. Burnt another CD from the ISO at the minimum speed my burner will do at 8X. Still no go.

Read a heap of forum posts and tried this command, sudo aptitude install xubuntu-desktop. Same thing happens, just keeps prompting for the CD. I am ready to give up at this point. I have been at this for 8 hours now and seem to be getting nowhere.

Am I doing something wrong here? :(

Maggs

---

### Post by greg_g on 2007-06-30
I would edit the sources.list file to disable the cd repository.

To do this simply:
```

sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.backup
sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list

```
enter your password and find the line that mentions the CD drive, I don't know what it looks like since I deleted it myself.  If you want to just put a "#" in front of that line.  Save "ctrl-x" and yes, and you will be good to go.

if you still have problems, of course report back.

greg

PS: right, forgot the all important step of the update, thanks Seisen.  And I also added a command to backup your file first, always a good practice.

---

### Post by Seisen on 2007-06-30
Make sure after following his directions that you do this after changing your source list.

```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

