---
title: "Cannot mount volume"
date: 2007-05-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by _mOrgoth_ on 2007-05-17
I have very odd bug. When I put DVD with movies in dvd rom some are mounted normal and with some I get this message: Cannot mount volume
               Invalid mount option when attempting to mount the volume 'NEW'
DVD-s are all normally open and played in windows, so dvd rom is ok and dvd-s are ok. Last thing I was messing with is traying to set my microfone work. I used this tips and it helpd:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=418396](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=418396)

Is that somehow connected?? Some dvd-s are mounted normally and some not! WTF!!!!!   I use ubuntu 7.04 amd64

---

### Post by _mOrgoth_ on 2007-05-17
bump! please... Is this bug in feisty?

---

### Post by echo $USER on 2007-05-17
can you post your /etc/fstab?

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-17
Also, what kind of dvd's are these?  Are they just dvd rom's with files, or commercially made movies, or self-burned movies (in what format).

---

### Post by _mOrgoth_ on 2007-05-17
etc/fstab:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=b1786d75-f4fd-4113-ac0c-a6951d65c3ba /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=6cc54235-a87a-4c34-b63e-d0790180febe none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/sda5   /media/sda5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

Now... they are traxdata and vebratim... they all work on windows and they all worked on 7.04beta. ( I think)..  There are burned files like .mpg .avi  and format of dvd-s are iso and udf. DVD/RW Asus and DVD/Rom Samsung... its all the same

---

### Post by _mOrgoth_ on 2007-05-18
bump2... please, any ideas???

---

### Post by _mOrgoth_ on 2007-05-19
Ok I have partly resolved problem. So my /etc/fstab look like this:
etc/fstab:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>
proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=b1786d75-f4fd-4113-ac0c-a6951d65c3ba / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=6cc54235-a87a-4c34-b63e-d0790180febe none swap sw 0 0
[B]/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0[/B]
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

Then I find one topis with simmilar problem ad it sas:
"there should be a comma instead of space between iso9660 and user"
So I startes nautilus and I edit the file.. It helpd. Now I can mount volume :) BUT :confused: I can't UNMOUNT IT!!! It sas I dont have the privileges to unmount. Is it because I used Nautilus?? How to fix it??

---

