---
title: "problem with resolution monitor640x480"
date: 2006-11-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rbulus on 2006-11-20
I installed Ubuntu in one of my pc and i have problem with the resolution, it does not want to change from 640x480 resolution.

I share the pc with windows and in windows show:
Intel 82845G/GL/GE/PE/GV Graphic Controller
KDS Visula Sensations VS-77/VS-70/VS-7p  
Monitor eView17r Emachine
The pc is a Dell.

I tried to change the X.org file, but it is not working, any help will be really appreciate, i really want to learn to use Ubuntu.

Here is the x.org file:
=======================

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg-dbg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg-dbg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg-dbg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"eView17p"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"eView17p"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

==================

Thanks

Reginal

---

### Post by 56phil on 2006-11-20
'looks like you need a video driver. Ubuntu doesn't ship with anything that's proprietary. If you had an ATI chip, I'd be more helpful. Sorry. Be patient more information is on its way.

---

### Post by IYY on 2006-11-20
It's possible that the vertical and horizontal rates on your monitor are not detected properly. Try changing the following section of the xorg.conf file:

From

```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "eView17p"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection
```

to


```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "eView17p"
HorizSync 30 - 70
VertRefresh 50 - 160
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

```

This is based on the rates I found at this official site [http://www.e4me.com/products/products.html?prod=eView_17F3](http://www.e4me.com/products/products.html?prod=eView_17F3) . I hope this monitor is similar enough to yours. It's the closest name I could fine. If you have a manual for your machine/monitor, you may be able to find the actual rates there. Otherwise, try these.

---

