---
title: "wireless ubuntu"
date: 2007-08-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Dr.Grumbles on 2007-08-21
i just installed ubuntu on my westinghouse nb-14w2 and so far everything works great except the mouse and the wireless card.  though, i dont think the card is the problem.  it shows my dsl modem's wireless signal, but it wont let me on.  i enter the key, but it has options that windows didnt, and im not sure which one i would choose.  it wont let me use wep ascii because the key is too long, and the other two just dont work.  any ideas?

and as for the mouse, it works fine except for the scroll.  the far right side is meant to make it scroll. is there a way to get that feature to work with ubuntu?

---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2007-08-22
> **Dr.Grumbles said:**
> i just installed ubuntu on my westinghouse nb-14w2 and so far everything works great except the mouse and the wireless card.  though, i dont think the card is the problem.  it shows my dsl modem's wireless signal, but it wont let me on.  i enter the key, but it has options that windows didnt, and im not sure which one i would choose.  it wont let me use wep ascii because the key is too long, and the other two just dont work.  any ideas?

and as for the mouse, it works fine except for the scroll.  the far right side is meant to make it scroll. is there a way to get that feature to work with ubuntu?

For the wireless I have no idea, but don't despair help might be around the corner, keep searching and try in the IRC channels...btw, does the wired connection works with that router?

For the mouse thing, which brand of mouse you use. I remember I had to fix stuff to get my logitech mouse to work, back then I used ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332256](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332256))...

---

### Post by yellowband on 2007-08-22
what wireless options are you unsure about?

as far as the WEP key, i had to use the hex numbers in my router's settings. Using the ascii key to generate the hex numbers just didn't work for me.

---

### Post by anewguy on 2007-08-22
The default when my wireless network is first detected is 128-bit wep.  I have to change that to 64-bit wep for the default key generated by my 2WIRE DSL/modem/wireless router (that default key is 10 characters long).  If you have a key over 10 characters long, and if you are using wep on your router, put it in as 128-bit wep.  BTW- what did you set when you setup your router?:)

---

