---
title: "Firefox cannot connect anywhere but ubuntu.com &quot;pings&quot; OK Help please"
date: 2008-01-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Seedneey on 2008-01-02
Hi probably something stupid that I have done, but can't find the answer anywhere.  Just installed 7.10 on my old computer

Firefox will open, and connects to local troubleshooting  file:///usr/... etc OK.
It times out when trying to go anywhere on the net tho.

Have D-link modem and wireless/wired router, both wired and wireless connect to the net OK from both Vista and Ubuntu machines, and give a reasonable return ping time for router, for modem, and for ubuntu.com and other websites.

Can anyone help on why firefox cannot see out?

Cheers, from sunny Seedneey.:confused:

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-01-02
are you saying other network items work on this install?  like Pidgin, for example ...

post the output of: **cat /etc/resolv.conf**

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-01-02
your network settings should automatically configure unless you use a password to connect, or are missing drivers, as far as I know.

Have you tried to manually configure, using the network applet in the panel?

Do you see a driver listed and configured if you enter the command:```
sudo lshw -C net
```  You might also try googling the driver with ubuntu added to the search to see if othrs have had issues with the same driver.

---

### Post by Seedneey on 2008-01-02
Thanks guys here is the output:
have not tried pidgin or other internet apps, just the browser.

cat /etc/resolv.conf  gives a three  line output:

# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!
nameserver X.X.X.X  (my router's DNS)
nameserver X.X.X.X (my router's IP)

does this mean there is a conflict here?

sudo lshw -C net gives ethernet driver as 8139too version 0.9.28 wireless as rt61pci
will doo the google search.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-01-02
no, there shouldn't be any conflict ... if it doesn't get an answer from the 1st, it just asks the 2nd, and so on and so forth ...

but i would think using "my router's DNS" and "my router's IP" would essentially be the same thing ... don't think it would be an issue, cause JUST using your router's IP would cause the router to supply the DNS info - you should be able to enter your router's IP or the ISP's DNS IPs directly ...

if you know them, i'd just use your ISP's DNS servers ...

just for sanity's sake, are you sure the network interface is up? (can you login to your router from it?)

---

### Post by Seedneey on 2008-01-02
yes - that's what's so frustrating - can get to the router and to the modem's config page, and can edit them from my Gutsy box.

The Gutsy box is given its dynamic IP from the router, and can see everything when pinging - gave the correct ip # above, but just cannot see beyond in the firefox browser.

---

### Post by opus_az on 2008-01-02
Hmm...anything unusual in Firefox Preferences>Advanced>Network>Connection>Settings? Mine is just 'Direct connection to the internet'.

To be clear, when you ping ubuntu.com you get something like:
PING ubuntu.com (91.189.94.158) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from arctowski.canonical.com (91.189.94.158): icmp_seq=1 ttl=128 time=143 ms

---

### Post by Joule_JD on 2008-01-02
Hi there.

I have installed Ubuntu 7.10 and Fedora 8 on my Asus laptop today, and I'm experiencing the same problems. I can ping google.com and get replies, browse the files on a networked windows machine AND connect to an irc server with that Pidgeon Instant Messenger program. And even go on the web with Konqueror (which is what I'm using now)!
I'm new to linux but I'm familiar with Firefox and have been using for a couple of years now and all the settings appear correct, yet it won't access anything par local files. Its strange that both distros are having the same problem. One other thing I have noticed is that Firefox takes literally 2-3 minutes to start! (And I have a decent processor (Intel Core 2 Duo T5300) and 2Gb of RAM!).

I have also noticed that the package managers and update managers can't seem to access the internet either (both distros again). 

I don't see how it could be a hardware issue when some stuff works. :confused:

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-01-02
A couple things to do here:
1) Try to disable IPv6 in Firefox. You can do this by typing "about:config" in the address bar, and hitting enter. In the "filter" text box, type this:
```
network.dns.disableIPv6
```
The default value for this entry is "false." Change it to "true."

2) If the above didn't make a difference, I'd be interesting in seeing the output of this command:
```
cat /etc/hosts
```

---

### Post by Joule_JD on 2008-01-03
> **p_quarles said:**
> A couple things to do here:
1) Try to disable IPv6 in Firefox. You can do this by typing "about:config" in the address bar, and hitting enter. In the "filter" text box, type this:
```
network.dns.disableIPv6
```
The default value for this entry is "false." Change it to "true."

Yay it worked! Well for firefox anyway - the package managers etc still don't work. Could turning IPv6 off all together, fix it?

> **p_quarles said:**
> 
2) If the above didn't make a difference, I'd be interesting in seeing the output of this command:
```
cat /etc/hosts
```

Heres the output of that anyway:
# Do not remove the following line, or various programs
# that require network functionality will fail.
127.0.0.1	localhost.localdomain	localhost	localhost
::1	localhost6.localdomain6	localhost6


Cheers.

---

### Post by Seedneey on 2008-01-03
Woohoo!!!  Thanks guys, - sorry i have been out and couldnt try your fixes straight away.
The good news is that this posting is from my Gutsy box!

Editing the settings within Firefox  to change network.dns.disable IPv6 from false to true has enabled firefox to see the outside world.  I went to [www.google.com](www.google.com), and the world famous search engine came up, then of course came here to tell you all!!
For completeness, I also sent the command cat /etc/hosts as reccomended, and got the following:

:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1 localhost
127.0.1.1 ubuntu.workgroup

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1 ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

Like Joule who also posted problems to the thread, I am also havng problems with update managers seeing the outside world.  While we are on a roll, is there a similar fix for these?  Also, as i am a little ignorant of the protocols, what is the difference between  IPv4 and IPv6, and is there any issue through removing the IPv6 connection for other things.

Once again guys, thanks heaps for your help - this has ended 2 days of frustration, and stopped me rolling back to the dreaded gates!!
time to explore and have some fun learning code. 
Cheers, Seedneey!

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-01-03
I would definitely try the ipv6 blacklist in firefox or type in terminal
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
and at the end of the gedit list type
blacklist ipv6
save the changes, reboot and you should be able to connect.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-01-03
that's weird (but good it's working for you) ... i (of course) don't use ipv6 in any way - but everything is there to use it (i.e. kernel module loaded, NOT disabled in firefox) and i don't have any problems ...

doesn't make a whole lot of sense, from an ubuntu/OS perspective ...

---

### Post by Joule_JD on 2008-01-07
Disabling IPv6 for everything didn't help (just Firefox). [But heres a link to the topic that did help.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282034&highlight=resolv.conf")

In short:
I had to get my ISP's static DNS addresses and enter them into my router. And then I edited the */etc/apt/sources.list* file (I think) and uncommented out all the lines that hand been commented out during the install process due to not being able to access them. And tada! It all works now for me. :)

Next task: getting the drivers for my X2300 graphics card working and @ the native wide-screen res of my laptop.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-01-08
> I had to get my ISP's static DNS addresses and enter them into my router.that's weird ... every consumer router i've used (mostly from linksys) have autodetected WAN IP / DNS ...  sure, i've got mine memorized now - but seems like a hassle ...

doesn't the "restricted drivers manager" take care of the X2300 drivers? (an ATI card?)

---

### Post by Joule_JD on 2008-01-08
> **scxtt said:**
> that's weird ... every consumer router i've used (mostly from linksys) have autodetected WAN IP / DNS ...  sure, i've got mine memorized now - but seems like a hassle ...


Yeah I have a Linksys too and I have no idea why Linux needed for it to have the the ISP's static DNS addresses set in it, as windows worked fine when it auto-detected them or whatever. But its all sorted now. Which has also fixed...

> **scxtt said:**
> doesn't the "restricted drivers manager" take care of the X2300 drivers? (an ATI card?)

That. Before it wouldn't let me enable the ATI restricted drivers but it does now and has sorted itself out. Which was nice. :)

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-01-08
i know you're all sorted out, but a little discussion is never bad :)

> . . . as windows worked fine when it auto-detected them or whatever.usually, ubuntu will use your router's IP for DNS - then the router (which knows your ISP's DNS servers) will take care of the DNS lookups ... afaik, if you use DHCP or manually set your router's IP as a nameserver in /etc/resolv.conf -- you're fine ... same goes for windows, it's just using your router's IP for DNS requests ... so depending on how you configured your network in the beginning, i can see how things might become a hassle ...

---

### Post by Joule_JD on 2008-01-12
Yeah well it was all good and had everything running perfect, until I did the automatic updates... Now it won't boot into linux. :( and even worse the update changed my grub config so my windows partition is now no longer on the list. Ive had enough for now, I'm just going to leave it for a bit. Luckily I still have my desktop pc's to use.

---

### Post by linkx on 2008-02-12
Thanks so much! I installed Gutsy for a friend and he loved it . . . until he tried to check his email. I was confused because while installing I could connect fine using Synaptic. 

Your post came to my attention after a quick search and solved the issue. THANKS!

---

