---
title: ".m4a tracks in Fiesty."
date: 2007-04-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by auraithx on 2007-04-23
Okay, so when I was using XP I downloaded a few Podcasts. These were .m4a encoded and I assume DRM-free. I'm using Rhythmbox Music Player to put songs onto my ipod and it has loaded my entire 50GB music collection (including other podcasts) but left out these ones. I cannot play them in Rythmbox, or load them. However I get no errors when trying to do so. I converted a few of them into .mp3 and they play fine if I right click --> Play in Rythmbox but the name does not appear in the player, only the time. The .mp3s wont load into the library either so I have no way of getting them onto my iPod....help!!!

These are the podcasts.
[http://www.podcastdirectory.com/podcasts/19491](http://www.podcastdirectory.com/podcasts/19491)

---

### Post by n3tfury on 2007-04-23
give [[COLOR="DarkOrange"]Songbird[/COLOR]]("http://www.songbirdnest.com/") a look.

---

### Post by auraithx on 2007-04-23
I used songbird in Edgy. It was one of the worst MP3 players I've ever used. Plus it has no iPod support.

---

### Post by n3tfury on 2007-04-23
ok.

---

### Post by annda on 2007-04-23
could it be because of the included video track? rhythmox is not a video player. plus i have no idea how m4a's handle ID tags, but after extracting the audio stream with vlc i get no tags, which is understandable: this is stream extraction, not file conversion.

but the new file can easily be added to any playlist, so maybe you can use that way.

---

### Post by 3rr0r on 2007-04-23
Have you tried gtkpod?  I'm not sure if it will work either but I used it for my ipod and it worked fine.

---

### Post by auraithx on 2007-04-23
> **annda said:**
> could it be because of the included video track? rhythmox is not a video player. plus i have no idea how m4a's handle ID tags, but after extracting the audio stream with vlc i get no tags, which is understandable: this is stream extraction, not file conversion.

but the new file can easily be added to any playlist, so maybe you can use that way.

Ahah! That was it. Using VLC to rip them all now :guitar:

---

### Post by auraithx on 2007-04-24
Okay now they load fine in Rythmbox but they won't play on my iPod. I ripped them as MPEG. when I rip them as MP3 or MPEG 4 they don't load into rythmbox. 

:mad: :mad: :mad: :mad: :mad:

---

