---
title: "[SOLVED] Automatic installation of dependencies"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by notbitmonk on 2008-03-05
I'm trying to install the Epson (Stylus CX7400) scanner drives and/or build the sane-backends.  When I try to install/build I receive an error about missing dependencies.  I checked some of the names listed as missing in Synaptic.  Some of them appear and some of them don't.  Is there a command that I can issue that will install the required dependencies? I'm using Ubuntu 7.10.

---

### Post by w0ng on 2008-03-05
```
sudo apt-get install -f
```

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-05
Can you post the error message about the dependencies? Usually, if you get this when building, it is referring to source or header files. Sometimes you need to install the package **linux-headers** before building. I think you have to get the right headers package for your kernel. You can get your kernel information by the command **uname -r**

---

### Post by notbitmonk on 2008-03-05
I'm trying to install an rpm package that contains the drivers for an Epson Stylus CX7400 scanner.  I'm also trying to compile the sane-backends following the instruction on the SANE webpage.  When I get back home, I'll try the installation again to copy the error messages.  I do not think that it has anything to do with headers as I was able to find some of the missing dependencies in Synaptic.  What was weird is that some of the dependencies already appeared as being installed.  For the compiler, some of the depndencies had to do with gcc which I know for sure is installed.  

w0ng: I do not think that apt will help in this case since the driver is a rpm package.  For that, in terminal, I type:
```
sudo rpm -i PACKAGE_NAME
```
This is where I get dependencies errors.

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-05
Ubuntu is a Debian system, not a Red Hat system. Therefore, RPM packages need to be converted to Debian packages before you install them.

The converting program is called [Alien]("http://linux.die.net/man/1/alien") (nice name, huh?) Install Alien using the Synaptic package manager. Then, you convert the .rpm to a .deb and install it with```
sudo alien -i PACKAGE_NAME
```Even after that, though, you will probably have some issues getting your scanner to work, but one step at a time.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-03-05
If possible you are better off installing from source rather then alien.

---

### Post by notbitmonk on 2008-03-05
I downloaded the source files and tried compiling (following the instructions [here]("http://tldp.org/HOWTO/Software-Building-HOWTO-4.html#ss4.1")).  Here is the config.log (the first thing I did was right click and select "Extract here"):

This file contains any messages produced by compilers while
running configure, to aid debugging if configure makes a mistake.

It was created by sane-backends configure 1.0.19, which was
generated by GNU Autoconf 2.61.  Invocation command line was

  $ ./configure 

## --------- ##
## Platform. ##
## --------- ##

hostname = jesse-desktop
uname -m = i686
uname -r = 2.6.22-14-generic
uname -s = Linux
uname -v = #1 SMP Tue Feb 12 07:42:25 UTC 2008

/usr/bin/uname -p = unknown
/bin/uname -X     = unknown

/bin/arch              = unknown
/usr/bin/arch -k       = unknown
/usr/convex/getsysinfo = unknown
/usr/bin/hostinfo      = unknown
/bin/machine           = unknown
/usr/bin/oslevel       = unknown
/bin/universe          = unknown

PATH: /usr/local/sbin
PATH: /usr/local/bin
PATH: /usr/sbin
PATH: /usr/bin
PATH: /sbin
PATH: /bin
PATH: /usr/games


## ----------- ##
## Core tests. ##
## ----------- ##

configure:2058: checking build system type
configure:2076: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:2098: checking host system type
configure:2113: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:2197: checking for gcc
configure:2213: found /usr/bin/gcc
configure:2224: result: gcc
configure:2462: checking for C compiler version
configure:2469: gcc --version >&5
gcc (GCC) 4.1.3 20070929 (prerelease) (Ubuntu 4.1.2-16ubuntu2)
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

configure:2472: $? = 0
configure:2479: gcc -v >&5
Using built-in specs.
Target: i486-linux-gnu
Configured with: ../src/configure -v --enable-languages=c,c++,fortran,objc,obj-c++,treelang --prefix=/usr --enable-shared --with-system-zlib --libexecdir=/usr/lib --without-included-gettext --enable-threads=posix --enable-nls --with-gxx-include-dir=/usr/include/c++/4.1.3 --program-suffix=-4.1 --enable-__cxa_atexit --enable-clocale=gnu --enable-libstdcxx-debug --enable-mpfr --enable-checking=release i486-linux-gnu
Thread model: posix
gcc version 4.1.3 20070929 (prerelease) (Ubuntu 4.1.2-16ubuntu2)
configure:2482: $? = 0
configure:2489: gcc -V >&5
gcc: '-V' option must have argument
configure:2492: $? = 1
configure:2515: checking for C compiler default output file name
configure:2542: gcc    conftest.c  >&5
/usr/bin/ld: crt1.o: No such file: No such file or directory
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status
configure:2545: $? = 1
configure:2583: result: 
configure: failed program was:
| /* confdefs.h.  */
| #define PACKAGE_NAME "sane-backends"
| #define PACKAGE_TARNAME "sane-backends"
| #define PACKAGE_VERSION "1.0.19"
| #define PACKAGE_STRING "sane-backends 1.0.19"
| #define PACKAGE_BUGREPORT "sane-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org"
| #define PACKAGE "sane-backends"
| #define VERSION "1.0.19"
| #define SANE_DLL_V_MAJOR 1
| #define SANE_DLL_V_MINOR 0
| #define SANE_DLL_V_BUILD 19
| /* end confdefs.h.  */
| 
| int
| main ()
| {
| 
|   ;
|   return 0;
| }
configure:2590: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.

## ---------------- ##
## Cache variables. ##
## ---------------- ##

ac_cv_build=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_env_CCC_set=
ac_cv_env_CCC_value=
ac_cv_env_CC_set=
ac_cv_env_CC_value=
ac_cv_env_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CPPFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CPPFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CPP_set=
ac_cv_env_CPP_value=
ac_cv_env_CXXCPP_set=
ac_cv_env_CXXCPP_value=
ac_cv_env_CXXFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CXXFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CXX_set=
ac_cv_env_CXX_value=
ac_cv_env_F77_set=
ac_cv_env_F77_value=
ac_cv_env_FFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_FFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_LDFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_LDFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_build_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_build_alias_value=
ac_cv_env_host_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_host_alias_value=
ac_cv_env_target_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_target_alias_value=
ac_cv_host=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_prog_ac_ct_CC=gcc

## ----------------- ##
## Output variables. ##
## ----------------- ##

ALLOCA=''
AR=''
AS=''
BACKENDS=''
BEOS_ADDONDIR=''
BE_INSTALL_FLAVOR=''
CC='gcc'
CFLAGS=''
CPP=''
CPPFLAGS=''
CROSS_COMPILING=''
CXX=''
CXXCPP=''
CXXFLAGS=''
DEFS=''
DEPEND_RECURSIVE=''
DISTCLEAN_FILES=''
DLLTOOL=''
DLL_PRELOAD=''
DL_LIB=''
DVIPS=''
DYNAMIC_FLAG=''
ECHO='echo'
ECHO_C=''
ECHO_N='-n'
ECHO_T=''
EGREP=''
EXEEXT=''
F77=''
FFLAGS=''
GPHOTO2_LDFLAGS=''
GREP=''
HAVE_GPHOTO2=''
INCLUDES=''
INSTALL_DATA=''
INSTALL_LOCKPATH=''
INSTALL_PROGRAM=''
INSTALL_SCRIPT=''
INSTALL_TRANSLATIONS=''
LATEX=''
LDFLAGS=''
LIBOBJS=''
LIBS=''
LIBTOOL=''
LIBTOOL_LINK_EXTRA=''
LINKER_RPATH=''
LN_S=''
LOCKPATH_GROUP=''
LTLIBOBJS=''
MAKEDEPEND=''
MAKEINDEX=''
MSGFMT=''
MSGMERGE=''
NUMBER_VERSION='1.0.19'
OBJDUMP=''
OBJEXT=''
PACKAGE='sane-backends'
PACKAGE_BUGREPORT='sane-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org'
PACKAGE_NAME='sane-backends'
PACKAGE_STRING='sane-backends 1.0.19'
PACKAGE_TARNAME='sane-backends'
PACKAGE_VERSION='1.0.19'
PATH_SEPARATOR=':'
RANLIB=''
SANED=''
SANEI_JPEG=''
SANEI_JPEG_LO=''
SANE_CONFIG_PATH=''
SET_MAKE=''
SHELL='/bin/bash'
STRIP=''
USE_LATEX=''
USE_LINKS=''
VERSION='1.0.19'
V_MAJOR='1'
V_MINOR='0'
V_REV='19'
XGETTEXT=''
ac_ct_CC='gcc'
ac_ct_CXX=''
ac_ct_F77=''
bindir='${exec_prefix}/bin'
build='i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1'
build_alias=''
build_cpu='i686'
build_os='linux-gnulibc1'
build_vendor='pc'
datadir='${datarootdir}'
datarootdir='${prefix}/share'
docdir='${prefix}/doc/sane-${VERSION}'
dvidir='${docdir}'
effective_target=''
exec_prefix='NONE'
host='i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1'
host_alias=''
host_cpu='i686'
host_os='linux-gnulibc1'
host_vendor='pc'
htmldir='${docdir}'
includedir='${prefix}/include'
infodir='${datarootdir}/info'
libdir='${exec_prefix}/lib'
libexecdir='${exec_prefix}/libexec'
localedir='${datarootdir}/locale'
localstatedir='${prefix}/var'
locksanedir=''
mandir='${datarootdir}/man'
oldincludedir='/usr/include'
pdfdir='${docdir}'
prefix='NONE'
program_transform_name='s,x,x,'
psdir='${docdir}'
sbindir='${exec_prefix}/sbin'
sharedstatedir='${prefix}/com'
sysconfdir='${prefix}/etc'
target_alias=''

## ----------- ##
## confdefs.h. ##
## ----------- ##

#define PACKAGE_NAME "sane-backends"
#define PACKAGE_TARNAME "sane-backends"
#define PACKAGE_VERSION "1.0.19"
#define PACKAGE_STRING "sane-backends 1.0.19"
#define PACKAGE_BUGREPORT "sane-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org"
#define PACKAGE "sane-backends"
#define VERSION "1.0.19"
#define SANE_DLL_V_MAJOR 1
#define SANE_DLL_V_MINOR 0
#define SANE_DLL_V_BUILD 19

configure: exit 77

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-05
If you want to compile from source you need to install the package **build-essential** and maybe also linux-headers for your particular kernel.

---

### Post by notbitmonk on 2008-03-05
Looking at the config.log, noticed that gcc was missing.  Went into synaptic and installed it (along with required dependencies that were automatically selected).  After installation, I was able to compile and install the source files.  In the end I was able to do what I wanted, however, my question was how to make dependencies downloaded and installed automatically when a file is installed.  Looking at what I want, I can say that it may be a security issue and that is why there is no such feature but I would like someone more knowledgeable tell me so before I change the status of the post to SOLVED.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-03-05
To mark the thread as solved :

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

For dependencies, IMO, best don manually (ie check the site for dependencies) There are automated ways, but they install too much, IMO

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AutoDeb](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AutoDeb)

For compiling , install "build-essential"

You usually need the "headers" which in Ubuntu are in the *-dev package.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-03-05
apt-get and aptitude, plus their front-end Synaptic will handle dependencies automatically. When you're installing something from source, you have to find dependencies yourself, although usually they are listed in a README or INSTALL file accompanying the source. There are tools e.g. auto-apt and checkinstall that can help find dependencies for source code.

---

