---
title: "compaq laptop modem bother"
date: 2005-05-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rogerdean on 2005-05-28
hello there folks

i have just very tentatively done my first ubuntu install (hoary), and am delighted. however it's not automatically picked up the modem in my compaq presario 2100 laptop as far as i can tell. i've fiddled with the network adaptor settings but can't get a result.

can anyone help me out with this? i truly am an absolute beginner, so if you need more info just let me know what to do!

many thanks to all
roger

---

### Post by Mez on 2005-05-28
Do you know hte make and model of your modem?

---

### Post by rogerdean on 2005-05-28
hello mez, thanks for helping. 
nope, i don't know my modem details. i have these screenshots (attached) of both the ubuntu and win info pages, but they don't seem to agree. do you know how to translate this? hope this helps
cheers
roger

---

### Post by Mez on 2005-05-28
Looks like a winmodem to me...

[http://linmodems.org/](http://linmodems.org/) is a good place to look through to try and get it working

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-05-28
it's sadly a conexant, like mine, for which you need a proprietary driver from [http://www.linuxant.com](http://www.linuxant.com) . even if you compile and install the driver it will only work at 14400bps if you don't pay the fee for the full version.

---

### Post by rogerdean on 2005-06-01
Thank you everyone for all your advice.

I've been to the linuxant site and downloaded the debian packages for both the HCF and HSF modems, but am having trouble setting them up. I've managed -

[COLOR=Sienna]sudo aptitude install build-essentials
sudo aptitude install linux headers[/COLOR]

that all seemed to go fine, and i then tried -

[COLOR=Sienna]sudo dpkg -i <package> [/COLOR]

(i tried this for both HCF and HSF) and this is what i get - 

[COLOR=Sienna]root@roger:/home/roger # sudo dpkg -i hsfmodem_7.18.00.03full_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 73804 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace hsfmodem 7.18.00.03full (using hsfmodem_7.18.00.03full_i386.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement hsfmodem ...
Setting up hsfmodem (7.18.00.03full) ...
Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.18.00.03full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Debian-3.1 linux-2.6.10-5-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)
Please ensure that the kernel-headers or kernel-source package is installed.
On Debian, try "apt-get install kernel-headers-2.6.10-5-386"

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux][/COLOR]


i tried entering the directory it 'seems' to be suggesting, ie /usr/src/linux and i get this -

[COLOR=Sienna]WARNING: missing file /usr/src/linux/include/linux/autoconf.h
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hsfconfig".
dpkg: error processing hsfmodem (--install):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
 hsfmodem
root@roger:/home/roger #
[/COLOR]

now, please bear with me, because i know buggerall. i am guessing that i am entering the wrong directory for the ubuntu files that the installer needs. i have a plain vanilla ubuntu setup, fresh from the cd with no messing, so presumably my 'source directory' would be the same as most of yours. what should i be typing here, why (important to learn!), and are there any further pitfalls i might enounter?

I really appreciate everyone's help!
allbest
roger

---

