---
title: ".php files question"
date: 2008-02-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by USarge on 2008-02-26
Why am I not able to use .php wallpapers after downloading them?  

I go into 
>>> Change Desktop Background
>>> Click on "Add", from the Background tab
>>> Go to the folder where the files are.

At this point I have to change to all files as the .php files do not get listed as an 'image' file.
I then highlight the file I'm interested in and click <<open>>, but it does not appear as a selection in the background menu.

I'm not familiar with this file type, is there something I need to do to the .php file before trying to use it as wallpaper?

Thanks

---

### Post by Ziggurat on 2008-02-26
Its an error from the page you are downloading the images, php files are source code file. But maybe the site messed up and it is actually the image but with the wrong name. You have to rename the file extension. Depending on the image type, probably png or jpg. SO if you have a file named image.php you should rename it to image.png.

Let me know if it works.

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-26
That's really weird... PHP is a scripting language for building websites. On a properly configured server the server should run the script, and then send you the output, the php script itself should never leave the server.

---

### Post by Ziggurat on 2008-02-26
Yes, i have found some pages that for some reason mess up the download files. Some downloaded files are good, but have the wrong name (the name of the url).

---

### Post by USarge on 2008-02-26
Thanks all, the renaming the file worked.  

I just looked at the properties to be sure what to change the extension to. Weird as the 2 I had problems with both came from:  [www.gnome-look.org](www.gnome-look.org)   a site that an Ubuntu book I have recommended.

I'll keep note for the future.
Thanks again.

~Peace

---

### Post by Ziggurat on 2008-02-26
Great! Good luck.

---

