---
title: "5.04 Install Problem"
date: 2006-06-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by markb99 on 2006-06-23
Hi, I'm a newbie here trying to get Linux on my desktop.  I'm running WinXP on an 80gig drive and just put in an old 20 gig drive from my old computer.  The hard drive is fine.  i did a scan disk to check for errors and nothing.  The drive is cleared... it's seeing the entire drive as free.  here's the problem:

Everytime I try to load Ubuntu, it starts the install and runs vmlinux and then says that the kernel boot is ok then restarts.  This keeps happening.  Now for what I was wondering... I am running in this house with 3 other computers on the home network.  The one desktop downstairs is wired directly into the dsl router.  Every other computer is running wireless.  This desktop that i'm trying to put it on is running a Belkin wireless usb device.  Is that causing some problems?  I know that some of the older linux distributions had problems with usb.  Also, the keyboard is running usb, but is recognized fine.  The new hard drive is hooked as the slave to the primary.  I changed that to have the empty HD to act as primary to load ubuntu, but it still did the same thing.  Do i need to get the latest version of Ubuntu?  I also tried to load Fedora 3 and got the same exact problem.  Any ideas would be greatly appreciated!
Mark

---

### Post by nanotube on 2006-06-23
is there any specific reason that you are trying to install such an old version of ubuntu? 6.06 is out now, you should download that one and see if it does better with your machine. 

if you suspect that belkin usb is giving you problems, why not unplug it, install, and then after it's done installing, plug it back in, and see if that helps.

---

### Post by markb99 on 2006-07-01
I am still having a problem.  I downloaded the latest version and am still having the problems.  I pulled out the wireless usb device, and I also tried disabling the digital card reader in windows, but it still restarts.  When I disabled the card reader, i didn't disable the usb port thats on it, too.  Should I disable that, also?  I really want to get Linux on the secondary drive.  What should I do?

---

### Post by Kimm on 2006-07-01
What computer are you running? and which architecture is the disk your using for?

---

### Post by markb99 on 2006-07-01
I'm using a Compaq Presario 2.67 ghz with 512 ram.  I have 2 hard drives.  the 80 gig is my primary right now running winxp home and the 20 gig that i pulled from my old computer is formatted and waiting to go.  When I put linux on it, I will reformat the HD to be fully linux.

once before, i disconnected the 80 gig and had the 20 gig running as primary and it still restarted.  I also have an 80 gig external through usb, but i always disconnect that one when trying to load linux, still restarting.  Any ideas?
Mark

---

