---
title: "Changing ownership (drive) : Operation not permitted"
date: 2007-09-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mikeserv on 2007-09-23
I first discovered that I couldn't use one of my drives when I tried to create a link to one of the folders on it and encountered an error.  I checked it out and the drive is owned by root.  So I tried "sudo chown -r michael:michael /media/fat32" (my username is michael and the drive is mounted at /media/fat32).  That's when I got this error: "changing ownership of `/media/fat32': Operation not permitted".

Can anyone tell me what's going on?

-Mike

---

### Post by mikeserv on 2007-09-23
Oh, my fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=eb2c5d78-45c0-45d1-9e5f-bba285eb8ef1 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=0e5680ac-f586-43e9-a811-ff9f88b2144b none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/fat32 vfat auto,user,rw 0 0

sudo fdisk -l:

Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250000000000 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30394 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1           7       56196   de  Dell Utility
/dev/sda2               8        1313    10485760    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3   *        1313       25628   195312500    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 82.3 GB, 82348277760 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 10011 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        7390    59360143+   c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sdb2   *        7391        9896    20129445   83  Linux
/dev/sdb3            9897       10011      923737+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb5            9897       10011      923706   82  Linux swap / Solaris

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-09-23
Hmm.... well the drive itself (/dev/sdb) must be owned by root. But according to your fstab, whichever user mounts the drive should own the mountpoint. What happens if you unmount and mount it again?
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb
sudo mount /dev/sdb
ls -l /media/fat32
```

---

### Post by mikeserv on 2007-09-23
ls -l /media/fat32
total 224
drwxr-xr-x  6 root root 32768 2007-09-23 11:19 My Shared Folder
drwxr-xr-x 83 root root 32768 2006-08-14 12:33 Nintendo
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 32768 2007-02-18 20:03 $recycle.bin
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 32768 2005-12-04 14:09 Recycled
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 32768 2006-08-14 12:31 Sega
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 32768 2006-08-14 12:32 Super
drwxr-xr-x  6 root root 32768 2005-12-04 10:49 System Volume Information

---

### Post by mikeserv on 2007-09-23
I'm not sure if this is true or not, but if Linux detects an error on a drive does it automatically render the drive read-only?  Is there a drive checker command that I can run?  

I've just backed up all the files that I need to keep on that drive and am considering formatting it completely for Linux.  Is there a step by step process I should take and will the Operation not permitted error prevent me from doing so?

-Mike

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-09-23
Well for an error check run:
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb
sudo fsck /dev/sdb
```
As for it mounting as read-only in the event of errors, only if you see a line like this "errors=remount-ro" in your fstab, next to that filesystem (as you do with your root filesystem). As for reformatting, you won't encounter an error due to not being able to change ownership of the mountpoint, and I'd just use GParted. You'll need to delete the line in your fstab (it'll be useless once you repartition anyway) and also run ```
sudo killall gnome-volume-manager
```to stop the gnome background process that will attempt to automount the drive (which is not the best while you're trying to format it). I don't think you'll have GParted by default, but ```
sudo apt-get install gparted
``` should fix that. It'll appear under System > Administration > GNOME Partition Editor. If you're looking for a much more up-to-date version of it, try their livecd from the link in my signature (that also negates any automounting issues).

And of course to completely reformat just delete all the existing partitions on the drive and make it one big ext3 partition!

Also, you could try just changing the permissions of the mountpoint to fix your initial problem rather than just chown-ing it. ```
sudo chmod 777 /media/fat32
```to give read/write/execute permissions to all users (not sure if that will return the same error or not though).

---

### Post by mikeserv on 2007-09-23
The disk checked out fine.  And I'm gonna format it.

Ok, in GParted I'm given WAY too many options.  What should I choose? ext3?  ext2?  I just want to use the partition for storage of media (video, music, documents).  I'll be sharing the drive with Windows Vista, and wouldn't have considered a Linux format until I found out that there is a Windows driver for reading Linux paritions.

So - any advice...?

-Mike

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-09-23
Ext3 is the generally accepted "Linux format." I know there's an ext2/ext3 driver around, not sure how well it behaves in Vista but I've seen it work in XP.

---

### Post by mikeserv on 2007-09-23
According to this ([http://www.go2linux.org/accessing-linux-drive-ext-with-vista](http://www.go2linux.org/accessing-linux-drive-ext-with-vista)) it shouldn't be an issue.  But I guess I'll find out myself soon!

-Mike

---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2007-09-24
Well, I'm kind of a noob at this, but I changed from OSX, and I have a Secure flash drive, which Ubuntu recognizes as a read-only... is there a way to change this, or is it a highly secure device? (which Idon't get, considering I can use any other OSX system to write to it...)

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-09-24
I'm assuming you're letting Ubuntu automount it? If you right click on it's icon and go to properties, there should be a "permissions" tab you can have a play with.

---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2007-09-24
I looked there, but it's not letting me do anything...

---

### Post by vanadium on 2007-09-24
zmjjmz, you should open a new thread for your particular issue. My guess is that your flash drive could be ntfs formatted, which is read-only in Linux. Make sure your flash drive is connected and then issue the command 

mount

and post the output here, so we can tell.

For the initial poster: you need to add the option uid=<value> to your fstab line, where <value> is your user id (uid). You can find your uid typing "id".

The user option does not make much sense for a drive that is automatically mounted: indeed durng bootup, it is always the root that is the one mounting the drive thus granting the permissions. It makes sense for a "noauto" drive: one that is manually mounted.

chmod -r makes no sense for a fat volume because the fat filesystem does not support permissions. Changing the owner of the mount point probably also works to give you all rights to the fat volume.

---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2007-09-24
Well, here's the output for mount
```
/dev/sda1 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw)
```

---

