---
title: "6.06 Doesn't Recognize Wireless Network"
date: 2007-03-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by IronMac on 2007-03-01
Hi all,

I got the 6.06 CDs and decided to upgrade from 5.10. After some difficulties, I simply blew away the 5.1 install and started fresh. Everything seems to work with the exception of my wireless connection.

The distro seems to recognize that there's a wireless card and the connection is "active" but there is nothing in the ESSID box. I tried to enter that in but no go. And, yes, everything worked great under 5.10 with the exception that Firefox kept crashing on me.

Any suggestions would be appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-03-01
Start by telling us what are the wireless card specs. Sometimes, installing the restricted modules for your kernel solves the problem.

---

### Post by IronMac on 2007-03-01
Thanks for the reply, Mike. It's an old 3Com Xjack card (3CRWE62092B). It worked great with 5.10 and even better than under WinXP! I am currently reloading 5.10 right now.

This is on a Thinkpad T20 and Ubuntu is the only OS.

---

### Post by igknighted on 2007-03-01
Sounds like you just need a program that can find your network.  Try downloading either wifi-radar (I have used it, its great) or network-manager (I think thats what its called... supposedly newer and better).  These programs will display your wireless networks withing range and let you easily connect to them.  The default network app is worthless in this respect.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-03-01
> **IronMac said:**
> Thanks for the reply, Mike. It's an old 3Com Xjack card (3CRWE62092B). It worked great with 5.10 and even better than under WinXP! I am currently reloading 5.10 right now.

This is on a Thinkpad T20 and Ubuntu is the only OS.

Hope it's going to be OK after the reload of 5.10. You'll probably have tons of updates. :)

---

### Post by IronMac on 2007-03-01
> **igknighted said:**
> Sounds like you just need a program that can find your network.  Try downloading either wifi-radar (I have used it, its great) or network-manager (I think thats what its called... supposedly newer and better).  These programs will display your wireless networks withing range and let you easily connect to them.  The default network app is worthless in this respect.

The T20 is sitting 3 feet above the router!!!  :lolflag: 

Seriously, this card and 5.10 worked flawlessly together and I couldn't have been happier.

---

### Post by IronMac on 2007-03-01
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Hope it's going to be OK after the reload of 5.10. You'll probably have tons of updates. :)

Yeah, I know. I did all of those updates using the wireless card since the Ethernet port on this machine has been disabled. I am going to use Synaptic to do the upgrade this time around since doing it from CD was what messed up the entire thing.

---

### Post by mattotoole on 2007-03-08
I have exactly the same problem.  I'm still running 5.10 on my T20 because I can't get the wireless to work with 6.06 or 6.10.  It works fine with 5.10.  My card is a Linksys WPC11.

I wonder what Ubuntu "broke" when they went from 5.x to 6.x.

---

