---
title: "Modem is not detected"
date: 2007-12-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by McLaren95 on 2007-12-23
i am using a modem that is not detected by ubuntu, what can i do?

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-12-23
Check out [Linmodems]("http://linmodems.org").

---

### Post by AnonCat on 2007-12-23
Download the scan modem utility from here:

[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/scanModem.gz](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/scanModem.gz)

If it says you have a smartlink chipset modem then you can download pre-compiled drivers for Gutsy from that site.  Unfortunately, they forgot to compile the driver (when I last checked) for ungrab-winmodem, but I compiled one if you want to use it and don't want to bother compiling one for yourself.  If you want, I could just send you the precompiled drivers and tell you how to install them if you do have a smartlink modem according to that utility.  Read the modemdata.txt file generated by that utility to determine the chipset or just copy and paste it into a post here.

---

### Post by 67GTA on 2008-01-02
> **AnonCat said:**
> Download the scan modem utility from here:

[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/scanModem.gz](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/scanModem.gz)

If it says you have a smartlink chipset modem then you can download pre-compiled drivers for Gutsy from that site.  Unfortunately, they forgot to compile the driver (when I last checked) for ungrab-winmodem, but I compiled one if you want to use it and don't want to bother compiling one for yourself.  If you want, I could just send you the precompiled drivers and tell you how to install them if you do have a smartlink modem according to that utility.  Read the modemdata.txt file generated by that utility to determine the chipset or just copy and paste it into a post here.

I am trying to get the Smartlink modem in my mothers laptop working with Ubuntu. I am getting the "no dial tone" error after trying every piece of documentation Google could find. The restricted driver manager installed "sl-modem-daemon". Wvdial recognized my modem on /dev/ttySL0. Gnomeppp and Kppp both give me the error. If you could send me the right stuff, I would be very grateful.

---

