---
title: "nvidia-settings"
date: 2007-03-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dr_dirk on 2007-03-20
Hello, I'm having trouble getting 1680x1050 resolution on my monitor.  I solved the problem before using nvidia-settings, but I can't seem to find the thread that helped out before.  My problem is that nvidia-settings has no options at the moment.  It needs to look more like that of Artificial Intelligence in the fourth post of the following thread.. [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381174&highlight=nvidia-settings](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381174&highlight=nvidia-settings)

It's a simple fix, I know, but I don't recall what needs to be done and I couldn't seem to dig up the info.  Any help would be great, thanks.

---

### Post by testube_babies on 2007-03-20
I have two 1680x1050 nVidia laptops and getting them to operate at the proper resolution has been no less than annoying.  If you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf and graphics card I can try to help you out.

---

### Post by fenian on 2007-03-20
Use the envy script to install the latest nvidia drivers and you should be all set.Get it [here]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html").

---

### Post by dr_dirk on 2007-03-21
My xorg.conf looks like so:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"L204WT"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
	Monitor		"L204WT"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


My video card is a gforce 7800.

In response to using Envy, I gave that a looking over earlier today but had trouble installing it.  I'll take another look.  I'm slightly bent on nvidia-settings just because I know it worked before when other methods didn't seem to.  Thanks fo the help.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-03-21
I followed the instructions on the nvidia site and nvidia-settings worked perfect.

Debian GNU/Linux or Ubuntu with Xorg 7.x

If you wish to install the NVIDIA Linux graphics driver on a Debian GNU/Linux or Ubuntu system that ships with Xorg 7.x, please ensure that your system meets the following requirements:

    * development tools like make and gcc are installed
    * the linux-headers package matching the installed Linux kernel is installed
    * the pkg-config and xserver-xorg-dev packages are installed
    * the nvidia-glx package has been uninstalled with the --purge option and the file /etc/init.d/nvidia-glx does not exist.

If you use Ubuntu, please also ensure that the linux-restricted-modules packages have been uninstalled. Alternatively, you can edit the /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules or /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common configuration file and disable the NVIDIA linux-restricted kernel modules (nvidia, nvidia_legacy) via:

    DISABLED_MODULES="nv"

STEP 2: Download the Driver File

Download (Right click and select "Save Target/Link As..." and save the driver to a local directory)
NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9755-pkg1.run

STEP 3: Install

Type "sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9755-pkg1.run" to install the driver. NVIDIA now provides a utility to assist you with configuration of your X config file.

---

### Post by dr_dirk on 2007-03-21
I'm trying what you suggested, Alienexploreres, but I get an error while running the installation.

ERROR: You appear to be running an X server; please exit X before            
         installing.  For further details, please see the section INSTALLING   
         THE NVIDIA DRIVER in the README available on the Linux driver         
         download page at [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com).

It sounds like I have to close X and work from a command prompt, but I don't actually know how to do that.  I closed X, but it re-opened at the login.

---

### Post by fenian on 2007-03-21
The envy script installs the same drivers as the method alienexploreres suggested does, the newer drivers give you  the nvidia-settings window that allows you to change the settings from a gui.After you install the new driver run in a terminal...
> 
gksudo nvidia-settings

And the nvidia-settings window will open allowing you to make any desired changes when your done click the save to X configuration button and your xorg.conf file will be updated with your new settings.

---

### Post by dr_dirk on 2007-03-21
I tried Envy and haven't had any luck yet.  I downloaded envy_0.8.2-0ubuntu1_all.deb and tried installing it.  The installer says that it's installed, and tselliot said in his guide that I should be able to launch the GUI from applications>system tools, but it doesn't show.  For that matter neither did nvidia-settings (something I read gave me the impression that it should also show up under system tools).  Any suggestions for this?

---

### Post by fenian on 2007-03-21
Try running envy in text mode,in a terminal run

> sudo envy -t

In the window that opens first choose to uninstall nvidia drivers to remove any current drivers then choose the option to install nvidia drivers to install the latest drivers.Nvidia settings will not be available until after you insall the new drivers.

---

### Post by dr_dirk on 2007-03-21
I just went through the manual configuration and all seemed well except when xserver tried to restart.  It failed (I forget the wording) because none of the video settings were acceptable.  I over-wrote the xorg.conf with the backup so that I could restart xserver, and I'm wondering what I should do.  Nvidia X Server Settings exists under system tools now, but it appears as if no new drivers are installed.  That is to say, I still have no options.

I went through the process again to see what the errors said specifically.

Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module!

Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

Fatal error: no screens found

---

### Post by dr_dirk on 2007-03-21
Here is an update of what I've done.  I was able to get to the command prompt outside of X and installed the drivers I downloaded from nVidia's site.  Before I said to automatically edit xorg.conf and when restarting X I got the error mentioned in the previous post.  This time I said to *not* automatically edit xorg.conf and I was able to launch X no problem.  NVIDIA X Server Settings is in system tools but still with no options (again, see the above post).  I'm at a loss for the moment.  Any suggestions for what I might be doing wrong or any additional steps are appreciated.

---

### Post by testube_babies on 2007-03-21
re-post your xorg.conf.  I've had many "no screens found" errors that can easily be fixed by adjusting or commenting out one or two lines.

---

### Post by dr_dirk on 2007-03-21
I finally worked through the problem and I'll write out what I did.

Eventually I stirred things up enough that I had to re-install, which is where I took off from.  From a fresh install I followed the instructions of Artificialintelligence on another thread.
```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential gcc gcc-3.4 xserver-xorg-dev
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
```

Download the appropriate driver to disk from [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)      In my case it was NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9755-pkg1.run

From there I installed nvidia-kernel-common (from fitzy_oz in another thread) with
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-kernel-common
``` 

Then I installed all available updates from the update manager and exited to the command prompt with. I don't recall when exactly I was asked to reboot, but do so as needed.

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```

Press alt+F1 to escape the black screen, then log back in.  I ran the driver installation with
```
sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9755-pkg1.run
```
chose for it to automatically reconfigure xorg.conf, and crossed my fingers.  *note* the install had to compile a kernel for me because the proper one was not available for download.

After the installation you return to the command prompt and restart the GUI with
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Once logged back in, you should be able to go to Applications>System Tools>NVIDIA X Server Settings and have plenty of options.

I hope this works for other people as it seems that installing nVidia drivers can be troublesome.  I'm sure there can be some variation in this process, but these are the steps that I took and in the same order and now I'm set.  Thanks to those who posted here and responses to other threads that helped get this working.

---

### Post by jwcjr1 on 2007-04-10
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=29398&amp;stc=1&amp;d=1176213123](http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=29398&amp;stc=1&amp;d=1176213123) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				In Nvidia settings i get the following error box when trying to configure 2 monitors.

---

