---
title: "Hp 5590"
date: 2006-12-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Panganat on 2006-12-24
Hello, I am trying to sep up my Dell 720 Printer - It is seen buy sytem but will not print. Additionally, i have an HP 5590 that i have no idea how to let sytem recognize it. Both are USB connected

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-12-24
> Dell 720 Printer

Most likely won't work on Linux.  Dell printers are rebranded Lexmarks.  Lexmark chooses to keep their drivers propriatery for home use.

> HP 5590

Is it a deskjet, officejet, or other?  Most likely will work.   Have you tried System > Administration > Printing  (click foward and not install when you come to that part.)

---

### Post by magicfab on 2008-04-03
Hi,

I have that scanner (HP 5590) which I hadn't used for about 3 years (when I got rid of the last Windows  machine I had around). I was about to sell it this week and decided to plug it in 7.10 and 8.04.

Long story short it works perfectly. In 7.10 nothing happens when turning it on, I have to start xsane. In 8.04 xsane starts automatically. In both cases it's detected and working just fine. Nothing special is required, just start xsane in Applications > Graphics.

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-04-03
> **Panganat said:**
> Hello, I am trying to sep up my Dell 720 Printer - It is seen buy sytem but will not print. Additionally, i have an HP 5590 that i have no idea how to let sytem recognize it. Both are USB connected

Openprinting says the Dell printer works mostly.

[http://openprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Dell-Photo_Printer_720](http://openprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Dell-Photo_Printer_720)

The HP 5990 is a scanner it appears.  Install Xsane.

---

