---
title: "Can't seem to get the pendrivelinux.com to work..."
date: 2008-03-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by MacKai on 2008-03-18
I've been trying to get the guide on [http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/09/28/usb-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon-install/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/09/28/usb-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon-install/) to work. I've gone through the guide very carefully several times and it always seems to go smoothly till boot time. i always get the same message "invalid or damaged bootable partition" dose anyone have a sugestion? im using a 4G Memorex travel drive.


Ken V

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-03-18
From the guide you refer to:> Note: If your having trouble getting Ubuntu to boot, your memory stick may have a corrupted MBR. To repair the MBR of your USB device, at the terminal type sudo apt-get install lilo then type lilo -M /dev/sdx (replacing x with the letter of your flash device)Did you do this? Also, have you set your BIOS to boot the *drive* or to boot a *partition*? Some BIOSes can boot partitions. The guide is to set up a bootable drive, not a bootable partition. So, if your BIOS is trying to boot the first partition, you might get this error. If you installed lilo correctly, it could be the "invalid or damaged bootable partition" message is coming from lilo. Can you tell whether the error is being generated by lilo, or by your BIOS?

---

### Post by metalfanatic07 on 2008-03-18
I am also having a problem with this. I follow the instructions and come time to boot, the drive won't boot. I can't even get BIOS to recognize it as a bootable drive. I have tried several times. I can't even select the drive in the boot menu. it's like the drive doesn't even exist

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-03-18
all i can say is to try again. it took me several attempts to get it to boot.

---

### Post by phoenix116 on 2008-03-19
I had similar problems, but my bios always showed me the option to boot from my usb drive.

It could be that the problem is coming from hardware, do you have a very old mainboard?
First try if you have the same problem with any pendrive. If this is the case, try to do a
BIOS update or simply try your usb drive ubuntu at an other PC. 

In my opinion the problem either it is your usb drive or your BIOS

---

### Post by Golem XIV on 2008-03-19
I had this problem when I tried to create a persistent Live USB system.  It seems that Gutsy (and apparently even Hardy as of Alpha 3) cannot unmount the persistent Live USB drive correctly, which leads to data corruption.

[Here's the bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bug/125702")

I hope it'll be fixed by the final Hardy release...

---

### Post by MacKai on 2008-03-19
I haven't had time to do it yet but i will... do i do the Lilo thing after i have done the rest of the steps?

 I'm trying to boot from the drive not a partition....

 I do have to change my boot order each time i take the pen drive out and put it back in...

 my mother board is about 3 years old and i believe the BIOS is up to date but i will double check....


 I wont have time to try again till tomorrow but i'll post the results...

thanks for the feedback...

MacKai

---

### Post by MacKai on 2008-03-20
Ok.. Fixed

Thanks for the help everyone.

i had tried to do the Lilo thing before but couldn't get it to work because i couldn't figure out how to execute lilo...

this time i followed the guide and the Note section at the bottom. when i did the first step in the notes section   **sudo apt-get install lilo **   i would get a screen that stated something to the effect of    **lilo wont work until you run liloconfig( 8 )  **located at **/sibn/lilo**  well i couldn't figure out how to run that file - what can i say I'm real new- well this time i ignored the message and just did what was in the NOTE section of the guide and every thing fired up perfectly.

hope this helps others..

MacKai

---

