---
title: "7.04  no navigation bars or menu"
date: 2007-06-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Sailor-Moon on 2007-06-16
help please,

i have a hp pavilion 754 and had a lot of trouble getting ubuntu to install, i had to use the f6 install function and type this

- Select 'Other options' with F6
- Remove 'splash', 'quiet' and '--'
- Add 'all_generic_ide'


i now have the log in screen, and password, sounds fine but when the desktop loads, two grey bars flashon and off for about 10 seconds along the top and bottom of the screen then vanish leaving only a desktop wallpaper and nothing more.

pressing alt and f2 does nothing, i cant open a command prompt, all i can do is right click the mouse to bring up a few options.

help please!

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-06-16
First off: ctrl+alt+f2 to open a command prompt. Type in ```
gnome-panel
``` Then get back to the GUI by pressing ctrl+alt+f7.

---

### Post by jfoobar on 2007-06-16
> **Happy_Man said:**
> First off: ctrl+alt+f2 to open a command prompt. Type in ```
gnome-panel
``` Then get back to the GUI by pressing ctrl+alt+f7.

That only sort of worked for me.  ctrl-alt-F7 reloaded the GUI but only gave me a black screen with a movable mouse cursor and that is all.  I had to power cycle the laptop.

Of course, black screen and a mouse cursor is also what I get if I ever try and recover from either a sleep or a hibernate on this laptop also so it is probably a problem with the laptop.

---

### Post by Sailor-Moon on 2007-06-16
command not found :(

---

### Post by poetmayhem43 on 2007-06-22
Hi Salior Moon,

Did you have any luck with this issue?

I have managed to replicate the same problem.  :( With mine I tried to add xpenguin to the bottom panel to see what it did.  The same occurred as with your issue whereby the panel flashed a few times and then disappeared.  

With Alt-F2 not working I have been creating launchers on the desktop with commands such as gnome-panel, killall gnome-panel, I have also tried sudo dpkg reconfigure gnome-panel, but it still crashes.  

I believe this is because it still wants xpenguin on there.  

If you (or anyone else) knows a fix please let me know.   

Thanks!

---

### Post by poetmayhem43 on 2007-06-23
Any ideas anyone?

---

