---
title: "Mounting NTFS External"
date: 2007-08-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by PropheticAngel on 2007-08-27
When I try to mount my myBook in ubuntu with write access, it tells me that the drive needs to be checked in Windows or that I need to force the mount.  I tried the thing from command line, but it just popped up the help for the mount command and was completely useless.

I can't check it in windows because I don't have windows.

---

### Post by sauravbhaumik on 2007-08-28
> **PropheticAngel said:**
> When I try to mount my myBook in ubuntu with write access, it tells me that the drive needs to be checked in Windows or that I need to force the mount.  I tried the thing from command line, but it just popped up the help for the mount command and was completely useless.

I can't check it in windows because I don't have windows.

Try this and let me know what happened

Let the folder you want to open be /..../x
```
sudo su
password: *******
nautilus /.../x

```

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-08-28
Why are you using NTFS.  You should use Vfat instead.

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2007-08-28
This is the second post I seen today concerning "MyBook".  What is this... a popular name to assign to the volume label of an external HDD?

OP... What command did you use in your attempt to mount the drive?  If you have an external HDD that is NTFS formatted, please search the forum!  There are answers.

---

### Post by Marat Galiev on 2007-08-28
No:)
It's a external hard disk drive.
Like this [http://www.wdc.com/ru/products/Products.asp?DriveID=224]("http://www.wdc.com/ru/products/Products.asp?DriveID=224")

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2007-08-28
Oh, one of those external drives with the flashy blue LEDs.  Whatever, it's an external drive.

If is NTFS formatted, then [go here]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html") for info on how to setup an NTFS drive.

---

### Post by Marat Galiev on 2007-08-28
or search google with keywords "ubuntu+ntfs".

---

### Post by PropheticAngel on 2007-08-28
Well, I can't do that command now, because I tried to modify the mount options with -o force, but now it tells me it can't mount because of and invalid mount option.  Where do I have to go to change this?  I think I'll fix the check/force problem by hooking up the drive to one of my friend's computers with windows...

Here is my fstab file:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=0e62f365-dec5-4fa8-9c3b-074333bc09e7 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=94fd91fd-7a3b-49f5-8479-027f65a067d8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/drive ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0
```

Here is the mtab file:
```
/dev/sda1 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
procbususb /proc/bus/usb usbfs rw 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/drive ntfs rw,umask=222,utf8 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw 0 0

```

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-28
Since its an external drive, you should use pmount. Look at my signature on how to do that. If you have questions, post back !

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2007-08-28
Take out the entry you added to /etc/fstab (or at least comment it out with a '#').

Then follow the steps outlined in the Ubuntu forum on getting the necessary packages for NTFS support.  The link was given in a previous post.

From there, you should have a handy-dandy configuration tool located at **Applications -> System Tools -> NTFS Configuration Tool**.  Run that tool and pretty much everything is self-explanatory from that point onward.

And you shouldn't have to interface with the command line (i.e. there is no need to use mount or pmount, etc.).

I have an external drive that is NTFS formatted.  I plug it into any USB port on my system and power-on the drive.  Voila Ubuntu mounts it automatically for me within the /media directory.

---

### Post by PropheticAngel on 2007-08-28
I have ntfs-config installed so it was working just fine.  All of a sudden it made me run ntfsfix, and now it wants a -o force option or it to be checked in windows.  I didn't add a line to either of those files, I added it in mount options when I right-clicked and went to properties

I tried using pmount, now when I try to open the drive in nautilus, it says I don't have permissions

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-28
> **PropheticAngel said:**
> I have ntfs-config installed so it was working just fine.  All of a sudden it made me run ntfsfix, and now it wants a -o force option or it to be checked in windows.  I didn't add a line to either of those files, I added it in mount options when I right-clicked and went to properties

I tried using pmount, now when I try to open the drive in nautilus, it says I don't have permissions
you can change ownership of the mount point like so

```
sudo chown -R <your username>:<your group> <path to mount point>
```Usually your username and your group are one and the same unless you have specifically changed it. So assuming your username to be angel and assuming that you mounted it at MyDrive, the command will be
```
sudo chown -R angel:angel /media/MyDrive
```

---

### Post by PropheticAngel on 2007-08-28
Hmm, even after doing the chown, it still says I don't have the permissions necessary to view it.

---

