---
title: "7.04 lockup during install"
date: 2007-05-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by calldrin on 2007-05-25
I just downloaded the 7.04 version and I can't get it to install on my P3 500 mhz computer.
I have 384 RAM and 2.5 gb free on the HD.
The install starts and during the loading into RAM,  (the 1st selection  on the menu), then after about 2 mins or so the scrolling bar stops moving and CD drives stops and every just sits there ;-(
 I'm very unhappy... I'm a lifelong long Windoz user and I'm ready to make the change to Linux.
But I guess this OS is also not fool proof!

Please help me...

Chuck,
 Chico, CA

PS: the live demo running from the CD works fine.

---

### Post by Seisen on 2007-05-25
You might be better off downloading the alternative CD and trying to install it in text mode.

---

### Post by discmaster on 2007-05-25
> 2.5 gb free on the HD. With only 2.5 gb. you are going to be severely limited to do anything, & I am not sure it will install on that small a space...

> System Requirements

Ubuntu is available for PC, 64-Bit and Mac architectures. CDs require at least 256 MB of RAM. **Install requires at least 2 GB of disk space.** 

---

### Post by calldrin on 2007-05-25
> **Seisen said:**
> You might be better off downloading the alternative CD and trying to install it in text mode.

I tried to install using the "text" mode and the same problem is there.
The install runs and this time it stalls when it is doing a hardware search or something like that....
I have also defraged the drive and now I have no idea what to do....
MAYBE I should just stay with Windoz  ;-(    ;-(

Please some more help!

Chuck

---

### Post by calldrin on 2007-05-25
:D
[B][SIZE="2"]Thanks for the replies...
The problem is/was a flaky CD drive. After running for a few minutes, it stopped working. After changing it, the program installed FINE 
Thanks,
Chuck
;-)[/SIZE][/B]

---

