---
title: "7.04 Freezes Randomly"
date: 2007-04-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by WNxCryptic on 2007-04-13
7.04 is the only distro that works with the wireless device (and other major hardware) out of 6.04, 6.06, and 6.10...so that's what I'm sticking with.

Now, on to the problem! Ubuntu freezes randomly. Its a dual-boot system and I havn't hardly updated anything on the Ubuntu (so maybe a kernel update or something else might fix it..idk), but there are no problems in windows...

The freezes can occur anytime, but have a habit of being relatively early on (within 5-10 minutes of ubuntu startup), but they occur as immediately as before ubuntu even loads (After you login, its supposed to give you the Ubuntu splash screen and tells you what its loading and then proceeds to the GUI. My laptop has frozen in between the login process and the splash screen).

The freezing is relatively simple..nothing big happens, mouse stops responding no keystrokes are logged..but other than that..no screen stutters or anything really funky.

---

### Post by jvc26 on 2007-04-13
Which alpha test of Feisty have you installed or have you installed since the Beta release? If you havent updated in months the odds are you're having issues because Feisty was still in alpha/beta when you installed it. If its since the beta release I'm surprised that its not working fairly well, but again you need to keep it up to date, especially since its still in development.
Il

---

### Post by WNxCryptic on 2007-04-13
The package I installed was Beta3, I believe..

I downloaded it only a couple of days ago, so its relatively new.

---

### Post by WNxCryptic on 2007-04-13
Is there anyway to check for kernel updates? Or to see a lits of EXACTLY what is and is not recognized by the computer?

(I need to get anything unrecognized installed and configured anyways..)

---

### Post by rgd55 on 2007-04-13
I had some random lockups and found a problem by booting to the 
Recovery Mode

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405454](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405454)

---

