---
title: "Having to mount drive every reboot"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Darkjasper on 2007-05-31
Ok I had a issue with mounting my drive so I could make it writeable. Now I am able to write to it by using this code.

```
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda5 /media/sda5
```

The only issue I have with it is that I have to redo that command every time I reboot my comp. If I use ctrl+alt+backspace it stays mounted but if I reboot it unmounts some how. 

So my question is, is there any way to make it auto mount or to stay mounted during reboots.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-31
Can you post your /etc/fstab?

EDIT: Have you tried downloading ntfs-config via synaptic?  It is a nice graphical tool that will set this stuff up for you with a few mouse clicks.

---

### Post by floke on 2007-05-31
Put an entry in the /etc/fstab file

Something like (it's NOT this - I don't know the exact pattern of entry off top of my head)

/dev/sda5 /home/[yourname]/[wherever you want to mount it]  ntfs [permissions etc. - eg noatime] 1 2
 [can't remember what these numbers mean - something about how whether to check the mount for errors on boot and stuff - so go do a search for mounting ntfs partitions in fstab].

Good luck

---

### Post by Darkjasper on 2007-05-31
This would be my fstab

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdc2 :
UUID=a5f6cff0-ea6c-4c76-a857-5d4247a63543 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdc5 :
UUID=6f0c1fe0-4b65-4c1d-ace6-04ef002c7b30 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

I tried ntfs config but it doesnt seem to mount it right so I do it with that one command and it works nicely lol

---

### Post by rillip on 2007-05-31
Not sure about Gnome, but in KDE, under System settings -> drive and filesystems -> administrator, click the partition, hit modify, and then chose "enable at start up."

I'm sure gnome has a similar setting somewhere, just not familiar enough with it to tell you where

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-31
I believe your fstab entry for /dev/hdc1 needs to have the auto option added to the line.

See this primer on fstab:  [Editing and Understanding fstab]("http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html")

---

