---
title: "7.10 and Intel wireless 3945"
date: 2008-03-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-09
Hi,

 I recently installed 7.10 for my first try at Linux. For the most part things have gone pretty well except for the wireless. I'm starting to lose interest at this point.

I have an Asus A7J laptop with an Intel 3945 wireless card built in. 

The system doesnt seem to detect the wireless card at all. Wireless manager didnt have anything listed. I installed wicd and it says there are no wireless connections.

I installed ndiswrapper and tried installing the 3945 Windows XP driver. It said the hardware was detected, but still can't find any wireless networks. Wired networking has worked fine from the initial  installation. 

Any advice? I'm a true noob when it comes to Linux. 

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Nirevus on 2008-03-10
Have you tried running the following in console:


```
iwconfig
sudo ifconfig *** up
```

Where *** is teh name if your wireless connection (most likely wlan0).

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2008-03-10
What router are you using? Does your wireless work in XP? 

I just want to make sure its your wireless in linux and not your router itself.

---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-10
Yes, I'm booted into Vista now, and the wireless works fine both at work where I am now, and at home. Home is a Linksys router and work is a D-Link router.

Laptop does have a wired ethernet, and a wireless. The wired ethernet works fine in Linux. In network manager I only have an option to configure the wired adapter, or the modem.

here are the results of what I see others have asked for too, in case it helps.


superpup@superpup-laptop:~$ sudo iwlist scan
[sudo] password for superpup:
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

superpup@superpup-laptop:~$ sudo lshw -C network
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:05:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 01
       serial: 00:17:31:xx:xx:xx
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.2LK duplex=half latency=0 link=no module=r8169 multicast=yes port=twisted pair
  *-network
       description: Network controller
       product: PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:04:00.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=ipw3945 latency=0 module=ipw3945


superpup@superpup-laptop:~$ sudo cat /etc/network/interfaces
[sudo] password for superpup:
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback




iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth0


The gap in the sudo cat results is exactly like it appeared in the console.

---

### Post by Nirevus on 2008-03-11
Hmm. Try running "ndiswrapper -l", and see if it says installed and hardware detected.

---

### Post by Seisen on 2008-03-11
I have the same wireless card in my laptop and it should come up in restricted drivers manager and just work. My guess would be to open up restricted drivers manager and see what it says.

---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-11
results:
superpup@superpup-laptop:~$ ndiswrapper -l
netw4x32 : driver installed
        device (8086:4222) present (alternate driver: ipw3945)

Restricted drivers has the following:
Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 3945 Network Connection driver for Linux

The box is checked, and it says "in use"

I still don't have anything listed in connection properties other than eth0, which is my hardwired.

---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-11
Here is some information I have uncovered while still trying to get the wireless to work. Hopefully this might shed a little more light on what is going on.

These are from the system log
03/11/2008 10:59:01 AM	superpup-laptop	kernel	[   14.500000] ipw3945: Detected Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection

and 

<WARN>  nm_dbus_get_networks_cb(): error received: org.freedesktop.NetworkManagerInfo.NoNetworks - org.freedesktop.NetworkManagerInfo.NoNetworks.

and 

03/11/2008 10:59:01 AM	superpup-laptop	kernel	[   16.460000] ipw3945: Radio Frequency Kill Switch is On:

 

This is starting to get disheartening. I really like Linux so far, but this is getting to be a little much just to get one thing to work.

---

### Post by imdano on 2008-03-11
The killswitch is on.  Is there a switch/key combination on your computer to turn the wireless radio on and off?

---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-11
There is a hardware switch for turning the radio on and off, and it is set to ON. I can reboot  into Vista and the wireless works fine. From what I can tell Linux is recognizing the hardware, but it doesnt show up in network manager or anything.

---

### Post by DUDE_2000 on 2008-03-11
are you running the firmware as well as ndiswrapper?  Did you set the modprobes in ndiswrapper(sudo ndiswrapper -m, and sudo ndiswrapper -mi)?

---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-11
I believe I am running the firmware as well as ndiswrapper. Here is what the commands you gave return:

superpup@superpup-laptop:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -m
[sudo] password for superpup:
module configuration already contains alias directive

superpup@superpup-laptop:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -mi
module configuration information is stored in /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper
superpup@superpup-laptop:~$

Just noticed in Device Manager in the left pane the regular ethernet adapter has a sub-item under called Network Interface that lists additional information. The wireless adapter does NOT have Network Interface under it.

---

### Post by DUDE_2000 on 2008-03-11
As far as I know, running both at once can cause errors, so try removing the firmware/ndiswrapper and seeing if either one works, rebooting in between

note about ndiswrapper:
you need to have both the inf and the sys file to work

to setup ndiswrapper quickly:
(you shouldn't have to do this again, unless you uninstall the driver)
place the inf and sys files on the desktop

then open up the terminal and type (on different lines)

sudo ndiswrapper -i /home/superpup/Desktop/driver(or what ever the directory structure for your driver was).inf
sudo ndiswrapper -m
sudo ndiswrapper -mi

then reboot, works every time, for me, at least

---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-11
OK, I tried that and it didn't go so well.

When I ran the ndiswrapper -i command it said the driver was already installed. the second command listed a bunch of lines about removing lines from a file, and the third just said the information was entered into a file.

Once I rebooted the system just hung with a blank screen and the Caps lock light was flashing.

Rebooted again, and the same thing.

Booted into recovery mode and that hung with an error about a kernel conflict.

Booted into Vista to make sure everything was still working, and no problems.

Now running off the Live CD and I guess my question now is if there is an easy fix to undo the last changes to the wireless configuration? Or if I should just start over. I was planning on running some music for a show tomorrow off this system so ideally I'd like to just fix it. If I have to completely reload it may be a long night!

---

### Post by Superpup on 2008-03-12
Just did a complete reload of Ubuntu 7.10. I noticed a few mentions in the system logs and even booting into recovery mode about the following:
Mar 12 09:55:57 superpup-laptop kernel: [   17.556000] ipw3945: Detected Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection
and
Mar 12 09:55:57 superpup-laptop kernel: [   20.296000] ipw3945: Radio Frequency Kill Switch is On:

Now I just found this which really confuses me:
Mar 12 09:55:57 superpup-laptop kernel: [   20.296000] Kill switch must be turned off for wireless networking to work.

I turned the hardware switch for the internal radio to OFF but it didn't make a difference. Is there somewhere else built into the operating system that has a "kill switch"?

My impression was the hardware switch on the laptop itself  physically turned off the radio. I don't see how turning it off is going to make the wireless magically start working.

Any suggestions? Is this a step in the right direction? Or am I chasing my tail?

---

