---
title: "6.06 Or 6.10?"
date: 2006-11-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
I want to install Ubuntu, but I'd like to know which version, 6.06 or 6.10, is more stable? Has anyone had any issues with 6.10 that make 6.06 a better choice? Are there any hardware issues I should know about?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2006-11-27
Edgy worked perfectly for me. Or at least as well as Dapper :D

---

### Post by darrenm on 2006-11-27
No reasons here not to go to Edgy.

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2006-11-27
For beginners 6.06 is recommended, myself being a newb I installed it without problems on my laptop and all hardware was supported.

---

### Post by usersock on 2006-11-27
Man I don't know how you got through both flawlessly. I started with 10 yesterday and then moved to 6 today. Took me hours to get 10 running and then I was still getting random errors. Now 6 is being a pain. Personally,I would recommend 6 for a newbie.

---

### Post by bobbob94 on 2006-11-27
My desktop's happily running 6.10 but my laptop's staying with 6.06 as the wireless doesn't work with the newer version. I've read a fair few posts about wireless support being worse in 6.10 than 6.06, so that might be something to check out before you decide...

---

### Post by ron999 on 2006-11-27
I installed Edgy after using dapper for a few months.
No serious problems. :D 
Go for it. :cool:

---

### Post by Ben Sprinkle on 2006-11-27
While dapper will be supported for another few years, I reccomend going to the latest stable release every time it comes out. Personally I think you should not go to the beta 'feisty'.

Stay with the latest and you will be fine.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
Well, I'm not really a beginner per se.... My mother tried it but wasn't happy with it, & while she still had it installed I took a look around out of curiosity. So I am somewhat familiar with Ubuntu, although I can tell it'll take a bit getting used to especially with the task bar being on the top. Or can it be moved to the bottom?

Also, is Flash 9 available in the repository? If not I have the .so file I can copy to the Firefox plugin directory. Is there another folder I'd need to copy the file to besides the FF plugin folder?

Is Audacity available in the repository?

> **PartisanEntity said:**
> For beginners 6.06 is recommended, myself being a newb I installed it without problems on my laptop and all hardware was supported.

---

### Post by darrenm on 2006-11-27
Just drag the taskbar ;)

Just copy the .so into /usr/lib/mozilla-firefox/plugins

yes it is

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
I don't use wireless, so that won't be an issue for me.

> **bobbob94 said:**
> My desktop's happily running 6.10 but my laptop's staying with 6.06 as the wireless doesn't work with the newer version. I've read a fair few posts about wireless support being worse in 6.10 than 6.06, so that might be something to check out before you decide...

---

### Post by TimelessRogue on 2006-11-27
At this point, my recommendation, particularly for a newbie to Ubuntu and Linux, would be to stay with 6.06 ...

My experiences over this past 'holiday' weekend with 6.10 on both my base station and laptop have been far from what I have experienced (and come to expect) with previous releases of Ubuntu all the way back to Hoary and up to and including Dapper.  Actually, I'm now in the throes of reverting back to Dapper on both 'puters since I believe Edgy to be just a bit too 'edgy' for my liking at this point ...

So ... I would suggest staying with Dapper (6.06) 'til a couple of things happen:  1) you become much more familiar with Ubuntu and 2) Edgy becomes a bit less ... considerably less, actually ... 'edgy'.

However ... whichever your choice, rest easy knowing that there are plenty of folks here on the forums to help you out of whatever problems you might encounter ...

Welcome and good luck ...

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
> **darrenm said:**
> Just drag the taskbar ;)
Cool, thanx :) Exactly how would I do that? Do I just hold my mouse button & drag it as I would to move a file?

> Just copy the .so into /usr/lib/mozilla-firefox/plugins
Ok, will do....

> yes it is
Which question are you referring to? Audacity?

---

### Post by darrenm on 2006-11-27
yes and yes :D

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
I've read about a "no root file system" error during installation, is this something I should worry about? Will I have this problem even if I choose to take over the entire hard drive? What conditions need to exist for the error to show up?

Also, I heard about a new version of Gaim that is available with 6.10. Can I get that version with 6.06?

---

### Post by hotbrainz on 2006-11-27
hey there,

There are three basic partitions that you will need to make for installation. Root, the user space and swap. 

I highly recommend that you can have a quick read through this website . It will help you a lot. 

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/")

[courtesy : Aysiu]

For specific queries after that do scrap here.

 There are other links for beginners in my signature as well.
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by darrenm on 2006-11-27
You really don't need a separate root and user partition any more.

---

### Post by hotbrainz on 2006-11-27
that is true...but it is a good habit though. In either case you can share user space with a second OS if you are dual booting innit.

---

### Post by Malta paul on 2006-11-27
I now use Edgy.
I have had no problems on my desktop with both Dapper or Edgy, both have been stable. Have fun :cool:

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
I'm not using a dual boot system, & I don't plan to.

> **hotbrainz said:**
> that is true...but it is a good habit though. In either case you can share user space with a second OS if you are dual booting innit.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
So, what is everyone's overall opinion? Should I install 6.06 or 6.10?

---

### Post by Foudre on 2006-11-27
what kind of video card do you have, i went back to dapper 06, cause no matter what i did the video drivers wouldn't work under edgy 10, i mean i really wanted to like it, and there were some improvments, but no wireless and no good video (it was there just chopy and slow, and i coulnd't use beryl or supertux or much) made edgy no fun, though i did like that on edgy kde the volume buttons on my laptop worked where as on dapper they did not but over all edgy just didn't work out to well (i blame ati) but I know some one who uses edgy perfectly fine wireless and video (he has nvidia) so thats my argument if you have ati then dapper is the better choice

---

### Post by Haegin on 2006-11-27
I run edgy on my desktop and laptop but dapper on my server. I have had no problems with neither and my laptop is ati (desktop and server are both nvidia) so I didnt have problems there. I recommend edgy as it lets you stay up to date. Also if you have an nvidia gfx card then it makes beryl oh so wonderfully easy (and you DO want beryl)

---

### Post by alaren on 2006-11-27
I can't recommend 6.10.  I got hard locks running torrents (via wireless networking).  However, 6.06 has been wonderful.  I'm hoping Feisty works better.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
What's beryl?

> **Human Prototype said:**
> I run edgy on my desktop and laptop but dapper on my server. I have had no problems with neither and my laptop is ati (desktop and server are both nvidia) so I didnt have problems there. I recommend edgy as it lets you stay up to date. Also if you have an nvidia gfx card then it makes beryl oh so wonderfully easy (and you DO want beryl)

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
Well, I don't use wireless so that doesn't apply to me.

> **alaren said:**
> I can't recommend 6.10.  I got hard locks running torrents (via wireless networking).  However, 6.06 has been wonderful.  I'm hoping Feisty works better.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
I believe I have an Nvidia video card. Don't know the specific model, though....

> **Foudre said:**
> what kind of video card do you have, i went back to dapper 06, cause no matter what i did the video drivers wouldn't work under edgy 10, i mean i really wanted to like it, and there were some improvments, but no wireless and no good video (it was there just chopy and slow, and i coulnd't use beryl or supertux or much) made edgy no fun, though i did like that on edgy kde the volume buttons on my laptop worked where as on dapper they did not but over all edgy just didn't work out to well (i blame ati) but I know some one who uses edgy perfectly fine wireless and video (he has nvidia) so thats my argument if you have ati then dapper is the better choice

---

### Post by 56phil on 2006-11-27
Dapper is a good place to start. Once you are satisfied with the way everything is setup, upgraded to edgy. That's what I did and I'm very satisfied.:D Wireless has not been a problem for me in either dapper of edgy. My biggest problem was getting video to work properly (speed and resolution). Since your driver is proprietary, you'll need to install it yourself. 

Good luck and welcome to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Spin Doctor on 2006-11-27
Well, I guess it best to base your replies of all the pages, and not just the first one...which I did. I deleted duplicate answer.

---

### Post by maddog39 on 2006-11-27
I have had absolutely no problems at all with edgy. It installs really clean, no errors, all the drivers work perfectly. I think it works better overall atleast on my computer than 06 does.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-27
Huh? I thought the hardware was automatically detected when the OS is installed? I'm confused....

> **56phil said:**
> Since your driver is proprietary, you'll need to install it yourself.

---

### Post by 56phil on 2006-11-27
Ubuntu does hardware detection and installs all the hardware drivers it can. However, it doesn't load proprietary drivers (that will change in the next distro, feisty). You need to to that yourself. It's been a philosophical thing. 

I, for one, am glad that things will change in feisty. I have an ATI video card and you have a nvidea. So, my experience is not applicable to your situation. I hope I'm not scaring you off. Ubuntu is a great distro. The video driver installation process was pain free for me and I understand it will be no worse for you. Just make sure you understand the instructions before you do the install.

---

### Post by veganrailpunk on 2006-11-27
I started on edgy but after reading that 6.06 was best for newbies I downloaded the alternate CD. That wouldn't install so I tried the Live CD and that failed as well. So I went back to Edgy and have had no problems with it (yet!)

Weird.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-28
Will I REALLY need to install the drivers? How do I do that? What happens if I don't? I believe my mother also has an Nvidia video card in her computer(I could be wrong), & when she tried Ubuntu I don't recall having to install any drivers. Everything seemed to be working fine as far as I know.

If I install Ubuntu 6.06, will I be able to upgrade to 6.10 from the repository? My current system(Xandros) doesn't seem to recognize my burner, so I can't burn the iso. I'll try it on another computer & see what happens.

> **56phil said:**
> Ubuntu does hardware detection and installs all the hardware drivers it can. However, it doesn't load proprietary drivers (that will change in the next distro, feisty). You need to to that yourself. It's been a philosophical thing. 

I, for one, am glad that things will change in feisty. I have an ATI video card and you have a nvidea. So, my experience is not applicable to your situation. I hope I'm not scaring you off. Ubuntu is a great distro. The video driver installation process was pain free for me and I understand it will be no worse for you. Just make sure you understand the instructions before you do the install.

---

### Post by doobit on 2006-11-28
If you have an Nvidia card, then you should not need to install the proprietary drivers for normal use. Id you want the 2D and 3D effects, then you will need the drivers.
Did you try the live CD yet? That will give you a good idea of how it works. If the liveCD works good for you, then chances are excellent that the install will work good for you as well.

---

### Post by civilian on 2006-11-28
Dapper is the LTS (long-term support) so it has been tested a lot more than Edgy, but for home computer it shouldn't make that much of a difference.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-28
Ah, ok.... Thanx. No, I didn't try the live CD. I still haven't burned the iso yet, but I will soon.

> **doobit said:**
> If you have an Nvidia card, then you should not need to install the proprietary drivers for normal use. Id you want the 2D and 3D effects, then you will need the drivers.
Did you try the live CD yet? That will give you a good idea of how it works. If the liveCD works good for you, then chances are excellent that the install will work good for you as well.

---

### Post by CheeseQueen452 on 2006-11-28
Ok, I burned the iso(version 6.10) & I'll install it tomorrow. I'd rather start in the morning, so I can have the whole day to set up the programs I use & get aquainted with the OS. If I have any further questions or problems, I'll let y'all know.

---

### Post by darrenm on 2006-11-29
In answer to your other question. I can't believe you want to run Ubuntu without knowing what Beryl is. I thought everyone came to Ubuntu because of Beryl these days...

[http://video.google.co.uk/videoplay?docid=-2155353011707841108&q=beryl+3d](http://video.google.co.uk/videoplay?docid=-2155353011707841108&q=beryl+3d)

Beryl is a lot easier in Edgy than Dapper.

---

