---
title: "[SOLVED] Setting up Linux partitions"
date: 2008-01-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by arigram on 2008-01-27
I have three WD hard disks:

- 74GB Raptor, with two partitions: root and swap
- 320GB Caviar, one partition whole, ext3
- 320GB Caviar, two partitions, one 250GB ext3, the rest NFTS

fdisk output:
```
sudo /sbin/fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 320.0 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000c272f

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       38913   312568641    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5               2       38913   312560608+  83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 74.3 GB, 74355769344 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9039 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xf9e9f9e9

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1        8666    69609613+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb2            8667        9039     2996122+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb5            8667        9039     2996091   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdc: 320.0 GB, 320072933376 bytes
16 heads, 63 sectors/track, 620181 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 1008 * 512 = 516096 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xd41b29a1

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1   *           2      620181   312570720    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sdc5               2      507938   256000216+  83  Linux
/dev/sdc6          507939      620181    56570440+   7  HPFS/NTFS
```

They appear in "Computer", but they don't appear on the Desktop as set
and they need sudo password to be accessed.

How do I set them up to be accessed normally and also name them?

---

### Post by candtalan on 2008-01-27
This is not a complete answer, but might help point you in the right direction.

It sounds like what you need is to mount the partitions, maybe auto-mount. The control of this sort of thing is in the file fstab, usually located at
/etc/fstab
 hint - make a backup copy of fstab before changing it........

Naming: 
There are (at least?)  two names that a partition has - the device name which linux expects -  such as hda2 (for the second partition on the first hard drive hda) in particular it is listed as a device, for example, as usually 
/dev/hda2
and the name you use in the file system to describe the mount point in the file system in order to use the contents of the mounted device's files.

The mount point in the main file system can be named anything you wish, the steps are to first create a directory, then edit fstab to include the device and where it shall be mounted.
Permissions are relevant in this DIY scenario, so be aware of this if you want early success. :-)

hth

For your interest, an example of a non trivial fstab might be:
=============================================
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=92fa534e-c39c-4a40-b507-db336f8876e0 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sdb3
#UUID=b30040c1-1ab9-4f0f-8734-790f066ff421 /media/data1    reiserfs defaults        0       2
/dev/sdb3        /media/data1    reiserfs defaults        0       2

# /dev/sda3
#UUID=873a8b65-85fa-43a9-9cbf-7a9f120d22eb /media/sda3-old-home-606 ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/sda3        /media/sda3-old-home-606 ext3    defaults        0       2

# /dev/sda4
#UUID=fb0ceeaa-473d-49dd-8dd4-9a63e64e2b08 /media/sda4-704-original ext3    defaults        0       2
/dev/sda4         /media/sda4-710 ext3    defaults        0       2

# /dev/sdb1
UUID=bbb1143d-4907-4744-91e5-1fbdf0fd7bcb /media/sdb1-spare ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/sdb6
UUID=21c367d5-c117-41e3-902b-5ef76c0ea77b /media/sdb6-suse10 reiserfs defaults        0       2
# /dev/sda1
UUID=c6739c2a-655c-4dc0-ae37-8bdcf54477d9 none            swap    sw              0       0
# /dev/sdb5
UUID=7d70dc93-20ea-489d-b265-6f81b3a9164f none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd1       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

#Mount of Network attached storage box
//192.168.1.42/store1 /home/candt/NAS-mnt smbfs uid=1000,umask=000,user,rw   0      0
=============================================

---

### Post by arigram on 2008-01-27
Thank you Candtalan.

Yes, we're almost there, but not quite.

My fstab is this:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=f8f7dbef-92fa-48c1-9e34-e41ba951fe45 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=1a237406-b5e3-4b88-86bf-5ec2484db07e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
```

How do I add the two ext3 partitions to the list?
The UUID thing confuses me.
Should I follow the DVD drive entries as examples?
I am not sure how to go about adding the drives to the list.
I mean, one of them would be like this:
```
/dev/sdc5 /media/&#931;&#964;&#965;&#958; ...
```
&#931;&#964;&#965;&#958; read as Styx with latin characters which would be the name of the partition, but I am not sure what else to add to the line.

And why the hell isn't easier, being done with GParted or something?
Isn't there any tutorial or a list of commands or man page?

---

### Post by drowner on 2008-01-27
are they external drives or permanently attached?

---

### Post by arigram on 2008-01-27
Permanent Internal SATA drives.

---

### Post by candtalan on 2008-01-27
1) 'Isn't there any tutorial or a list of commands or man page?'
type 
man fstab
 into a terminal at your PC
(I note that I still like to copy somebody's example though!)


2) why isn't it easier? 
LOL
it is easy   ;-)   Just like riding a bicycle......
I read the book on how to do that and I *still* fell off.

3) the UUID thing: there are some advantages with using the modern UUID approach, someone may remind us, however, use of the old fashioned names such as /dev/hda2 will also work fine within the limitations of the notation.

4) I usually use the kubuntu-desktop package, or even install kubuntu as an initial distro. It has a Settings menu system with an advanced Disk and File systems facility, which can be useful to know about. Anyway, fstab is a good start.

Well Done for getting this far! Keep in mind that the traditions of Windows and Linux come from very different directions, so be forgiving with your (understandable) frustrations.  Some areas of Linux use is developing towards greater convenience (see kubuntu comment above), but it does take machine resources and is heavier on code, also code effort.

After only a short while some of the advantages of DIY flexibility will begin to become apparent.

---

### Post by arigram on 2008-01-27
Alright, so I went through the man page of fstab, but I still don't get it. Most of the options are cryptic to a beginner. I mean, what do those options really mean and why was I supposed to know them just so I can have free access to my partitions?

> The fourth field, (fs_mntops), describes the mount options associated with the filesystem.

       It  is  formatted  as a comma separated list of options.  It contains at least the type of mount plus any
       additional options appropriate to the filesystem type.  For documentation on the  available  options  for
       non-nfs file systems, see mount(8).  For documentation on all nfs-specific options have a look at nfs(5).
       Common for all types of file system are the options ‘‘noauto’’ (do not mount when "mount  -a"  is  given,
       e.g.,  at  boot time), ‘‘user’’ (allow a user to mount), and ‘‘owner’’ (allow device owner to mount), and
       ‘‘comment’’ (e.g., for use by fstab-maintaining programs).  The ‘‘owner’’  and  ‘‘comment’’  options  are
       Linux-specific.  For more details, see mount(8).

       The  fifth  field,  (fs_freq),  is  used  for these filesystems by the dump(8) command to determine which
       filesystems need to be dumped.  If the fifth field is not present, a value of zero is returned  and  dump
       will assume that the filesystem does not need to be dumped.

       The  sixth  field, (fs_passno), is used by the fsck(8) program to determine the order in which filesystem
       checks are done at reboot time.  The root filesystem should be specified with a fs_passno of 1, and other
       filesystems  should  have a fs_passno of 2.  Filesystems within a drive will be checked sequentially, but
       filesystems on different drives will be checked at the same time to utilize parallelism available in  the
       hardware.   If  the  sixth field is not present or zero, a value of zero is returned and fsck will assume
       that the filesystem does not need to be checked.


No, its not easy.
Its easy when you want to go all hax0r on it, but something like that should be semi-automatic and should require one to hunt answers on the forum and in man pages. I mean, this is Ubuntu, not Slackware and this is an important and basic function.

I just need one line:
How should the entry in fstab look like for one of the partitions I mentioned?

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-27
The lines you should add would look like this:
```
/dev/sdc5  /media/&#931;&#964;&#965;&#958;  ext3  defaults 0 2
```
It might turn out that you'll want some additional options along with "defaults", but start there.

Before that will work, you must create the mount point with a command:
```
sudo mkdir /media/&#931;&#964;&#965;&#958;
```
You would make similar lines for /dev/sda5 and /dev/sdc6, with different mount points. And for /dev/sdc6, the type is not ext3, but ntfs or ntfs-3g, depending on whether you want to only read the ntfs partition or read and write it. If you want to read and write it, you may have to install the ntfs-3g package, if you haven't already done so.

I was helping someone else with a similar problem, and something was setting the permissions on the extra partitions so that only root could access them. If you run into that, post again and we'll help get that straightened out.

You seem to be getting frustrated because it isn't as automatic as you'd like.  Sorry, but some things are like that. You really can learn how this stuff works. It just takes some time. You didn't learn Windows overnight.

Actually, I think there are some optional packages that offer more friendly ways of setting up fstab, but I'm not familiar with them.

---

### Post by arigram on 2008-01-27
Thank you.

Its easy when someone explains the procedure and settings, but when one doesn't know where to start and where to look, it isn't easy. Not everyone is a coder or an IT specialist. And some things have to be automatic and easy. I don't remember setting up xorg.conf for example (and the times I tried to edit it, I screwed up).

I read the official Ubuntu book, the online documentation, searched the forums and didn't find anything about something so basic. Not even a mention.

Just for the record, since you mentioned it more than once, I have been using computers since the mid 80s, including C64s, Amigas and Macs and Windows which I recently stopped using. Some things were much easier to do in early 90s AmigaOS than Ubuntu 2008, but this is not a philosophical thread.

---

### Post by Moop on 2008-01-27
It's really not as difficult as it seems. You can create, name and set the mount points when you first create the partitions with the partition editor. Then everything would have worked "out of the box". 

Mounting a already created linux partition is a little more involved but mentioned many times in the forums and tutorials. 

Psychocats is a good place to look for solutions to common problems. 

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux")

---

### Post by candtalan on 2008-01-27
> **arigram said:**
>  I mean, this is Ubuntu, not Slackware and this is an important and basic function. 
do have a look at Kubuntu? (already mentioned)

SystemSettings>Advanced>Disk &Filesystems

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-27
> **arigram said:**
> Thank you.

Its easy when someone explains the procedure and settings, but when one doesn't know where to start and where to look, it isn't easy. Not everyone is a coder or an IT specialist. And some things have to be automatic and easy. I don't remember setting up xorg.conf for example (and the times I tried to edit it, I screwed up).

I read the official Ubuntu book, the online documentation, searched the forums and didn't find anything about something so basic. Not even a mention.

I agree that it is hard to find documentation about some subjects, and especially documentation that is aimed at those without a lot of Linux or Unix background.  That, and the less-polished user interface (when compared to some other operating systems), are both a result of the history of Linux as a system intended for people who were programmers and system administrators with great familiarity with the command line and editing configuration files. It will be a while longer before all the necessary stuff is well-integrated into a GUI suitable for the non-specialists to use. 

Meanwhile, we are here in the forums to help the non-specialists over the rough spots. Keep asking questions until you get the explanations and answers you want. Just try to remember that we are all volunteers, so sometimes it will take a while until someone knows best how to answer you has a chance to get to your question.

---

### Post by arigram on 2008-01-27
> **candtalan said:**
> do have a look at Kubuntu? (already mentioned)

SystemSettings>Advanced>Disk &Filesystems

I am running Ubuntu just fine and have no need at present to install Kubuntu.
When KDE 4 reaches V4.2 or Kubuntu becomes an LTS release I will consider it.
Not until then.

Something like that should be added to Gnome and Ubuntu though.
Is it being considered for Hardy?

---

### Post by arigram on 2008-02-07
Just for the record, my final fstab:

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=f8f7dbef-92fa-48c1-9e34-e41ba951fe45 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=1a237406-b5e3-4b88-86bf-5ec2484db07e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sdc5 /media/&#931;&#964;&#965;&#958; ext3 defaults 0 2
/dev/sda5 /media/&#934;&#955;&#949;&#947;&#941;&#952;&#959;&#957; ext3 defaults 0 2
/dev/sdc6 /media/&#923;&#942;&#952;&#951; ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

