---
title: "Network Printer problem"
date: 2007-03-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by b0rk on 2007-03-22
I have an Epson Color Stylus 460 printer connected to my network through a D-Link printer server.  I have a mac-mini and 2 PCs (running Windows) that work fine with the printer.  I have now installed Ubuntu 6.06 LTS but cannot get it to print.

I have downloaded a file from Guteprint for a driver and I think it is installed.  

The Connection setting shows   CUPS Printer (IPP) with a URI:  IPP:/192.168.1.3

The Driver setting shows  Stylus Color 460

When I try to print a test page it returns with "printer is busy"

I can also Ping 192.168.1.3 and it's fine

Does anyone know what the problem might be?

---

### Post by halitech on 2007-03-22
according to linuxpriinting.org ( [http://linuxprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Epson-Stylus_Color_460]("http://linuxprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Epson-Stylus_Color_460") ) it should work fine. maybe double check the install setup and see if something went wrong there

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-03-22
Try changing your IPP to:```
ipp://192.168.1.3:631/
```

---

### Post by giuseppe.dem on 2007-03-26
Ok, 
I suffered 4 hours to understand that the config file /etc/cups/cupsd.cong is 
not good.
I have 2 machines, one with Canon Satera and Ubuntu. I installed the drivers on one machine
acting as pinter server and the printing is good.
ON the other machine I have Fedora Core 6. 
The cupsd on [http://localhost:631](http://localhost:631) is able to Add the printer Canon, but when
I tried to print, the message was 
"The printer is busy; will retry in 30 seconds".

The problem is that the cupsd.conf on the Ubuntu machine is broken. There are
many mistakes, in particular the 

Include /etc/cups/cups.d/ports.conf

which give a bind socket error.
In order to generate a correct conf file, I suggest to use cupsdconf from the command-line.
There,  in Network Tab,
put the address of your printers server in the Listen to text x.
In Browsing, put in Brose addresses text area, the IP addresses of host allowed to print on the printer machine.
I attach the generated file for clarity.
I removed the IPs. Please, substitute with your settings.
Regards


[FONT="Courier New"] # CUPS configuration file, generated by CUPS configuration tool.
# This tool is part of KDEPrint, the printing framework for KDE
# since version 2.2.2 and is used by the CUPS supporting module
# in KDEPrint. The predecessors to KDEPrint in former KDE releases
# were KUPS and QtCUPS; they are deprecated and no longer maintained.
#
# Author: Michael Goffioul 
#
# Web site: [http://printing.kde.org/](http://printing.kde.org/)
#
########################################################################
#                                                                      #
# This is the CUPS configuration file.  If you are familiar with       #
# Apache or any of the other popular web servers, we've followed the   #
# same format.  Any configuration variable used here has the same      #
# semantics as the corresponding variable in Apache.  If we need       #
# different functionality then a different name is used to avoid       #
# confusion...                                                         #
#                                                                      #
########################################################################
#






Classification none

# Allow overrides (ClassifyOverride)





DefaultCharset UTF-8



DefaultLanguage en



Printcap /var/run/cups/printcap


PrintcapFormat BSD


RemoteRoot remroot



SystemGroup lpadmin



ServerCertificate /etc/cups/ssl/server.crt


ServerKey /etc/cups/ssl/server.key



<Location />
Encryption IfRequested
Satisfy All
Order allow,deny
Allow @LOCAL
# For example Allow 192.168.0.0/24
Allow YOURNETWORKADDRESS/24
</Location>
<Location /admin>
Encryption IfRequested
Satisfy All
Order allow,deny
Allow @LOCAL
Allow YOUCLIENTIP
#For exapmle 192.168.1.100
</Location>
<Location /admin/conf>
AuthType Basic
Require user @SYSTEM
Encryption IfRequested
Satisfy All
Order allow,deny
Allow @LOCAL
Allow YOURCLIENTIP
</Location>



HostnameLookups On



KeepAlive On

#
KeepAliveTimeout 60


MaxClients 100



MaxRequestSize 0m



Timeout 300



Listen IP_PRINTER_SERVER:631



AccessLog /var/log/cups/access_log


ErrorLog /var/log/cups/error_log



PageLog /var/log/cups/page_log



MaxLogSize 1m


LogLevel info


PreserveJobHistory On



PreserveJobFiles Off


AutoPurgeJobs No


MaxJobs 0



MaxJobsPerPrinter 0



MaxJobsPerUser 0


User lp



Group lpadmin




RIPCache 8m



FilterLimit 0


DataDir /usr/share/cups



DocumentRoot /usr/share/cups/doc-root






RequestRoot /var/spool/cups



ServerBin /usr/lib/cups



ServerRoot /etc/cups



TempDir /var/spool/cups/tmp

Browsing On



BrowseProtocols CUPS 



BrowsePort 631




BrowseInterval 30

BrowseTimeout 300

BrowseAddress @LOCAL
BrowseAllow IP_OF_CLIENTS

BrowseOrder allow,deny



ImplicitClasses On



ImplicitAnyClasses Off

HideImplicitMembers Yes



BrowseShortNames Yes


defaultauthtype Basic
<policy default>
<limit Send-Document Send-URI Hold-Job Release-Job Restart-Job Purge-Jobs Set-Job-Attributes Create-Job-Subscription Renew-Subscription Cancel-Subscription Get-Notifications Reprocess-Job Cancel-Current-Job Suspend-Current-Job Resume-Job CUPS-Move-Job>
require user @OWNER @SYSTEM
order deny,allow
</limit> 
<limit Pause-Printer Resume-Printer Set-Printer-Attributes Enable-Printer Disable-Printer Pause-Printer-After-Current-Job Hold-New-Jobs Release-Held-New-Jobs Deactivate-Printer Activate-Printer Restart-Printer Shutdown-Printer Startup-Printer Promote-Job Schedule-Job-After CUPS-Add-Printer CUPS-Delete-Printer CUPS-Add-Class CUPS-Delete-Class CUPS-Accept-Jobs CUPS-Reject-Jobs CUPS-Set-Default>
authtype Basic
require user @SYSTEM
order deny,allow
</limit> 
<limit CUPS-Authenticate-Job>
require user @OWNER @SYSTEM
order deny,allow
</limit> 
<limit All>
order deny,allow
</limit> 
</policy> 
include /etc/cups/cups.d/ports.conf
include /etc/cups/cups.d/browse.conf[/FONT]

---

