---
title: "7.10 wont boot after grub menu"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by hossiam on 2008-01-26
i think i did something bad.  i changed a splash image i think it was an .so file now after making my selection for ubuntu  it stops after exiting the grub menu.........is there a way to fix this?  i tried recovery option and still craps out. any help please.

---

### Post by (((X))) on 2008-01-26
you can edit GRUB, in GRUB.
Type e for edit or so..not shure, below the menu-box there is an explanation of that.
Search for line with te kernel, press e to edit.
delete: quiet splash, press enter, followed by b to boot.

---

### Post by hossiam on 2008-01-26
i tried that....and thank you for helping.....but the last line i get when it doesnt boot is

vfs unable to mount root fs on unknown block

i dont know if thats any help

---

### Post by (((X))) on 2008-01-26
post here your GRUB, I´ll take a look at it.

---

### Post by hossiam on 2008-01-26
i m a newbi .....how do you do that?

---

### Post by (((X))) on 2008-01-26
How many partitions do you have?
you can´t boot now, right, 
Enter GRUB, e for edit and write everything down on a paper, and post here:)

---

### Post by hossiam on 2008-01-26
root (hd0,2)
kernel/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=066a5501-df0a-4245-
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet



i think thats `what your looking for.......thanks`for spending all this time helping me im trying to get a buddy into ubuntu and i cant show him my desktop.

---

### Post by (((X))) on 2008-01-26
Your Grub is fine.
Sorry man, it´s too complicated for me, you probably deleted files in /boot folder, so kernel can´t find things needed to boot, then one can expect similar errors.
I hope you had no valuable data on that partition, if you encrypted disks, thats why I don´t like encypting disks..
You can reinstall ubuntu and migrate that data to the new installation, if it´s not encrypted. 
Maybe someone else on this forum could help you.

---

### Post by family on 2008-01-26
Um, a .so file is a compiled file; not something to do with a splash image. You did some serious crap to your computer, you wouldn't find an .so near a splash image :), at least I don't think so...

---

### Post by kindafunnylookin on 2008-01-26
Download SUPER GRUB it's an .iso file and it will repair your grub. Just follow the instructions when your machine boots the SUPER GRUB programe.

---

### Post by hossiam on 2008-01-26
now i know not every answer is perfect.......most are based on the information provided....in my case the info i provide is a little better than a kid about to start school, but there is always someone waiting to help.....this is totally the opposite of windows, im not sure about mac but the support in these forums is most likly better than dell....:lolflag:....my problem still isnt fixed but i would like to thank all for there input....im going to try super grub next........but i did do something to an .so file ......at least thats what i remember......thanks again

---

### Post by family on 2008-01-27
+1 Super GRUB.

---

