---
title: "No_pubkey"
date: 2006-10-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bobanshirl on 2006-10-23
Can someone tell me what is wrong when I get NO_PUBKEY F120156012B83718 when installing packages and how to correct it.

---

### Post by ReaderRat on 2006-10-23
Are you trying to install Automatix?

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-10-23
That is asking you for the public key to that repository. In linux you will see lots of people sign programs,emails, etc with a public key. Some repositories have a public key which you need to download to access. There are a few pages on wikipedia about it [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography)
All you need to know is the process to use when you see that. This is the template
```
    gpg --keyserver subkeys.pgp.net --recv KEY
      gpg --export --armor KEY | sudo apt-key add -
```
When you get an error message, replace the word "KEY" with the numbers in the eror message. For your error you would enter this command 
```
 gpg --keyserver subkeys.pgp.net --recv F120156012B83718 
```
After you press enter and it sends the command, you would enter the second line
```
 gpg --export --armor F120156012B83718 | sudo apt-key add -
```
After that, the key will be added to a list and the error will not appear.

---

### Post by bobanshirl on 2006-10-24
Hi Catlett I was installing the multiverse and universe packages and at the end I got the error message NO-PUBKEY any way I carried out your instructions
and typed in the two lines like you said.Everything appears to have gone well,I wont know untill I get another error message,I wasnt too sure about the template bit,I did not type that in should I have done so,and if so can I do it next time round or will I not get any more error messages.I would like to say a big thanks as I am new to linux but over the weeks and months a lot of the advice that I have been offered was way over my head and your advice was exactly how I like it,do this,do that,in plain English,thanks again Bob

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-10-24
Hi BOB,
Sorry to not be clear about the template. You were right, you do not need to enter that. I just gave you that for future reference. That is the 'formula' to use when you get the public key error.
In this case I gave you the entire command to enter because you posted the error and it had the key in question. In the future you can use the template to solve the error your self. Whenever you get the error for a public key, use that template but replace the word "KEY" with the numbers from the error. In your case it was F120156012B83718. Next time it will be a different one.
If you have another error like that and get confused, just post it and I'll give you the commands.
Anyways that was probably more words than was needed so I'll let you go. Glad I could help, take care.

---

### Post by wjbite on 2006-11-13
Cat
Thanks so much.
Found this by googling the error message key number "F120156012B83718"
Don't worry about typing too much - I needed it all.

Thanks again

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-11-13
> **wjbite said:**
> Cat
Thanks so much.
Found this by googling the error message key number "F120156012B83718"
Don't worry about typing too much - I needed it all.

Thanks again
Not to swell their heads any more but Google is amazing. What you just did is my number one way to trouble shoot. I just copy/paste the exact error code into the google field and I almost always end up on a thread with the solution.
It is probably the best advice you can give people who get errors using linux. "Just copy/paste the exact error, code numbers and all, into Google."
Glad it helped you out. Take care.

---

### Post by wongpk on 2006-11-27
I got that message when I abort an update and go to easy ubuntu. But how did you guys get that error message?

P/S: Thanks for that solution. It did help.

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-11-28
That message had to do with a new repository in the system. As you know Ubuntu uses the Apt package management system. Apt-get, the updater and synaptic package manager all use this apt system. The system is pre-built software packages that are kept on servers.
Some servers require a 'key' to access. These are GPG keys
> GnuPG encrypts messages using asymmetric keypairs individually generated by GnuPG users. The resulting public keys can be exchanged with other users in a variety of ways, such as Internet key servers. They must always be exchanged carefully to prevent identity spoofing by corrupting public key &#8596; 'owner' identity correspondences. It is also possible to add a cryptographic digital signature to a message, so the message integrity and sender can be verified, if a particular correspondence relied upon has not been corrupted.to make a long story short, you need the public key to access. When you don't have the key, an error comes up and it will give you the key you are missing (I do not understand the reasoning behind giving out the key when you deny access for not having the key)
That is where the 'formula' I posted comes in. All that 'formula' is, is the commands to add a public key to your system so the next time it is asked for your system will automatically check that file and give it to the asking server.
Easy Ubuntu must add repositories to your system when it installs.

---

### Post by lucksin on 2007-10-18
Hi ,

I came to this page after googling for Key not found error.. i did wat you have told here and i get this error :

> 
rohit@lucky:~$ gpg --keyserver subkeys.pgp.net --recv 3E231AC7F4ECF181
gpg: directory `/home/rohit/.gnupg' created
gpg: can't open `/gnupg/options.skel': No such file or directory
gpg: keyring `/home/rohit/.gnupg/secring.gpg' created
gpg: keyring `/home/rohit/.gnupg/pubring.gpg' created
gpg: requesting key F4ECF181 from hkp server subkeys.pgp.net
gpgkeys: key 3E231AC7F4ECF181 not found on keyserver
gpg: no valid OpenPGP data found.
gpg: Total number processed: 0



what next should be done ?? any idea ??

---

