---
title: "7.10 Live CD works fine, hard drive install hangs up."
date: 2008-02-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by tkekfs on 2008-02-12
Hello All,

This is my first linux experience so I am totally new at this.
Anyway after Win XP was infected with a virus, I decided to take this opportunity to try out Ubuntu. I wiped the hard drive on my HP Omnibook vt6200 with Darik's Boot and Nuke and fired up the 7.10 live CD.
The CD works fine (that is what I am using to type this) and everything seems good.
I ran the installer and it says everything went fine, but when I remove the CD and the computer reboots it hangs up when it gets to a blank brown screen and a cursor.
I have tried reinstalling several times with the same result.

Any suggestions or advice?

Thanks, K.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-02-12
> **tkekfs said:**
> Hello All,

This is my first linux experience so I am totally new at this.
Anyway after Win XP was infected with a virus, I decided to take this opportunity to try out Ubuntu. I wiped the hard drive on my HP Omnibook vt6200 with Darik's Boot and Nuke and fired up the 7.10 live CD.
The CD works fine (that is what I am using to type this) and everything seems good.
I ran the installer and it says everything went fine, but when I remove the CD and the computer reboots it hangs up when it gets to a blank brown screen and a cursor.
I have tried reinstalling several times with the same result.

Any suggestions or advice?

Thanks, K.

How long did you wait at that screen?

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-12
When you say brown screen, what do you mean?  Is there any more there?  Does it have anything like:

```

you@yourcomputer$

```

---

### Post by AsoSako on 2008-02-12
That does happen right after install sometimes...  You should try waiting a little more...

---

### Post by tkekfs on 2008-02-14
To clarify the screen where it hangs up is after the screen goes from black to the light brown default background color of the user interface and instead of an arrow mouse cursor, there is the round spinning mouse cursor that tells you the computer is doing something, but the animation for that freezes.

It seems to sit there for as long as I will let it before powering down the computer, last night I let it sit there for over an hour and it did nothing.

---

### Post by jcitguy78 on 2008-02-14
When I installed 7.10 using Live CD it took awhile to boot the first time, although I was setting up dualboot with XP pro. Try downloading the Live CD from the site if you haven't already, and if you have and burnt it to disc depending on burn speed there may be an error on your Live CD.

---

### Post by kalle_ka on 2008-02-17
Hi,

I have installed ubuntu (gutsy gibbon) on the same laptop (hp omnibook vt6200) and faced exactly the same problems as described above. (However, no problems with the live CD).

What I did is that I changed Screen setting in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. I set it to "vesa" instead of the the identified ATI hardware. This helped so the system could boot in low resolution. How can I now get up with normal resolution (like I have with the live CD, like 1024x768)?

/Mattias

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-17
> **kalle_ka said:**
> Hi,

I have installed ubuntu (gutsy gibbon) on the same laptop (hp omnibook vt6200) and faced exactly the same problems as described above. (However, no problems with the live CD).

What I did is that I changed Screen setting in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. I set it to "vesa" instead of the the identified ATI hardware. This helped so the system could boot in low resolution. How can I now get up with normal resolution (like I have with the live CD, like 1024x768)?

/Mattias

I would probably be a good idea to post your own thread with your exact computer type, xorg.conf, and especially your video card type.  Then we could tailor an exact fix for you.  That way, the Original Poster doesn't feel like you thread-jacked him either.

But we'd love to help you with your problem!  :)

---

### Post by gn2 on 2008-02-17
When you boot, press Esc and select the Recovery mode.

This will boot to a command prompt.

At the prompt type: ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
This will allow you to reconfigure your hardware.
At the section on display driver, select:```
vesa
```

Re-boot and hopefully the vesa driver will get you going.

---

### Post by kalle_ka on 2008-02-20
Hi,

Sorry, didn't mean to hijack, just thought that I had the same laptop and similiar problems it could be and idea to use the same.

I will now create my own thread......

regards,

/Mattias

---

### Post by andybengel on 2008-03-23
Hi,

I had the exact same probs on my vt6200. Using vesa for X11 worked, but gave a poor video performance.

When using ati driver for X11, the notebook stopped before kdm's start finished.

I found out, that powernowd and/or cpu frequency scaling was responsible for this behaviour. After I removed S10powernowd.early from /etc/rc2.d, my notebook just started fine using ati drivers - but without frequency scaling - resulting in a rather hot notebook after some time :-(

Our problem seems to come from the module acpi-cpufreq (which is loaded from powernowd.early) interacting somehow with xorg's ati driver. BUT... I then created /etc/default/powernowd and put this line in it:
```
FREQDRIVER=p4_clockmod
```

After reactivating S10powernowd.early the module p4_clockmod will load instead of acpi-cpufreq.

Now the notebook is starting with ati drivers _and_ cpu frequency scaling :-)

A better solution would be to find out, why acpi-cpufreq does not work (I believe in some wrong bad ACPI/BIOS code). If we could sort out the problem and could get back acpi-cpufreq, I believe we could get some core voltage scaling from it resulting in better battery performance and a cooler cpu...

Greetz,
Andy

---

