---
title: ".tar to .deb - Is there a simple way?"
date: 2006-01-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by warleggon on 2006-01-17
Hi, 

I have a cool composer program that I really like. It is Amuc. I so far have only been able to get it in a .tar format (sourcecode). Is there a relativly simple way to take .tar source code and turn it into a .deb file? My search on the interenet didnt help much.

If someone knows where Amuc can be found in a .deb file, all the better. I would  like to learn how to turn a .tar into a .deb though, sounds like that would be something useful.

Anyway, thanks,

Warleggon.

---

### Post by ape on 2006-01-17
Take a look at the checkinstall package.  This will allow you to build your source and produce a .deb file that you can install via dpkg.

---

### Post by matthew on 2006-01-17
There is a package in the repositories called "alien" that will change rpms to debs. You can install alien via synaptic or
```
sudo apt-get install alien
``` 
To use it you will need to open a terminal and cd to the directory where the rpm is located (for this example, /home/user/temp
```
cd /home/user/temp
alien filename.rpm
sudo dpkg -i filename.deb
```I don't think alien requires sudo when used in your home directory, but I may be mistaken. In any case you can
```
man alien
```for more info
-------------------------

EDIT: Oops! I misread your post and thought it said "rpm" instead of "tar." The other responder is right, you can use checkinstall instead of install and a deb will be created and installed. Here is how...

First, install the checkinstall package```
sudo apt-get install checkinstall
``` 
Then change the typical installation from this:
```
#[FONT=Verdana] **tar xvzf package.tar.gz** (or **tar xvjf package.tar.bz2**)
# **cd package**
# **./configure**
# **make**
# **make install**[/FONT]
```[FONT=Verdana]to this
```
$ sudo tar xvcf package.tar.gz (or sudo tar xvjf package.tar.bz2)
$ cd package
$ ./configure
$ sudo make
$ sudo checkinstall
```[/FONT]

---

### Post by cwaldbieser on 2006-01-17
[QUOTE=warleggon]Hi, 

I have a cool composer program that I really like. It is Amuc. I so far have only been able to get it in a .tar format (sourcecode). Is there a relativly simple way to take .tar source code and turn it into a .deb file? My search on the interenet didnt help much.

If someone knows where Amuc can be found in a .deb file, all the better. I would  like to learn how to turn a .tar into a .deb though, sounds like that would be something useful.

Anyway, thanks,

Warleggon.[/QUOTE]

Assuming you can build it yourself, and it has a makefile with a "make install" option, you can use the "checkinstall" package (use apt-get or synaptic to get it).
1) Build software.
2) Instead of "sudo make install", type "sudo checkinstall".

---

### Post by warleggon on 2006-01-17
Hi,

Wow, thanks to all of you for your fast reply. That was indeed very easy and now I have a deb package that I can install and uninstall easily.

Again, thanks very much!

Warleggon :)

---

### Post by weblordpepe on 2007-08-02
Yay!

---

