---
title: "6.06 Dual-boot laptop, Help!"
date: 2006-11-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Halonut1 on 2006-11-08
my 6.06 CD's just came, i tried to dual boot it on my Dell inspiron 600m laptop, and i acidentily killed windows(nothing important exept a photo..so nothing horrible) and when i installed it again(that is my version of heck, right there..) i tried to partition the HD, but it says "Error creating partition #1" or something really close to that, WTF is going on and could someone please give me a partition tutorail for a 60GB HD. i really like ubuntu from what i've used(Windows is killing me..) so please, help me dual-boot it!(i only need the Dual boot for Photoshop CS and homeschooling programs)

---

### Post by meborc on 2006-11-08
for dual boot (the oldschool way), you need to:

1. format HD
2. install WIN
3. defrag, defrag, defrag, until all data is in the beginning of the disc
4. figure out how many GB your WIN needs (10-...)
5. insert ubuntu CD and chose INSTALL
6. CHOSE "MANUALLY EDIT PARTITION TABLE" - IMPORTANT
7. make the hda1 (win partition) smaller so that win still fits on it
8. on free space use the "automatically partition the free space" (or smth like that, i don't remember what version is in 6.06)
9. the installer should take care of the rest...
10. be sure to say YES to install grub in ... ahhh... well just say YES to the GRUB questions

now if you reboot, it should give you grub menu to boot to ubuntu and to win... after 10 sec, it will automatically boot to ubuntu... hope that helps a bit ;)

---

### Post by housam on 2006-11-08
Hi. Halonut1,
Inter set-up menu and change the boot setting to be from the floppy.Insert your windows start-up disk (floppy).After restarting write FDISK and follow the on screen instructions to partition your HDD.( I suggest 3 partitions. one for win-xp,one for ubuntu and the last for shared files . and make them FAT32 as it works good with ubuntu.)
After partitioning install window first on the first partition and then install ubuntu on the second one. this way will work fine without any craches.

---

### Post by Halonut1 on 2006-11-08
Hello as well. and its a laptop with a CD/DVD drive..there is no floppy drive..
and thanks, i will erase ubuntu and install windows(UGH! ](*,) ) and try again tomorrow, thanks guys!:)

---

### Post by housam on 2006-11-08
Sorry, I didn't notice that. refer to meborc guid ,it is better.:-|

---

### Post by Halonut1 on 2006-11-08
> **housam said:**
> Sorry, I didn't notice that. refer to meborc guid ,it is better.:-|

Thanks anyway, man!

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-11-08
Partition with [GParted]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net").  Make a empty space for your Ubuntu before installing it.

---

