---
title: "7.10 Sound Error"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-05
So I installed Ubuntu 7.10 a couple of days ago. First i had no sound, but i unticked the Switches in the sound prefrences meny, and it works. But, now, it no longer works. I have compiled new drivers and anything else I can think of. Tried alot of guides and the likes. Still no sucess.

Anyone able to help? Thanks.

---

### Post by Dave Otter on 2008-03-05
What is your soundcard-or cards

---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-05
Oh. Forgot that.
Creative audio Audigy SB0090

---

### Post by Dave Otter on 2008-03-05
Try
  Applications-Accessories-Terminal


   type  asoundconfconf set-default-cardCARD      replacing DARD witth the one you use


    Dont know if this will work but worth a try

---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-05
Didnt work.

---

### Post by Redptc on 2008-03-05
If you had sound initially you should be able to access it again.

Have you done a right click on the sound icon located in the panel? Activate 'Open Sound Control' and move the master and pcm control even if they are at the max. This movement may be necessary to 'wake' things up!

Unmute all the sevices and test for sound.

---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-05
That didnt work either. But now Alsamixer is ******. Whenever i type alsamixer in terminal i get:
alsamixer: function snd_ctl_open failed for default: No such device

---

### Post by Redptc on 2008-03-05
Go here...[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)    this is really the place to start sorting any sound problems.

---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-05
I've tried those too. Still dosent work.

---

### Post by Bargeek on 2008-03-05
Howie,

I have been having issues with my sound since I updated to Gutsy.  I tried forum posts, reading all the sound threads, trolling the ALSA forums, and nothing worked.

Today, playing around, I noticed I did not have Alsa mixer listed when I pulled up my Applications in the GUI.  So I went to Applications > Add/remove.  Under the sound category, I added Alsa Mixer and updated.

Now Alsa mixer shows up under the sound applications.  I started it, and playing with the sliders, I noticed my speakers started hissing when I increased the headphones slider.  Rana quick test, and jumped about 6 feet in the air, (I had the headphones slider all the way up.)

Don't know why the headphones slider is controlling my PC speakers, but it works.  I have sound now, so I am really not going to complain.

Don't know if this will work for you, or if I am just a fluke.  But I certainly hope it helps.

---

### Post by Redptc on 2008-03-05
Have you made one sound card the default card? 

Do you get any sound, clicks,sqeaks,raster out of your speakers?

Does your sound work ok in windows?

---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-05
I tried setting my card default. Not sure if it worked. How do i check it apart from with Alsamixer (Wich is now ******)
Sound works fine in windows as well.
There is noise from my speakers. No real sound though.

---

### Post by jaredssix on 2008-03-05
Just to be empathetic,
I had mic abilities for the last three months, and today they disappeared! I'm looking at all the same forums you've been directed to . . . an I'm not getting anywhere.

---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-05
This is annoying the crap out of ne, Hopefully it wil be fixed with Hardy Heron. When is it releasing?

---

### Post by Redptc on 2008-03-05
It is supposed to be fixed in Hardy which is due in April. 

I think there is a change to 'Pulse Audio' and, if interested, you might want to remove Alsa and try 'Pulse'
instead. Try this page [http://www.pulseaudio.org/wiki/PerfectSetup](http://www.pulseaudio.org/wiki/PerfectSetup) 

..or perhaps reinstall Alsa!

---

### Post by Redptc on 2008-03-05
...by the way, in preferences>sound>devices I have them set to auto detect.

I often get sound from start up but do, periodically, have to 'turn things' on by going to the sound contol gui. Its not a big thing so I haven't really worried much about it.

If you try the Pulse Audio thing let me know the result!:confused:

---

### Post by jaredssix on 2008-03-06
F everybody's I:
I did a system restore to two weeks back in windows (dual boot system), thinking that if I went back to when the mic worked, it might work--it doesn't work.

I tried two other mics, which do work on my system.

The mic I have been using on my system (and which is no longer working on my system) works on other computers.

---

### Post by Howie2709 on 2008-03-06
So i have a little progress. When i select Multichannel Playback in the System > Preferences > Sound I get a beep when i press test, but no other sound.

EDIT: I FIXED IT! I did an Aplay -l in terminal, and i noticed it said [ADC Capture/Standard PCM Playback] So i changed the sound prefrences to that, and it works:D

Glad i got it fixed before i finished downloading season 1 of Dexter. Awesome show.

---

