---
title: "6.10 wont boot live cd on desktop, but will on old lappy?"
date: 2006-12-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by hoges on 2006-12-31
Hi all, and a happy new year to those "down under" like myself.

Anyway, i am currently using ubuntu 6.10 on an old toshiba portege, which installed with next to no trouble (besides the dodgy cd drive). Once i found a replacement drive to boot from, all was well. 

So, having come back to linux after a year or so away (i spent a couple of months with fc5), i figured that i'd load ubuntu up on my desktop.

I still consider myself a noob, but i've never had any trouble installing before. I used the same disk as i did on my lappy (which is about 4yrs old), no scratches, no nothing. I burnt the disk at the lowest possible speed. I want to avoid dl another iso (ie alternative install) if possible.

My desktop loads the disk and starts to boot into the live cd/install option. With about one block on the loading bar to go it crashes. If i take out the cd, It tells me to make sure the disk is removed and to press enter to continue.

I've read about the issues with nvidia vid cards, but it should have no correleation to me as i have and ati x800xl. As i said, i installed using the same disk a couple of days ago with no hassle.

PC Specs:
P4 EM64T (using the 32 bit cd tho)
3gb ram
320gb sata hdd
Pioneer DVD-RW/CD-RW
x800xl graphics
benq fp91g+ 19" monitor.

Any ideas as to how to kick it past the loading screen?

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-12-31
> **hoges said:**
> 
I've read about the issues with nvidia vid cards, but it should have no correleation to me as i have and ati x800xl. As i said, i installed using the same disk a couple of days ago with no hassle.

PC Specs:
P4 EM64T (using the 32 bit cd tho)
3gb ram
320gb sata hdd
Pioneer DVD-RW/CD-RW
x800xl graphics
benq fp91g+ 19" monitor.

Any ideas as to how to kick it past the loading screen?

Happy New year to you too [have to wait till midnight though] :D 

About the graphics,it's not nVidia cards with the problems,but the ATI ones I'm afraid.
Don't know if the problem is your graphics,it can be any part in your system.

The alternate cd gives less install problems,so it might be a good idea to dow.............

---

### Post by hoges on 2006-12-31
> **bulldog said:**
> About the graphics,it's not nVidia cards with the problems,but the ATI ones I'm afraid.

There was a thread in these forums somewhere where everyone who had similar problems had geforce 7xxx... so so i thought.

Anyway, i'll give the alternative cd a shot. Thanks for the starter. Does anybody else have/know of a similar problem/fix?

I've run memcheck, diskcheck, etc and all turned out all good. So i can't find anything wrong with the hardware atm.

Cheers
Hoges

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-12-31
There are a several people who can't boot into the live cd for one reason or the other.
Don't think you can speak about just one problem,because the hardware variety is that big,it's almost impossible to make it work on all computers.

If you want to partition your drive before the install,I suggest you use the gparted live cd,it's just a 30MB download.
Burn it to a disk and boot from it,you have a partitioner with a GUI,which works more clear for most people.

[http://gparted.sourceforge.net/](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by hoges on 2006-12-31
Alright, the alternative cd seemed to work a treat. The only problem now is that the mbr can't find an installed os???

I booted the winxp install disk to check partitions in case i screwed that up - they are all there. I tried a "fixmbr" with the windows disk just to try and boot into windows, thinking that maybe grub was broken - no joy. I'm just about to follow a guide to re-install grub.

I'm trying to tri-boot xp, vista rc1 and ubuntu.

Cheers
Hoges

---

### Post by Bartender on 2006-12-31
hoges -
Running "fixmbr" in Windows guarantees that GRUB won't work anymore.  Fixmbr restores the original Windows bootloader.  Do a search for Fix or Reinstall GRUB.  Several good write-ups.
EDIT:  Wait a minute.  You're saying you can't get into Windows either, or just Linux?

---

### Post by msak007 on 2006-12-31
I have an x850 XT so it's very similar to yours (same core / chipset), and I'm just letting you know I've had the same issue. I always have to resort to using the "Safe Graphics" mode when installing because the normal Live session won't boot, or if that doesn't work I use the alternate installer. This has been a problem for me since Ubuntu / Kubuntu 5.10, and the problem has carried on with Kubuntu 6.06 and 6.10. I like the alternate installer anyway...it's a lot quicker.

---

### Post by hoges on 2006-12-31
can't get into anything, either via grub or fixmbr for windows. I know that fixmbr erases grub, but i should still be able to run windows with it. The only other thing i can think of is to reload everything, which is a PITA.

When i installed it i left an old hdd with xp/fc6 in the system. The mbr is screwed on that too. I'm just going to see if i can get fc6 up and running. If that works, at least i can back up stuff if i need too. I unplugged all the other drives to make sure that there wasn't a conflict between them.

EDIT: The fc6 grub installed fine. It's a far easier process than the ubuntu one listed here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows)

Is it possible to use the fc6 grub? i like the interface better anyway.

Im going through a couple of different guides now to see if i can get grub working again.

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-12-31
Is your second hdd an IDE disk?
If so disconnect it before you install GRUB again please.

Boot into the live Ubuntu cd. 

When you get to the desktop open a terminal and enter. 
```
sudo grub
```
This will get you a grub> prompt 
```
find /boot/grub/stage1
```
This will return a location which you have to use in the next command. 
```
root (hd?,?)
```
Next enter the command to install grub to the mbr
```
setup (hd0)
```
Exit the grub shell
```
quit
```
Now Grub will be installed to the mbr.

If you can boot ubuntu from hdd just do,if not use the live cd and copy the output of```
sudo fdisk -l (l as in like) 
``` to the forum please.
So we can have a look at your partitions.

Tell us if you can boot from hard disk or you have to use the live cd,we have to take a look at the menu.lst.

---

### Post by hoges on 2006-12-31
Alright, disk is loading now in safe graphics mode...

And, like before, it halts with one block of the progress bar to go.

Any way i can get to the terminal through the alternative cd?

This is really annoying. I've had 5.04 up before no problems, live cd and everything. :lightbulb goes off:
Is it possible to use the 5.10 bootloader? I still have the live cd for that!

EDIT: The 5.04 live cd has just loaded, but didn't go into graphics mode - encountered an error. Definitely doesn't like my graphics card. Gonna try the steps listed above in the terminal. I'll keep you posted.

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-12-31
Have you tried to boot from the second hdd?
It's fairly possible GRUB is on that disk and will boot fine.
Give it a try first before doing anything else.

---

### Post by hoges on 2006-12-31
Alright, the second hdd has fc6/xp on it. I fixed grub using the fc6 disk and it worked a treat. I would prefer to remove fc6 at this stage, but is there a way to make it load the other os's from the second hdd?

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-12-31
If you can tell me on which disk GRUB is located,and give me your menu.lst I'll be happy to add the entry for XP for you.
If grub is on the ubuntu disk (hd0) and windows on the second disk (hd1) the windows entry should look like this.
```
### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/hda1
title		Microsoft Windows XP Professional
map (hd0) (hd1)
map (hd1) (hd0)
rootnoverify (hd1,0)
savedefault
chainloader	+1
```But it will be a lot easier if you give me the outcome of sudo fdisk -l

---

### Post by hoges on 2006-12-31
> **bulldog said:**
> If you can tell me on which disk GRUB is located,and give me your menu.lst I'll be happy to add the entry for XP for you.

Thankyou so much for the offer, but i just got it working!

I just had to reinstall ubuntu before it would let me reinstall the bootloader. I think something must of happened to the original install to corrupt the mbr, because neither windows nor grub could load an os. Maybe something happened during the original partitioning? Not sure.

Again, thankyou for all your help, it has been greatly appreciated!

Cheers
Hoges

---

### Post by hoges on 2007-01-01
OK, I was wrong. I didn't have time to actually boot into ubuntu, just windows, It would seem that my x800xl is not compatible with the free ati drivers in x server, so the gui won't load. Which is why i couldn't load the live cd.

Anyway, I was having trouble finding how to change to the vesa drivers, which are supposed to work, in the terminal. I found a link here: [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?t=378077](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?t=378077)  but the command sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg given doesn't appear to load - claims xserver-xorg is not installed.

Any ati owners know how to do this?

EDIT: Never mind. [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?t=378077](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?t=378077) This site had some good info. Also, it seemed that xserver wasn't installed? Basically, the problem has been all along that the ati drivers don't work with my card.

Cheers
Hoges

---

