---
title: "X problems - Stuck in 800x600"
date: 2006-04-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by iamkevb on 2006-04-03
I stuck in 800x600 hell even though my monitor support 1600x1200. I've been messing with xorg.conf all day, but that has gotten me no where. Can anyone help?

xorg.conf
======

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"IBM L200P"
	Option		"DPMS"
	VertRefresh	60.0
	HorizSync 	75.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"IBM L200P"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
#		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
		Modes		"800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by iamkevb on 2006-04-03
attaching  /var/log/Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-04-03
Have you run the reconfigure process or are you just editing the file? If you're only editing, run the reconfigure x again. Before you run it Google around for the specs of your monitor. You'll need to know the horizontal and vertical refresh rates plus color depth and size of course. The best is to get the PDF manual from your computer maker. It should have the specs. 
Just make sure you pick advanced when you do the monitor settings and to select all the resolutions when it is time to pick. By choosing all this makes x look for all supported resolutions.```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2006-04-03
Please see:

X gui gone bye-bye 

and 

X Server Help ( 1 2) 

at this forum.

All are dealing with more or less the same problems.

I couldn't get 1024x768 until I downloaded new update/fonts.

After that, I no longer have a gui. or Gnome interface.

---

### Post by iamkevb on 2006-04-03
Just tried dpkg-rconfigure, but unforetunately it led to the same problem.
"Input signal out of range"
Manually editing the conf file back to an 800x600 gets the xserver running at least.


I'm using an IBM L200P monitor, on an IBM Thinkcentre M50 (integrated intel video card)

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-04-03
This is a link to a bug report about your monitor. I couldn't get much out of it but you may. [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2508](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2508)

This is a link to a forum where the guy tries unplugging, replugging. I'l try to find more and post if I do.[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2508](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2508)

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-04-03
Here's a tip I found that might work. 
> Another way that worked for me is to boot with a live Linux CD that has better monitor recognition such as Knoppix and then copy the current /etc/x11/xf86config-4 file to the Mepis hard drive with file manager

This guy booted with a Live CD, in this case Knoppix. The Live CD did a better job of detecting resolution. So he copied the x file fron the Live CD and put it into his regular OS. It seems to have worked for him. Might be worth a shot if you have a Live CD.

---

### Post by iamkevb on 2006-04-03
Might be worth a try. A coworker of mine has the same problem on a recent install of Fedora so I'm doubtful. 
I saw the bug report you mentioned, setting my vert refresh to 60 did not help me and I don't really understand why it should either. The monitor's user manual says it supports 58-85.
Configure does detect that the monitor is an L200p so it's surprising that this doesn't work. Is it definitely a monitor problem, or could the video driver be the issue? A couple posts on the net have indicated that the i810 driver is better in Xorg 2.6.9. I downloaded it and it's building as we speak, but I suspect that installing it might cause more pain. Nothing to lose at this point. I'm also downloading Dapper Drake and crossing my fingers that it will "just work"

thanks again for the help!

---

### Post by iamkevb on 2006-04-03
I'm not at work so I'm unable to try this right now, but I've found some pointer to 855resolution that sound hopeful because my monitor is an LCD.
Have a look at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FixVideoResolutionHowto](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FixVideoResolutionHowto) if you're in the same boat as me.

---

### Post by iamkevb on 2006-04-04
I'm still stuck, but now I'm out of ideas. I've tried everything suggested here and the problem is the same.

On a positive note, Kubuntu Dapper Drake looks pretty cool.

Any one have any other ideas?

---

### Post by iamkevb on 2006-04-06
Nuts to this then. Xorg just hates me and my monitor. Back to XP I guess.

---

