---
title: ".OPD files - viewer for windows? None??! Frustration!"
date: 2006-03-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Jh00 on 2006-03-12
Hi there.

I couldn't find a better section in this forum to post about this, so...

Years ago, I abandoned Linux back to Windows because I felt like if the Distros were created solely for extremely computer literated people, or for those who enjoyed memorizing long lists of comands and parameters. It seemed like Linux was an "elite" OS, in the sense that only the elite of the computer world was ALOWED to use it. I could't afford that much time to simply change a background image in X or to make my mouse work right.

When I heard about Ubuntu, I became very excited about it, wondering if finally someone had the bright idea of turning Linux into something that could be used even by the average Joe. I even ordered some CD's from Shipit and advocated it to my friends.

Today I was browsing the Ubuntu site for more information, mainly about what to expect in the next release and which features does Ubuntu have that the other distros don't. I end up on this Presentations Page: 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Presentations#head-db27342d0fae036039101584db09a8a63d6d6db6](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Presentations#head-db27342d0fae036039101584db09a8a63d6d6db6)

I was very interested in the Daniel Holbach's presentation but then... An .OPD file? What the heck is it? After some reading, ok, it is an OpenDocument Presentation file. Now, how do I open it? The page doesn't mention it. Fine, I found a list of applications compatible with it in wikipedia after some searching: OpenOffice, StarOffice, IBM Workplace Documents 2.6+, Presenter
, NeoOffice 1.2 Impress (import only)....

Now, what do we have here: to simply watch a presentation about Ubuntu, I need to do lots of searches to discover that it was made with a specific format, and that in order to watch it I had to download a zillion MB of software or ... HAVE UBUNTU installed in the first place!

If there isn't a small viewer that allows me to watch that thing in Windows, why release it in .OPD? Or else, if in fact THERE IS a viewer for .OPD, why it isn't linked there? Why not a HTML transcript? What's the point in promoting Ubuntu for Ubuntu users?

Note that I'm not flaming anyone, I just trying to offer my point of view as an example of frustration that a windows user can have when even thinking about migrating to something else.

Now I saw myself back in '97, when "everything Linux" to me meant 
a) try to accomplish some simple task;
b) fail, go search the internet;
c) fail, go search a forum;
d) fail, write a post asking for help.

In the end, I lost interest in the presentation - it was like if Linux was yet a "gang OS", where either you "follow the complex rules" or are thrown away. Suddenly, my interest in Ubuntu faded away.

Sorry, I don't want to seem harsh, but I'm very frustrated - I didn't expect that it would be so difficult to watch a simple presentation made in Linux.

I'm sure someone will probably prove me wrong about how could I actually watch .OPD files in Windows, but the case is: that information was not easily found at first place.

Thanks for your attention.

Jh00

---

### Post by skymt on 2006-03-12
[OpenOffice.org](http://www.openoffice.org/) for Windows is only 75 megabytes, and you can order it on a CD if that's too big. Eventually there will be .opd viewers, but since (the fairly new) OO.org 2.0 was the first major program to use the format, there wasn't much call for one.

And by the way, please give Ubuntu a try. It "just works," far more than Windows and almost as much as the Mac OS. You'll probably like it.

---

### Post by Jh00 on 2006-03-12
First of all, thank you for the reply. 

[QUOTE=skymt][OpenOffice.org](http://www.openoffice.org/) for Windows is only 75 megabytes, and you can order it on a CD if that's too big. 
[/quote]

Now let's see. I need to download a 75mb full featured Office Suite to simply watch a presentation. Otherwise, I can just buy it. I don't think my customers would be pleased by any of those alternatives, if I was to create a presentation about my company and send to them. I don't think my friends will like the idea either, if I pointed that presentations to them to show how great Ubuntu can be.

> 
Eventually there will be .opd viewers, but since (the fairly new) OO.org 2.0 was the first major program to use the format, there wasn't much call for one.


That's great to know that something will arrive, but that leaves the question: if the format is so under-supported, why distribute a presentation about Ubuntu using it? Who will watch it? Linux users only? What's the point? It sounds to me as "we, the mighty Linux community, are able to create a format that will rival anything Microsoft, and SOON you will be able to use it, but anyway, we are releasing stuff with right now just to show how l33ch we are". 

> 
And by the way, please give Ubuntu a try. It "just works," far more than Windows and almost as much as the Mac OS. You'll probably like it.

I'm sure I would probably like it. Not only the applications look awesome, but I'm a great open source and community driven software enthusiast. That explains why I'm so frustrated about such a minor thing. It isn't about software, it isn't about open source, it is about ideology.

The simple fact that I tried to do something Ubuntu-related so simple as watching a presentation and was not succesful drives me away of any try at least for a while.

Linux will never find a place in the desktop world while the users need to strugle to do things that can otherwise be done easily in other O$'s. 

Sorry once more for being so "emotive".

Cheers.
Jh00

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-03-12
The page looks like its main purpose would be to make it easier to reuse old presentations to give at talks. Yes, it would be easier if they were in pdf, but in addition to supporting open standards I think this is the main reason for the odp format:
> If you edit/improve an existing presentation, please upload the refined version as well.

So in brief, the presentations page seems to be for the marketing people and not for informing users. And these don't [seem](http://people.ubuntu.com/~jdub/2004/ubuntu-1-2-3/) that informative either. ;)

A better "this is ubuntu" page would perhaps be [http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu)

---

### Post by zero0w on 2006-03-22
In OpenOffice.org 1.1/2.x, Impress Presentation can be exported as Flash, although animation effects will be dropped during export.

---

### Post by rouben on 2006-03-29
[QUOTE=Jh00]That's great to know that something will arrive, but that leaves the question: if the format is so under-supported, why distribute a presentation about Ubuntu using it?[/QUOTE]
Because other format$ are patented. ](*,) 

[QUOTE=Jh00]Who will watch it? Linux users only? What's the point? It sounds to me as "we, the mighty Linux community, are able to create a format that will rival anything Microsoft, and SOON you will be able to use it, but anyway, we are releasing stuff with right now just to show how l33ch we are". [/quote]
Quite the opposite. As far as the Gentoo crowd goes, I'd say it's one of the friendliest groups out there. None of the typical elitism here, as you witnessed yourself. On many other forums (or IRC chatrooms) you would probably get flamed pretty badly for your initial post, I'm not even talking about this quote, even though your intentions and motives were actually quite constructive, IMO. None of that here; everyone here is friendly.

Having said the above, you do bring up a good point. As suggested by someone here, perhaps having these presentations (or at least polished versions thereof) available in a more "universal" (i.e. Windows-centric, really) format might be prudent. Flash sounds like a good idea to me, even if the animations aren't fully exported in that format. After all, it's the content of presentations that really matters, not the number of flashy font variations, animations and sound effects are used in it. :) 

Thanks for your post, I think you bring up a point here that should be looked at more closely...

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-03-29
The original post was 2 weeks ago, so the discussion is basically over. However, in reply to Jh00's trolling, if he thinks downloading a free 75 Meg application to view a .odp presentation is an imposition, he should look at the price and size of the application he has to order (not download) in order to view a .ppt presentation. Pot, meet Kettle.

---

