---
title: "7.10 Persistant USB Problem"
date: 2008-02-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by scottb613 on 2008-02-13
Hi...

I've installed my ubuntu 7.10 "persistant" as per the procedures listed on the "pendrivelinux" site...

My Casper-RW file system keeps getting corrupted after only a few uses...

I am using a 4GB OCZ Flash Drive...
/dev/sdb1 1gb FAT16
/dev/sdb2 1gb ext2
/dev/sdb3 512M swap

In "GParted" the /dev/sdb2 shows errors...
"Unable to find mountpoint."
"Unable to read contents of file system."

If i do a "df" nothing is returned...

I always shut down normally...

I have tried running "e2fsck" on the unmounted partition and it finds and corrects errors...

I did install the NFS packages afer my basic install...

Any ideas ???

I need both NFS and NTFS-3G working on my install...

Thanks,
Scott

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-13
I don't see any mention of the U7.10fix.tar. did you install it? I don't run ubuntu this way, but was reading instructions for what you are trying to do.

---

### Post by j2fraser on 2008-02-13
I had a corruption problem with an OCZ 4GB Flash Drive, and had to return it. I considered, but rejected, the idea of replacing it after I found other reports from users on the Internet (something the retailer I was dealing with confirmed). I still like the OCZ product (just using an 8GB unit now), but from time to time I think that you are going to come across a defective unit that needs replacing. Retailers & OCZ seem to be good about replacing them.

Further, I have also (just recently) had problems with using GParted on my OCZ drive, although fdisk seemed to work just fine. Good luck!

---

### Post by scottb613 on 2008-02-14
All,
 
I did install the fix as per the pendrive site...

Maybe I'll need to try a different drive...

Thanks for taking the time to respond !!!

:)

Regards,
Scott

---

