---
title: "Feisty Upgrade Problem #15,248,637"
date: 2007-04-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by detroit/zero on 2007-04-24
I'm relatively new to Ubuntu. I've been running Edgy for a couple months now and just upgraded to Feisty.

My sound is gone, but I'm fairly confident I can work that one out on my own. I have applications like Preferences>Sounds and even terminal windows freezing on me.

I'm sure it's connected to some updates that are still needed, as is indicated by the little update-notifier sitting on my panel. Clicking on the notifier makes an attempt at launching the update-manager, but results in an error message, effectively locking me out of updating my machine. (screenshot of message attached.)

One of you could probably fix that in your sleep. 

I can't.

On a lighter note, not for one split second in the time I've been using Edgy have I [been able to get my NVidia card to work.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=371554") I'm not sure what the problem was. I tried a dozen different methods. Envy, Add/Remove, Automatix, NVidia's 9746.pkg1.run... nothing worked. The computer would freeze in the exact same spot every single time. I didn't get it, and I gave up after a while.

But along comes Feisty Fawn. 1st thing on my agenda? System>Administration>Restricted Drivers Manager.

It as beautiful. All I had to do before I rebooted was add my intel onboard graphics to hotplug/blacklist and modprobe.d/blacklist and it runs like a champ.

Until the login screen comes up. There's no splash screen or anything, but when the login window is supposed to appear it's just a blue screen.

Here's xorg.conf after the restricted drivers manager is run:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    Fontpath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    # path to defoma fonts
    Fontpath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load        "i2c"
    Load        "bitmap"
    Load        "ddc"
    Load        "extmod"
    Load        "freetype"
    Load        "glx"
    Load        "int10"
    Load        "type1"
    Load        "vbe"
EndSection

[...]

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Express Chipset Family Graphics Controller"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    Busid        "PCI:2:3:0"
    Option        "AddARGBVisuals"    "True"
    Option        "AddARGBGLXVisuals"    "True"
    Option        "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "TYPHOON 19A"
    Option        "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Express Chipset Family Graphics Controller"
    Monitor        "TYPHOON 19A"
    Defaultdepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth    1
        Modes        "1600x1200"    "1280x1024"    "1024x768"    "800x600"   
[...] Note the identifier doesn't change from Intel to NVidia, but from what I understand that doesn't exactly matter. The driver used is the "nvidia" (not nv) driver, and glx is in the modules list. 

I've attached the Xorg.0.log file. It says that GLX module is not loading, even though it's in the list. I referred to the NVIDIA site and docs to see if I could find any relevant info, but nothing seemed to relate. I also have un/reinstalled the driver and had the same result.

Any ideas?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Stian24 on 2007-04-24
The first thing I would do is try to boot in recovery modus and do a sudo apt-get update and a sudo apt-get upgrade.

---

### Post by detroit/zero on 2007-04-24
Yeah, that was the first thing I tried, too. Notice it says something about permissions.. If I log in as root, or even if I do $sudo update-manager, the updates aren't located; it says my system is up-to-date.

---

### Post by detroit/zero on 2007-04-26
Well, I figured it out. Sort of.

I backed up all my important data on about half a dozen DVD's, and I installed Feisty from a LiveCD, now it works like a champ.

There were too many bugs from upgrading. I don't know what went wrong, but odd things like the sound going out, applications hanging, not being able to view my text document or photos, all kinds of crazy stuff.

It works now. Perhaps not the best solution for those interested in bug hunting, but it works for me.

---

