---
title: "Getting on line with dialup"
date: 2008-01-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by marcasp on 2008-01-30
Hi folks I hate to be a pain but i installed UBUNTU 2 days ago and have been trying to get on line since then.
I got a bunch of info through google someone said go appaications-system tools-and open terminal but I don't have system tools under applications.
All I have under applications is   accessories  games  graphics   internet   office   sound+video   add+remove..
I could find noplace to get a terminal so I searched files till I found a whole stack of terminals finally found one I could type in.
I entered sudo pppconfig and got the got the setup to connect to my severmade out ok till it got to the modem and com port it thougt it was #2 and I haventthe foggest idea so I let it go like that.
I don't know if the modem has a driver or not it is a lucent win modem I have a driver that works with any lucent modem with windows for linux I know nothing .
With windows I can tell which com port the modem is using and if the modem is working right and how to installthe driver with UBUNTU I know less than nothing........

 THANK YOU FOR ANY HELP

   Bob

---

### Post by jan quark on 2008-01-30
ok 
lets start slowly

the terminal should be in the accessories > terminal

or push alt+f2 and type gnome-terminal

or search the list called " show list of known applications" and search for the terminal

and click on run
[U]
breath in and out, dont forget to breath its essential[/U]

now when terminal pops up type the following commands into it an copy and paste the results of them into this post 

```
iwconfig
```
```
ifconfig
```
```
lspci
```
```
sudo iwlist scan
```
after typing in the last one you probably have to retype your login password, just type it and push enter, the password wont be displayed

---

### Post by marcasp on 2008-01-31
bob@bob-desktop:~$ iwconfig lo no wireless extensions. bob@bob-desktop:~$ ifconfig lo Link encap:Local Loopback inet addr:127.0.0.1 Mask:255.0.0.0 inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host UP LOOPBACK RUNNING MTU:16436 Metric:1 RX packets:64 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 TX packets:64 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 RX bytes:4800 (4.6 KB) TX bytes:4800 (4.6 KB) bob@bob-desktop:~$ lspci 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 440LX/EX - 82443LX/EX Host bridge (rev 03) 00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 440LX/EX - 82443LX/EX AGP bridge (rev 03) 00:0d.0 Communication controller: Agere Systems LT WinModem 00:14.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ISA (rev 02) 00:14.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 IDE (rev 01) 00:14.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 USB (rev 01) 00:14.3 Bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ACPI (rev 02) 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc 3D Rage IIC AGP (rev 3a) bob@bob-desktop:~$ sudo iwlist scan [sudo] password for bob: lo Interface doesn't support scanning. bob@bob-desktop:~$

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2008-01-31
Alrite, so you've got a windmodem...hurrah.  Did the restricted drivers manager thing install drivers for it?  It might not have, in which case, try this:

[http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=330801](http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=330801)

That will hopefully get your modem drivers installed.  After that, we'll figure out how to make the thing work.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-01-31
if you run into a wall with ppp-config, I would suggest getting the scanModem tool and running it. It will detect your modem and generate an important file for you to read. Then run wvdialconf in a terminal. Then edit /etc/wvdial.conf by hand to include number, username, password. Also Gnome-ppp works as a frontend for wvdial. Good luck. If you decide to go with gnome-ppp, you will need to remove ";" before the number, username, password lines. Or search for Gnome-pppfixedforGutsy.deb Your best information will come from reading the "read this first, and modem.txt" files generated by ./scanModem. Dial-up can be very difficult using Ubuntu...or not so difficult, depending on what you learn about setting it up.

---

### Post by Michl on 2008-01-31
You need to check the DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-277fdde88a3b04feee00e14834388d58d7add4f9](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/SetUpDialer#head-277fdde88a3b04feee00e14834388d58d7add4f9)

Begin with alternative way 1, then install gnome-ppp and you are on your way.
There's lots of discussion of this on this forum.  You might also have to change
the settings to keep from getting bumped.  One of them was 
S19=0

Also, if you have Feisty, forget dialup.  Go back to Edgy for dialup.

---

### Post by marcasp on 2008-02-03
I tried to install martian but that didn't work either.
I have tried every tip help link and any thing else  I could find.
I guess I am just too numb for ubuntu cause nothing worked.
So I wiped the hard drive and reinstalled ubuntu dug ouit an oldrobotics 56k ext modem hooked that up put in my sever info phone no user name phone no password ect still cannot connect.
I tried  sudo wvdialconf/ect/wvdial.conf and this what I got.

tyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up. ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 -- OK ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 -- OK ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK ttyS1<*1>: Modem Identifier: ATI -- 5601 ttyS1<*1>: Speed 4800: AT -- OK ttyS1<*1>: Speed 9600: AT -- OK ttyS1<*1>: Speed 19200: AT -- OK ttyS1<*1>: Speed 38400: AT -- OK ttyS1<*1>: Speed 57600: AT -- OK ttyS1<*1>: Speed 115200: AT -- OK ttyS1<*1>: Speed 230400: AT -- AT ttyS1<*1>: Speed 230400: AT -- AT ttyS1<*1>: Speed 230400: AT -- AT ttyS1<*1>: Max speed is 115200; that should be safe. ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK Modem Port Scan<*1>: S3 Found a modem on /dev/ttyS1. /ect/wvdial.conf<Warn>: Can't open '/ect/wvdial.conf' for reading: No such file or directory /ect/wvdial.conf<Warn>: ...starting with blank configuration. Modem configuration written to /ect/wvdial.conf. /ect/wvdial.conf<Warn>: Can't write '/ect/wvdial.conf.tmp5405': No such file or directory /ect/wvdial.conf<Warn>: Can't write '/ect/wvdial.conf' ('/ect/wvdial.conf'): Bad file descriptor ttyS1<Info>: Speed 115200; init "ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0


Is there any easy fix to this mess???
If not I would like to thank you all for all the time you have put into helping me
thank you
Bob

---

### Post by Sidesofozz on 2008-02-12
hello, not tryin to piggyback on your thread, but was coming up with the same problems you were bud. i have successfully installed my dialup modem, found and installed the proper drivers, tho am still not able to be able to dial out through a phone line.
 
below are the copied/pasted commands you had asked above poster to do and post for you, this is just what my pc has told me.



judy@judy-desktop:~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.



judy@judy-desktop:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:14:2A:FF:07:22  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:2866 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:43 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:477361 (466.1 KB)  TX bytes:5356 (5.2 KB)
          Interrupt:18 Base address:0xc800 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 b)





judy@judy-desktop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. PT890 Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 PCI Bridge
00:08.0 Communication controller: Conexant HSF 56k HSFi Modem (rev 01)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VIA VT6420 SATA RAID Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 86)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 ISA bridge [KT600/K8T800/K8T890 South]
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 60)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 78)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. UniChrome Pro IGP (rev 01)




judy@judy-desktop:~$ sudo iwlist scan
[sudo] password for judy:
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


at the moment, using Gnome ppp. when i try dialing out and bring up the log as its attempting to connect, it tells me this...


--------------------------------------------
/home/judy/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvModem<*1>: Cannot set information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Please enter password (or empty password to stop):

----------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you god for this ubuntu forum, dunno what i would do without you
and a personal thanks to anyone who is able to help me with my problem


-Sidesofozz-

---

