---
title: "7.04 I had Firefox, 7.10 ,Firefox no responding"
date: 2008-02-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ClemRutter on 2008-02-04
In November I tried 7.10 and had this problem on my desktop- so I reverted to 7.04- now I need to install
7.10. Again everything went like clockwork- until I typed [www.google.com](www.google.com) into Firefox. Nothing. I typed in 82.211.81.158- and nothing then a timed out message. Over to Ping typed in ubuntu.com- and 100% hits, giving 14.50 ms to 11.20ms.

So to me that means that ping is getting out- and having no trouble with DNS. 
Firefox that was working under 7.04 no longer works under 7.10
So which version you ask. I looked at Help Contents- then Release Notes- and Firefox hung but I could click back to desktop.

Did Thunderbird work well it is not in the distro so it was two clicks to Add remove applications. I saw the Epiphany Browser (I can spell that-it would do for testing) Click and the message List of Applications not available..blah. you need a working internet connection. So there we have it.  

Can some of you guys wave a magic wand
Additional info.
- I configured my printer- its on the LAN..
-During installation there was an error message about not being able to upload security updates.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-04
I assume you made a clean 7.10 install. Not sure what's wrong with Firefox, but my condolences to you. Disabling ipv6 is a common way to speed firefox up, by not confusing you router with it.
Edit etc/modprobe.d/aliases to look like the screen shot below.

---

### Post by eolson on 2008-02-04
Somethings wacked out at Google.   It started acting up for me this morning.  I can't even ping it.  I suspect it will be cleared up soon.

---

### Post by MarkX on 2008-02-04
Had the same problem and no solution as yet, google not loading in 7.10. It all worked fine at my house and when I returned  the computer to friends, Google and Hotmail wouldn't work (but worked fine in XP).
See this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684478](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684478)

---

### Post by eolson on 2008-02-04
The problem is still there.   Tried Operat and Kazehakaze and they don't work either.  Pinged google from the terminal and nothing.  Weird,  but sure it's on Google's end because I haven't changed anything.  Even fired up my laptop which is dual booted.  IE doesn't work either.

---

### Post by ClemRutter on 2008-02-04
Thanks for the quick replies.

Google is a red herring- it won't find anything- no matter what I put in after a reboot.
I had a look at the aliases table. Remind me how I edit them as root- sudo gedit etc/...- does that work?
I need to crack this one!

---

### Post by eolson on 2008-02-04
As long as the problem is on Google's end there's nothing to crack.  All you can do is wait.  Even when I ping their IP there's nothing.   None of the browsers work and XP running IE doesn't work either.  The only two things I can recommend is:

   1.  Wait
   2.  Use Yahoo (it works) or another search engine.

---

