---
title: "help with installing a driver"
date: 2008-02-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-16
i need help installing but it wont let because 

[http://img168.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotjc2.png](http://img168.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotjc2.png)

i want this installed because i could never get desktop effects working but i think this could do it

---

### Post by Scut_Farkus on 2008-02-16
Please be more specific about which driver you wish to install.  Also, please indicate what the exact problem is with desktop effects.

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-02-16
i see that you want to make VIA doing compiz....right ?
sorry to say......it cant play compiz ( i have VIA P4m800 Pro stalled )
for your problem....
check your software sources on system - administration - software sources
make sure you have pointed to servers
open terminal then type :==> sudo apt-get update
after this succeded....you can continue with your previous plan

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-02-16
Hi. You need the Universe repository enabled; follow oedha's suggestion, and on the first tab (Ubuntu Software) check the first four boxes; then accept to reload the package information. Afterwards, you should be able to install the OpenChrome drivers.

Since you already have Synaptic open, you can also do that from there; in Synaptic go to 'Settings->Repositories' and on the first tab check the first four boxes; then press the blue 'Reload' button, and try installing the driver again.

---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-16
> **RomeReactor said:**
> Hi. You need the Universe repository enabled; follow oedha's suggestion, and on the first tab (Ubuntu Software) check the first four boxes; then accept to reload the package information. Afterwards, you should be able to install the OpenChrome drivers.

Since you already have Synaptic open, you can also do that from there; in Synaptic go to 'Settings->Repositories' and on the first tab check the first four boxes; then press the blue 'Reload' button, and try installing the driver again.

ok so i got the driver installed but i still won't let me enable desktop effects, suggestions

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-02-16
The OpenChrome diver will only work on certain cards; try running this in the terminal:
```
lspci | grep VGA
```
and post the output. Also check this [documentation page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenChrome").

---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-16
> **RomeReactor said:**
> The OpenChrome diver will only work on certain cards; try running this in the terminal:
```
lspci | grep VGA
```
and post the output. Also check this [documentation page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenChrome").

mason@mason-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video (rev 01)

what should i do now

---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-16
bump

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-02-17
Please run:
```
glxinfo | grep rendering
```
Also post your xorg.conf:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
If you get **No** on glxinfo, and your **Section "Module"** (in xorg.conf) looks like this:
```
Section "Module"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
**#Load "dri"**
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection
```
Try editing the file:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Make sure to uncomment the line in bold--that is, remove the number sign (**#**) at the beginning of the line so it looks like this:
```
Section "Module"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
**Load "dri"**
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "vbe"
EndSection
```
Save the file, close gEdit, and press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to restart your display. Then run glxinfo again and see if you get direct rendering now. If not, you may need to compile the driver; see this [community documentation page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenChrome").

---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-17
mason@mason-desktop:~$ glxinfo | grep rendering
direct rendering: Yes
mason@mason-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video"
        Driver          "via"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "hp f1503"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video"
        Monitor         "hp f1503"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
mason@mason-desktop:~$ gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

ok so i have i direct rendering, what now

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-02-17
Try running Compiz from the terminal:
```
compiz --replace
```
Don't close the terminal, and post any output left there.

As far as I know, on some cards it's not enough to have direct rendering enabled, since the card/driver might lack the necessary extensions to run Compiz.

---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-17
mason@mason-desktop:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

wait what... I thought my driver was installed

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-02-18
You could try whitelisting the driver in /usr/bin/compiz:
```
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz
```
Find this section:
```
# Driver whitelist
WHITELIST="nvidia intel ati radeon i810"
```
and add **via** to the list of drivers, so it looks like this:
```
# Driver whitelist
WHITELIST="nvidia intel ati radeon i810 via"
```
Save the file, close gEdit, then try running Compiz again.

You can also try running Compiz as described in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=637689"):
```
SKIP_CHECKS=yes compiz
```

---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-18
ok so i did both of those. And now every time i try putting on desktop effects it automatically logs me out every time, reasons?

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2008-02-18
Could this be part of your new problem (missing symlink)? I don't know if this would apply for your video card or not but it does have something to do with glx.

Post #6 from here......
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=671091&highlight=glxinfo](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=671091&highlight=glxinfo)

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-02-18
> **mason215 said:**
> ok so i did both of those. And now every time i try putting on desktop effects it automatically logs me out every time, reasons?

In a previous post I mentioned that not all VIA graphics processors are capable of running Compiz; it's possible the system is trying to force the card to run Compiz even though the OpenChrome driver lacks the necessary extensions to run it. Running Compiz through VIA cards is difficult--if not outright impossible.

This is the kind of suggestion I dislike posting because it's not a solution at all, but if you can afford it, try getting a nVidia card, preferably in the 6000 range or upwards.

---

### Post by mason215 on 2008-02-18
> **RomeReactor said:**
> In a previous post I mentioned that not all VIA graphics processors are capable of running Compiz; it's possible the system is trying to force the card to run Compiz even though the OpenChrome driver lacks the necessary extensions to run it. Running Compiz through VIA cards is difficult--if not outright impossible.

This is the kind of suggestion I dislike posting because it's not a solution at all, but if you can afford it, try getting a nVidia card, preferably in the 6000 range or upwards.

ok my b-day was just a couple of days ago so i could probably afford it. I have 2 questions though: is 512 mb of ram enough, if i were to get a new video card and how much do nVidia cards in the 6000's go for.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-02-19
Yes, 512 MB of system RAM is enough; as for the card, try [NewEgg]("http://www.newegg.com/"). A search there for nVidia cards with 256 MB yielded these results for [AGP]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/ProductList.aspx?Submit=ENE&N=2000380048+1305520548+106790703+1069609639+1068309611&name=256MB&Order=RATING") and [PCI-Express]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/ProductList.aspx?Submit=ENE&N=2010380048+1305520548+106790703+1069609641+1068309611&name=256MB&Order=RATING"), respectively. I have a 6200 and works great with Compiz, but is admittedly just OK for gaming. If you can afford it, go for a higher end card.

---

