---
title: "7.10 Booting Issues"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by boombah on 2007-10-20
HI i have an acer aspire 5055 which i have been trying to get working with Ubuntu and until now i have had no success. I thought i would try the new release and finally i have it up and running.......... but only have been able to boot it twice compared to the 50+ times it has failed. 

It gets about 3/4 of the way through the boot splash screen and stops and goes back to a command line type thing that i can not do anything with. As i said i have been able to get it to boot twice without making any changes. I am currently using it. 

Any ideas what the problem is and how i can fix it? I know i have not given many details but i do not know how to get the required information. 

Thanks

---

### Post by boombah on 2007-10-20
Just rebooted and 5 times it would not boot, 6th time lucky. The error appears to be with loading ACPI Modules. 

Any Ideas how i can fix this ?

Thanks

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-10-20
this may help you out. Requires a bit of command line editing, if indeed the apic is your problem. See if the post details sound familiar. You can always post back here if you are not sure.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=321758&highlight=gutsy+acpi&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=321758&highlight=gutsy+acpi&page=2)

---

### Post by gn2 on 2007-10-20
Are you trying to boot the Live CD or an installed system?

If it's the Live CD try pressing F6 at the splash screen and entering "acpi=off" (without the quotes) as an additional boot parameter.

---

### Post by boombah on 2007-10-20
> **gn2 said:**
> Are you trying to boot the Live CD or an installed system?

If it's the Live CD try pressing F6 at the splash screen and entering "acpi=off" (without the quotes) as an additional boot parameter.

It is not the live cd. I have installed via the alternate cd. The machine loads sometimes, when it doesn't ubuntu goes through the pretty splash screen when it does not work gets stuck just over half way, then after a minute the screen goes to a text screen and is stuck on loading acpi modules.

I will try what Daveth said, but i have some work to do before i can restart just in case i can't get this up and running again.

---

