---
title: "[SOLVED] NTFS drive not automounting in Gutsy x64"
date: 2008-01-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by GepettoBR on 2008-01-04
Recently, both me and my girlfriend installed Ubuntu Gutsy on our computers, both dual-booting Windows XP. My Gutsy (x86) automounts my NTFS partition every time I boot, hers (x64) doesn't. In my case, it's a different partition of the same HD, in ers it's a different HD from the Linux filesystem. Except for the device name and UUID, out fstab entries are identical. ntfs-config did not solve the problem. What could be wrong? How can we make it so that her Ubuntu also automounts the partition?

This is her /etc/fstab entry: ```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.

#

#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 

#

# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>



proc /proc proc defaults 0 0

# Entry for /dev/hdc5 :

UUID=e17900af-7696-49d5-8f46-3338d294b540 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

[b]# Entry for /dev/sda1 :

UUID=61375F362B82D6DA /home/Arquivos ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1

[/b]# Entry for /dev/hdc1 :

UUID=6B7F40CE047B11DD /media/hdc1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1

# Entry for /dev/hdc3 :

UUID=2a7c3fa5-d416-4755-8525-181e8ff2f873 none swap sw 0 0

/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

/dev/hdb /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
```

The HD we're trying to automount is /dev/sda1, blackened above. Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-04
Are you using ntfs filesystem for your $HOME directory, Arquivos?  Have you tried to mount it by hand from a terminal to see what's the error/warning message is?

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
sudo mkdir /media/sda1
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/sda1
```

---

### Post by GepettoBR on 2008-01-04
> **taurus said:**
> Are you using ntfs filesystem for your $HOME directory, Arquivos?  Have you tried to mount it by hand from a terminal to see what's the error/warning message is?

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
sudo mkdir /media/sda1
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/sda1
```

It can mount when we do it manually, the problem is we want it to automount on boot.

Edit: we also only tried to mount to that location once: it was supposed to be /home/julia/Arquivos, we forgot to put her username in the path. However, even when we mounted it afterwards to /media/sda1

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-04
And you are sure the UUID is right for /dev/sda1?  Also, do you have a user name Arquivos?

---

### Post by GepettoBR on 2008-01-04
Okay, we made it work. Here's what we did:

first, we reinstalled ntfs-3g with ```
sudo aptitude remove ntfs-3g
sudo aptitude install ntfs-3g
``` There's probably a command to update it, which was our goal, but we don't know what that is and this works just the same.

Then, we mounted the drive to /media/hda1. It mounted correctly, with read and write permissions thanks to ntfs-config which was already installed.

/etc/fstab still showed the drive mount point as /home/Arquivos, a directory that didn't even exist to begin with. Open fstab as root, so we can edit the file: ```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
``` Replace the mountpoint entry with the correct one, /media/sda1.

Since the device was already mounted at this point, running mount -a would be useless, so we restarted Ubuntu and the drive was mounted, with a link to it on the Desktop. The lark's on the wing, the snail's on the thorn, God's in his Heaven, all's right with the world.

---

