---
title: "7.04 on an old laptop?"
date: 2007-05-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by staib on 2007-05-22
Hi - am contemplating installing Feisty on an old laptop (not got all the details but it's a Fujitsu-Siemens S Series Lifebook) with only 256Mg of ram and a sub 1Ghz Pentium processor.
Q. Will this run horribly slowly (and should I therefore consider Xubuntu or similar) or will it be OK?   It's just for web-browsing and aMSN that sort of thing for one of my sons...

Cheers,

Nick

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-22
If I were you, I would go with the Xubuntu instead of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2007-05-22
It will not run horribly slow but it can be a little bit uncomfortable to use... I'd pick Xubuntu I guess.

---

### Post by staib on 2007-05-22
Thanks Guys - downloading it now - while I make my tea :D

Nick

---

### Post by rich.bradshaw on 2007-05-22
I use Ubuntu Feisty on a 1Ghz Pentium III, 512MB RAM - is fine, not slow at all.

---

### Post by irish_flu on 2007-05-22
256MB is definitely the east amount of RAM I'd use for regular Ubuntu (meaning, Gnome) but IMHO it doesn't run horribly.

If you prefer the Gnome interface, I'd give it a shot (you can apt-get install the "ubuntu-desktop" package) after you get Xubuntu downloaded; you can always take it back off if you don't dig it.

---

### Post by Ink-Jet on 2007-05-22
My laptop's pretty slow (can't remember stats), but it runs Fiesty pretty well, if a bit slow when opening large webpages / folders.
Haven't tried Xubuntu though, so i can't give you a good comparison, really.

---

### Post by staib on 2007-05-22
Thanks for the extra inputs - I was just trying 7.04 off a live CD and it was really slow - in fact horribly slow - but that may just have been the CD reader - sadly 256Mhz is the MAX amount of RAM in this laptop :eek:

I'll give Xubuntu a try (my son'll like the rat logo) - it's all new to him anyway so he wont know what he's missing ;)

Nick

---

### Post by lazyart on 2007-05-22
Live CD will be particularly slow because everything is loaded into RAM, and 256 meg is the minimum to run it on.

I have a laptop running it @ 1.4 ghz & 256 megs.  It's not a snappy as my desktop but it runs fine.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2007-05-22
If the livecd doesn't work for you, try the alternate cd. It will allow you to install in text mode and it will go quicker. Also  (for my taste) the alternate cd is easier to install.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-22
> **staib said:**
> Thanks for the extra inputs - I was just trying 7.04 off a live CD and it was really slow - in fact horribly slow - but that may just have been the CD reader - sadly 256Mhz is the MAX amount of RAM in this laptop :eek:

I'll give Xubuntu a try (my son'll like the rat logo) - it's all new to him anyway so he wont know what he's missing ;)

Nick

I was going to mention, if any of that 256 is going toward shared video ram, you may come up short.  Xubuntu is a good idea.  Oh, it is a mouse :)  and he is cool...

---

### Post by bodycoach2 on 2007-05-22
I've installed Xubuntu on many systems in the 400 MHz to 800 MHz range. As long as it has 256 Mb ram, it should run fine. Topping out the ram in that computer will help it run much faster. If a computer is over 800 MHz, and you can get 512 Mb ram, use Ubuntu. Otherwise, stick with Xubuntu.

For computers under 400 MHz, I use Puppy Linux. Snappy little distro.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-22
> **Terl said:**
> Oh, it is a mouse :)  and he is cool...

And watch that thing, mouse/rat, runs when you first log in.  ;-)

---

### Post by staib on 2007-05-23
Just to feed back - the Xubuntu install went fine. My son tells me that the laptop (an 800Mhz with 256Mb max RAM) connected instantly to the University LAN - and the whole thing runs like a dream - he already has friends asking about Ubuntu for their Windows machines :D

Thanks again all for the advice and pointers - good stuff!

Nick

---

### Post by WindyT on 2007-05-23
I have an old Fujitsu "I Series" Laptop (500Mhz Celeron, 192M RAM) and the Live CD definitely did not work. I tried a Knoppix CD that I knew would work on anything, but no luck.  Then I went back and downloaded and burned the Alternate Ubuntu CD, and that text install DID work.  I have a few other newbie issues, some I've fixed and some I haven't.  (Sun Java working in the browser is in the "haven't" category, but I digress)

The big issue with old laptops is the display -- it's 800 x 600 pixels with this old thing.  

However, several Admin Preferences windows are LONGER than what I can put on the screen.  I can't see the "OK" buttons at the bottom and have to Tab to the OK button, and trust it's the "OK" button instead of "DESTROY ALL DATA" button.  My cursor can make those windows bigger, but the default size that I can't make smaller is still too big to see the bottom.  

Any magic words and phrases for a newbie on this?

---

