---
title: "7.10 issues"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Robotchicken1886 on 2007-10-24
So i got my laptop updated to 7.10 but i have been having some issues with it,   the first issue is i cant get the desktop effects to work.  on the last version i could use the streachy windows and cube desktop but on this one i cant get them to work.  I went into the settings and turned on the differnent visual effect settings but it has so far done nothing.   the second problem (and from what i have heard is a common one) is the boot up takes forever

---

### Post by Ek0nomik on 2007-10-24
> **Robotchicken1886 said:**
> So i got my laptop updated to 7.10 but i have been having some issues with it,   the first issue is i cant get the desktop effects to work.  on the last version i could use the streachy windows and cube desktop but on this one i cant get them to work.  I went into the settings and turned on the differnent visual effect settings but it has so far done nothing.   the second problem (and from what i have heard is a common one) is the boot up takes forever

I haven't heard of a slow bootup, but are you getting an error when you try to turn on the effects?

---

### Post by Robotchicken1886 on 2007-10-24
no,  no error but just no effects, maybe i have to install beryl or something i thought it was automaticly installed on this version

---

### Post by dpar on 2007-10-24
A bug report has been filed on the slow bootup problem.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=585635](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=585635)

Edit: re; compiz- do you have ccsm installed?

---

