---
title: "ia32.libs can't be found - trying to install on 6.10"
date: 2007-01-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by pscout on 2007-01-18
some background.

I am trying to setup another rig for folding in linux.

So far i have 7 rigs running it - 5 natively running 64 bit 6.10 on asus mobos with 930s, 6600's and a 6400.  Mobo's are asus p5wd2, p5w64, p5b-d.  The other rig is a 930 p5wd2 which is running 6.06 under vmware (didn't try 6.10 on it since 6.06 was the one listed as supported).

This rig I am having trouble with is  a gigabyte ds3 with a 6600.

Since these are all dedicated folding rigs, i generally disable every feature in bios i don't need to install or run ... no usb, serial, parallel etc.   Just sata for hdd, ide for cdrom, and lan interface.  I leave sound enabled since many oc tools etc rely on them.  Also, they are all overclocked, but i still only know how to do that in wxp :o ... so they are runnng at the OC that they fold stable at in WXP. 

All the machines except the vmware one is set up for dual boot with wxp.

/end of background 

The SMP folding client i run needs 32 bit libs to run although the smp core it loads does not.

my setup has been based on me just following instructions that others have created and so far it has worked ok as evidenced by my 6 linux rigs.

On 6,10 to get the client app to run i was told to install ia32.libs as below:

```
pete@ds3:~$ sudo apt-get install ia32.libs
Password:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package ia32.libs
```

When i did this on the 5 other 6.10 rigs i got a bunch of downloads and messages  (can't remember details) and it apparently installed correctly because my folding clients run fine.

I don't understand why this rig can't find the package whereas the others had no problem.
These rigs are all on the same home lan so networking is the same (this is being posted from the problem rig).

In my inital 6.10 install I had installed updates first, so thinking that may have altered things i reinstalled 6.10 and get the same error.  Also tried installing 6.06 64 bit but it hangs on loading the livecd so i tried 6.10 and it appears to install fine except for this issue.

I have done no other customization yet to this fresh install.
This install is done exactly like all the other sucessfull ones, and other than this problem with getting ia32-libs installed it seems the same.

I did some searches on the error message but didn't find anything relevant here.

Thanks for any help :)

Pete

ps ... i assume since this is the beginners thread i don't need to mention or apologize for my noob'ishness :)

---

### Post by pscout on 2007-01-18
Ok well I looked again in the Synaptic package manager (i guess it was too late last night when i looked b4 :o)

and lo and behold ... there it was so i installed it, setup my folding app and it is folding away :) :)


I am still not sure why the command line approach i had successfully used on identical installs (except for differences in mobo) did not work on this one.???

---

### Post by lamego on 2007-01-18
The name is ia32-libs with an hyphen not with a dot ...

---

