---
title: "installing games from dvd......"
date: 2007-06-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-06-25
ok i have fear on dvd, which i want to try and install using cedega, but because of a small issue with dvd's at the moment i cant so im posting to see if there is a fix.
basically if i put a dvd in the drive it will auto mount (unless its a film) but it comes up as cdrom1 and not a dvd drive (i have 2 drives, ones a cd-rw and the other is a dvd-rw) i did try to instll fear with cedega, when the disc auto mounted and the file browser opend up i clicked open with cedega and away the install went, it went all the way through with out installing anything ?
i did try and get cedega to detect the game disc, but it couldnt.
also no icon appears on the desktop, if i mount a cd in the cd-rw drive it shows an icon on the desktop, but not with a dvd, im fairly sure that is why the game didnt install through cedega, of course im presuming you can install games that are on dvds with cedega.
below is my fstab.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=cda3d256-16ca-4c4a-8eb1-de77d8417ea4 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=6c197812-ed40-419e-a9dd-b831b14452c2 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
_/dev/hda /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0_ ---- this is the dvd drive.
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/internal ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
usbfs         /proc/bus/usb usbfs   devgid=14,devmode=0660 0 0

can it be changed to say dvd and work ?
cheers

---

### Post by ronocdh on 2007-06-25
First I would check with Cedega whether it's a problem with their software. Perhaps there are forums on their site you could search? Beyond that, it could be a simple DVD encryption issue. Do you have movie DVD playback functionality? If no, install the codecs necessary for that, if you do... hm, I don't know! We'll keep trying.

---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-06-25
from what ive read about cedega and from looking on various sites fear will install, apparently with some games because of the copy protection cedega needs read/write access to the drive in question, i have enabled this already.
as for dvd playback, well the answer is yes and no, if i put a dvd in the dvd drive (a film) it doesnt auto mount/auto play, however if i open an app such as vlc and click on open disc it will find the film and start to play it.
i do have all the needed stuff installed, eg codecs, both audio and video, i have multi media enabled and so on.
the problem with the dvd drive didnt happen until i updated the kernel, when i did the last update it broke networking and the dvd issue im trying to solve, i go the networking sorted out, but as yet i havent managed to fix this one, although it does technically still work.
cheers
how would i change the fstab file to make the dvd show up as a dvd drive ?
example - /dev/hda /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0 ---- this is the dvd drive, but it says cdrom1, im fairly sure the fact that it doesnt register as a dvd drive is part of the problem.
cheers

---

