---
title: "7.10 won't load...Caps lock and Scroll LED flash"
date: 2007-12-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ekimnarfnas on 2007-12-30
I'm trying to load Ubuntu 7.10 and the install is stopping dead in its tracks. I also later tried Mythbuntu 7.10 and had the same problem. Both CDs pass the MD5SUM test and the CD check at the initial menu.

I boot from the CD. I then get the splash screen saying "Install from CD, Check disk, Memory check, etc,". When I choose install from CD I get the screenful of "Ls", then it blanks and the Caps lock LED and the Scroll LED start flashing. It sits there and does nothing from that point on.

I have a VIA K8M800 mainboard with onboard Unichrome video and 1GB memory, CPU is AMD64 3400+ which works well with 5.04 Ubuntu. I need to find out how to get past this point.

Any help is welcome.

Mike

---

### Post by ^rooker on 2007-12-30
Hm... could even be a keyboard/hardware problem.
Is it PS/2 or USB?
(Do you have a spare keyboard, so you switch to test?)

---

### Post by papatrpt89 on 2007-12-30
Yea, to me that sounds like a hardware issue...try some different keyboards with the system.

Also, perhaps try downloading some other distro with a Live CD feature (Simply Mepis, Linux Mint, Sabayon Linux) and see if they give you the same problem.  That would at least give you some information...

---

### Post by ekimnarfnas on 2007-12-30
Thanks to both replies!

It was a hardware issue. It seems to be an intermittent problem either with the keyboard or the KVM switch (I had forgotten I had installed that).

Meanwhile I've loaded and am now using Ubuntu/Mythbuntu 7.10. The next challenge is to get Compiz Fusion working.

Thanks for the help! This forum is great. I got an instant response and solution!

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2007-12-30
This is pretty thorough:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/CompizFusion](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/CompizFusion)

---

### Post by ekimnarfnas on 2007-12-30
Thanks Blueridgedog. I've got that page bookmarked.

Another problem has arisen...

I know there is no root account in Ubuntu, however when I try to do anything administrative it asks for a password. I've put in the password that I thought I entered upon installation. However it kicks me out saying it's incorrect. Is there a way to recover the root password?

---

### Post by ^rooker on 2007-12-30
By default, root has *no* password on ubuntu systems (so you cannot log in as root at all) - you're normally only using "sudo".
So the password you're asked for is usually the same as for *your* user. :)

If you want to give root a password (I prefer to do so), open a shell and type:
"sudo passwd root"

---

### Post by ekimnarfnas on 2007-12-30
thanks ^rooker

Apparently then I've forgotten my own password because the system is not accepting mine when I attempt to sudo passwd root:

Here's what I get:

michael@AntecAria:~$ sudo passwd root
[sudo] password for michael:
Sorry, try again.
[sudo] password for michael:

Is there a way to recover my own password?

(I'm on a system I set up with Mythbuntu if that makes a difference)

---

### Post by ^rooker on 2007-12-30
There is **no** way to "recover" passwords on linux systems. They're stored using a one-way hash (but you can reset it).

----------------------
Question: How long are you logged in as "michael" if you have forgotten your password since then??
----------------------

However:
Sorry, but loosing your password and *not* having root requires more drastic measures.  :)  )

But you can re-set it as long as you:
a) have *any* other user that can do "sudo" (do you?) - or you can log in as root (which you can't).

b) Reboot in single-user mode:
(excerpts from [http://aplawrence.com/Linux/lostlinuxpassword.html]("http://aplawrence.com/Linux/lostlinuxpassword.html"))
In GRUB, hit 'e", then select the "kernel" line, hit "e" again, and add " single" (or just " 1") to the end of the line. Press ENTER, and then "b" to boot. (More modern grub uses "a" to append to the boot line)

Now you should be able to do a "passwd root" and re-set the root password.


The third option is to boot some live distro (e.g. the Ubuntu-installer, Knoppix, etc...) - anything that you can mount your current system disk with and edit /etc/shadow to edit the root password (you need to copy/paste a known password hash to replace root's password). It's actually quite easy, *if* you have a live distro at hand and you're familiar with the shell.


Good luck!

--EDIT:
PS: Are you sure that your user is in the group "admin"?

---

### Post by ekimnarfnas on 2007-12-30
Thanks again ^rooker. I seem to have hijacked my own thread - twice!

Your method worked using the word "single" at the end of the kernel line. I reset the root password to what I had set it to during the install. Now I can enter in a terminal window "su" and it will prompt me for the root password which works. However, when I try to use Synaptic or some other application that needs the admin password the root password doesn't work!

BTW, When I turn on the machine it goes right into Mythbuntu and doesn't ask for any password at all. Maybe that's a quirk of MythTV. (I don't want to screw Myth up but at the same time I'd like to use the computer for other things if possible).  

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by ^rooker on 2007-12-30
Jup. this thread is already "quite" off topic. :))

As mentioned above: Check if your user is a member of the "admin" group:
```
cat /etc/group | grep admin
```
This should return something like this:
lpadmin:x:106:michael
admin:x:111:michael

In case that mythbuntu is configured differently from a default ubuntu installation, check which users/groups are allowed to do sudo.
As root, type:

**cat /etc/sudoers**

PS: ...meanwhile, you could click on the small "medal" icon at the bottom of one of my answers, because then I think then you'll increase my "thank you" counter.   :)

---

### Post by ^rooker on 2007-12-30
@ekimnarfnas:
Did you solve it?

---

### Post by jimsheep on 2008-01-17
alright, so i ran into this same issue, except trying a different keyboard didn't work.  i have an ASUS A8N-E motherboard, AMD Athlon x63 3500+, an ATI Radeon X800, 2 GB RAM, an 80GB HDD on SATA and a 160GB on IDE0.  i have tried multiple keyboards, to no avail.  the keyboard *works* but i get the flash error whenever i load the live CD.  the CD works in another box, so i know that it's ok.  what am i missing?

---

### Post by gianchi on 2008-02-19
Hello, ladies and gentleman.

I join Jimsheep's request. 

I'm an absolute Linux beginner who, after having installed Ubuntu in a virtual machine and played with it for some months, decided to try to install it on his box, in a dual boot config.

My configurations is similar to Jim's one, I have an Athlon64 3500+ on an Asus A8N SLI Deluxe motherboard, with 1 Gb of RAM (2 Kingston KVR499X64C3A/512 modules), a Sapphire Radeon X850XT video card and a Maxtor DiamondMax Plus 9, 120 GB HD with 15 Gb of unallocated space for Ubuntu...

I tried to install the 64-bit version with the Live CD but, after loading the initial screen (the one with the Menu) I can't choose any option but Memory check, the only one working.

When I select any other voice, the monitor goes to power saving mode, just as if it lost signal from pc, and Scroll and Caps lock lights begin flashing.

I tried to use another keyboard, but the outcome didn't change; and the CD is ok, I made the checksum and checked it on a friend's notebook, where it runs with no trouble.

So, can it be an issue with my monitor? It's a Sony SDM-S73H, 17'' LCD monitor. And, if it is the problem, what's the solution? If possible, I'd rather avoid the alternate CD, I don't feel ready for a textual installation (I tried it on VM and it went all right, but, again, in a virtual machine you usually have no issues! :P).

Any suggestion? :)

P.S. May it be an ATI issue?

---

### Post by jimsheep on 2008-02-19
Gianchi;

I actually solved this problem with a little tool called the Super Grub CD.  i'm not sure if you've heard of it, but it is found at [http://supergrub.forjamari.linex.org/](http://supergrub.forjamari.linex.org/)

it's very small and very efficient and works very quickly.  let me know how it turns out!

---

### Post by gianchi on 2008-02-19
Hello, Jim.

Thanks for the hint, but... can you be a bit more specific? Unfortunately, I don't have much time for lengthy reading :p Can you please tell me, at least in big steps, how you installed the system using SGrub? I'll cover the gaps. :)

Thank you.

---

### Post by jimsheep on 2008-02-19
just download the .iso and burn it to a disk, then boot to the disk.

you'll get a menu that will have the option to run SGD with help, so choose that one, and choose your language, and run through the disk.  the instructions are right in the program.

---

### Post by gianchi on 2008-02-20
Sorry, I'm really thick (and a bit afraid of messing up things.. :D) 

How can I boot the Live CD, once I booted the pc with SuperGrub? :confused:

---

