---
title: "[SOLVED] mounting ntfs"
date: 2007-12-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by maclee1988 on 2007-12-24
I have both windows(xp home) and ubuntu(7.10 gutsy) installed on my pc, and I have my hard drive partitioned into 3 parts--one for linux, one for windows and another one in ext2 format. It worked fine. But few days ago I reformatted the ext2 partition into ntfs and the linux said on start up that the disk was corrupted and cannot be mounted. Could someone help me in solving the problem?

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2007-12-24
Take a look at your /etc/fstab & post it here-- you most likely have it setup for ext2 & it needs to be changed to reflect the fact that it is now ntfs (by the way--why did you change it?  You can D/L a small ext3 app for Winblows--makes it "able" to see ext2/3 filesystems--search for ext3 for windows)

---

### Post by maclee1988 on 2007-12-24
it shows the following:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=759332a4-7afc-458a-a2da-bf2e2ec68380 / ext2 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=BC9CB6D99CB68D80 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext2 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=b3c1bfc2-9b1c-4c38-968d-c3101048d577 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-12-24
If sda5 is the partition you formatted, you need to change
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext2 defaults 0 2
to
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
Then you can run
```
sudo mount -a
```

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2007-12-24
OK---your /dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext2 defaults 0 2 
looks to be the one you reformatted---I'm not a real wiz on how to change it so you can use it---

There are several HowTo's in both the forums & the Ubuntu wiki to find the ID#s of the drive & insert them into a revised /etc/fstab. I would do a search on the forums first--you will most likely get several hits....

And in the time I typed the answer---it was solved ;)

---

### Post by stchman on 2007-12-24
> **maclee1988 said:**
> I have both windows(xp home) and ubuntu(7.10 gutsy) installed on my pc, and I have my hard drive partitioned into 3 parts--one for linux, one for windows and another one in ext2 format. It worked fine. But few days ago I reformatted the ext2 partition into ntfs and the linux said on start up that the disk was corrupted and cannot be mounted. Could someone help me in solving the problem?

I have a procedure on my site.

[http://www.stchman.com/part.html](http://www.stchman.com/part.html)

---

