---
title: "geforce 2 ti driver help"
date: 2007-10-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-08
I'm new to Ubuntu and Linux and I've been trying to read as much as I could before asking for help.

So I have been trying to figure out how to enable 3d acceleration my geforce2 ti card on my own.  There has been 2 times that I have messed up the xorg.conf file and didn't know what to do.  I ended up reformatting (I know...dumb haha)

This time, I went to restricted drivers manager and enabled "NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (legacy cards)".  I also have "nvidia-settings" installed.  I rebooted and the screen resolution changed from 1280 by 1024 to 800x600.  800x600 being the highest I can go.

In terminal I typed,  "glxinfo | grep rendering" and it returned:
[B]
direct rendering: Yes[/B]

Next, I typed "gksudo nvidia-settings" and I got:

[B]ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension version 1.6 is too old; the minimimum required
       version is 1.9.

ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA GPUs on ':0.0'.

ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA Frame Lock Devices on ':0.0'.
[/B]

I'm completely lost now.  Any guidance?

Btw, "lspci | grep VGA" returns,

[B]01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV15DDR [GeForce2 Ti] (rev a4)
[/B]

I hope this all makes sense.  Still trying to learn all the lingo.

Thanks!

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-09
anyone? :)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-09
Which driver did you install?

also 

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

What's the version of the driver and the version of nvidiasettings

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-09
i think the driver i installed was 

nvidia-glx-legacy
ver: 1.07184+2.6.20.5-16.29

and the nvidia-settings
ver: 1.0+20060516-3ubuntu1

and the output of "cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf" is:

**(right now, the legacy driver is disabled so i can have 1280 by 1024 resolution)**


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV15DDR [GeForce2 Ti]"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "NEC LCD1760V"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation NV15DDR [GeForce2 Ti]"
        Monitor         "NEC LCD1760V"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-09
> Section "Device"
Identifier "nVidia Corporation NV15DDR [GeForce2 Ti]"
Driver "nv"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Change the driver to **"nvidia"**



```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

[ctrl]+[o] = save

[ctrl]+[x] = exit

restart

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-09
i tried your suggestion and it killed it.  i had to reload it w/ a backup copy of xorg.conf

i think its because i had the legacy driver disabled.  but now i enabled the legacy driver and this is what it shows 

> 
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV15DDR [GeForce2 Ti]"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
        Option          "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"


it only lets me use 800x600 resolution and this is my original problem. 

thanks for replying though. i appreciate it

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-10
Have you tried, running gksudo nvidia-settings afterwards now? (need a reboot thereafter or restart X)

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-10
yeah i have. the output i receive when i run gksudo nvidia-settings is 

> 
ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension version 1.6 is too old; the minimimum required
       version is 1.9.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA GPUs on ':0.0'.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA Frame Lock Devices on ':0.0'.

the nvidia-settings window pops up, but it doesnt really have anything for me to change

the only things are "enable tooltips", "display status bar", "slider text entries", "include x display names in the config file", "show 'really quit?' dialog".

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-10
Hmmm...The nvidia settings in feisty is a bit lacking and buggy. You might want to install the latest nvidia driver (legacy) from their homepage. If you want I can guide you through.

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-10
yea, i don't think i have any other options.

can you guide me through? thanks

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-10
First, uninstall nvidia driver and nvidia settings. In the xorg.conf you set the driver back to nv.
Restart the computer and report back.

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-10
done (sorry, was at work)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-10
Download: [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_71.86.01.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_x86_71.86.01.html) to your Desktop




```
sudo nano /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common
```

change last line from DISABLED_MODULES="" to DISABLED_MODULES="nv"

save [ctrl]+[o]
Exit [ctrl]+[x]

```
cd ~/Desktop
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential gcc gcc-3.4 xserver-xorg-dev
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-71.86.01-pkg1.run
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```


Note that sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop will take you to pure CLI - also before executing this command press [ctrl]+[alt]+[F1]

I'm soon going to a 12 hour shift so I can't check back soon.

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-11
Ok, I followed your steps.  Is that it? or is there more? and how do I check if it all works?

thanks

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-11
You should see a nvidia logo at bootup, you can also test the 3D screensaver.

Try now
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-11
I see no nvidia logo on boot up.

None of the screensavers works now.

When I run nvidia-settings in terminal, I get the following output

> 
ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension not found on this Display.


---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-11
also, i'm not sure if its related to installing that new driver, but now my sound isnt working.

i havent done anything extra, only followed your steps

i have sb live 5.1

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-15
thoughts anyone? please?

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-10-16
Try undo the steps by installing the nvidia glx legacy driver.

---

### Post by lattmau on 2007-10-29
hey AI,

i tried all that and it didn't work.  what ended up working (i think, because i tried other stuff too that i don't quite remember) was uninstalling nvidia-settings and installing nvidia-xconfig.

and could this be the reason why i was having so much trouble?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/105138](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/105138)

---

