---
title: "7.10 Screen Problems"
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by sgtbob on 2007-11-03
I seem to be experiencing a most annoying problem after loading 7.10 and when I am using Firefox to access the web.  Immediately after selecting a site and it appears on screen, if I attempt to click on any portion of the screen, large rectangular chunks of the screen disappear and reveal that portion of the desktop screen. If I continue clicking on other portions of the screen, the whole screen reverts to the desktop but show an icon in the tool bar. Clicking on this 'sometimes' restores the full net site, but again clicking on any portion of the screen causes this annoying process to continue.  It even occurs when I an using evolution e-mail. Arggh!

What is happening and is there a cure?  I didn't have this with 7.04, but even when I removed 7.10 and reinstalled 7.04, this issue continues to occur.


Bob:confused: (A normal state of affairs!)

Using XPS400 3 MB RAM, Windows XP on one 160 GB HDD and Ubuntu 7.10 on another identical 160 GB HDD.

---

### Post by 1_tao on 2007-11-03
3 MB of ram is might be misstated. Would you repeat how much ram the computer has? (Low ram might be the problem). 

Additionally, what display adapter or video card is being used?

---

### Post by sgtbob on 2007-11-03
Color me embarrassed :redface::redface: - I do have 3 GB RAM and thanks for the heads up on the Video card.  

I had recently installed another video card and evidently did not do a full installation.  I re-installed the 'ATI Radeon 9550' and it seems to be working better.  I I have not encountered the error when I tried the internet and my e-mail this time. Hopefully that will be corrected now. If not, I will repost.

Again thanks for the early response

Bob:)

---

### Post by sgtbob on 2007-11-04
I spoke to soon - I still have the problem, but to a lesser extent.  It doesn't happen with Windows, so I suspect it has to do with the Ubuntu setup. If I click on an evolution message, parts of the screen become rectangles, but go away if I continue to click.  Strange!!! Still open to suggestions.

Bob

---

