---
title: "[SOLVED] Update and Upgrade brought x-org down"
date: 2008-02-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kindafunnylookin on 2008-02-12
Using 7.10 has been a complete joy since the upgrade became available until today. I did an:
```
sudo apt-get update
```and
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```and now I am stuck in low graphics and nothing I do like
reconfigure the xserver or
change the settings of xorg.conf
seems to help. My nvida graphics card is enabled and "in use" and still I am stuck in 800X600 with no alternatives in screen resolution.
What's up with this ??

---

### Post by jan quark on 2008-02-12
just curious 
what was the upgraded application/s ?

can you post your xorg.conf file please

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by kindafunnylookin on 2008-02-12
> **jan quark said:**
> just curious 
what was the upgraded application/s ?

can you post your xorg.conf file please

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

I'm embarassed to say that I was not paying attention to what was upgraded other than the kernal, some hplib stuff and some kde stuff.
peter@Gutsy:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS]"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "AddARGBVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "VX1935wm-3"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS]"
        Monitor         "VX1935wm-3"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1440x1440"     "1440x900"      "1400x1050"    "1280x1024"      "1280x960"      "1152x864"      "1024x768"      "832x624"      "800x600"        "720x400"       "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection

peter@Gutsy:~$

---

### Post by karlo on 2008-02-12
> **kindafunnylookin said:**
> Using 7.10 has been a complete joy since the upgrade became available until today. I did an:
```
sudo apt-get update
```and
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```and now I am stuck in low graphics and nothing I do like
reconfigure the xserver or
change the settings of xorg.conf
seems to help. My nvida graphics card is enabled and "in use" and still I am stuck in 800X600 with no alternatives in screen resolution.
What's up with this ??

It happened to me, but I can't start Ubuntu, that's why thank god I still have XP. The font's are different.

Anyway IT happened to me, like Ubuntu can't start because I changed the driver.

About the update or upgrade, me too I always receive a message to update it, tried using apt-get update and aptitude update, still that update appears. Probably it's a newer version of ubuntu for testing, thank god I really did not install it! What card are you using? Me INTEL Graphics Accelerator.

Hmm... weird, the changes about that new version of the kernel is not available. AT least once a while I ignored my curiosity...:lolflag:

---

### Post by kindafunnylookin on 2008-02-12
Solved by backing up my info and doing fresh install

---

