---
title: "Epson 2480 photo Scanner"
date: 2007-05-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mickaleen on 2007-05-12
Hi

I am new to "ubuntu" and would like to know how to get my scanner to work?
I have tried all I can but there is no response from my "Epson".:( 
Do I have to buy a new scanner? 
Any help from the community would be appreciated.

Mick

---

### Post by WW on 2007-05-19
There is a bug in feisty that affects some USB scanners.  Take a look here: [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sane-backends/+bug/85488](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sane-backends/+bug/85488)
I think there is a work-around somewhere in the thread, so be sure to at least skim the whole thing. Sorry I can't be more helpful.  If anyone else is familiar with the bug and any work-arounds, go ahead and chime in.

---

### Post by Mickaleen on 2007-05-20
> **WW said:**
> There is a bug in feisty that affects some USB scanners.  Take a look here: [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sane-backends/+bug/85488](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sane-backends/+bug/85488)
I think there is a work-around somewhere in the thread, so be sure to at least skim the whole thing. Sorry I can't be more helpful.  If anyone else is familiar with the bug and any work-arounds, go ahead and chime in.
 HI WW

I believe Linux programs are aimed at programmers and this find difficult to cope with.
I appreciate the fact it is a free OS, but to me, it is a bit of a hit and miss when it comes to trying to find solutions to problems generated by the installation. 
Trying to get Hardware to function, Scanners and Printers and extra packages like "Flash Player" and "Real Player" to mention a few is proving difficult.
There is also little in the way of help files or instructions for people like myself who have no knowledge of programming to over come these problems.
I feel "Linux" should be more polished than it is rather than an incomplete jigsaw.

Again thanks for trying to help.

---

### Post by totfit on 2007-05-20
[QUOTE=Mickaleen;2688118]HI WW

I believe Linux programs are aimed at programmers and this find difficult to cope with.
I appreciate the fact it is a free OS, but to me, it is a bit of a hit and miss when it comes to trying to find solutions to problems generated by the installation. 


I find the solutions generally quite easy and having nothing to do with programming. I have only been exclusively using Linux for about a year and a half now and even in that time there are phenominal gains. The problems aren't about Linux itself, but typically about available device drivers. Those problems however are fewer and fewer these days. I am miffed about the current usb scanner bug and Feisty right now and have gone to Mepis for the time being. That is just the way it is.

---

### Post by Ubimad on 2007-05-20
Have a Canon scanner, the only work around for me was kernel compile with no usb_suspend, but then there is no propper sound in feisty, all this makes me move back tu 6.10

---

