---
title: "Ubuntu no longer sees USB drive"
date: 2007-06-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by abburdlen on 2007-06-14
When I first install ubuntu I could see my external USB Hdd.  Then it would only see it if it was attached when I booted up.  Now it doesn't see it at all.  I only use the drive occasionally so I'm not sure exactly when (or what I might have done) things went haywire.

I have it checked to mount removable drives when hot plugged, and I have NTFS write enabled.  Another windows system can see the drive without any problem. 
Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-06-14
Plug in your drive, then do 
```
sudo fdisk -l
``` -l is lowercase L

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-06-14
btw, did you use pmount to mount your external drive? Its always a good idea to use pmount for externals and flash drives.
Could you also post your fstab please.

---

### Post by abburdlen on 2007-06-14
sorry about the delay...
here is the fstab which btw I have no idea what it is and it took me a couple of searches to figure out how to displaying it :)
```
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=8d77ffe6-d6cb-4fc6-89b9-79821f2df978 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=d972b1e2-0d17-485e-a758-d8ffc5de2d44 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```

As far as using pmount... All i did was plug the drive into the USB.  the day I installed ubuntu it showed right up automagically.

When I type sudo fdisk -l it lists my external as 
```
Disk /dev/sdb: 203.9 GB, 203928109056 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24792 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       24792   199141708+   7  HPFS/NTFS
```
 but it's not automatically mounted

remember I am a newbie so please be gentle.;)

---

### Post by abburdlen on 2007-06-15
Don't know if it's bad form to bump yourself but after uninstalling Automatix read/write NTFS & FAT32 mounter my external again automounts my external harddrive.

Hope this helps others:p

---

### Post by GLRemderer on 2007-06-22
For what I've been able to see in the forums, the main problem is not really in uninstalling the automatix2 NTFS and FAT partition utility. When you do this, the file driver only changes back to the old ntfs driver that comes by default.
 
There are two main solutions to the problem at hand:

1. Mount your external disk manually by declaring it in the /etc/fstab file. This means that your external harddrive must be connected at booting time. It also means that you won't be able to unmount the harddrive but by using the sudo command.

2. If you want to use automount, then you most keep the automatix2 drivers for ntfs-3g to allow you to write directly into ntfs partitions. The option that I used to mount these external partition was also installing the ntfs-config using
Ubuntu_System$sudo apt-get install ntfs-config
and check the option Enable write support for external device in Applications -> System Tools -> NTFS Configuration Tool.

This allows to the HAL daemon to automount the external ntfs usb harddrive in the same manner it would do without the ntfs-3g driver. The write permissions are set by default in the new ntfs-3g driver.

Until now I've been able to mount my NTFS USB harddrives in my laptop, but I haven't been able to do the same for my desktop computer.

I hope this helps a little.

---

