---
title: "7.10 Twinview spanned desktop w/  two Sync Master LCDs off one nvidia graphics card."
date: 2008-01-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by LarryJ2 on 2008-01-14
I have two Samsung 216 bw Syncmaster monitors attached to an nvidia G7300GS graphics card.   One is attached to the card's Analog VGA port (designated as CRT0)  using samsung's supplied cable and the other (right hand monitor designated as DFP0) is attached to the digital output of the card again using the digital cable dvi  supplied by samsung. The analog monitor shows 1680x1050 resolution when the samsung "i" menu is displayed.  The digital dfp monitor shows the same resolution.   I have the nvidia-glx-new drivers installed.  I had several hours of grief installing  Kubuntu 7.10 desktop but now have a continuous huge desktop that spans across both monitors. So here's a couple hopefully helpful pointers.   

1.  When you begin installation, there is a choice of resolutions available with F4.  I used 1280x1024.

2.  nvidia has a nice installation utility nvidia-settings but this is removed by adept_manager when nvidia-glx-new or any other nvidia-glx driver is installed.  Why I don't know because nvidia's configuration utillity certainly beats the ubuntu cold.  I'ved used the nvidia utility before and it works flawlessly.    I think ubuntu should start using it again.

3.  The display was completely hosed until I was able to log into the installation at the command line and replace the copy of /etc/X11/xorg.conf. You could edit  this with sudo kate /etc/X11/xorg.conf  Specifically these are the lines toward the bottom of the file which allows both monitors to display in twinview mode one glorious big huge continuous desktop.    You might be able to drop this section into your xorg.conf after changing the monitor names and models as well as graphic card names  or simply use it as a guide..  Good luck!   FYI   your kilometerage may vary  {;-)

> Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1680x1050 +1680+0, CRT: 1680x1050 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by anderskitson on 2008-01-14
Im not sure if this will help, I have an nvidia 7600 and have dual monitors running. One of my problems was I couldn't use xinerma allowing each monitor to be seperate and maximize to one screen and run compiz at the same time. So What seemed to work was enable xinerma restart make sure its working then go back to twin view and both screens stayed seperate but compiz worked.
I used > gksu nvidia-settings to access the nvidia settings

---

### Post by LarryJ2 on 2008-01-14
Well I've been nvidiaized....

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

does bring up the familiar* **NVIDIA X Server Setting***s that I opined for above.  This is despite the fact that AdeptManager assures me that **nvidia-settings**  IS NOT installed.   Perhaps **nvidia-glx-new** package somehow contains  ***NVIDIA X Server Settings*** all along.  You just have to know how to bring it up.    I'm going to set  the  "gksu nvidia-settings" in my KMenu Utilities.

Now to figure out why System Rescue bootable CD's display is totally hosed up when I try to boot it using my left SyncMaster.    I didn't have these problems before Mr. and Mrs. SamSung Sync showed up. :(    However, not complaining very much.   A desktop that is 3360x1050 pixels (948x303 millimeters) is very easy on my senior citizen eyes.

Edit:  See this post concerning scrambled displays.  I may be forced to run the vesa driver when booting to install.   [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4141162#post4141162](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4141162#post4141162)

---

### Post by anderskitson on 2008-01-14
Good Luck:D

---

