---
title: "Unable to connect to network printer"
date: 2007-12-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mmasroorali on 2007-12-30
I have two printers. One dot matrix connect to my USB port is working fine. But the other network printer can not be used from my computer. 

It pings fine, 
ping 172.20.0.11
PING 172.20.0.11 (172.20.0.11) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 172.20.0.11: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=10.5 ms
64 bytes from 172.20.0.11: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=6.22 ms
64 bytes from 172.20.0.11: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=6.22 ms

But in CUPS I get something like, unable to connect to host 170.20.0.11 on port 9100. Printing the test page fails. 

Other people are using the same printer without any problem.

What is it I need to check? I am using gutsy.

---

### Post by tgilber1 on 2007-12-30
> **mmasroorali said:**
> I have two printers. One dot matrix connect to my USB port is working fine. But the other network printer can not be used from my computer. 

It pings fine, 
ping 172.20.0.11
PING 172.20.0.11 (172.20.0.11) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 172.20.0.11: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=10.5 ms
64 bytes from 172.20.0.11: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=6.22 ms
64 bytes from 172.20.0.11: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=6.22 ms

But in CUPS I get something like, unable to connect to host 170.20.0.11 on port 9100. Printing the test page fails. 

Other people are using the same printer without any problem.

What is it I need to check? I am using gutsy.


Need a little more info.  What type of network printer are you using?  Are you sure that the printer is accepting print requests using the line printer daemon [LPD].  The default port is 9100 for LPD.  Check the port in the printer settings of the other computers by viewing its printer config (e.g., Windows Printer Control Panel)  Can you configure using IPP?

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2007-12-30
Check the port. If this is a dot matrix printer, chances are it's not a network printer. That is you probably have a print server hosting that printer. We just completed an upgrade of our general ledger application from SCO to Linux. A lot of our printers that migrated over had been auto-generated by Red Hat utilities, which assumed 9100 for the port. Our particular brand of older print server uses 10001. Once the CUPS entries' ports were changed for our older Genicom and Dataproducts "green-bar" printers, all was well.

---

### Post by mmasroorali on 2007-12-30
This is a network printer (HP Laser Jet 2300n) no doubt. I have previously configured and used the same printer from Fedora using CUPS. Recently I switched to Ubuntu at my office (just to get another flavor, I use Fedora at my home computer), and from that time I have not been able to print from this printer.

I am not very familiar with IPP, but as I said before, other people are happily using this printer from several locations, all of them are using Windows XP. 

I tried the printer configuration from menu. The result was the same.

---

### Post by st1ck3m_tux on 2007-12-31
I had a similar problem with a printer that I was trying to connect to through an HP JetDirect en3700 print server.  I could ping the server, but could not get it to print.  I am also connecting through a Netgear WNR834M RangeMax router, ( i.e. the print server is connected to one of the routers LAN ports.).  I did the following to get my print server to work.  

1.  Configured the router to always assign the same IP to the print server.  In the Netgear router this is called reserving the address.  

2. Setup the printer using the Printer configuration tool.  (System > Administration > Printing)

3. I set this up using the App Socket/Hp JetDirect connection and used the IP for the Hostname, and 9100 for the port number.

4. I then selected my printer and set up the driver.

5. Under the Server settings in the printer configuration tool I check the "Allow users to cancel any job, not just their own" check box.

6. On the print server I made sure that LPD Printing is enabled

The first and the fifth step seem to make the difference between being able to ping the IP address and actually being able to print to the IP.  I hope that this helps.  It took me about 2hrs to get this figured out, and I hope that my experience with this will help someone else set this print server up with a lot less headache. I enjoy these forums and want to say thanks to everyone who contributes.  Thanks!

---

### Post by tgilber1 on 2007-12-31
You could try to check what ports are open on the network printer by issuing the following command from your linux box

"sudo nmap -sS <ip address of printer>"

nmap can scan for open ports of hosts on a network, e.g., network printer.  In the case of the command above, it scans for open ports that will accept a SYN (Synchronize) packet.  Every print request or any type request for that matter, starts with a SYN packet.

ex. output

~$ sudo nmap -sS 192.168.1.128

Starting Nmap 4.20 ( [http://insecure.org](http://insecure.org) ) at 2007-12-31 06:41 EST
sendto in send_ip_packet: sendto(5, packet, 44, 0, 192.168.1.128, 16) => Operation not permitted
Offending packet: TCP 192.168.1.20:35929 > 192.168.1.128:3128 S ttl=47 id=15805 iplen=44  seq=3723456589 win=4096 <mss 1460>
sendto in send_ip_packet: sendto(5, packet, 44, 0, 192.168.1.128, 16) => Operation not permitted
Offending packet: TCP 192.168.1.20:35930 > 192.168.1.128:3128 S ttl=44 id=2966 iplen=44  seq=3723391052 win=1024 <mss 1460>
sendto in send_ip_packet: sendto(5, packet, 44, 0, 192.168.1.128, 16) => Operation not permitted
Offending packet: TCP 192.168.1.20:35931 > 192.168.1.128:3128 S ttl=42 id=42032 iplen=44  seq=3723325519 win=3072 <mss 1460>
Interesting ports on HPF586CC (192.168.1.128):
Not shown: 1691 closed ports
PORT     STATE    SERVICE
80/tcp   filtered http
139/tcp  open     netbios-ssn
3128/tcp filtered squid-http
9100/tcp open     jetdirect
9101/tcp open     jetdirect
9102/tcp open     jetdirect
MAC Address: <MAC ADDRESS> (Unknown)

If you see jetdirect, then you should be able to do the following:

[LIST=1]
[*]From the menu panel, click on System#Administration#Printing
[*]From the Printer Configuration dialog window, select "New Printer" icon
[*]From the devices window, select AppsSocket/HP JetDirect
[*]Follow wizard to select MFR, model, driver, and Printer name.
[*]Print test page
[/LIST]

---

### Post by mmasroorali on 2008-01-02
I deleted the printer from cups and added it from System -> Administration -> Printing. And  guess what, it works. :)

---

### Post by mowgliee on 2008-01-06
ok i cant get cups printing over network to function.

none of the logs have any error msgs.  all clients have the exact same config.  clients need to print to a local printer and to network printers via print server.  all hosts (clients, servers, etc) are on feisty.  here are the symptoms:

if i add a ServerName declaration to my client.conf file on the clients, then:
1. clients can only print to the network printers.  they can no longer print to local printers.
2. running lpstat -t or trying to print on clients hangs for about 10 sec before returning results or opening print dialog window.
3. result of lpstat -t are expected entries (ie same as results on cups server which is:
device for KM2300DL_Low_Res_bw: socket://192.168.1.101
KM2300DL_Low_Res_bw accepting requests since Fri 14 Dec 2007 03:38:23 PM CST

if i leave the declaration out (ie client.conf is empty), then:
1. at first, the client sees local printer and sees 2 entries for each network printer (see output below).
2. the URI for each entry is wrong (says ipp instead of socket - see output below).
3. local printing does not function (just fails to print but gives no error mesage except for the one in lpstat -t - see output below).
4. as time passes, network printer URI changes from ipp to dev/null (see output below).
5. lpstat -t does not hang; results are immediate.

what the heck is going on!???!!!!!????

and if the cups server is FC, no issues (with clients on feisty).  so it has to be some config on the feisty cups server?

initial lpstat -t results:
device for KM2300DL_Low_Res_bw: ipp://192.168.1.45:631/printers/KM2300DL_Low_Res_bw
KM2300DL_Low_Res_bw accepting requests since Sun 06 Jan 2008 09:41:27 PM CST

later lpstat -t results:
device for KM2430DL_High_Res_bw: ///dev/null
KM2300DL_Low_Res_bw accepting requests since Sun 06 Jan 2008 09:41:27 PM CST

local printer says (initially and later on): open print channel failed; will retry in 30 seconds...

help!

---

