---
title: ".bin file converter?"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Delslayer on 2008-03-18
I'm looking for a way to convert a .bin file to some sort of movie file and I'm wondering if there isn't some open source program that would allow me to do this. Can anyone help me out?

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-03-18
What type bin is that file? A disk image or binary executable? What does the following command print?

```
file /path/to/file.bin
```

---

### Post by (((X))) on 2008-03-18
It is an image

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-03-18
if you just want to watch it, I believe vlc will open it. far as converting it, I believe the repo has a bin to iso converter, you could convert it to that, then mount the iso and copy out the mpg file inside.

---

### Post by (((X))) on 2008-03-18
If it is an image, k3b(nerolike program) is in repositories 
Here you can find how to burn bin file
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=218165](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=218165)

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-03-18
K3b should be able to burn bin/cue directly into a DVD (or a CD).  Otherwise, mplayer and vlc are able to play it directly if you want to view it in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by halitech on 2008-03-18
only thing with burning it, you will also need the cue file or it won't burn properly

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-03-18
You can get a cue sheet with bin2iso with the command:
```
bin2iso file.cue -c file.bin 
```

---

### Post by hyperair on 2008-03-18
Mencoder can convert it.

---

### Post by Delslayer on 2008-03-18
Thanks to everyone for the suggestions. to answer the question about what type of bin file it is, im not sure. basically what I'm trying to do is use the record match feature of super smash bros brawl to record a match to an sd card. when I try to move it to my computer its a bin file and I have no idea of how to convert it to an mpeg or some other file type.

---

### Post by honeydew on 2008-03-18
in this case you probably want to use mencoder.. or use vlc to play, mplayer might play it as well.

apt-get install mplayer vlc

mplayer filename.bin
vlc filename.bin

---

### Post by Tomatz on 2008-03-18
> **halitech said:**
> if you just want to watch it, I believe vlc will open it. far as converting it, I believe the repo has a bin to iso converter, you could convert it to that, then mount the iso and copy out the mpg file inside.


Yeah just watch it with vlc :)

---

### Post by Delslayer on 2008-03-18
The only thing is that I want it in a format that could then be uploaded to youtube or something of the sort.
would mencoder work for that?

---

### Post by (((X))) on 2008-03-19
You can upload .avi to megavideo.com, they will convert it for you in needed format, if you like to upload that vid to another website download this converted vid to your computer and upload it elswhere, youtube for example:)

---

### Post by honeydew on 2008-03-19
hrmm.. some video conversion tools.. mencoder is good.. Im not sure of a good gui option.. maybe winki the ripper? I hear its pretty good.

---

### Post by FRuMMaGe on 2008-04-22
> **Delslayer said:**
> Thanks to everyone for the suggestions. to answer the question about what type of bin file it is, im not sure. basically what I'm trying to do is use the record match feature of super smash bros brawl to record a match to an sd card. when I try to move it to my computer its a bin file and I have no idea of how to convert it to an mpeg or some other file type.

Unfortunately, SSBB does not record the replays as video files, as this would take up too much space. It records them as a list of commands which are then interpreted by the game to recreate the match exactly as it was. Ever wondered why your name isn't saved?

If you can't understand, think of it on the same principle as a midi file. Technically a midi file is music, but rather than an audio track, it contains a list of commands to make the computer generate the audio.

---

### Post by peabody on 2008-04-29
SSBB replays are not videos.  If you want to make videos out of them, get a TV adapter and three Y-splitters for RCA connectors.  Plug the split-off connections into your TV adapter.  Now you can capture on the computer while still being able to watch what you're doing on the TV.

If you're looking for an adapter that works on Linux, avoid the gamebridge like the plague (it gets recommended by everybody online, but it doesn't work in Linux or Vista).

I recently bought a USB 2.0 (required) TV adapter, a Hauppauge WinTV-HVR-950, for $60 from Radio Shack.  This works on Linux, but not out of the box.  There are excellent instructions on getting it working here: [http://lunapark6.com/usb-hdtv-tuner-stick-for-windows-linux-hauppauge-wintv-hvr-950.html](http://lunapark6.com/usb-hdtv-tuner-stick-for-windows-linux-hauppauge-wintv-hvr-950.html)

This adapter is pretty awesome for several reasons:

1. It has no noticeable delay with playback, meaning it can be used to play console games using your computer monitor (pvr adapters can't, because the hardware MPEG encoding introduces a two-second delay in the audio-video stream).

2. It can receive ATSC digital broadcasts directly.  No need for an external box.  This turns your laptop into a super portable TV capable of receiving digital broadcasts in the US.

3. It's cheap, I don't think there's a better adapter that retails for the same price of $60 with the same level of compatibility between operating systems and hardware.

4. Did I mention it works in Linux and Vista AND it's USB 2.0, meaning it's very easy to use on all the computers in your house?

5. Just an FYI, it may look like you can't hook your console up to it without some kind of adapter, but it does come with an RCA connector that plugs into the side (S-video included).  They just don't show it in any of the pictures of the device.  There's an IR receiver on the device meaning you can use a remote (don't ask me for tips on the lirc setup though, I haven't done this myself).  It even comes with a 10-mile antenna.

Only downsides are that there's no closed captioning support for analog RF and no FM radio.

There are a couple of caveats with the device in Linux.  Sound capture is done through a second audio input device (/dev/dsp1 on my system) for non DVB video.  This is non-standard, so apps like tvtime don't have any audio.  There is a work around for this problem using the sox program.  Unfortunately, sometimes the audio starts delayed (seems random on my system).

If you're willing to go through the trouble, mplayer can capture audio directly, via the alsa interface on the adapter no less.  Details are in the comments in the blog story link above.

I use this setup to make my own SSBB vids.  You can view them on my youtube page: [http://youtube.com/user/peabodyman](http://youtube.com/user/peabodyman).

I capture from the device with the following mencoder command:

```

mencoder -vf crop=624:464,pp=lb -ovc lavc -lavcopts vcodec=mpeg4:vhq:vbitrate=6000 -oac mp3lame -ffourcc DIVX -tv driver=v4l2:alsa:immediatemode=0:adevice=hw.1,0:norm=ntsc:input=1 -o out.avi tv://

```

This creates a file called out.avi in the working directory.  I then use avidemux to do simple editing of the video.

For Vista, use the drivers from Hauppauge's web site (pay no attention to the cd).

---

