---
title: "Video Distortion"
date: 2005-08-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bper on 2005-08-08
Hi,

I'm new to Ubuntu, although not new to linux.

The installation was pretty clean and straight forward, however, whenever I look at terminals, or pulldown menus, dialogs, windows, etc., the display is distorted. If I move the mouse over the distorted area on the screen it becomes readable.

I tried to access the display properties to see if I could fix the problem but could not find it.

How can I resolve these display issues?

I'm running Ubuntu on a PIII 450 128M RAM, Permedia 2V video card gnome desktop.

Thanks.

---

### Post by KingBahamut on 2005-08-08
Applications -> Run Application -> xterm

at the prompt 

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and paste the contents of that file in here. 

Also, have tried to change your Refresh rate under 
System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution ?

---

### Post by bper on 2005-08-08
Thanks for responding.

Submitting your command to edit the xorg.conf file gave me a distorted screen that I couldn't view. When I changed to the /etc directory I noticed that there is no x11 directory. Could X not be installed!? How would I get X11 installed at this point?

BTW, the installation gave me no ability to set the root password. How do I act as root?

---

### Post by KingBahamut on 2005-08-08
The purpose of issueing a command with sudo , gives you root right over the command.  
The root password was set as your initial login password so to speak. Ubuntu disables root access by default, pending most of that on the initial account created. 

when you went into /etc you saw no X11 directory at all? 

That seems very unlikely.

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-08-08
[QUOTE=bper]Hi,

I'm new to Ubuntu, although not new to linux.

The installation was pretty clean and straight forward, however, whenever I look at terminals, or pulldown menus, dialogs, windows, etc., the display is distorted. If I move the mouse over the distorted area on the screen it becomes readable.

I tried to access the display properties to see if I could fix the problem but could not find it.

How can I resolve these display issues?

I'm running Ubuntu on a PIII 450 128M RAM, Permedia 2V video card gnome desktop.

Thanks.[/QUOTE]

The system is hanging because of your amount of RAM. Default Ubuntu wants at least 256mb (like most people want a free car).

If it bugs you you have four options:

1. Install and use XFCE. I did that for a while. Its less user friendly, but its fast.

2. Use Openbox. Easiest alternative:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=34239&highlight=openbox](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=34239&highlight=openbox)

3. Use my Enlightened Gnome with E16:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=54476](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=54476)

Its fast but mind blowing.

4. Buy some more RAM. This is the best way to fix the problem, and I would do this myself if I could find RAM compatible with my old laptop. RAM is cheap.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2005-08-08
[QUOTE=poofyhairguy]The system is hanging because of your amount of RAM. Default Ubuntu wants at least 256mb (like most people want a free car).[/QUOTE]

Not necessarily, I have a Pentium MMX 200MHz, 128MB RAM with gnome and is kicking  ***!! So the problem must be somewhere else, maybe something wrong with the Video Card, I say! Maybe?

---

### Post by bper on 2005-08-08
My mistake. Must have been a typo. Video distortion and all...

Anyway I was able to email the file so that I could view it on another machine. Here's the contents...

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"3DLabs Permedia II 2D+3D"
	Driver		"glint"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"3DLabs Permedia II 2D+3D"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x900" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x900" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x900" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x900" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x900" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x900" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by KingBahamut on 2005-08-08
Try changing Default depth to 16 mebbe?

---

### Post by RastaMahata on 2005-08-08
hope this helps:
[http://www.x.org/X11R6.8.2/doc/glint.4.html](http://www.x.org/X11R6.8.2/doc/glint.4.html)

from that file, i guess you have to add```
ChipSet "pm2v"
``` in the device section.

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-08-08
[QUOTE=kostkon]Not necessarily, I have a Pentium MMX 200MHz, 128MB RAM with gnome and is kicking  ***!! So the problem must be somewhere else, maybe something wrong with the Video Card, I say! Maybe?[/QUOTE]

We might have different criteria for kicking ass. Point taken though.

---

### Post by bper on 2005-08-09
[quote=KingBahamut]
Try changing Default depth to 16 mebbe?
[/quote]

Made the modification on the DefaultDepth. As one might expect, it helped - but didn't.

The distortion went away on the menus, drop downs, etc. Much easier to workaround the problem with mouse-over. But, the distortion still exists. The background has 8 less lines, and those 8 lines are distorted. If I open another window, lets say a browser session, over a terminal when I minimize the browser session the terminal is distorted. I have to refresh the view to make it readable.

[quote=RastaMahata]
hope this helps:
[http://www.x.org/X11R6.8.2/doc/glint.4.html](http://www.x.org/X11R6.8.2/doc/glint.4.html)
[/quote]

Very interesting info. Thanks! I might consider, and maybe it's best to try another video card and/or monitor?

[quote=RastaMahata]

Code:

ChipSet "pm2v"


[/quote]

This resulted in no change in behavior.

This video card is not long term. Ultimately I want to install tvtime and some video capture software to record tv. But I want to make sure that I can run ubuntu with what I currently have. But if it's more trouble for this particular card, I can try and unplug it and install a different one. Hopefully one of the cards that I have won't produce the same or similar problems.

Is it worth it or is this just a configuration problem that I might run into with any card?

---

