---
title: "Trouble with 1440*900 resolution for viewsonic VA1703w monitor"
date: 2008-04-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-03
Hi all,

Absolute newbie here. I have the following hardware:

1. Intel onboard graphics card.
2. ViewSonic VA1703w 17" widescreen LCD panel.

When I set the resolution to 1440*900, A portion of the screen is rendered useless. Since I can't take a screenshot of what I'm trying to say, I've used my camera to give you an idea.

I followed some of the instructions for similar monitors, like dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and installing 915resolution... It worked for a while, but when I restarted my system, the resolution went back to the old settings.

Please help! I love everything else about Ubuntu, but this! 

Thanks!

Wabbster.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-04-03
How about in Live CD? When running from Live CD, is Ubuntu detecting your resolution properly? 

If it does, you may want to copy the xorg.conf from live mode to a flash drive and then use it in place of the installed one.

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2008-04-03
Is 1440x900 the correct resolution you want?  It's a little hard for me to tell, but it seems to me like you possibly need to adjust your monitor settings (on the monitor itself) to fit everything in quite right.

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-03
> **kpkeerthi said:**
> How about in Live CD? When running from Live CD, is Ubuntu detecting your resolution properly? 

If it does, you may want to copy the xorg.conf from live mode to a flash drive and then use it in place of the installed one.

No. When I used the Live CD, I had the same problem. I just assumed it would get fixed if and when I installed Ubuntu.

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-03
> **Xiong Chiamiov said:**
> Is 1440x900 the correct resolution you want?  It's a little hard for me to tell, but it seems to me like you possibly need to adjust your monitor settings (on the monitor itself) to fit everything in quite right.

[http://www.viewsonic.com.au/products/productspecs.php?id=280](http://www.viewsonic.com.au/products/productspecs.php?id=280)

This has the specs for the monitor. I cannot adjust the settings on the monitor, except for brightness, contrast and vertical 'alignment'.

Edit: Okay, I changed some settings in the "Screens and Graphics" section and it seems to work. I hope the settings get saved when I shut the system down.

*fingers crossed*

Edit2: It's back...The settings didn't save and I still have the left portion rendered useless. HELP!!! :(

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-07
Any ideas?

I ran the Live CD again, and it still wouldn't work. Please help....

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-04-07
Please run this command from the terminal:
```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and this way, copy and paste the contents of your "xorg.conf" file here.

---

### Post by jcwmoore on 2008-04-07
I have had an issue with this resolution...  the monitor I was using was a compaq so no promises...  the 1440 X 800 resolution was was scrunched up.  now i corrected it by changing the refresh rate from 60 HZ to 75 HZ.  I don't know why this worked for me, because the monitor wasn't rated at 75 HZ but it did... good luck to you

Settings > Preferences > screen resolution     I think...

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-07
Here's my xorg.conf file...


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"VA1703wSERIE"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1440x900"
	Horizsync	31.5-56.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"VA1703wSERIE"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1440	900
		Modes		"1440x900@60"	"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-07
> **jcwmoore said:**
> I have had an issue with this resolution...  the monitor I was using was a compaq so no promises...  the 1440 X 800 resolution was was scrunched up.  now i corrected it by changing the refresh rate from 60 HZ to 75 HZ.  I don't know why this worked for me, because the monitor wasn't rated at 75 HZ but it did... good luck to you

Settings > Preferences > screen resolution     I think...

Thanks, but the screen just goes blank when I try 75 Hz. :-/ This is very nutty indeed! :(

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-04-07
You should stay away froom the Gnome tool "Screens and Graphics" at all costs as its implementation in Gutsy is buggy and may produce such impredictable config files. I will suggest you to configure your graphics by using text-mode tools, but please don't be intimidated as it is really easy:

1. First things first, open a virtual terminal with Ctrl+Alt+F1-F6 (your X server lies under Ctrl+Alt+F7 by the way), login with your user name and password and back up your current config file:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.working
```

2. Kill your X server by using the following commands:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```

3. Run the following config tool, which will configure your system automatically:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

4. Restart your X server it with:
```
startx
```

5. Check if the resolution 1440x900 has already been set. If not, you can edit xorg.conf file this time using Gnome terminal window (Main Menu -> Apps -> Terminal) with:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
finding the line with resolutions:
```
SubSection "Display"
	.....
	Modes		[COLOR="Red"]**"1440x900"**[/COLOR]	"1280x800@60"
	.....
EndSubSection
```
and adding the resolution 1440x900 with a refresh rate of 60 Hz (which is standard refresh rate for LCD monitors) manually. The first item in this list will be the one to be selected as default by X server. 

6. If this doesn't work as expected, then you may opt to configure your X server manually with:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Then, you will be asked a series of simple questions, most of which you can pass with default selections. When asked, you should fill in these values:
```
Busid -> "PCI:0:2:0"
Driver -> "intel"
```
as based on your current xorg.conf file. Finally, you will be asked to select a set of screen resolutions, where you should select 1440x900 on top of the list and a few lesser values as fallback resolutions.

7. Restart your X server as I have explained before.

8. If everything goes well, it is time to do a second back up:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.mybackup
```

9. If you end up  in a worse state than before, you can always restore your initial settings with:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.working /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Good luck...

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-07
Thanks. It worked... I just hope it stays this way.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-04-07
Great! :D

I suggest you to reboot to see if your settings are persistent between reboots. And if they are, to take a backup of your current working xorg.conf file with:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.mybackup
```

Have fun now! :popcorn:

---

