---
title: "i586?"
date: 2006-11-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2006-11-29
Hey guys!
is ubuntu ever gona have a i586 image?
I mean ubuntu rocks and everything but it just run so gosh darn ssslloooooooww.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-11-29
What's the spec of your machine then???

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2006-11-29
Ive got a 930 P111 processor 
and 512mb of ram
its a dell 4100 that has been modified juuuust a little bit.
ive got a 40g hd.

Ive got a sound card hooked up but that wouldnt affect it.

the screen savers are so flipin slow and its only ubuntu that does this!

---

### Post by 56phil on 2006-11-29
Please do a ```
cat /proc/cpuinfo
``` and post the output. Thanks.

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2006-11-29
processor       : 0
vendor_id       : GenuineIntel
cpu family      : 6
model           : 8
model name      : Pentium III (Coppermine)
stepping        : 6
cpu MHz         : 930.420
cache size      : 256 KB
fdiv_bug        : no
hlt_bug         : no
f00f_bug        : no
coma_bug        : no
fpu             : yes
fpu_exception   : yes
cpuid level     : 2
wp              : yes
flags           : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 mmx fxsr sse up
bogomips        : 1862.55




that is one cool code!

---

### Post by 56phil on 2006-11-29
OK, thanks. 

I would have guessed that your bogomips was lower. What part of Linux performance is troubling you?

---

### Post by tronica on 2006-11-29
maybe try fluxbox or xfce, or another light weight one.

---

### Post by MasterOfDisaster on 2006-11-29
May I inquire as to what video card you have, and what drivers you have installed?

The correct drivers can have a massive effect on overal system speed.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-11-29
```
lspci
```

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-11-29
> **MasterOfDisaster said:**
> May I inquire as to what video card you have, and what drivers you have installed?

The correct drivers can have a massive effect on overal system speed.You need a graphics card with the appropriate drivers for better visual performace.

Try this is a terminal and post the output```
lspci | grep controller
```

---

### Post by zgornel on 2006-11-29
A i686 distro would be nice considering that running ubuntu on a 386/486/pentium is nearly impossible.

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2006-11-29
mcmahon@mcmahon-desktop:~$ lspci | grep controller
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro] (rev 15)
02:0a.0 Ethernet controller: Linksys NC100 Network Everywhere Fast Ethernet 10/100 (rev 11)
02:0b.0 Ethernet controller: Linksys NC100 Network Everywhere Fast Ethernet 10/100 (rev 11)
02:0c.0 Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs SB Live! EMU10k1 (rev 07)
02:0c.1 Input device controller: Creative Labs SB Live! MIDI/Game Port (rev 07)
02:0d.0 Communication controller: Conexant HCF 56k Data/Fax/Voice/Spkp Modem (rev 08)
mcmahon@mcmahon-desktop:~$

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-11-30
> **Linux&Lizards said:**
> mcmahon@mcmahon-desktop:~$ lspci | grep controller
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro] (rev 15)
02:0a.0 Ethernet controller: Linksys NC100 Network Everywhere Fast Ethernet 10/100 (rev 11)
02:0b.0 Ethernet controller: Linksys NC100 Network Everywhere Fast Ethernet 10/100 (rev 11)
02:0c.0 Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs SB Live! EMU10k1 (rev 07)
02:0c.1 Input device controller: Creative Labs SB Live! MIDI/Game Port (rev 07)
02:0d.0 Communication controller: Conexant HCF 56k Data/Fax/Voice/Spkp Modem (rev 08)
mcmahon@mcmahon-desktop:~$Here are two links that you will find helpful:[LIST=1]
[*][http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=233241](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=233241) (b/c your card looks like it fits into the "legacy" drivers arena, I am providing this link)
[*][http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Edgy](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Edgy) (will tell you how to go about installing the drivers)[/LIST]Good Luck!

---

### Post by az on 2006-11-30
> **zgornel said:**
> A i686 distro would be nice considering that running ubuntu on a 386/486/pentium is nearly impossible.

There is a 686 kernel in Dapper.  In edgy, the generic kernel is supposed to enable the optimisations at run time and not at compile time.  As for userspace apps, optimising them for 686 is useless.


sudo apt-get install linux-686 

to get the 686 kernel in Dapper.

---

### Post by zgornel on 2006-11-30
I was not referring to the kernel (I always compile it myself) but to the packages themselves. It might not be a big difference in performance but if improvements can be made, why not take advantage. As for the boot-time enabled optimisations, I do not believe in such thing but if you have links or docs related to this please lemme know.

---

### Post by kvonb on 2006-12-01
From memory, i586 only applies to the AMD/Cyrix/IBM range of Pentium 1 replacement chips, the P1 (non MMX) and lower range only run on the i386 kernel, although I don't like your chances of Ubuntu being of any use, maybe Redhat 6!  The slowest I have managed is an AMD K6-2/500  with 256 megs of RAM running Dapper and that is pushing it a tad.

Regards, KEv :)

---

### Post by igknighted on 2006-12-01
> **kvonb said:**
> From memory, i586 only applies to the AMD/Cyrix/IBM range of Pentium 1 replacement chips, the P1 (non MMX) and lower range only run on the i386 kernel, although I don't like your chances of Ubuntu being of any use, maybe Redhat 6!  The slowest I have managed is an AMD K6-2/500  with 256 megs of RAM running Dapper and that is pushing it a tad.

Regards, KEv :)

I got kubuntu running snappy on a 500mhz intel laptop w/128mb ram... its quite flexible if you turn of some of the eye-candy

---

### Post by kvonb on 2006-12-01
> I got kubuntu running snappy on a 500mhz intel laptop w/128mb ram... its quite flexible if you turn of some of the eye-candyI agree absolutely, turning it down a bit and also switching to fluxbox works wonders.

The machine I built was an emergency drop-in replacement for my main server, it runs gnome, is a file server, handles the Internet connection for 6 machines, runs a DNS server, DHCP server, web server, SSH, VNC, and also (tries) to run Azureus as well so the poor old thing does REALLY well!

It cost nothing as it is built from old junk that was just going to be thrown out.  The most amazing thing is that I can rip the hard drive out of my P4 class server and drop it straight into the replacement machine with NO re-configuring!  Try that with ANY version of Windows  and feel the LOVE :rolleyes:.

---

### Post by tubasoldier on 2006-12-01
I had Ubuntu Dapper 6.06 running on a 333mhz laptop with 128mb of ram. Yeah, it was slow, but it ran close to the same speed of Win98. Admittedly it was a bit slower than Win98, but not that much of a difference. I used it to browse the web in my kitchen until it finally died.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-01
> **zgornel said:**
> I was not referring to the kernel (I always compile it myself) but to the packages themselves. It might not be a big difference in performance but if improvements can be made, why not take advantage. As for the boot-time enabled optimisations, I do not believe in such thing but if you have links or docs related to this please lemme know.

Because the miniscule difference in performance is not worth either 1) dropping support for architectures < i585, or 2) supporting two different sets of packages.

In case you care, Ubuntu packages are by default built with -mtune=pentium4.

The new kernels **do** have boot-time self-optimising code.  For example, the SMP alternatives system determines whether or not you have multiple processors at boot.  If not, all the SMP code is no-op'd out.

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2006-12-01
kk guys ty for all the input :)
I just love these foruns

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2006-12-01
Thanks for the info.  I'd been wondering why I didn't get a new k7 kernel when I upgraded.  So the generic kernel replaces both the k7 and the i686?

---

### Post by Jackster on 2006-12-01
I noticed that when I go to install the i686 or k7 kernel in Adept it says that it's been obsoleted by the generic kernel, which doesn't seem right.

Anyone know anything about this?

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-12-01
> **Jackster said:**
> I noticed that when I go to install the i686 or k7 kernel in Adept it says that it's been obsoleted by the generic kernel, which doesn't seem right.

Anyone know anything about this?That's correct: the generic kernel replaces them both.  The short story is that the devs decided that it would be easier to maintain one set of kernels instead of multiple sets that were architecture specific.

The generic kernel provides the appropriate feature set for SMP and dual-core processors.

---

### Post by az on 2006-12-01
> **ciscosurfer said:**
> The short story is that the devs decided that it would be easier to maintain one set of kernels instead of multiple sets that were architecture specific.

Actually, it was that since the options were useable at runtime, it makes it less confusing for the user who would have to install a differnt kernel to get those options.  It just makes sense.

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-12-01
> **azz said:**
> Actually, it was that since the options were useable at runtime, it makes it less confusing for the user who would have to install a differnt kernel to get those options.  It just makes sense.That's not what I read from the devs, but okay.  If you're a dev, please correct me.

Architecture-specific kernels are potentially faster than 'generic' kernels with 'all' or many more options selected and compiled into the kernel.  From what I understood, it was easier and made more sense (and allowed the devs to focus on one kernel instead of many) to work on a generic version for all users.

In any case, my kernel is compiled from source (2.6.19), tailored to my personal architecture and options that I wish comipled directly into it...and it runs blazingly faster the generic kernel offered through the repos.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-01
> **ciscosurfer said:**
> ...
Architecture-specific kernels are potentially faster than 'generic' kernels with 'all' or many more options selected and compiled into the kernel.  From what I understood, it was easier and made more sense (and allowed the devs to focus on one kernel instead of many) to work on a generic version for all users.

In any case, my kernel is compiled from source (2.6.19), tailored to my personal architecture and options that I wish comipled directly into it...and it runs blazingly faster the generic kernel offered through the repos.

Potentially, but not significantly faster.  From memory of the dev list, the benchmarks tended to see no statistically significant difference in performance between -generic and processor-specific.

I'm skeptical about "blazingly faster" claims, mainly because people are extremely good at observing what they expect to happen.  Have you benchmarked to back that up?  It's entirely possible that it **is** faster - it'd just be nice to, among other things, say how **much** faster it was :).

Edit: Actually, if that's a newer kernel than you can get from the reops, it's much more likely to be faster.  Since I'm running Feisty, I forget that not everyone has the 2.6.19 kernel in the repos :).

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-12-02
> **RAOF said:**
> Potentially, but not significantly faster.  From memory of the dev list, the benchmarks tended to see no statistically significant difference in performance between -generic and processor-specific.Agreed. But the potential is there (if you know how to tweak it)

> **RAOF said:**
> I'm skeptical about "blazingly faster" claims, mainly because people are extremely good at observing what they expect to happen.  Have you benchmarked to back that up?  It's entirely possible that it **is** faster - it'd just be nice to, among other things, say how **much** faster it was :).

Edit: Actually, if that's a newer kernel than you can get from the reops, it's much more likely to be faster.  Since I'm running Feisty, I forget that not everyone has the 2.6.19 kernel in the repos :).Well, it seems faster.  I haven't done any benchmarking, but I'm aware of what to expect in terms of speed--when you use the same kernel for a long time and then switch to a newer one, you generally notice a speed increase, faster boot and shutdown times, etc.  And I did.  By how much?  Well, I think I shaved a good 5 or 6 seconds off of boot time as well as shutdown time.  My apps are noticeably faster to load.  Incidentally, do you know of a good benchmarking app for me to use?  I would be interested to know specific numbers as well.

As for Feisty: didn't know the newest kernel was in those repos.  How do you like it?  I'm actually thinking about downgrading back to an earlier kernel version for stability.  And in terms of Feisty as a whole, how do you like it?  It is crashing left and right for you?

Signed,
Curious 8)

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-02
I have seen some useful benchmarking things, but I can never remember them.  [http://members.optusnet.com.au/ckolivas/](http://members.optusnet.com.au/ckolivas/) may be useful.

Feisty (now that it will actually boot from my LVM root) actually hasn't broken for me at all.  The 2.6.19 kernel works just fine for me, although it seems not for everyone (for example, DMA on PATA harddrives is, or was, disabled.  That makes disc access substantially slower).

---

### Post by az on 2006-12-02
> **ciscosurfer said:**
>  From what I understood, it was easier and made more sense (and allowed the devs to focus on one kernel instead of many) to work on a generic version for all users.

It's all one kernel anyway.  The autobuilders just recompile the same kernel over and over with all the different arch options (386, 686, k7, etc...).  It is no more complex for the devs and just more confusing for the user.

Here is the initial message from Matt Zimmerman:

	Matt Zimmerman <mdz@ubuntu.com> 	
to ubuntu-devel
	
show details
	 Aug 14 
== Background ==

You've all seen our kernel lineup before.  In the beginning, on i386 we had
linux-386, linux-686, linux-k7, linux-686-smp, linux-k7-smp.  Later, we
added specialized server kernels, and folded SMP support into linux-686 and
linux-k7.

Since Linux has always offered CPU-specific optimizations, it's been taken
for granted that this offered enough of a performance benefit to make all of
this maintenance effort worthwhile.  A lot has happened to the kernel since
the early days, though, and for some time, it has been capable of loading
these optimizations at runtime.  Even when you use the -386 kernel, you get
the benefit of many CPU-specific optimizations automatically.  This is great
news for integrators, like Ubuntu, because we want to provide everyone with
the best experience out of the box, and as you know, there isn't room for so
many redundant kernels on the CD (only one).  Many users spend time and
bandwidth quotas downloading these optimized kernel in hopes of squeezing
the most performance out of their hardware.

This begged the question: do we still need these old-fashioned builds?
Experiments have shown that users who are told that their system will run
faster will say that they "feel" faster whether there is a measurable
difference or not.  For fun, try it with an unsuspecting test subject: tell
them that you'll "optimize" their system to make it a little bit faster, and
make some do-nothing changes to it, then see if they notice a difference.
The fact is, our observations of performance are highly subjective, which is
why we need to rely on hard data.

== Data ==

Enter Ben Collins, our kernel team lead, who has put together a performance
test to answer that question, covering both the i386 and amd64
architectures.  The results are attached in the form of an email from him.
Following that is a README which explains how to interpret the numerical
figures.

No benchmark says it all.  They're all biased toward specific workloads, and
very few users run a homogenous workload, especially not desktop users.
This particular benchmark attempts to measure system responsiveness, a key
factor in overall performance (real and perceived) for desktop workloads,
which are largely interactive.

== Conclusion ==

Having read over it, I think the numbers are fairly compelling.  The
difference in performance between -386 and -686 is insigificant; the
measurements are all within a reasonable error range, and within that range,
-686 was slower as often as it was faster.

My recommendation is that we phase out these additional kernel builds, which
I expect will save us a great deal of developer time, buildd time, archive
storage and bandwidth.

I'm interested to hear (objective, reasoned) feedback on this data and my
conclusions from the members of this list.

--
 - mdz

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-12-02
@azz,

Thanks for posting that!

Of course, my system is fast than yours (na-na-na-na-boo-boo).

---

### Post by nixclusive on 2006-12-02
Oh c'mon compile a kernel specific to your system specifications and that's it. The default kernel is generic to support all kinds of hardware available in linux.

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-12-02
> **nixclusive said:**
> Oh c'mon compile a kernel specific to your system specifications and that's it. The default kernel is generic to support all kinds of hardware available in linux.Yes, indeed.

---

