---
title: "7.10 Installation takes over 9GB of hard drive"
date: 2008-02-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by K0ivu on 2008-02-17
Hi,

I have fresh installation of Ubuntu 7.10. Only Ubuntu updates are installed afterwards.

My hard drive is Seagate Barracuda 7200 160 GB, so the actual size is about 149 GB.

If I click Places --> Computer --> Filesystem properties, I see the following numbers:
9.6 GB used
134.3 GB free
Total capacity 143.9 GB

Now, here is my problems:
-Total capacity is according to Ubuntu about 144 GB when it should be 149 GB.
-Installed OS with updates propably shouldn't consume 9.6 GB, right? 

If I type df -h to the terminal, I get the following result:
Filesystem            Size    Used  Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1             144G  2.3G  135G   2% /
varrun                  506M   88K  506M   1% /var/run
varlock                 506M     0    506M   0% /var/lock
udev                    506M   64K   506M   1% /dev
devshm                506M     0    506M   0% /dev/shm
lrm                      506M   34M  472M   7% /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/volatile

Ok, I don't know what all that means, but if i sum all the size numbers, I get the total size 146.5 GB, which is still less than 149 GB.
And also, terminal says, that size is 144, used 2.3 and available 135 GB. 
So if total is 144 and used 2.3, the available space should be 141.7 GB instead of 135 GB.

So where are all those GB's?

I installed Ubuntu over XP and had this same problem. Then I used Killdisk to erase the whole hard drive and installed Ubuntu again, and now I still have the same problem.
I used default partitioning option "Use whole disk" - or something like that, so I have only one partition. I don't have any other hard drives. 

Any advices or ideas?

---

### Post by aashay on 2008-02-17
Some space may be lost in creating a swap drive.
Use gparted to see how space has been allocated and how much is really usable / free.
If you don't already have it, use
```
sudo apt-get install gparted
```
to install it. Then use 
gksu gparted (run dialog) or sudo gparted (terminal) to run it

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-02-17
You're forgetting the filing system itself uses a proportionate amount for its own use. The same happens for NTFS too, or any other filing system.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2008-02-17
> Total capacity is according to Ubuntu about 144 GB when it should be 149 GB.
This may in fact be the correct size of your hard drive. Drive manufacturers round off a 1 gb to an even 1000mb, when in fact 1 gb is really 1024mb - this accounts for the difference. I would not expect an install should use 9.3 gb, even accounting for the amount used by the file system. Could you provide a screen shot of your partitions from gparted

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-02-17
> **bumanie said:**
> This may in fact be the correct size of your hard drive. Drive manufacturers round off a 1 gb to an even 1000mb, when in fact 1 gb is really 1024mb - this accounts for the difference. I would not expect an install should use 9.3 gb, even accounting for the amount used by the file system. Could you provide a screen shot of your partitions from gparted

The OP is correct. A 160GB hard drive is actually 149GB in size.

Hard drive manufacturers multiply by 1000, whereas the OS will use 1024.

---

### Post by Arthur Archnix on 2008-02-17
By default Ubuntu reserves 5% of each partition created (except swap) for system use. So if you have a 160GB HD, then it's really 149 like you say.

Ubuntu then creates (just for example, but this is common) a 1GB swap space.
Then, let's say you just have one partition, that would mean 5% of 148, or about 6GB. Add to that a typical install, around 3GB, and I think that's what you're looking at.

If you want to recapture some of that space, and of course if my guess is correct, then you need to manually create the partitions, and tell it to reserve less space for system use (1%) is safe on root with a drive that size. I always set mine to .5% on root, and 0% on all other partitions.

You should definitely keep some off to the side on your root partition.

I'm not sure if you can change this after the fact.

**EDIT**

PS. There should be an app under accessories called 'disk usage analyzer', it might help you drill down into your filesystem to see what is taking up a lot of space. It provides a different kind of information than gparted, which is also useful to have.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-02-17
> **K0ivu said:**
> ...
I used default partitioning option "Use whole disk" - or something like that, so I have only one partition. I don't have any other hard drives. 

Any advices or ideas?

You will still have at least 2 partitions. Swap will always have a separate partition as it doesn't use a swapfile like it does in Windows. You cannot install Ubuntu without a separate partition.

---

### Post by K0ivu on 2008-02-17
Ok, according to Gparted my hard drive is this:
Size = 146.2 GB(used 4.8, unused 141.4) + swap 2.9 GB which is the 149 GB, like it should! OK! :)

Since I have now installed some applications after installing the OS itself, the used 4.8 GB sounds more or less right to me.

I also checked the Disk Usage Analyzer, and it stated that I have total filesystem capacity of 144GB.
So why is the information so different depending on the place you look?
Summary of the info I found:
                
Filesystem properties: Total = 143.9 GB, used =  9.8 GB, free = 134.1 GB
Disk Usage Analyzer: Total = 143.9, used =  2.5 GB, free = 141.4 GB
GParted: Total = 146.16 GB, used = 4.8 GB, free = 141.4 GB

---

### Post by Arthur Archnix on 2008-02-17
Gparted gives you the most accurate measurement of your disk size. So let's take that and say it's 146.2. Now, if we assume you let Ubuntu set up your partitions using default settings it would have reserved 5% of the space for system use. 146.2 * 0.05 = 7.3

The disk usage analyzer probably counts your files the best. So let's say you've actually got  2.5 GB of files. If we add 2.5GB of files, and 7.3GB of reserved space, that's 9.8GB, or what the filesystem properties is reporting to you as being used.

They are three different tools measuring in slightly different ways. I wish it were simpler. :)

---

### Post by K0ivu on 2008-02-17
Ok, thank you for everybody who answered! Life is a constant learning... :)

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-02-18
> **Arthur Archnix said:**
> ...Now, if we assume you let Ubuntu set up your partitions using default settings it would have reserved 5% of the space for system use. 146.2 * 0.05 = 7.3...)

I have to ask, for my own curiosity, what is this 5% for system use you refer to? Are you referring to the swap partition?

---

