---
title: "...help"
date: 2006-10-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by sin1984 on 2006-10-21
i need help installing, i searched the forums for a good couple of hours and found nothing.

i keep getting hung up on mounting root file system.. i tried everything in this guys post

"I did a search around the forums for "mounting root file system" and found an answer. Possibly, three.

First, when the "mounting root file system" error pops up, wait a few minutes until the shell loads. You'll know it loaded when the "hdb:ide_intr: huh? expected NULL handler on exit" error appears. Now, type evms_activate. Press CTRL-D. Wait about three minutes and see if things start getting okay'd. If not, type mount-0 remount, rw // sbin / evms_activate . Press ctrl-D. Wait a few minutes. This is what worked for me. If it doesn't for you, unplug all USB devices and restart the CD. Should work with no problems. Not sure.

Supposedly, the problem is that the USB devices are recognized in the wrong order causing it to stall. (I know someone can give a better answer. Please.)

Post to say how it goes. Good luck."

but to no avail.after it loads the kernal, it shows it loaded essential drivers...ok, then it hangs on mounting root file system. then i get "hdc:ide_intr: huh? expected NULL handler on exit" and then after that i get "buffer I/O error on device hdc, logical block 358278" and those two just keep repeating them selves over and over again.

any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by raul_ on 2006-10-21
Check CD for errors

---

### Post by fatsheep on 2006-10-21
Are you using the LiveCd to install?  If so try the alternate installer.

---

