---
title: "6.10 Live CD boots into blank screen"
date: 2006-12-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Jinan on 2006-12-10
Hi all, I'm having some problems that are preventing me from finally taking the plunge. Let me explain my situation. I hope I won't be too verbose, but I guess that when soliciting help, more information is better than less.

Recently, my employer provided me with a computer. I already had a laptop. Immediately, it struck me that I might finally get to install and play around with Linux while still being able to get my work done. So, I decided to try and install Ubuntu on my laptop.

I downloaded the latest released (which is the one being touted most intensively at ubuntu.com), 6.10, and to be sure that a problematic download wasn't the cause of the problems I had, I downloaded it a second time from a different server.

My laptop is an Acer Aspire 5500. A one-year old computer with a Pentium M 1.76 Ghz CPU, Centrino chipset, 512 MB RAM and ATI Radeon X700 mobility with 64 MB of RAM. It just got a new motherboard and DVD drive under warranty, so it should be as new. 

Upon first booting the Live CD, I was happy to see Ubuntu boot readily. However, my joy was shortlived: at some point during the installation, my screen went completely black: there was nothing on the screen, and the backlight was off. However, I could still hear the CD moving, and after waiting some more, I could even hear what I believe might be Ubuntu's startup theme.

I didn't know what to do at first, but then decided to go into Ubuntu's help channel on IRC, where a few kind souls helped me along a bit, though my problem is still not solved.

I was able to get something back on my screen by pushing a combination of CTRL+ALT+F2. What I saw was a command prompt, with the line "ubuntu@ubuntu$", or something very close to that.

I was told that there might be a problem with my video card, and that I should try to get my computer to use the vesa driver, at least during the install.

I was told to type:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

and that did bring up a somewhat graphical set of pages. I did as told, switched the driver to VESA. But, after the reconfigure pages are over, I am left at the command line, and when I type (as someone told me to):

sudo /etc/init.d/?dm restart

I get a 'fail'.

Somewhere, while trying different things, there was a message saying that there was no screen found, so there is still something not all correct. I don't know where to go from here... I haven't even been able to boot into Ubuntu once. 

:( 

Also, I did try to boot the live cd with the option that is mentioned in the F5 or F6 window as the computer starts, which, that particular menu states, is an option for laptops with display problems. That did nothing for me.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-12-10
Maybe this link can help?:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190133](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190133)

If you have an internet connection, installing the fglrx driver, as described in reply #4, may work...

---

### Post by Jinan on 2006-12-10
I wish it would help. The problem is: the configuration wizard changes the driver to VESA, like the link says I should do (I've tried it manually as well, more as the link says) but I cannot start the x-server... that's my problem: typing startx brings nothing but problems.

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-12-10
> Upon first booting the Live CD, 

Sometimes the Live CD is buggy.  If you use the alternate install, it may work just fine.  You have to type in a bit more, but mostly it is common sense.  If you want to see what you have to type during the install look at the [Illustrated Dual Boot]("http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/").  If you aren't dual booting, just skip that part.  The rest will apply to you.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-12-10
> **Jinan said:**
> I wish it would help. The problem is: the configuration wizard changes the driver to VESA, like the link says I should do (I've tried it manually as well, more as the link says) but I cannot start the x-server... that's my problem: typing startx brings nothing but problems.
Seems 6.10 booting to a blank screen is a bug for some hardware:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=290655&highlight=blank+screen](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=290655&highlight=blank+screen)

---

### Post by Jinan on 2006-12-10
Oh... again I'd have to say that that doesn't fully describe my problem. There's mention of the following symptoms in that thread:

"
    * When booting Edgy from either the LiveCD or an installed system, you receive a blank screen after the boot phase, just as the GDM should be starting
    * You do not hear the Ubuntu startup sound
    * You cannot get a terminal using Ctrl-Alt-[F1-F6]

" 

while I can hear the Ubuntu startup sound, and I can get a terminal. I guess I'll try the alternate CD first. Perhaps that will work.

---

### Post by Jinan on 2006-12-16
There really is no answer to this question. Or at least, that seems to be what I've been able to gather.

I've searched other threads, and I've bumped into bug submissions. I see no way out.

I'm going to do something, therefore, that might seem blasphemous. I want to ask the congregation what they would recommend as an alternate distro. Suse, Fedora, Mandriva... Let's hear it.

I want to move away from Windows as soon as possible.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2006-12-16
> **Jinan said:**
> There really is no answer to this question. Or at least, that seems to be what I've been able to gather.

I've searched other threads, and I've bumped into bug submissions. I see no way out.

I'm going to do something, therefore, that might seem blasphemous. I want to ask the congregation what they would recommend as an alternate distro. Suse, Fedora, Mandriva... Let's hear it.

I want to move away from Windows as soon as possible.

Jinan:

Did you try the ALTERATE CD installation version ?

If so, what happened there ?

---

### Post by Jinan on 2006-12-16
> **wpshooter said:**
> Jinan:

Did you try the ALTERATE CD installation version ?

If so, what happened there ?

I have tried the alternate cd.

As it doesn't actually rely on X, i was able to install Ubuntu alright (I guess) but I was never able to start. Booting my computer merely landed me into a blank screen, from whence I couldn't but do the same things I was able to do from the live CD.

By the way, as I read some complaints specifically about Edgy Eft, I tried the Dapper Drake alternate CD, also because it's LTS and it's advised on the Ubuntu site, I believe. But: no go.

---

### Post by Joefireline on 2007-04-14
Jinan, looks like I have the exact same problem as you...
We have pretty much the same laptop, just mine is a 5512WMLi, and 128MB X700 graphics and 1GB of RAM.

I've just tried Fedora Core 6, and that didn't work. I've tried Knoppix, and that didn't work.

EDIT:
I have just found this: [http://www.fedoraforum.org/forum/archive/index.php/t-101008.html](http://www.fedoraforum.org/forum/archive/index.php/t-101008.html)
Not sure if it will help, if you have a lot of luck it might... It is for fedora core, but might be of some use.

---

### Post by Joefireline on 2007-04-15
I use a external CRT monitor, and wah hey! It's workin'. I'm just trying to get that mod workin' now.

---

### Post by dies3l on 2007-04-15
Hi there,

I bring my little experience: I'm trying to install Ubuntu, in different times, from about a year, when I bought my laptop, Asus 6000 series, with ATI X700.
I'm trying now with 6.10, but no luck in this.
I got a success installation with SUSE 10.1

I'm sorry for my bad english! :)

Regards

---

