---
title: "[SOLVED] Compiz with Minimal Install"
date: 2007-11-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Brian96 on 2007-11-21
(EDIT: I found a solution here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=623752](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=623752)  It seems there were missing packages.)


I need help getting Compiz to work with a minimal install.

I typically install Ubuntu with just the xserver-xorg-core, gnome-core, and gdm packages on top of a server install. With 7.04 I had no difficulty getting Beryl to work with this basic setup.

Before doing a minimal install with 7.10, I did a full install to make sure everything worked, and Compiz worked fine in that environment.

After the minimal install, however, I cannot get Compiz to work. I installed the compiz package (and all the dependencies apt-get pulled in) as well as compiz-settings-manager. When I try to run it fom the Apperances GUI it fails. When I try compiz --replace in a terminal I get the following output:

[quote=Code]
brian@ubuntu:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 00:02.0 0300: 8086:2562 (rev 01) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x1024) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting gtk-window-decorator
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No GLXFBConfig for default depth, this isn't going to work.
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0[/quote]

Is it possible that I am missing a package somewhere that wasn't pulled in as a dependency? I know initially I had to manually install xfonts-base and discover1 to get xserver working and running the appropriate drivers.

My xorg.conf looks like this:

[quote=Code]# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection[/quote]

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by DutyDuty on 2007-11-21
How did you install compiz in the first place?

---

### Post by Brian96 on 2007-11-21
> **DutyDuty said:**
> How did you install compiz in the first place?

In synaptic, I just selected the compiz package and accepted the dependencies it pulled in. I also installed the settings manager through synaptic.

---

### Post by DutyDuty on 2007-11-21
Install Xgl. That's what I've done.

---

### Post by Brian96 on 2007-11-21
> **DutyDuty said:**
> Install Xgl. That's what I've done.

Is Xgl always required for Compiz, or is this a workaround?

---

### Post by DutyDuty on 2007-11-21
Well, when I run compiz --replace, one of the first things it checks for is Xgl, so it helps.

---

### Post by Brian96 on 2007-11-22
> **DutyDuty said:**
> Well, when I run compiz --replace, one of the first things it checks for is Xgl, so it helps.

Thanks for your help. I've read elsewhere that Xgl is only necessary for ATI cards, and I'm using an intel card.

Apparently folks using Xubuntu have had similar problems, so there seems to be either a package or a configuration that comes in a full Ubuntu install that is not pulled in if you use certain other builds.

Also, glxinfo says that rendering is off. I'm not sure if that is related, nor am I sure what to do about it if it is.

---

