---
title: "2.7.2 kernal, Wine and PicasaWeb"
date: 2006-09-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by turbotuba on 2006-09-10
I want to run picasaweb. I downloaded the "exact Wine source tarball used for Picasa 2.2." from [http://code.google.com/wine.html](http://code.google.com/wine.html). But in the README file it said I needed 2.7.2 kernel or higher. Can I upgrade to a 2.7.2 kernal. If i can how?


"Build tool requirements:
  On x86 Systems gcc >= 2.7.2 is required.
  Versions earlier than 2.7.2.3 may have problems when certain files
  are compiled with optimization, often due to problems with header file
  management. pgcc currently doesn't work with Wine. The cause of this problem
  is unknown."
---picasa-wine-2.2.2820-5/README

$ ./tools/wineinstallWINE Installer v0.75

Running configure...

configure: creating cache config.cache
checking build system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking host system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... configure: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.

---

### Post by curtis on 2006-09-10
Your be fine if your using Hoary, Breezy, Dapper or Edgy as they all have a later kernel.

---

### Post by rejser on 2006-09-10
doesn't Hoary, Breezy, Dapper or Edgy run on 2.6, and 2.7 is the development kernel that will become 2.8?

---

### Post by qamelian on 2006-09-10
> **rejser said:**
> doesn't Hoary, Breezy, Dapper or Edgy run on 2.6, and 2.7 is the development kernel that will become 2.8?

That's right. The latest kernel on Dapper is 2.6.15.

---

### Post by turbotuba on 2006-09-10
turbotuba@turbotuba-laptop:~$ uname -a
Linux turbotuba-laptop 2.6.15-26-386 #1 PREEMPT Thu Aug 3 02:52:00 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux
turbotuba@turbotuba-laptop:~$

---

