---
title: "[SOLVED] Screen needs adjustment on boot"
date: 2008-03-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-16
I've just installed kubuntu using the wubi application onto a Dell D505 latitude laptop.

My problem is that on boot the display seems to be shifted down half an inch, because I lose the top of the screen and it just has weird multicoloured lines and the bottom of the screen is missing.  The mouse pointer is also invisible and I can only locate it by left clicking and dragging a selection box across the screen.

I have managed to resolve this issue by pressing "fn crt/lcd" and then the screen looks blank.  When I press the "fn crt/lcd" buttons the screen comes back as it should.  

It would be nice if I didn't have to do this on boot.  

Thanks for your help

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2008-03-19
This sounds like an issue with you xorg.conf file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf).  Could you post the contents of that file here?  You will probably have more luck getting an answer that way.

---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-19
thanks for reply.

I'm a complete noob - could you tell me how to find the contents of the file.  i presume i have to type some command into the terminal but I've searched on google and can't find what it is.

Once again thanks for your tolerance and help

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2008-03-19
No problem.  We've all been there before.

The xorg.conf file is located in the /etc/X11/ folder of your Kubuntu installation.  You can open it with kate (the last time I installed KDE, that was the default text editor, it may have changed) by typing the following in Konsole:

```

kate /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

* This will open the file in read-only mode because you aren't opening as root

Or you could also type:

```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

If you do it this way:

```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf > xorg.conf.txt

```

The extra "> xorg.conf.txt" simply tells the command to output to a file called xorg.conf.txt.

Also, you might want to know, the xorg.conf is a file that sets up your screen mouse and keyboard (and other stuff).  It can look daunting at first, but you'll figure it out one piece at a time.

---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-20
Since posting the orignal thread I got a bit fed up with kubuntu, mainly because I couldn't get to grips with konqueror.

So I installed edubuntu instead.  Can you tell me what the command is if I'm using edubuntu please.

Sorry to be a pain.

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2008-03-20
Are you able to open a terminal window? (Sort of looks like an old school dos prompt...)

The only difference in the commands is that you should use gedit instead of kate.

Were your problems with Konqueror related to its web browsing or file browsing?

---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-20
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

that's what I get when i type gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf into the terminal window.

Problem with Konqueror was mainly that I wanted to type stuff into the address bar and rather than searching the web it would search my hard disk.  I also found it less intuitive to find things like wireless connections.  All rather minor stuff but I found it a little more awkward than firefox.

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2008-03-20
What's the native resolution of the screen?

Unfortunately you're not the first to have issues with intel graphics chipsets in linux.  I've always avoided them so I've never had to troubleshoot them.  At first glance, your config looks ok.

---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-20
I've looked around mainly doing google searches and I think the native resolution is 1024 x 768 pixels.  

I know I've got the Dell D505 latitude laptop.  And after measuring the screen size with a ruler it would appear to be 14.1" across the diagonal.

The screen resolution is fine, now.  But I still have to do this rather annoying process of hitting the crt/lcd button twice in order for the screen to work properly.

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2008-03-25
I found this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=261019](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=261019)

It seems that if you install the xserver-xorg-video-intel package.
```

sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel

```

And change the driver from i810 to intel it will work. So change:
```

Driver "i810"

```
to
```

Driver "intel"

```

---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-26
I just typed that first line of command into the terminal window and I think it went through the process of removing the i810 and installing intel driver.

Moment of truth as I shut down and then restart my machine 

...

---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-26
It worked an absolute treat.

Just to confirm 

type "sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-intel" into the terminal window and it automatically removes the i810 driver and replaces it with the intel driver.

Very impressed with my early experience using Ubuntu.

Thanks

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2008-03-26
Glad I could help.

In the future, when you come across problems, you should always do a search in the forums for people with similar problems.  Even if you don't find a solution, you can "join" an exisiting thread so if/when a solution is found you will all get it.  It helps to minimize the number of threads dealing with the same issue.  I realize that it would have been hard for you to do this time since you really had no idea what to do, but it's good to keep in mind.

Also, you should mark the thread as solved using the "Thread tools" button at the top of the page.

Oh, and welcome to Ubuntu. :)

---

### Post by bzzzzz on 2008-03-26
I did actually do several searches, but I didn't know how to explain my problem very clearly.

I was also aware that there were 2 different types of d505 computers (two different displays) so wasn't sure that other peoples problems were the same as mine, and I hadn't found the message that you found.

Thanks for the help and I'll put this down as solved as soon as I've worked out how to achieve this.

---

