---
title: "6.06 crashed cannot retrieve"
date: 2008-01-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kevbro on 2008-01-27
I have Ubuntu 6.06 installed with XP pro dual boot (2 separate HDD’s).  Cannot start Ubuntu, but am able to start XP.  This problem arose after attempting update Nvidia graphic drivers with Automax, this process become an issue only because my LCD monitor went belly-up – and had to resort to an old monitor, could not change resolution size. Probably went about all this the wrong way – whatever the problem--

Ubuntu 6.06 OS will not start – cannot start – cannot restore

1) Selecting Recovery mode in the GRUB menu leads nowhere – final stopping point is

[17179596.640000] io: disabled privacy extensions
[17179596.640000] ipv6 over ipv4 tunneling driver

ceases at the above

2) Selecting Ubuntu,kernel 2.6.05-15-386

runs through the UBUNTU start up screen marking OK until FAILED to start X server

ending up with a black screen:

Login: Username OK
Password: OK

Looking for a command ?????

Can anyone help?

I need to retrieve data from drive rather than re-format etc – 
- have considered installing 7.04 as I have mistakenly lost the original 6.06 disk, the startup info for 7.04 suggests that data will not be lost 
- downloaded and burnt 6.06 but disk/s will not startup to use “rescue a broken system”
- short obtaining another HDD and setting up another OS, I do not know where to go.

---

### Post by freebeer on 2008-01-27
It sound like you just need to reconfigure xorg.  So before you do anything drastic (re-install, etc.)  try ```

$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

when you boot using your Step 2)

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-01-27
Then uninstall automatix and never use it again.

---

### Post by mssever on 2008-01-27
See the link in my signature for why Automatix is dangerous.

Also, after using the command freebeer gave you, type ```
sudo reboot
``` to reboot your computer safely.

(On another note, you can't upgrade directly to 7.04. You have to upgrade to each version in order: 6.06 -> 6.10 -> 7.04 -> 7.10)

---

### Post by kevbro on 2008-01-27
Thank you mssever - you are the man.  Did as you suggested, many questions to answer but managed the right answers (took about 3 attempts)  and starts Ok.  Although I appear to have lost audio - will pursue the hardware profiles

thanks again

---

### Post by kevbro on 2008-01-27
have given automatix the boot - thank you

---

### Post by kevbro on 2008-01-27
Thank you guys - you are the man. All suggestions noted and used. Did as you suggested, many questions to answer but managed the right answers (took about 3 attempts) and starts Ok. Although I appear to have lost audio - will pursue the hardware profiles

thanks again

---

### Post by kevbro on 2008-01-27
Just a followup to the audio issue - when all else fails check the power supply properly inserted to the power outlet.  Daa makes life interesting.

THANKS to all who replied to my post - there is a wealth of support out there, which makes a forum like this a most valuable aid, and reassuring in having a go.

Kev

---

