---
title: "6.10 Edgy boots properly every other time"
date: 2007-03-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Rhombuss on 2007-03-22
I've been running Edgy for about 2 weeks now, things have been going great.  My only persisting problem that I haven't been able to solve has been a boot problem.  Right now, my system is dual-booted with WinXP (on an SATA drive), with Edgy on a PATA drive.  If I start the system with a cold boot, it'll boot into Ubuntu fine (Ubuntu is #1 in Grub).  However, if I'm restarting the computer (from either Windows or Ubuntu), and I want it to reboot into Ubuntu, it'll always reboot the system after Grub loads the "Starting Ubuntu" line.  It doesn't show the splash screen, the system will just reboot after that line.  After the reboot, Ubuntu always starts up fine on the second attempt.  Sucks that I have this problem, but I'm fortunate it's consistently behaving this way.

I've searched the forums, but I haven't come across this particular situation, and I'd rather not hose my install until I at least got some input from more experienced users.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by carlosfocker on 2007-03-22
What motherboard do you have. (Make/Model) I have had issues like this and It was related to a buggy bios. It's worth a shot browsing the manufactures site to see if they have bios updates for your board and what was fixed.

---

### Post by Rhombuss on 2007-03-22
I've got an Abit IC7.  I'll have a look on Abit's site for BIOS updates, but it's a "relatively" old board, running a 2.4C Northwood, so I doubt there would be any updates within the last 2 years or so.

---

### Post by carlosfocker on 2007-03-22
Yeah the last update was 2004-12-28. 

What was interesting is there is an item that got fix in version 11.

```
Fixed on-chip SATA boot issue while another bootable hard drives exist and attached to IDE-1 or IDE-2.
```

Check it out here [http://www.abit-usa.com/products/mb/bios_revision.php?categories=1&model=5](http://www.abit-usa.com/products/mb/bios_revision.php?categories=1&model=5)

I would check what version of the bios you have and try updating because it looks like there were quite a few issues concerning HD boot and compatibly.

** Just please make sure the link I sent you is the right board. If it isn't the identical model you will mess up you board**

---

