---
title: "6.06.1 installation errors - GRUB loader"
date: 2007-02-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by swamp rat on 2007-02-02
Ok, I downloaded Dapper drake 6.06.1 to try out on my comp. I hashed the download and got the CD to check for problems. Nothing wrong.

Installing Ubuntu, I got the partitioner to look for the largest continuious space (or the option that is along those lines). It came up with about 4 partitions. 1 of 122gb ish for my windows, 1 of 127gb ish of fat32 that i cleared up to intall ubuntu on. And then 1 of 80mb and 1 of 800mb for scratch and boot (not sure which is which). The install continued on its merry way until it got to select and install programs where it got an error. No error codes, just a statement that it failed and try it again or skip it. The next on the list (after copy rest of files to HDD, which also failed) was the GRUB loader. I started that one and it came up with an error but said it may not be an error with the grub loader, it coul be seperate and just continuing could work. I was thinking of quiting at that stage but wasnt sure if the computer would be borked if I quit halfway through.

During the GRUB install it came up with an error hd0. So i went back to the list and selected finish wihtout boot loader as I figured it there was no boot loader, it would just load back into windows.


.... Short answer no it didnt. I now get an error "Error loading operating system". Please help. I have got my important stuff backed up but would rather not have to spend the days rebuilding a windows install

edit: 
I have run windows recovery and done fixboot and fixmbr but now upon restart it comes up with "NTLDR is missing". I take it this is a windows problem now?

---

