---
title: "Intermittent but frequent boot failure from installed ubuntu (can't access tty)"
date: 2007-09-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by plasticM on 2007-09-23
Hi there,

I am currently becoming very frustrated with my new Dell "ubuntu PC" which fails to boot into Ubuntu about 50% of the time.  I'm completely new to Linux (sorry!) but I really want to make it work.  I'm not scared of the command line (although I prefer a visual interface - I'm only human :o) .   I'd be really grateful for some help.

Here's what I've done so far.

- Bought a Dell inspiron from Dell (with 7.04 pre-installed).
- Installed a copy of Vista Ultimate over everything (I had one knocking around). 
- Re-installed 7.04 from the CD into a new partition. 

Now I've had a few niggles getting the network adaptor and video card working (I referred to this [http://www.tequilafish.com/2007/08/02/installing-ubuntu-server-on-a-dell-inspiron-530/](http://www.tequilafish.com/2007/08/02/installing-ubuntu-server-on-a-dell-inspiron-530/) and used envy respectively) and now I'm even able to see my Windows partition from ubuntu and vice versa.

So what's the problem?  Ubuntu only boots from the HD roughly 50% of the time (and with no predictability).  Here's what happens:

- Grub runs - shows me Ubuntu twice(?), and Windows (attachment 1).
- Select Ubuntu (either of them).
- The Ubuntu boot screen shows, but the progress bar never gets anywhere (attachment 2).
- Generally at this point I hold the power button until the PC gives up, then repeat.
- But if I leave it for what seems like an age, I get attachment 3:

"[I]BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-3ubuntu3) Built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

/bin/sh: can't access tty: job control turned off
(initramfs) [   205.796281]  ata2.00: failed to set xfermode (err_mask=0x4)[/I]"

This is greek to me but I've found similar messages on the forums and even followed the advice here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=421588](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=421588)

No difference.

Can anyone help?  I don't want to give up and resort to Windows but if I can't sort this I'll have to.  I don't even really care that Windows looks nicer and the drivers all worked straight away, but having an operating system that actually boots up reliably is a real bonus.

Thanks,

Tim

---

### Post by Alterax on 2007-09-23
Strange.  Do you shut down your ubuntu system regularly?  If so, then it could be due to Ubuntu checking the hard disk structure with fsck.   Often, that is what is going on behind the curtain if it takes an exceptionally long time.

The settings on how often this should be checked are (if I remember right) in /etc/fstab.  Could you please post the contents of this file here?

---

### Post by plasticM on 2007-09-23
Oh dear, that's never good when someone says "strange...".  

And the spelling of automatically below doesn't fill me with confidence either.  :o)  

On the bright side I'm happier now because I've discovered compiz and done horrible things to gnome.

I've been shutting down and booting a lot because it's a new PC, and I've been setting stuff up.  Generally, I let it shut down and boot properly, it's just when it hangs I switch it off.  Sometimes takes 3 or 4 goes to start booting. And even if I leave it when it's hanging, as I say it never actually succeeds.

File contents below.  Thanks for taking a look.

Tim


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=ecc9602b-00b2-40ce-8281-25c0af541e3a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=875d98c5-4a02-4b41-b386-de3c4ee8e9f4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/win ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by plasticM on 2007-09-24
15 hours later, I'm on page 13 and my OS still won't boot (half the time).  Am I OK to bump yet?

---

### Post by Tilulii on 2007-09-24
I have some serious issues with my computer, namely, can't select any options at boot, as my keyboard refuses to work at that point.

Thought about fixing my garbled monitor my re-installing, as I need to get into windows soon, but as I booted with the installation CD, didn't get anywhere, got the same problem...

---

### Post by plasticM on 2007-09-24
This morning I switched on my shiny new PC and it booted into Ubuntu straight away.  Tonight it took eight attempts.  This is ridiculous, but I don't know where to go next.  Does anyone have any ideas?

Thanks again for reading...

---

### Post by amp_man on 2007-09-26
it looks like the initramfs might be bad, maybe reinstalling it will help. Can you try "sudo apt-get install linux-image-`uname -r` --reinstall"? Also, during the splash screen, hit CTRL+ALT+1 (or is it 8? try both) to view the kernel logs, this should tell you exactly what's going on when it errors out, and perhaps more debugging info.

I'm not entirely sure Alterax really read your post, you've given fairly clear info on what's wrong, and that ain't it.

---

### Post by equinox_child on 2007-09-26
I know this may sound really dumb, but have you tried formatting and reinstalling ubuntu?
Also, does it do the same thing when you try to boot the liveCD?

---

### Post by Supergoo on 2007-09-26
Reinstall the should fix it, If the computer is under warranty might try support . Good luck Yes sometimes Linux takes some work but it is worth it.Hang in there

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2007-09-26
if its brand new you should be going back to Dell, you should not of installed  Vista over the top i would reformat your hard drive but Ubuntu back on without Vista and it will probably work ok, if it does not then go back to the dealer a keep your mouth shut about vista, also if it was not a legal copy of vista it will probably put loads of rubbish on the hardrive that is bad for its health.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-09-26
I found an interesting possible solution here: [http://www.penlug.org/twiki/bin/view/Main/LinuxHardwareInfoDellPrecision410?raw=on]("http://www.penlug.org/twiki/bin/view/Main/LinuxHardwareInfoDellPrecision410?raw=on")

As mentioned above it does seem to be with the initramfs.

---

### Post by plasticM on 2007-09-26
Thanks for the replies.

I've copied all the stuff from my old PC to my Ubuntu partition so I don't really want to reinstall the OS, but it looks like it might be inevitable.

@kelvin: I don't see why having a dual boot PC should make going back to the dealer a problem?  Especially as my Vista is perfectly legal (I won it from M$)).

@Terl: The link you posted seems to relate to problems booting from the CD, which I haven't had problems with.

Thanks,

Tim

---

### Post by amp_man on 2007-09-27
Have you tried the things I posted? Was there any more debugging info on the other ttys? If so, could you please post it here?

---

### Post by amp_man on 2007-09-27
Have you tried the things I posted? Was there any more debugging info on the other ttys? If so, could you please post it here?

---

### Post by plasticM on 2007-11-01
Hi there,

1 month (and countless reinstalls and upgrades) later the problem seems to be solved!

I tried several reinstalls but with no joy and I was even having similar problems booting from the disk Dell gave me. :(  In the last week I discovered Dell have released an ISO of 7.04 plus some fixes, drivers, etc and that seemed to work :) :
[http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04#Download_Dell_Ubuntu_Image](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04#Download_Dell_Ubuntu_Image) 

Right up until I upgraded to Gutsy, when it all broke again worse than ever. :(  Similar errors, system hang, progress bar not moving, dropping out to a BusyBox which invited me to type 'help' for a list of built in commands.  Except I couldn't because every keystroke doubled up - hheellpp .

Then I found this other page on the Dell Wiki:
[http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04/Issues/USB-SATA_race_condition_causes_hang](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04/Issues/USB-SATA_race_condition_causes_hang)

And it appears the issue is worked around by the Dell ISO, but the workaround stops working when you upgrade (I can only imagine there will be some unhappy Dell Ubuntu PC owners).  So I re-ran the fix and it seems everthing is working now (touch wood).:guitar:

Thanks to anyone who tried to help (with the possible exception of those who just suggested it was my fault for trying to actually *install software on a computer*!), and sorry for not replying previously amp_man.

Hopefully this might help someone else with the same problem.

Tim

---

