---
title: "[SOLVED] disk labels and fstab"
date: 2007-10-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by FrozenFlame22 on 2007-10-11
I recently built a new computer and I'm using 4 internal harddrives (physical drives, not partitions), a DVD-ROM drive, a CD-RW drive and a 11-in-1 card reader, plus about a half dozen USB ports.

I need all my harddrives to be mounted at startup. I used [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131) to edit my fstab to mount my drives. Here's what my fstab currently looks like:

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=0c27d207-775e-4c1a-87d9-c194e8af08cb / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=beef11a2-bd46-448c-af25-d44657546ca1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdf1 /mnt/Thorin ext3 defaults 1 2
/dev/sdg1 /mnt/Balin ext3 defaults 0 0
```

I know that shows only 3 harddrives, the 4th is having problems and I'll fix that after I get this going.

Now here's my current problem: the drive designations keep moving around. I can understand a change when I connect new hardware, but when I haven't opened the box in a week? 

I read in the above posted link that a person can use labels to designate a drive. How does this work? Could I have an example of how to do this?

My harddrives are labeled already:GIMLI (boot), Thorin, and Balin.

---

### Post by phansiizwe on 2007-10-11
The following command will give you the UUID codes for your partitions.
Then exchange e.g. /dev/sdf1 with the UUID the command returns.

As you can see in your own file, for instance: /dev/sda1 -> UUID=0c27d207-775e-4c1a-87d9-c194e8af08cb

```
ls /dev/disk/by-uuid -alh
```

---

### Post by FrozenFlame22 on 2007-10-11
Thanks for the reply.

I can see how mounting with the UUID would help, but I'd really rather mount by disk label. Could I have an example on how to mount in fstab by disk label?

---

### Post by phansiizwe on 2007-10-11
Your welcome, sorry I misunderstood your question.

I looked at the link you posted and it seems to me that the following should be the way to do it:

```
LABEL=Thorin /mnt/Thorin ext3 defaults 1 2
LABEL=Balin /mnt/Balin ext3 defaults 0 0
```

---

### Post by FrozenFlame22 on 2007-10-11
Not a problem! Thanks for responding! This was exactly what I was looking for! :D

---

