---
title: "problem mounting external ntfs drive"
date: 2007-04-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Morkhaar on 2007-04-01
hello, 
I've been working on this quite a while and still haven't been able to make it work properly: 
i have an external ntfs hdd, which won't mount. it used to mount read-only, but after i ran the ntfs-config now i am unable to mount it.
when plugged in, it shows on Computer, but unmounted. right clicking and mount shows: **only root can mount /dev/sda1**. Via terminal, with sudo mount /dev/sda1  shows:

[B]fusermount: mountpoint is not empty
fusermount: if you are sure this is safe, use the 'nonempty' mount option
FUSE mount point creation error: No such file or directory
Unmounting /dev/sda1 (Avael)[/B]

and with gparted, mounting it makes it disappear from Computer:/// and in /media the folder has an x saying: **' You do not have the permissions necessary to view the contents of "sda1".'**

some days ago trying to mount it, showed that it wasn't properly unmounted the last time ,which is true because many times i had to cut off power, cause in windows safely removing hardware told me that it was busy and had to try later. i ran windows and safely removed it thinking it would solve the issue but it didn't. it only prevented me from mounting it read-only with gparted. 

my fstab lists:[B]
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda4 :
UUID=e5b43976-6ac6-43ab-a3c6-f1c12ec6b702 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=9ECCDDF0CCDDC327 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=4C54A5A254A58EF0 /media/hda2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=EE2CAFCB2CAF8D61 /media/hda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=10335c2a-4747-4629-81e1-0c182adcbd8d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 1
[/B]

suposedly it should mount on dev/sda1, but it doesn't. 
I don't want to change it to ext3 because I want it to be readable by windows, and I cannot format it because it's difficult to find another free 80 gb to store its data. All I want is that when plugged in on ubuntu or windows, i can read and write on it.
could a kind soul tell me what should I write on the fstab in order to make it work?
running ntfs-config another time from system doesn't change anything...

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-04-01
The reason why only root can mount is probably the missing "user" option in fstab... but let's try looking at the real problem first. I have no experience with ntfs3g, so take my advice with a grain of salt.
> 
fusermount: mountpoint is not empty
fusermount: if you are sure this is safe, use the 'nonempty' mount option
FUSE mount point creation error: No such file or directory
Unmounting /dev/sda1 (Avael)
Have you investigated this? Is /media/sda1/ empty before mounting (check with *sudo ls -a /media/sda1*)?

---

### Post by Morkhaar on 2007-04-01
thanks for the reply,
well, I 'm not sure what the real problem is.. followed  your advice and:
sudo ls -a /media/sda1 ( suposing -a is an option) shows :
**.  ..  .created_by_pmount**

sudo ls /dev/sda1 /media/sda1 (suposing -a is a filename) shows:
[B]/dev/sda1

/media/sda1:[/B]

bothways, it appears to me that it's not empty.. :?
should I do something to... empty it?? :)

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-04-02
-a is an option that means "show all files, even ones starting with a dot".

that file (.created_by_pmount) should only exist in mount points that are actually created by pmount -- this means e.g. mount points that automagically appear when you connect a USB disk. 

You are mounting the device in fstab, so pmount magic shouldn't be happening... I'd try removing the file (*sudo rm /media/sda1/.created_by_pmount*) and trying the mount command as root again.

---

### Post by Morkhaar on 2007-04-02
well thanks a lot Jussi!!! :)
**sudo rm /media/sda1/.created_by_pmount** did the trick! I can now r/w my hdd!

one final question though:
if the hdd is already plugged in when booting, it is automounted and functional. if therefore I plug it in afterwards, I still have to do it as root. 
I changed the fstab from: 
**/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 1** to :
**/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,user,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 1** 
as you had mentioned, but that only made appear another sda1 volume in computer:// which is unmountable, while i can still mount and access my hdd..! :confused: 
guess that wasn't it, so I erased user from fstab. Any suggestions? 
thanx again for your help!

the pmount file, has something to do with my usb flashdrive which was also disfunctional, but 'magically' recovered after i pluged it in in another ubuntu laptop. Anyway, now it appears that both hdd's function properly

[--- I'm writing this last paragraph in case someone else follows the thread, after Jussi's advice the hdd is functional, but unmounting and mounting  as root shows a message about **deficient FUSE kernel module detected** which apparently is a frequent problem in the forums. i 'm now tracing it from the thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2211115]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2211115")
and searching the forums of givre, hope to find the solution there. I suspect that this caused the problem to begin with, but anyway doesn't seem to be affecting something right now ---]

---

### Post by Morkhaar on 2007-04-02
Correction!
not everything is working properly:
for some reason, the usb flashdrive and the hdd, both want to be mounted on /dev/sda1.
if the hdd is plugged in first and properly,it automounts without root, then the flashdrive pmounts and everything is fine.
if the flashdrive is plugged first, doesn't mount even with root, and then the hdd pmounts and works fine! now I'm confused for good!

---

### Post by Godan on 2007-04-08
[QUOTE=Morkhaar;2392842]well thanks a lot Jussi!!! :)
**sudo rm /media/sda1/.created_by_pmount** did the trick! I can now r/w my hdd!

I can access my USB NTFS but I can't write to it. 


I've tried variations of umask, etc in the FSTAB but nothing seems to work.  Permissions are assigned to me, but I cannot change Folder Access away from Access.

---

