---
title: "-:0"
date: 2006-01-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by editrix on 2006-01-08
Right now, KSysGuard is reporting 2 instances of kdm running. For one, the command is usr/bin/kdm and for the other it's -:0

What does -:0 mean?

Also, can anyone point me to a website that explains the significance of all those numbers? I've read posts about some processes using more memory than they should, but I have no idea how to interpret what KSysGuard reports. The KSysGuard manual is about as useless as most KDE manuals.

Thanks.

---

### Post by el toro on 2006-01-08
afaik that's the screen # (0) of your x session--if you were runnning two x sessions, you would have -:0 and -:1--hope that helps

---

### Post by patrick295767 on 2006-01-08
[QUOTE=editrix]Right now, KSysGuard is reporting 2 instances of kdm running. For one, the command is usr/bin/kdm and for the other it's -:0

What does -:0 mean?

Also, can anyone point me to a website that explains the significance of all those numbers? I've read posts about some processes using more memory than they should, but I have no idea how to interpret what KSysGuard reports. The KSysGuard manual is about as useless as most KDE manuals.

Thanks.[/QUOTE]
  
I am interested !
How did you do that to have two kdm on :0 and :1 ?
   
Thanks 

Pat

---

### Post by editrix on 2006-01-10
Well, I answered this yesterday, but somehow, the post didn't go through. So my apologies for being tardy on my own problem. Now, if I can just remember what I said then ...

[QUOTE=el toro]
  afaik that's the screen # (0) of your x session--if you were runnning two x sessions, you would have -:0 and -:1--hope that helps[/QUOTE]

Sort of. Except I don't have a -:1. Just the 0 and usr/bin/kdm. How would I know if I'm running 2 Xsessions? I've only got one instance of Xorg. But 2 getty, if that makes any sense.

[QUOTE=patrick295767]I am interested !
How did you do that to have two kdm on :0 and :1 ?
 
Thanks 

Pat[/QUOTE]

I wish I knew. My system has slowed horribly, the HD constantly grinding, and I was trying to figure out why, which is how I found out about it. It's day 3 now, and I've still got it. I didn't used to.

---

