---
title: "Copying Files from Windows Partition to External HD"
date: 2007-03-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Error47 on 2007-03-27
My Windows crashed for good (No Surpise) and I have chosen to stick with Ubutnu. I need to copy files from my Windows partition to the external HD. I think the external HD is on the NTFS filesystem. I have mounted my windows partition, but I cannot copy files to the external HD. The external HD is like read-only and can't copy files to it. I tried installing the "Automatix read/write NTFS and FAT32 Mounter" from automatix. But that just made things worse, I couldn't find my windows partition after that. I got it to work again and everything but nothing changed, I still can't copy files. 

This a copy from my terminal of some of the things I tried after installing that automatix program.

> andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda2
UUID=a879305e-ab9d-4e72-90e8-1b5c10f5c990 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=7980557e-91bc-4529-80e0-765a48c3fa29 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/           /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo mount /media/hda1
Password:
Volume is scheduled for check.
Please boot into Windows TWICE, or use the 'force' mount option.
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ ntfsfix /dev/hda1 ntfs-3g /dev/hda1/ /media/hda1 -o force
bash: ntfsfix: command not found
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfsfix /dev/hda1 ntfs-3g /dev/hda1/ /media/hda1 -o force
sudo: ntfsfix: command not found
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfsfix /dev/hda1 ntfs-3g /dev/hda1/ /media/hda1 -o force
sudo: ntfsfix: command not found
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfsfix /dev/hda1 ntfs-3g /dev/hda1/ /media/hda1 -o force
ERROR: Too many arguments.
ntfsfix v1.12.1 (libntfs 8:1:0)

Usage: ntfsfix [options] device
    Attempt to fix an NTFS partition.

    -h, --help             Display this help
    -V, --version          Display version information

For example: ntfsfix /dev/hda6

Developers' email address: [email]linux-ntfs-dev@lists.sourceforge.net[/email]
Linux NTFS homepage: [http://linux-ntfs.sourceforge.net](http://linux-ntfs.sourceforge.net)
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfsfix /dev/hda1
Mounting volume... OK
Processing of $MFT and $MFTMirr completed successfully.
NTFS volume version is 3.1.
Setting required flags on partition... OK
Going to empty the journal ($LogFile)... OK
NTFS partition /dev/hda1 was processed successfully.
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo mount /media/hda1
Volume is scheduled for check.
Please boot into Windows TWICE, or use the 'force' mount option.
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfs-3g mount /media/hda1 -o force
Cannot mount 'mount': No such file or directory

ntfs-3g 1.0 - Third Generation NTFS Driver

Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Yura Pakhuchiy
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Szabolcs Szakacsits

Usage:    ntfs-3g device mount_point [-o options]

Options:  ro, force, locale, uid, gid, umask, fmask, dmask, 
          show_sys_files, no_def_opts, streams_interface.
          Please see the details in the manual.

Ntfs-3g news, support and information:  [http://www.ntfs-3g.org](http://www.ntfs-3g.org)

andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfs-3g /media/hda1 -o force
Error opening partition device: Is a directory
Failed to startup volume: Is a directory
Failed to mount '/media/hda1': Is a directory
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfs-3g /dev/hda1 /media/hda1 -o force
WARNING: Dirty volume mount was forced by the 'force' mount option.
WARNING: Deficient FUSE kernel module detected. Some driver features are
         not available (swap file on NTFS, boot from NTFS by LILO), and
         unmount is not safe unless it's made sure the ntfs-3g process
         naturally terminates after calling 'umount'. The safe FUSE kernel
         driver is included in the official Linux kernels since version
         2.6.20-rc1, or in the FUSE 2.6.0 or later software packages,
         except the faulty FUSE version 2.6.2. For more help, please
         have a look at /usr/share/doc/ntfs-3g/README.Debian. Thanks

andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo unmount /media/sda1
sudo: unmount: command not found
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo umount /media/sda1
umount: /media/sda1: not mounted
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo umount /media/LACIE sudo ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/sda1 -o force
umount: invalid option -- o
Usage: umount [-hV]
       umount -a [-f] [-r] [-n] [-v] [-t vfstypes] [-O opts]
       umount [-f] [-r] [-n] [-v] special | node...
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo umount /media/LACI
umount: /media/LACI: not found
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo umount /media/LACIE
umount: /media/LACIE: device is busy
umount: /media/LACIE: device is busy
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo umount /media/LACIE
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo umount /media/LACIE
umount: /media/LACIE: not mounted
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/sda1 -o force
Failed to access '/dev/sda1': No such file or directory
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ ls /dev | grep da
hda
hda1
hda2
hda3
hda5
ptyda
sda
ttyda
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfs-3g /dev/sda /media/sda1 -o force
Error opening partition device: No medium found
Failed to startup volume: No medium found
Failed to mount '/dev/sda': No me

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-03-27
I should make some space available on the external drive and format it ext3.
Copy your windows files to it,and forget the NTFS file system,you don't need it with ubuntu.

---

### Post by Error47 on 2007-03-27
Are there any ways to get NTFS to work on ubuntu? I don't know how to do what you just said. But I would rather not play around with it since it is not mine.

---

### Post by bulldog on 2007-03-27
Well there seems to be a driver to read and write to a NTFS file system.
Just search this forum,it's many times asked.
But I can't recommend it,it can completely mess up your file system.
Here is a link from google,there are many more,

[http://www.ntfs-3g.org/quality.html](http://www.ntfs-3g.org/quality.html)

---

### Post by Error47 on 2007-03-27
I think I used that ntfs-3g, check what I wrote in my konsole.

---

### Post by Error47 on 2007-03-27
Well, it seems to work now that I rebooted. I can create files on my external HD now, so that's fixed. But my Windows partition that I had before is gone again. I had it under /media/windows then I did something which made go to /media/hda1 now both directories are empty. What now?

Oh and, How does it mess up my files system?

---

