---
title: "6.06 LTS ISO updates"
date: 2006-09-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by tracyapotter on 2006-09-20
Is the 6.06 LTS ISO in the download section from way back in June or does it have the updates made since then?

  I am 6 months into this whole Linux thing and am learning enough to be quite dangerous.  I have started from scratch several times now with newly acquired knowledge to make a cleaner install. My issue is just that every time I start from June's ISO I have to upgrade 120 files.  This takes just as long as the initial install.  If the ISOs are updated, then I will burn a new CD, if not, oh well.

Thanks,
TA Potter

---

### Post by mostwanted on 2006-09-20
6.06.1 was released recently and has all updates until then. The mirrors all have 6.06.1.

---

### Post by Dinerty on 2006-09-20
You need to re-download the iso again, the updated one is called **6.06.1**, this has some updates pre-installed

---

### Post by Metacarpal on 2006-09-20
The ISOs on the Ubuntu.com download page were updated in mid-August (labeled as Ubuntu 6.06.1).  If you install from the new CD iso, there will still be some updates to download, but not nearly as many - plus, the installer was updated and works better now.

---

### Post by tracyapotter on 2006-09-20
Thanks everyone, lightning fast answers.

TA

---

### Post by kipeloff on 2006-09-20
Hello, 

I received shipped disks 2 weeks ago, I had to install packages updates (>100), but it wasn't quite serious problem.

---

### Post by xpod on 2006-09-20
> Is the 6.06 LTS ISO in the download section from way back in June or does it have the updates made since then?

I am 6 months into this whole Linux thing and am learning enough to be quite dangerous. I have started from scratch several times now with newly acquired knowledge to make a cleaner install. My issue is just that every time I start from June's ISO I have to upgrade 120 files. This takes just as long as the initial install. If the ISOs are updated, then I will burn a new CD, if not, oh well.

SNAP....im only a month or two though but the update thing is a bit tedious after a couple on installs....I think the 20 minutes for a new iso would have been a bit quicker eh:???:

---

