---
title: ".run files?"
date: 2008-02-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by SIXAXIS on 2008-02-03
Hi guys,

I am new to Linux although I have been using Windows and programming for Windows for a while now. I need a little bit of help from you guys in regards to the ".run" files. I can't seem to open them properly, it always says to do it in the root. I tried to run it from the Terminal window as if it was the command line in Windows. When I try to open it from there, it says that it cannot open the file. I know that the file is made for Ubuntu Linux and I need it to install my wireless card driver.

Can someone explain to me how .run files work and how to install this program? And also, does anyone know where I can download a Broadcom Wireless 802.11a/b/g driver for Ubuntu Linux (7.1.0)?

Thanks a lot guys,
SIXAXIS

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-02-03
First, make sure you are in the same directory where that file is.  Then, you need to change permissions to include an executable before you run it, as root privilege.

```
chmod 755 filename.run
sudo ./filename
```

[http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)

---

### Post by SIXAXIS on 2008-02-03
I tried the sudo thing, but I'll try chmod 755. Thanks for helping. :)

---

### Post by TheBoat on 2008-02-03
if you get a permission error on the chmod, you should sudo that commands as well
```
sudo chmod 755 filename.run
```

---

### Post by ~LoKe on 2008-02-03
Blah.

```
sh *.run
```

---

### Post by PaulSipot on 2008-02-03
You could just try:
chmod +x <filename>     # Making it executable
then:
./filename.run
or
sudo ./filename.run # if it needs root privileges

---

### Post by Majorix on 2008-02-03
A .run file is usually a package and therefore often needs sudo infront.

---

