---
title: "7.10 install &quot;running local boot scripts&quot; hangs"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by PCGUY112887 on 2007-10-19
I am wanting to put Ubuntu 7.10 on a PC for my mother, I've used Ubuntu before and this is the first time I have ever had an issue like this with it.

I downloaded the 7.10 64bit version, burned it and put it in the computer.  I ran the media check to ensure I have a good download/burn, and I do it verified.

Everything loads fine till I get to where it would start the X server.  It tells me that it can not autodetect my video card and said I could run in video safe mode or pick the driver.  I have tried keeping it in safe mode, trying to pick my driver (nVidia 7100), tried setting my monitor settings, etc.  

It just hangs on "running local boot scripts" and never does anything.  I can hit alt f2 and get to a console, and I am sure I could lookup how to do a text based install however that won't really help me since as soon as it is installed the same thing will happen.

From searching around it seems to be a driver issue, but since it lists the driver I don't understand why there is an issue, or why safe mode doesn't work.

The 7100 is integrated on the motherboard, however it uses system memory for it's memory so it shouldn't be outta memory (system has a gig).

Please help!  Maybe the 64 bit drivers are just not working correctly?  I have not tried a 32bit install yet...

---

### Post by molly_001 on 2007-10-19
While I would certainly try the 32-bit version to compare for the same problem, are you familiar with reconfiguring the X server to your graphical needs?  By this, I mean command (from root):

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

I'll wait to write more dependent on your reply.
Thanks.

---

### Post by PCGUY112887 on 2007-10-20
Hey thanks for the suggestion.  I was thinking similar and I started to download the 32bit version, then I had the idea to try "start ubuntu in graphical safe mode".  I figured it wouldn't change anything since it told me I was in "safe mode" earlier when the local boot scripts hang would happen.

Regardless clicked it, gave me a kinda screwed up screen but I could installed.  Restarted, detected vid card, installed nvidia's drivers, got flash installed, etc etc.  Have the graphical settings on high too, with correct widescreen res!

Thanks ubuntu!

---

### Post by shegs on 2007-10-20
i am having the same issue but when I try to run the graphical safe mode the same thing happens.

I am familiar with manually setting up my graphics display but I cant seem to get that far...
any suggestions?

I have tried previous versions and nothing has worked for me... I know it is my video cards that have caused the problem but I have heard that it is atleast possible to install with ATI x1900xtx video cards and now I am trying to...

---

### Post by molly_001 on 2007-10-20
> **shegs said:**
> shegs wrote .. .

i am having the same issue but when I try to run the graphical safe mode the same thing happens.

I am familiar with manually setting up my graphics display but I cant seem to get that far...
any suggestions?




shegs,
You should be able to reconfigure the X server and get a display no problem.  The trick is to find just the correct combination of settings for the xorg file.  I can't tell from your post whether you are familiar with reconfiguring the xserver, so I'll give a little more info:

(1) Let's assume you are using the "LiveCD" version of 7.10.  I suggest 7.10 because the script for reconfiguring xserver-xorg has been updated in 7.10 and it's nice.

(2)  Boot up Ubuntu CD (don't "Start" yet!!) -- hit F4 and select 1280x1024x32 mode.  Now Start Ubuntu.

(3)  At some point the display will probably go black or grey or weirded out.  Just let Ubuntu keep loading from CD even though you can't see anything or tell what is going on.  The LiveCD may spin for a few more moments.  Wait until the CD has obviously stopped spinning, and then...

(4)  Hit CTRL + ALT + BACKSPACE at the same time.  If it's your lucky day, you'll get a display of Ubuntu desktop after a few seconds.  I have found this working lately (steps 1-4) on many adapters with 7.10 and it's great. 

(5)  If you see nothing change, or still don't get a reasonable display, let me know and we'll take you on to step 6.


Thanks.

---

### Post by Spoonite on 2007-10-21
Hi,

I recently installed Gusty on my Dell Notebook Inspiron 630m. It was all working absolutely perfectly, but then I decided to plug my external monitor into my laptop. 

When i booted up it hung at 'running local boot scripts' for a bit, then it flashed a few times and then asked me to configure the graphics card because it couldn't auto detect. I chose the intel 915 as that is what i have. When gnome finally came up the res was a bit sus so i tried to fix it but I couldn't find the appropriate one so I decided to just reboot back to my laptop monitor (on board). But this time when it booted up it reached 'running local boot scripts' and hung permanently.

This has never happened before. My laptop was booting perfectly on it's own monitor previously. Only after I tried an external monitor has this problem come about.

If anyone can help I would very much appreciate it. None of the other replies on this post seem to apply to my situation. 

Thanks

---

### Post by molly_001 on 2007-10-22
> **Spoonite said:**
> Spoonite wrote . . . 

Gusty on my Dell Notebook Inspiron 630m. It was all working absolutely perfectly, but then I decided to plug my external monitor into my laptop ... 

. . . I chose the intel 915 as that is what i have. ... I decided to just reboot back to my laptop monitor (on board). But this time when it booted up it reached 'running local boot scripts' and hung permanently.

... Only after I tried an external monitor has this problem come about.




This is a very interesting situation you have described.  On your Dell notebook, do you know how to enter the system configuration (before an OS boots) and investigate the external monitor support there?

Generally on Dell you press tap F2 just as the machine has powered up, and it will let you enter the system configuration.  I'll await your reply as to what you find there among choices for external monitor support.

Thanks.

---

### Post by alexxtasi on 2007-11-07
same problem appeared to me....
trying to setup 7.10 server from the server cd...
everything goes fine but at the first boot... deamons are up...
and then ...
Running local boot scripts (/etc/rc.local)

waiting doesnt help and then it comes to the bash...

are all these ok or i did something wrong?

---

