---
title: "E17"
date: 2007-04-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by delphiguy on 2007-04-08
Cheers,

I recently installed E17 on my Ubuntu Edgy just to experience for myself what I heard other people are saying about this.

And honestly I fell in love with this Desktop Environment.  I love the simplicity of it overall.
However I have a couple of questions, how do I autologin with E17, and also how do I 
autostart applications.

Also is there a way for me to have a system tray here? if so how? and wheres the File Manager?
I have learned to navigate my files through the use of Terminal but as a Linux Newbie coming from 
XP, I still kinda want to have some GUI File Manager.

As for the moment I went back to using Gnome, but if these concerns can be easily addressed then
I would gladly switch to E17 and make it my default Desktop Manager.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2007-04-09
I tried E17 a while ago, and I think it's really cool, just not very productive.  I tried a few actually and always went back to GNOME.

The system tray and all of that stuff can be gotten by playing around with the panels.  When you click on the background and get a menu, (or click on the menu icon) there's an option to configure EVERYTHING... find the one about "shelves" or something and you can add whatever trays and whatnot you want... and chose where to put them and how they look.  Very cool

hope that helps.

---

### Post by delphiguy on 2007-04-09
Thanks Ill check it out.

---

### Post by markupstart on 2007-04-16
As far as I know there isn't a System Tray in E17, but you could use something like trayer.  Also autostart applications are in:

Menu>Configuration>Configuration panel>Applications>Startup applications.

Now this would depend on which version you installed, but it should be there.

Also, In the menu, the file manager just says "Files", it is real barebones. I use thunar file manager for that, it's works real nice.

---

