---
title: "7.10 power management question"
date: 2007-11-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bill516 on 2007-11-15
I have a new 7.10 install on an ASUS Z96J laptop.  Wireless networking and the touchpad worked immediately and wireless printing using Samba set up with little difficulty.  I expected these to be areas of difficulty.

I have one puzzle I did not expect.  When I ran the 7.10 LiveCD power management (suspend/hibernation) seemed to work.  Interestingly they do not seem to work now that the system is installed on the hard drive (dual install with Windows XP.  For the record suspend/hiberate works as it should with XP.)

It appears that my screen will go black and the machine goes into Suspend, either in response to a time setting or when I close the lid.  If I listen there is no doubt the HD is running.  It does not power down as I assume it should.  However, the machine will not wake up in response to a key stroke.  Nothing works save a reboot using the power switch.  I am not sufficiently familiar with Linux scripting to know what files to check or how to read them if I find them.  For now this is point and click in Windows fashion.

The graphics card is an ATI Mobility 1600X.  Downloading the proprietary graphics driver did not enable the graphics acceleration on this card as I expected it should so the 3D desktop  is not in evidence.  (Not sure how bad I feel about that.)

Is this graphics driver stumble related in any way to the power management issue?  Has anybody seen this suspend/hibernate problem in 7.10 and solved it?

Thank you for helping still another new user. (SANU????)

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-11-15
The suspend might have worked on Live CD, but hibernate couldn't have. Hibernate means it writes your current session to disk.  This is not possible in LiveCD environment as it does not write anything to disk unless you install. Having said that, suspend, hibernate have always been a touch and go type of thing with linux.

you probably need to install xgl to get your compiz fusion working
```
sudo aptitude install xserver-xgl
```

---

### Post by TadH on 2007-11-15
cant help you with solving it, however i do know more people have had this issue, it is a pretty common thing, so i would just try to cope, i dont know if there is a solution sorry bro

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-11-15
you might wanna have a look at uswsusp. Search the forums, thats what I used when my suspend didnt work in Feisty.

In Gutsy, it works out of the box for me. It could be because i now use 64 bit as opposed to 32 bit that i used in Feisty.

---

