---
title: "nvidia upgrade problems"
date: 2008-02-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by xmunk on 2008-02-19
i recently upgraded to an xfs nvidia 8800gs from and ati card. on first boot got a black screen so booted into recovery and did a reconfigure of x which got me in in graphical using vesa. the resolutions were horrible. tried restricted drivers said none were needed. used envy and got nvidia drivers installed restarted and bam resolution of 640x480 so i do a lspci | grep -i nvidia which returned

00:00.0 Memory controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 Memory Controller (rev a3)
00:01.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 ISA Bridge (rev a3)
00:01.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation CK804 SMBus (rev a2)
00:02.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a2)
00:02.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 USB Controller (rev a3)
00:04.0 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev a2)
00:06.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 IDE (rev f2)
00:07.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 Serial ATA Controller (rev f3)
00:08.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK804 Serial ATA Controller (rev f3)
00:09.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCI Bridge (rev a2)
00:0a.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 Ethernet Controller (rev a3)
00:0b.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
00:0c.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
00:0d.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
00:0e.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation Unknown device 0606 (rev a2)

my xorg.conf configured by envy is odd to me and im fairly new to linux

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "GLcore"
Load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Failsafe Device"
Boardname "vesa"
Busid "PCI:5:0:0"
Driver "nvidia"
Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Failsafe Monitor"
Vendorname "Plug 'n' Play"
Modelname "Plug 'n' Play"
modeline "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
Gamma 1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Failsafe Device"
Monitor "Failsafe Monitor"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Virtual 640 480
Modes "640x480@60"
EndSubSection
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"

im assuming the "failsafe" stuff means my card isn't recognized but im not sure.
booting from the live cd to do reinstall posed the same problems

love ubuntu really want to get it working again
any help is appreciated

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-02-19
> **xmunk said:**
> i recently upgraded to an xfs nvidia 8800gs from and ati card. on first boot got a black screen so booted into recovery and did a reconfigure of x which got me in in graphical using vesa. the resolutions were horrible. tried restricted drivers said none were needed. used envy and got nvidia drivers installed restarted and bam resolution of 640x480 so i do a lspci | grep -i nvidia which returned
.........
00:0e.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation CK804 PCIE Bridge (rev a3)
05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation **Unknown device 0606 (rev a2)**
......
love ubuntu really want to get it working again
any help is appreciated

It looks like the card is too new and not supported by the kernel you are using, you may have to wait until 8.04 is released as the newer kernel may support the hardware.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-20
Try reconfiguring the X-Server to it's defaults by booting Ubuntu in Recovery Mode and execute:-
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
after that is done restart the PC using:-
```
reboot
```

See if that allows you to get a GUI.

---

### Post by szymon_g on 2008-02-20
would't be easier to install nvidia driver from nvidia packages?

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-02-20
> **szymon_g said:**
> would't be easier to install nvidia driver from nvidia packages?

It may, but it is better if we first get a GUI and then work on it.

---

### Post by szymon_g on 2008-02-20
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> It may, but it is better if we first get a GUI and then work on it.

so standard 'nv' driver doesnt work? 
use, like before, vesa driver, use firefox to download latest driver from nvidia
(for 32 bits use this one):

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.09/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.09-pkg1.run](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.09/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.09-pkg1.run)

you need also build-essential package and kernel's headers or full source (but not this one from kernel.org but of your own kernel, of course).

than stopp Xorg and run

sudo chmod +x file.run
sudo sh ./file.run

:>


//// edit

sorry, i thought that i'm replying to author of thread
anyway, mea culpa :)

---

### Post by xmunk on 2008-02-20
tried reseting xorg to defaults got a gui but its not workable really. was able to install nvidia drivers with the same results as envy.  the card was just released on jan 15 so i imagine it might just be to new.  reinstalling windows as we speak.  kinda sad was without windows completely for 2 months.  gonna put ubuntu back in april ;)  see you then

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2008-02-20
Probably could have gotten it to work with the drivers from the NVIDIA website, i wrote sort of a quick and dirty how to for it a while back.  Oh well.

---

### Post by Hei Ku on 2008-02-26
Do you still have that howto around? My brother has the same card. He made it work but it is really slow in kubuntu compared to windows

---

