---
title: "7.04 browser problem"
date: 2007-04-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Hawk__0 on 2007-04-24
so im installing ubuntu, 7.04, and firefox opens... i can see it on the taskbar thing, but then it closes before the actual browser pops up.  im like ok, maybe things will change after its installed.  they didnt, i also tried installing an additional browser (epiphany) and that does the same thing.

its liek it initializes or something, then exits.  what gives? anybody else ahve this problem??

---

### Post by ofek on 2007-04-24
No idea but for the mean time u could try using opera which would probably work because it doesn't use the same engine as firefox and epiphany and is pretty much stand-alone.

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-04-24
> epiphany and is pretty much stand-alone.


Epiphany uses the gecko engine, which is the backend that Firefox uses.

---

### Post by jem7v on 2007-04-24
Trying Opera might be a good idea, although it's not in the Feisty repositories for some reason.  (That, or I just haven't found it yet.)  You can download a .deb installer from the Opera website, though.  (It's faster than Firefox, too, in most ways... the only slow thing I've experienced about it is when you're downloading files it really chugs, but for browsing/page rendering/browser startup, it's Usually faster than Firefox.)

---

### Post by ofek on 2007-04-24
Hmmm next time have a read b4 u post ... 
I said firefox and epiphany use the same engine and this is why he should try opera...

---

### Post by Hawk__0 on 2007-04-24
whats the aptitude command to get opera?
liek i cant open any browser whatsoever lol.
i tried
```
sudo aptitude install opera
```
didnt work.

---

### Post by ofek on 2007-04-24
Edit ur apt sources file and add the relevant lines from here : [http://deb.opera.com/](http://deb.opera.com/)
Then try aptituding again. (Wow "aptituding" now thats a first :) )

---

