---
title: "7.04 different partition interface"
date: 2007-04-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Lepht on 2007-04-19
I read this partition guide: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing)

Ok, so I read it and think to my self I am all ready to go to install 7.04. However, when I am actually at the partition part of the installation, the screenshoots and the real thing are not the same.

For example: the "new partition size" bar is not there anymore. I don't see any ext3. Even if I wanted to create a new partition table with ext3, it is not included in the guide so I don't know what to do...

So, has anyone made a new guide yet? If not, any help is appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-04-19
I think you need to right (maybe left) click to get the options.

---

### Post by lamalex on 2007-04-19
i think you need to double click each section and create that way. I forget exactly, don't try and follow the guides step for step but try to understand the concepts behind what you're doing.

---

### Post by Lepht on 2007-04-20
I know if i right click it gives more options, but it is not part of the guide, so I don't know what to do...

sudo fdisk -l :

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160000000000 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19452 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1           6       48163+  de  Dell Utility
/dev/sda2   *           7       18846   151332300    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3           18847       19452     4867695   db  CP/M / CTOS / ...

---

### Post by Lepht on 2007-04-20
> **Iamalex said:**
> i think you need to double click each section and create that way. I forget exactly, don't try and follow the guides step for step but try to understand the concepts behind what you're doing.

Hey, I want this to be a learning experience too :)  However, I can't retake the "test" if I make a mistake, that's why I am asking on the forums first :)

---

### Post by Lepht on 2007-04-20
I think I am getting this:

If I double click (like Lamalex said) on the fat32 which is the empty space, I can make it into ext3 which is used by Ubuntu. And just leave the NTFS alone. But, what should I do with the fat16?

ps; sorry for triple post...

---

### Post by lamalex on 2007-04-20
since I assume you're using the livecd, can you post a screenshot of the partitioner? applications > accessories > take screenshot
then we can see what you're seeing

---

### Post by Lepht on 2007-04-20
Yes, it is from the LiveCD

The 2nd image is when I double click on fat32

---

### Post by lamalex on 2007-04-20
do you know what that fat16 partition goes to? What version of windows do you have, I haven't seen a fat16 in a while. I wouldn't touch that unless you know what it is. it's only a few megs, just take that fat32 and change the mount point to / and the filesystem to ext3

---

### Post by Lepht on 2007-04-20
I have Windows Media center edition SP2. I have no idea where fat16 go...

I still want to leave some more rooms for Windows, and I am guessing I can just do that by  change the 4984 to like for example 2500. Is that corrcet?

---

### Post by link141 on 2007-04-20
[quote=Lepht]I read this partition guide: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing)
 
 Ok, so I read it and think to my self I am all ready to go to install 7.04. However, when I am actually at the partition part of the installation, the screenshoots and the real thing are not the same.
 
 For example: the "new partition size" bar is not there anymore. I don't see any ext3. Even if I wanted to create a new partition table with ext3, it is not included in the guide so I don't know what to do...
 
 So, has anyone made a new guide yet? If not, any help is appreciated. Thanks.[/quote]

I believe the partitioner has been completely rewritten since Edgy and Dapper, because people were having issues with the interface doing funky things...  Personally, I like Feisty's partioner a lot better, because I was one of those people who were having problems with the ones in Dapper and Edgy (but I also like it better because it's simpler and more intuitive than those ones).  Anyway, this guide appears to be for edgy, and that's why it's slightly different.  I installed with the Kubuntu Feisty partitioner, but it's exactly the same as the one on the Ubuntu live/install cd.  There's a button at the bottom of the window that says "edit", and if you click it with a partition selected it will give you several options, like resizing it, and setting up it's mount point (so you can specify where you want the base system, and do stuff like setting up a separate home partition).  When resizing your partition, set the size you want in GBs by multiplying the desired size in GBs by 1024.  After you free up some space (by resizing or deleting other partitions), you can create a new ext3 partition to install Ubuntu on (I think the option to make a new partition appears after you free up some space), and make it the size you want.  Make sure that you also create a swap partition for Ubuntu, 1GB is a good size.  When you get your partition table laid out the way you want it, set up the mount points to the appropriate places for your drives.  Set the mount point of new Ext3 partition that you created for your Ubuntu system to "/" (exclude the parentheses), if you created a separate home partition, than set it's mount point to "/home", and you can change the names of the folders your other partitions are mounted on in "/media" by changing the mount point to "/media/xyz" where xyz is the name of your choice.  If you want to be safe, check the format checkbox next to your new partitions, but DON'T check next to existing partitions with data you want on them, or the data on them will be erased.  When everything is set up, click the next button, click the install button, and let it install for a while.

If you want a good app for partitioning your drives instead of using the Ubuntu partitioner, I'd recommend using the [G-parted](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php) live CD. If you choose to do this, just setup the mount points of your partitions when you go to install Ubuntu.

The quality of my writing and such isn't as good as usual because I'm so tired right now, and I wrote you a novel of a post :), but I hope you find this helpful.  Post any problems that you run into to or questions that you need answered, and I'll do my best to help.

link141

---

### Post by Lepht on 2007-04-20
> There's a button at the bottom of the window that says "edit", and if you click it with a partition selected it will give you several options, like resizing it, and setting up it's mount point

If I were to resize it and make it smaller, where would the extra space go? 
Right now, the mount point is /media/sda3, is it ok if I just leave it as what it is?

> you can create a new ext3 partition to install Ubuntu on (I think the option to make a new partition appears after you free up some space), and make it the size you want.

If I were to free up some space from NTFS and fat32, are they going to a common free space?

ps; sorry I am really new to this.

---

