---
title: "5.10 installed successfully now want 6.06 but with install CD not edit sources list"
date: 2007-02-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by marianlibrarian on 2007-02-15
Is there a way to upgrade a 5.10 computer to 6.06 with the 6.06 install CD? 

I have used the "gksudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list" but that takes hours and hours.

I have put the CD in the drive but since there is an operating system on the hard drive it goes to that even though it checks the CD drive first.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by marianlibrarian on 2007-02-15
I have searched all over this forum and there is nothing that discusses how to simply upgrade from CD and not do that god awful sources list. I have checked my bios configuration and even though it will boot from CD before an operating system, it won't after one is installed. 

Wouldn't it BE NICE to be able to double click the sweet little icon that represents my 6.06 in my CDROM that now looks at me on my 5.10 desktop and it would just UPGRADE FROM CD???

Is that possible??? Anyone?? Anyone??

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-02-15
why don't you just do a fresh install then and save your /home

---

### Post by marianlibrarian on 2007-02-15
"Fresh Install" yes, that is what I am trying to do. But the cd that came with some book I bought had 5.10 and I didn't realize it until I tried to install automatix and that only works with 6.06 and up. So I put the 6.06 install in my CDROM and crank up the computer and it checks the CDROM  first but it just goes right past it and to the hard drive with 5.10, 

I checked my bios and the CDROM is the first selection for boot then the floppy and then the hard drive.

Uh OH!

I am looking at the CD in another computer that has 6.06 on it and the File Browser says: ubuntu-6.06.1-alternate-i386.iso  --- I think that must be my problem. First -- alternate?  and Second -- iso?

I am not familiar with how these iso things work but I don't think iso is supposed to be there and I really don't remember downloading -- alternative but obviously I did or it would not be there. 

If that is it then I will need to download 600 + MB AGAIN. I will have to do it from home. This is a library and my band width is limited and with everybody using it inclding me it is just too much.

](*,)

---

### Post by MartinJ on 2007-02-15
You could load up your computer as normal, stick the 6.06 cd in, then run
```
sudo apt-cdrom
```
to add the 6.06 cd as a repository.  Then upgrade from there.

I don't have a cd drive on this pc so can't check exactly how to go about this, but it might be worth searching for more on that command.

---

### Post by benfindlay on 2007-02-15
not sure if this will work, but if you're using the desktop version (with xserver as opposed to command line interface) you can specify synaptic to use the CDs as a source and disable the internet based sources. Again, I don't know if this will work as I haven't tried it, but it may be worth a shot!

As I write this, I am trying an upgrade to 6.06 via the update manager on my old laptop, can see it going horrendously wrong as the laptop has given me no end of problems in getting ubuntu to work!

Anyways, enough of my pessimism. Hope this helps!

---

### Post by benfindlay on 2007-02-15
sorry, just spotted, if the cd shows a .iso file on it, then you have burnt the iso to the disc as a file, rather than burning the image onto a working disc. If you're using something like nero to burn it, you need to use the image burning wizard, not simply chuck the iso onto the disc! Otherwise it will bypass it on boot! To burn it, open the iso with nero or whatever and then burn it that way, don't drag it onto the disc like a file!

The alternate just refers to the type of install. The live cds are labelled as "desktop" where yours says alternate. All this means is that your install will simply be more menu driven and less bells and whistles!

Hope this helps

---

### Post by marianlibrarian on 2007-02-15
You are correct. I am too embarrassed to admit how long it took me to realize that. All I can say is NERO stinks. Anyway, I took the CD and copied the iso file a hard drive and then used the CD writer program to copy the files to a CD that is now usable. I have just rebooted the computer in question and am in the process of installing 6.06

Live and Learn. I have an open mind and when I wasn't looking my poor brain fell out. :)

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-02-16
well i'm glad it worked out.....I was at work when i made the 1st post and couldnt get back till just now

Edit: where the heck is Geneva at anyway?

---

