---
title: "./configure??"
date: 2006-05-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-24
what does ./configure before compiling some package?

---

### Post by meng on 2006-05-24
I found this interesting and concise article by googling:
[http://www.tldp.org/LDP/LG/current/smith.html](http://www.tldp.org/LDP/LG/current/smith.html)

---

### Post by youthforlinux on 2006-05-24
isn't that something to do with compiling?

---

### Post by xtacocorex on 2006-05-24
./configure checks the system to make sure it can compile a source tarball and then it creates the needed makefiles. It checks for some of the dependencies needed, but not all. 

If you are going to compile, you should install the programs listed in my signature.

An example would be:
./configure && make && sudo checkinstall

or if you don't want to create a .deb package for the program
./configure && make && sudo make install

---

### Post by youthforlinux on 2006-05-24
sweet

---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-25
thks a lot xD sorry only replying now but I only had internet at work, for now hehe

---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-25
I'm having trouble using ./configure ... it gives me this error: checking for Qt... configure: error: Qt (>= Qt 3.0) (headers and libraries) not found what should I do?

---

### Post by S{yndrom}e on 2006-05-25
kart3 try doing

sudo apt-get install build-essential

---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-25
I've already installed build essential :X

---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-25
what is a makefile?

---

### Post by silas_irl on 2006-05-25
[QUOTE=kart3r]what is a makefile?[/QUOTE]
Makefiles are text files that normally have a set of instructions on how to compile software.  That's the simplest explanation I can give you.

The make command interprets make files, they (makefiles) have their own special format.

If you do a google search for UNIX makefiles, I'm sure you'll find a more indepth explanation of them.

---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-25
thks ^^

---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-25
So if I'm correct ./configure looks for some dependencies and checks if the system can compile the package.Make interprets makefiles on how to compile the package and creates an "install file" and then make install installs the package right?

---

### Post by silas_irl on 2006-05-25
Yep, you pretty much got it there mate, except running make with a makefile will actually compile the necessary code.

make install really just copies the new program into the proper place on the system (eg. /usr/local ), but you need to be root to do this step.

---

### Post by kart3r on 2006-05-26
right :) thks for the help ^^

---

