---
title: "6.10 live cd - won't boot"
date: 2007-03-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by HumbleGod on 2007-03-11
I'm pretty new to Ubuntu, and wanted to play around with the Live CD of 6.10. When I boot using the Live CD, even when going into Safe Mode, the progress bar will eventually fill and the screen will transition into what I expect is the opening screen for the desktop (with the light tan background). However, where I believe there would normally be a box showing what apps are starting up (Window Manger and Nautilus, e.g.), I see a very pixellated bar instead. The bar is as wide as the box would probably be, but not very tall/high at all. The screen stays frozen here (although I can move the mouse pointer around), and the CD eventually stops spinning, leaving me stuck in limbo.

Having read several posts in this forum noting how poorly-burned discs can be the culprit, I've now burned 3 different cds of the i386 ISO--one DL'ed using bittorrent and burned at 48x, one DL'ed from ubuntu.com burned at 48x, and the ubuntu.com file burned at 16x. All give the same result. All pass the disc check at the beginning screen.

Interestingly enough, the 6.06 Live CD (which I DL'ed some months back and played around with for a while before getting distracted by other things) still works fine for me. I suppose that I could play around with this, but I'm curious as to why the 6.10 disc would give me these problems. Any suggestions?

Thanks!

---

### Post by igknighted on 2007-03-11
Try installing from the alternate CD and then installing your video drivers in recovery mode.  Then boot normally and that issue should go away.

---

### Post by HumbleGod on 2007-03-11
Thanks, will play around with the alternate instead.

---

### Post by Madpilot on 2007-03-11
If the 6.06 CD works, install that.

You can upgrade a 6.06 install to 6.10 in place, without having to reinstall: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes)

---

