---
title: "External Hard Drives Not Mounting Anymore"
date: 2007-05-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Wudugast on 2007-05-18
I have two Maxtor external hard drives formatted in ntfs. I've installed ntfs-3g and the ntfs configuration tool, and everything was working fine until I turned on my computer this morning. The hard drives were mounting yesterday, and now they won't. I get this error -

"Unable to mount the volume 'Local Disk'.
$LogFile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0) Failed to mount '/dev/sdb1': Operation not supported Mount is denied because NTFS is marked to be in use. Choose one action: Choice 1: If you have Windows then disconnect the external devices by clicking on the 'Safely Remove Hardware' icon in the Windows taskbar then shutdown Windows cleanly. Choice 2: If you don't have Windows, then you can use the 'force' option for your own responsibility. For example type on the command line: mount -t ntfs-3g/dev/sdb1/media/Local Disk -o force or add the option to the relevant row in the /etc/fstab file: /dev/sdb1/media/Local Disk ntfs-3g defaults, force 00.

When I get this error with my other hard drive, it is slightly different and describes the other drive as '/dev/sdc1'

Now, I don't have Windows anymore, so the first choice doesn't apply to me. When I try the first part of choice 2 using sudo and the command terminal, I get this, and nothing happens: 

Usage: mount -V                 : print version
       mount -h                 : print this help
       mount                    : list mounted filesystems
       mount -l                 : idem, including volume labels
So far the informational part. Next the mounting.
The command is `mount [-t fstype] something somewhere'.
Details found in /etc/fstab may be omitted.
       mount -a [-t|-O] ...     : mount all stuff from /etc/fstab
       mount device             : mount device at the known place
       mount directory          : mount known device here
       mount -t type dev dir    : ordinary mount command
Note that one does not really mount a device, one mounts
a filesystem (of the given type) found on the device.
One can also mount an already visible directory tree elsewhere:
       mount --bind olddir newdir
or move a subtree:
       mount --move olddir newdir
A device can be given by name, say /dev/hda1 or /dev/cdrom,
or by label, using  -L label  or by uuid, using  -U uuid .
Other options: [-nfFrsvw] [-o options] [-p passwdfd].
For many more details, say  man 8 mount .

I don't know enough Unix to feel secure in messing around with /etc/fstab, so I need some guidance here. My fstab looks like this: 

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=b0d4f954-820c-4ab3-9993-e5c1030fd44e / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=929858a4-1f5c-4412-a2c6-dd10b4ce02c4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

Can someone show me how my fixed fstab should look, or suggest another way I can access my drives?

What's causing this problem, of course, is my inability to turn the external hard drives off safely. Whenever I tell them to eject, Ubuntu says the devices cannot be ejected and I resort to simply turning them off. How can I avoid this problem in the future - how can I turn my drives off safely if the GUI says it can't be done?

Thanks!

---

### Post by oldHat on 2007-05-18
> **Wudugast said:**
> 
<snip!>
What's causing this problem, of course, is my inability to turn the external hard drives off safely. Whenever I tell them to eject, Ubuntu says the devices cannot be ejected and I resort to simply turning them off. How can I avoid this problem in the future - how can I turn my drives off safely if the GUI says it can't be done?

Thanks!

I had a similar problem with ejecting once.  One possible (overkill) solution is to first close every single window and shell session on your system.  After that, open a new window and try the command again.

The reason?  If any of your shell sessions has CD-ed into a directory on the drive, and is still using it, you won't be permitted to unmount it.  I can't promise that this applies to your situation.

Hmm, a Google reveals that the fuser command can show if there is a user holding the device.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-05-18
External drives should be mounted with pmount and unmounted with pumount.
 
Try :
 
```

pmount <device-name>

```
 
You might have to install pmount in case you dont have it !
 
Follow this thread I started a while back:
 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=436948](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=436948)
 
and the link to understanding the fstab:
 
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Understanding_fstab](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Understanding_fstab)

---

### Post by Wudugast on 2007-05-18
Awesome. Problem solved. Thanks, y'all! :)

---

