---
title: "Unusual external modem problem"
date: 2007-03-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2007-03-04
I rebuilt a friends computer and convinced him to switch to Xubuntu, everything is working perfectly, but I had to buy an external usr 5686D modem and I am using gnome ppp to configure and connect.  When I dial my earthlink account everything works perfectly, but when I try to dial the friends fastq account the log comes back no carrier.  Has any one else run into the problem of being able to connect to one dial-up ISP but not another?n

---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2007-03-05
Anyone?

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2007-03-05
Do you have the same problem when dialing from Windows?

You'll want to make sure you can dial in from Windows first and then switch over to Linux.

Maybe his ISP 's line is always busy.

---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2007-03-05
I had already figured I was going to have to try the modem on a Windows machine, to see if the problem persists.  The ISP that the modem won't connect to has never had a busy signal when I used them.  Its almost as if the modem does not understand the language from the ISP computer?

---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2007-03-08
Here is what I have learned, the modem WILL connect to the earthlink.net system with XUBUNTU, the modem WILL connect to the Fastq.com system with the WINDOWS system.  The modem WILL NOT connect to the Fastq.com system with XUBUNTU system.  I am confused I thought an external modem either worked or it didn't?

Here is the read out from gnome ppp:

```
--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT8890984
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT8890984
NO CARRIER
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
--> Disconnecting at Thu Mar  8 15:29:18 2007
```

---

### Post by olddoser on 2007-03-08
You might want to check the firmware version on that modem.  I had to load a new version on mine.  It's available from the usr web sight with instructions.

Just a thought

---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2007-03-08
Thanks for the idea, i installed the newest firmware, but it still says no carrier.  The modem has always done the complete handshake cycle, but it still says no carrier when connecting to Fastq.com.

---

### Post by BirdZerk on 2007-03-08
After spending several days trying to figure out why my Xubuntu system with an external modem will not connect to the fastq dial-up system, it would seem that it is fastq that is the problem.  Not sure what is going on, but I am suppose to call a certain individual tomorrow to get a different number for a different carrier.  I knew Ubuntu couldn't be the problem:)

---

