---
title: "problems mounting one of my ntfs drives"
date: 2008-01-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mordantae on 2008-01-16
tea@Gargleblaster:~$ sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /media/Store
fuse: mount failed: Device or resource busy
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/sdb1 (Store)
tea@Gargleblaster:~$ 


im trying to mount one of my ntfs partitions and i'm going through a whirlpool of issues..

can anyone shed some light on the matter?

would be eternally indebted...

Thank you in advance

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-01-16
post the output from the these commands:

mount

cat /etc/fstab

---

### Post by mordantae on 2008-01-16
here's mount 

tea@Gargleblaster:~$ mount
/dev/hda1 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
/dev/sda2 on /media/Installation Nation type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,allow_other,blksize=4096)
/dev/scd0 on /media/cdrom0 type iso9660 (ro,nosuid,nodev,user=tea)


and here's cat /etc/fstab
tea@Gargleblaster:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=a732bf50-b259-4dde-b763-4cac7a9b3215 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=d772b070-ce1b-4a5e-b5e2-4238cd631655 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Store ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
tea@Gargleblaster:~$ 


thanks

---

### Post by berthiggins on 2008-01-16
I take it it is a partition on an internal drive what message do you get when you try to mount?
Are you using Gnome KDE or another GUI?

---

### Post by spmccann on 2008-01-16
Most problems arise if the ntfs partition has not unmounted properly.  This is especially true of dual boot machines where you power off rather than shut down. The partition is still marked as being in use. If you dual booting , Boot into safe mode in windows and shut down normally. This should cleanly unmount the partition.

---

### Post by mordantae on 2008-01-16
well i always shut down normally...although it usually doesnt get the chance to do many shutdowns and just does restarts to get back and forth from xp to ubuntu...i dont know....wont do any harm to boot windows in safe and shut down...if it has a flying chance in hell of working...
cheers

---

### Post by mordantae on 2008-01-16
fuse: mount failed: Device or resource busy
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/sdb1 (Store)

thats the error i get...
i am not entirely sure of the answer to 
> 
Are you using Gnome KDE or another GUI?    

but i think its Gnome KDE ...i m running ubuntu gutsy with nothing else added onto it as far as im aware :) if i may ask how does that affect drive mounting?
sorry im such a noob :)

---

### Post by berthiggins on 2008-01-16
Gnome tends to automount on gutsy KDE usually needs more work
I would certainly try booting into windows and running chkdsk then shutting down windows completely.#

If you open my computer right click on the drive in question and select properties then tools.
Check any boxes that mention fixing errors .
You will get a message saying that it cannot perform the operation now do you want it run on the next boot.
select yes and reboot the check will be run as the machine boots.
Now shut it down completely, boot gutsy and try again.
Remember Gutsy will not mount drives that are marked 'dirty' I.E not shut down properly or where windoze was suspended.
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-01-16
you did create the mount point '/media/Store', right?

ls -l /media

will show

> but i think its Gnome KDE ...i m running ubuntu gutsy with nothing else added 

gnome, not kde

---

### Post by RussellGee on 2008-01-16
Try adding 'force' to the end of the command, this is usually needed if the drive wasnt unmounted properly.

---

### Post by Plissken@plissken on 2008-01-16
I had to change my 160GB hard disk from ntfs to a fat 32 this past sunday and it worked with me with no ease and now i could mount and un-mount my drive i hope this helpes

---

### Post by mordantae on 2008-01-17
i already ran an error checking on the drive but it didnt find anything and checked it at startup too and came out with a clean bill of health
harrumph...im not too sure i am about converting it to fat32...dont know enough to weigh the pros and cons really

i didnt create a mount point because i was initially using ntfs-config which does it for you...but the return from ls -l /media is this just in case i need to do something else

tea@Gargleblaster:~$ ls -l /media
total 10
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root    6 2007-12-17 18:20 cdrom -> cdrom0
dr-xr-xr-x 1 root root 2048 2007-12-11 18:22 cdrom0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root    7 2007-12-17 18:20 floppy -> floppy0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 4096 2007-12-17 18:20 floppy0
drwxr--r-- 2 root root 4096 2008-01-07 09:52 Store
  

store is the last one on there..so there seems to be something to do with it up in there...

no idea....cheers for helping out though :)

---

### Post by mordantae on 2008-01-17
tried force...didnt get me very far :) cheers for the suggestion

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-01-17
you could try disabling write support for it in ntfs-config...see if it mounts read-only.  If it does switch back to ntfs-3g.

Or try a different mount point.  

If none of that works, back up and reformat ntfs or[ fat32]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions?highlight=%28windows%29#head-58b0f4b165129f43a80bba6c1c4227c490efa119").

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-01-17
> **mordantae said:**
> tea@Gargleblaster:~$ sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb1 /media/Store
fuse: mount failed: Device or resource busy
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/sdb1 (Store)
tea@Gargleblaster:~$ 


im trying to mount one of my ntfs partitions and i'm going through a whirlpool of issues..

can anyone shed some light on the matter?

would be eternally indebted...

Thank you in advance

I have a tutorial on mounting partitions.

[http://www.stchman.com/part.html](http://www.stchman.com/part.html)

---

