---
title: "7.04 beta server"
date: 2007-04-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by nau1977 on 2007-04-05
I currently use 6.10 kubuntu desktop. I would like to have 7.04 server, and have apache, and get that going as my internal test web server. Not sure the cable company wants me to do a web server from home. Darn, the luck! How long until 7.04 comes out of beta? I REALLY want to setup a server now, but don't know if I want to use beta, or wait. Could I use beta and have the final upgrades pushed via the auto update to put me up to full version? I want to use apache, php, and mysql.  I'll install the mysql admin on my laptop, where I also have dreamweaver.

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2007-04-05
you could use 6.10 server. and 7.04 comes out on the 19th of this month. and yes updates to the final version can be aquired through aptitude. 

you can also add all that stuff to a normal installation. you do know that don't you? its just a matter of going into synaptic and installing the right packages.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-04-05
What's the point in running the cutting edge version for a server ? You could as well install Warty, you wouldn't notice much difference. Dapper is IMO the best choice for an Ubuntu server.

---

### Post by nau1977 on 2007-04-05
So i *could* use 7.04 beta, get used to it and the updates, about the 19th, would put me up to 7.04 release.

I'm still learning ubuntu, and I love it. I like how easy it is, especially with updates and software like you mentioned. I installed a couple of things from synaptic, but still am blown away by how easy it was.

The last distros I've used were: Corel Linux 1.0 (my first taste), mandrake, red hat, some tiny distros, then ubuntu.

How long do you think I could setup a web server with stuff I mentioned in the first post? I'm somewhat familiar with linux, but am looking to take a class on getting into it, not just the fluff.

---

