---
title: "6.9Gb tar.gz archive corrupt? Not last time I checked..."
date: 2007-06-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-06-07
The title pretty much sums up my problem, but here it is again :):
I have this 6.9Gb archive I made to hold lots of important files I've acquired over the years, and now I've noticed that when I extract it (just tried it a few days ago because I needed something) it stopped at the ~4.1Gb mark with an error.  I'm almost certain that there's actually nothing wrong with it because after I created it, it was fine!  

Please help!  I'm ok with using the terminal commands for uncompressing (if you tell me them :)) and have a decent processor (also 64 bit by the way), so this doesn't take forever.

---

### Post by tbroderick on 2007-06-07
What did the error say?

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-06-07
it says this:
> tar: Skipping to next header

gzip: stdin: invalid compressed data--crc error

gzip: stdin: invalid compressed data--length error
tar: Child returned status 1
tar: Error exit delayed from previous errors

and remember, I'm almost certain that there is actually nothing wrong with is!

---

### Post by tbroderick on 2007-06-07
> **ryanVickers said:**
> 
and remember, I'm almost certain that there is actually nothing wrong with is!

Seems corrupt. You could try using gunzip first and see what happens, but most likely the archive is bad.

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-06-19
The gunzip doesn't work either, and I've tried a few other methods as well.  Even if I can't recover the whole thing, is there some way to make it just skip ahed to the next files after a problem one is found?

---

### Post by st33med on 2007-06-19
Well, for starters, that file is HUGE!! It could get corrupt at an untimely fashion. If they have a torrent, try using that with BitTorrent.

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-06-19
> If they have a torrent, try using that with BitTorrent.What are you talking about?! :p
If you think I'm trying to download this from somewhere and it's failing, I don't now who I sent that impression, but I made this myself to hold a ton of stuff, like probably 10Gb, but I don't remember :)

Infact, I said right here:
> I have this 6.9Gb archive [COLOR=Red]**I made**[/COLOR] to hold lots of important files I've acquired over the years
:p

---

### Post by ductipus on 2007-12-05
I've had the same problem. In my case it turned out to be hardware related. I just discovered this and don't yet know what the culprit is but as soon as I lowered the cpu and bus speed the problem disappeared. I ran a short mem test but nothing showed up. I'll have to try to run it overnight. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-12-05
that seems very strange... I don't thin that will help in my case though... anyways, I did solve the problem; I was able to extract each file individually to save as much as possible and it worked pretty good! :D

---

### Post by commonplace on 2007-12-28
> **ryanVickers said:**
> that seems very strange... I don't thin that will help in my case though... anyways, I did solve the problem; I was able to extract each file individually to save as much as possible and it worked pretty good! :D

Would you please tell us how you managed to extract your files? I've run into the same problem (with an even larger .tar.gz file -- let's just say I'm switching backup methods now!). Thanks.

/Kevin

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-12-29
It was a long time ago, and i don't remember exactly what i did, but when i do, I'll be sure to put it here! (note: it was nothing complicated, just a few commands... ;))

---

### Post by Golem XIV on 2008-01-02
I've got the same problem with an even bigger tar.gz file (the complete backup of my files and configuration).  I can untar everything up to the error itself, but I can't skip over it. I've tried using tar --ignore-failed-read -xzvf foo.tar.gz but I ended up with the same problem.  Trying to extract files/folders individually past the error wouldn't work either.

---

### Post by argie on 2008-01-02
Somehow, looking at the original post (he said it stopped at 4.1Gb, perhaps 4,294,967,295?) it's likely to be one of those funny limits so you should be able to get your files out if you do it one by one. Or if you don't extract the first 4.1GB.

Also, I think you should have multiple archives instead anyway but it's your call. 

Here you go for an attempted solution. You may be able to do this easier with the GUI Archive Manager if the file opens. Just extract a few files at a time. Or if that doesn't work, do one file at a time.

One at a time:
----------------
List the files inside
```

tar -tf archive.tar.gz

```
Extract a single file (use the path of the filename from the output to the first command instead of /path/to/filename)
```

tar -xf archive.tar.gz ./path/to/filename

```

Exclude the first few:
--------------------------
List the contents and save to a list file
```

tar -tf archive.tar.gz > list

```
Now, edit that file so that it only lists **what you have already extracted**. Save that edited file.
Now we'll use that list to exclude what we're going to extract.
```

tar -xvf archive.tar.gz --exclude-from=./list

```

Extra: (haven't tried it)
-------
That will start extracting only the rest. If the files follow some kind of pattern,  you can extract them using:
```
tar -xvf archive.tar.gz --exclude='*.jpg'
``` That's if all the files that you've managed to extract ended in .jpg. You could use DSCN* for all files that began with DSCN and *image* to exclude all files that had image anywhere within the name. As usual, make perfectly sure before you use this stuff because you may exclude something that wasn't extracted and you may not be able to get anywhere.

---

