---
title: "Boot problems"
date: 2007-05-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kjaggu on 2007-05-12
Hi all,

I have a small problem while booting Feisty.

Every time I boot, the Ubuntu load screen disappears after a few minutes and a command line is shown where i have to key in 'fsck' and apply a few changes -- cant make head or tail of them. 

After applying all the changes, Ubuntu loads properly with just one failed line which says -- 'Unable to mount ..... (incomprehensible data)

After that, Ubuntu loads and works fine, except for a drive which i had partitioned as ext2 before installation itself. I cant read or write in that partition. It just mounts and keep. I was under the impression that if there is an extra ext2/3 partition, i can store my docs there -- just like in Windows. But cant do anything about it now. 

Please help me on this as i don't want to do fsck every time i boot. 

This is the Log of fsck with the filename checkfs:

>  Log of fsck -C -R -A -a 
Sat May 12 22:10:28 2007

fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
fsck.ext2: Unable to resolve 'UUID=f8bbf23e-4965-4dce-be2c-35c4165d91ee'

fsck died with exit status 8

Sat May 12 22:10:29 2007

And, 

This is the Log of fsck with the filename checkroot:

> Log of fsck -C -a -t ext2 /dev/hda9 
Sat May 12 22:10:28 2007

fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
/dev/hda9: clean, 105605/1625600 files, 668802/3245391 blocks

Sat May 12 22:10:28 2007

All help appreciated!!! :confused:

---

### Post by DerArzt on 2007-05-12
can you copy and paste your your /etc/fstab file?

---

### Post by kjaggu on 2007-05-12
Sure. Thanks a ton for the prompt help!! 

Here it is!!!

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda9 :
UUID=edbad407-a958-426f-9891-1419e5bcbe89 / ext2 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=9CB82B5CB82B33E4 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=f8bbf23e-4965-4dce-be2c-35c4165d91ee /media/hda10 ext2 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=0EFC14F4FC14D833 /media/hda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=6A6CB05B6CB023AB /media/hda6 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda7 :
UUID=E4D0C648D0C620A2 /media/hda7 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda8 :
UUID=73794635-02ed-48f9-8f21-4281d3fc47dd none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

I think, I cannot see that particular partition. It is hda10.

---

### Post by DerArzt on 2007-05-12
first of all i would backup fstab with

```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.backup 
```


then, try replacing the line of your fstab that says 

UUID=f8bbf23e-4965-4dce-be2c-35c4165d91ee /media/hda10 ext2 defaults 0 2

with 

/media/hda10 ext2 defaults 0 2

(essentially remove the UUID=f8bbf23e-4965-4dce-be2c-35c4165d91ee at the beginning)

then type 

```
sudo mount -a
```

in a terminal

If that doesn't work, maybe try a restart

---

### Post by kjaggu on 2007-05-12
Thanks DerArzt for the help. After restarting the machine, it loaded without a hitch. But i still cannot do anything in that partition. No read/write capabilities. 

Help needed in that front too!!! 

Thanks a million for the help anyways... :)

---

### Post by DerArzt on 2007-05-12
glad i could help, and i think i can help you with your current problem tool you need to chown (change owner) of the directory to which the partition is mounted.
to do this, 

replace "yourusername" with your actual user name in the following command

 type
```
   sudo chown -R yourusername /media/hda10    
```


that should do it.

i dealt with alot of these problems when i changed around my partitions and upgraded a few weeks ago, so i know ur pain

---

### Post by DerArzt on 2007-05-12
also, if you want your partitions to mount to a directory thats not hda(number), you can easily do that. I sure would with as many partitions as u seem to have. 

say for example you want to make hda10 called "Music"

you would need to make a folder in /media called music by doing

```
sudo mkdir /media/Music 
```

then chown the directory

```
sudo chown yourusername /media/Music
```

then change the fstab to mount to /media/Music instead of /media/hda10

personally, i just didnt like my partitions being boring ole hda1 hda2 etc, i changed them t0 (slightly) less boring Storage and Storage2

---

### Post by kjaggu on 2007-05-12
I tried ur advise. But to no avail, for the first time in the whole process!!!

---

### Post by DerArzt on 2007-05-12
ok. I would try Places >>>Computer then click filesystem , followed by media. right click on the folder called hda10 and look under the permissions tab. who does it say is owner?

---

### Post by kjaggu on 2007-05-12
Thanks buddy!!!

I figured it out...Under the owner it was me only, but the selection was not made. When i did it, its working fine.

Thanks a ton man!!!

Now i dont have any issues, as of now... :)


But, i now know whom to contact when i am in trouble. :))

---

### Post by DerArzt on 2007-05-12
congrats. glad it worked out. feel free to PM me if u have problems and dont feel like posting in forums or whatever.

---

### Post by trak87 on 2007-05-12
In addition to the help you have been given, your fstab shows that you are using ext2. Why not use ext3? Ext2 is really old! When you have a crash with ext2 you are more likely to have drive corruption. This is almost never the case with ext3.

This is my crib sheet on converting from ext2 to ext3:

```
# unmount the drive you are going to convert (/dev/hda5 or whatever)
sudo umount /dev/<partition#>

# to go from ext2 to ext3:
sudo tune2fs -O has_journal /dev/<partition#>
```

Then be sure to update /etc/fstab and change "ext2" to "ext3" where necessary.

And, just for the heck of it:

```

# to go from ext3 to ext2
sudo tune2fs -O ^has_journal <partition#>
```


Converting from ext2 to ext3 or vice versa is non-destructive of your data. What ext3 has over ext2 is a special journal file that keeps track of file information. The system utilizes this file to reconstruct the file system when it detects errors.

---

### Post by DerArzt on 2007-05-12
trak has a point, but ive grown wary of fixing things that arent really broken. ive wasted many an hour repairing things i was "making better". Aside from that, ext3 is the way to go now. If you do it, i would still recommend backing up stuff on hda10 to another partition.

---

### Post by kjaggu on 2007-05-13
Thanks guys. Point noted. 

Will do it asap.

---

