---
title: "7.1 will not boot live"
date: 2008-01-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kbutler on 2008-01-22
I've installed 7.1 on several pc's of lesser spec than the two in question but on an AMD 1333, k7ama msi and a gigabyte celeron 2000 in both cases the live cd locks up during install.
I found two problems, 1 with apic which I worked thru butthe second, APPARMOR has me stumped.  
I need to find a way to disable it during install, thereby being able to install, or at least eliminate it a the problem preventing the live cd and subsequent install to run.
I chased msg threads all over and found similar problems but none exactly like the inability to run the live cd as have I.

I finally took an older live cd of kbuntu 6-something and it installed perfectly, alneit with the kde desktop instead of gnome.

Please, any suggestions to re-write the install script so I can reburn a cd with the new script and kill APPARMOR before it's installed??

ThanX

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2008-01-22
> **kbutler said:**
> I've installed 7.1 on several pc's of lesser spec than the two in question but on an AMD 1333, k7ama msi and a gigabyte celeron 2000 in both cases the live cd locks up during install.
I found two problems, 1 with apic which I worked thru butthe second, APPARMOR has me stumped.  
I need to find a way to disable it during install, thereby being able to install, or at least eliminate it a the problem preventing the live cd and subsequent install to run.
I chased msg threads all over and found similar problems but none exactly like the inability to run the live cd as have I.

I finally took an older live cd of kbuntu 6-something and it installed perfectly, alneit with the kde desktop instead of gnome.

Please, any suggestions to re-write the install script so I can reburn a cd with the new script and kill APPARMOR before it's installed??

ThanX

Hi there, 
i doubt you can install linux without APPARMOR, unless you make your own distro, as APPARMOR = security software for linux, (released under the GNU General Public License)

What is the exact error that you receive trying to boot the live cd? (take a picture with your phone or something if necessary)

---

### Post by kbutler on 2008-01-23
Having to go back and read the messages available made me realise I was MISREADING what unbuntu installer was telling me.
The msg stated the "acpi bios:1997 fails the cutoff date:(2000) acpi=force is required".  No msg beyond that but a blank screen with the cursor in 1,1 blinking.  Sometimes it would drop to the busybox ASH prompt and the APPARMOR statements there, coupled with what I did find in the forum msgs pointed me in the wrong direction

I thought the msg stated the installer was forcing the ACPI, what it meant was I should put the statement in the startup line.  I had been pressing F6 and adding "ACPI=off  Noacpi" then starting the installer.

On a spurt of momemtary genius, which means I thought at about the 6th grade level, I did the F6, added ACPI=FORCE to the command line, then pressed enter.

Voila, the live installation did (install) and I continued to a full install easily.

I was misreading the message!  If you hadn't prompted me to send them to you I don't think I ever would have realised my stupid mistake that caused this to begin with.  

Anyway, the forum reallllly helped me, and you did specifically ---thankx so very much.

Now if I can only get back to work on that broken egg......

---

