---
title: "ATA drives called SCSI in /dev/disk/by-id"
date: 2007-06-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2007-06-15
I don't really even know what to say to ask the right question

/dev/disk/by-id shows:

/dev/disk/by-id/**scsi-**1ATA_IC35L040AVVA07-0_VNC203A2HVTMPA

but it is an ATA drive sitting on the cable as Primary Master

/dev/disk/by-id**/scsi**-1ATA_QUANTUM_FIREBALLP_LM10.2_882014266148

is an ATA drive sitting on the cable as Secondary Master

and I can see no evidence of either my DVD or CD-RW optical drives.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-06-15
You are worried that what should be /dev/hda is showing as /dev/sda? Don't worry. It's a feature, and it won't hurt your HDD in the least. (I hope that's what you're asking.)

Hmmm..... as for your CD drives...... could we see the output of ```
cat /etc/fstab
``` please?

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2007-06-15
mark@Lexington:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=a407f4ea-e921-4cb1-8ee5-9150afbcf153 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=82ad16ec-a20d-406e-ba15-becd1f1e6342 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/scd1       /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

# Generated by Automatix
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
mark@Lexington:~$

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-06-15
Odd..... they're listed just fine..... have you stuck a CD in yet?

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2007-06-15
Media inserted in the Sony CD-RW or the Samsung DVD are not found or (I don't know how to put it in Linux) -- in DOS it was "device not found"

The Places/Computer/computer/CD-ROM can be called, but returns "can't be mounted, probably no media inserted" or some such words, and same for the DVD.

---

