---
title: "c compiler and ubuntu"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mittens on 2007-10-30
Hi all,

I'm trying to set up my Ubuntu machine (operating system successfully installed a couple of months ago) so that I can compile c programs (just c, not c++).

I understand that a c compiler is not automatically installed with Ubuntu, and that installing the package "build-essential" will add all compilers and development libraries.  I've repeatedly installed "build-essential" over the past week or so, but each time have encountered an error at the end of the install ("W: failed to fetch [http://securityubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/linux-source-2.6.20/linux-libc-dev_2.6.20-16.29_i386.deb](http://securityubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/linux-source-2.6.20/linux-libc-dev_2.6.20-16.29_i386.deb) 404 Not Found").

Basically, I'm unclear if the gcc installation was complete.  I can run gcc, so something was clearly installed, but even the simplest code will not compile (among other issues, it's clear that the compiler can't see standard libraries [e.g., "error: stdio.h: No such file or directory"]).

I'm new to linux and gcc, and so don't know if the libraries aren't accessible because they're not there or because I'm not telling the compiler where they are (perhaps some command-line modifier needs to explicitly tell the gcc compiler to access libraries?).  The fact that the above error message relates to c libraries makes me wonder if gcc is fully installed.

Does anyone happen to have suggestions on how to verify that the libraries actually exist fully and that the compiler is actually operational?

Thanks!

Mittens

---

### Post by llamakc on 2007-10-30
If that is a cut/pasted error message you have an error in your /etc/apt/sources.list line. Namely there should be a . between security and ubuntu, so it looks like security.ubuntu

Open the Terminal. Run

```

sudo apt-get update

```

If there's an error, it will fail to fetch the updates from that malformed line. Fix it with an editor

```

sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list-backup

sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list

```

And re-run the `sudo apt-get update` line. When it is completed, re-run your `sudo apt-get install build-essential` command.

---

### Post by Mittens on 2007-10-30
Hi llamakc,

Oops - sorry.  That missing "." was a transcribing error on my part - the original error message reads as follows:

W: Failed to fetch [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/linux-source-2.6.20/linux-libc-dev_2.6.20-16.29_i386.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/linux-source-2.6.20/linux-libc-dev_2.6.20-16.29_i386.deb)
  404 Not Found

So the problem isn't as simple as a missing period, unfortunately.

Mittens

---

### Post by llamakc on 2007-10-30
Okay, so run

```

sudo apt-get update

```

Again and either go into Synaptic and mark build-essential for reinstallation or running:

```

sudo apt-get install --reinstall build-essential

```

And see what happens.

---

### Post by meanburrito920 on 2007-10-30
I had the same problem when i was running Edgy and it didnt go away until i installed feisty. I'm not sure why, as i tried all the same things.

---

### Post by Mittens on 2007-10-30
Hi llamakc and meanburrito,

llamakc: the recommended fix seems to have dealt with the issue.  Code is now compiling successfully, it appears.  _**Thanks very much!!!  **_

My only remaining question relates to the outputs ("a.out").  When I try to run the executables (by simply typing a.out while in the same directory as the file), I get the following error message:

"bash: a.out: command not found"

Should I be typing something else to run the output executable generated by the gcc compiler?  I'm definitely in the same directory as the a.out file.

Permissions related to the file are as follows:

-rwxr-xr-x

Mittens

---

### Post by llamakc on 2007-10-30
./a.out

---

### Post by Mittens on 2007-10-30
./ it is!  Thanks llamakc!

---

### Post by atlascomplete on 2007-10-30
Does the compiler that comes with build-essentials work with C++ also?

---

### Post by Mittens on 2007-10-31
Hi atlascomplete,

Yes, my understanding is that the gcc compiler also compiles c++.  Also, I believe that build-essential also includes other compilers.  Lots of options, about which I know pretty much nothing.

The gcc compiler info is here:

[http://gcc.gnu.org/](http://gcc.gnu.org/)

Mittens

---

### Post by juniah on 2007-10-31
Im having problems with the C compiler as well.  I try running ./configure for ssh or anything else, the error I get is that my C compiler doesn't work.  I've no idea what to do.

---

### Post by Mittens on 2007-10-31
Hi juniah,

I'm just a newbie when it comes to linux-based compiling.  I think you're more likely to get help if you start a brand new thread with your specific problem.  Good Luck!

mittens

---

### Post by juniah on 2007-10-31
Actually I followed the instructions here for the 3rd time and now it works :)

---

