---
title: "How to install dual monitors"
date: 2007-03-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by doctorj on 2007-03-30
I have two monitors connected to my Ubuntu box - two BENQ monitors connected via the one card -- and using nVidia drivers when connected under MS Windows XP.

I have read some of the previous postings on this site, but they are in one way or another old, don't fit my situation, etc.

How do I get the two monitors working . . . it is working with one only after the Ubuntu install. What do I do?

---

### Post by spin2cool on 2007-03-30
Keep digging - I can almost guarantee that your answer is on these forums.  try searching specifically for your video card name - the monitor brand isn't as important to setting up your xserver.  Here's a search that may help:

[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=+site:www.ubuntuforums.org+ubuntu+nvidia+dual+monitors](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=+site:www.ubuntuforums.org+ubuntu+nvidia+dual+monitors)

Lastly, here's my xorg.conf file that works with an Nvidia GeForce 5500 and dual monitors, it may be an example that helps you:

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Oct 16 22:13:07 PDT 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier "TwinView Configuration"
	Screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
	Option "Xinerama" "Off"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection


Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 49.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA GeForce 5500"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA GeForce 5500"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
	Viewport 0 0
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
	Option "NvAGP" "2"
	Option "NoLogo" "1"
	Option "RenderAccel" "0"
	Option "CursorShadow" "1"
	Option "Coolbits" "1"
	Option "NoPowerConnectorCheck"
	Option "TwinView" "1"
	Option "Metamodes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1152x864,1152x864; 800x600,800x600; 1024x768,1024x768; 1024x768,NULL"
	Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "35-65"
	Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "43-70"
        Option "TwinViewOrientation"   "RightOf"
#	Option "NoTwinViewXineramaInfo"
	 Option "xinerama" "false"
	Option "UseDisplayDevice" "CRT"
	Option "ConnectedMonitor" "CRT, CRT"
EndSection


```

---

### Post by fenian on 2007-03-30
Use the Envy script to install the newest nvidi drivers,you can get it [here]("http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html").

After you have installed the drivers type in a terminal

> sudo nvidia-settings

this will bring up the nvidia-settings window from where you can set the monitors up to use twin-view or seperate-x screens.

---

### Post by doctorj on 2007-03-30
That is a good way forward . . . have downloaded Envy . . . 0.8. version is the only one that would install properly

BUT

screen goes black when trying to install Nvidia drivers. I can get back from that but nothing seems to happen.

How to go forward from here . . .

Is it possible to get the newer version going? The installer tells me "Error: Dependency is not satisfiable: module-assistant"

---

### Post by SinoDave on 2007-03-30
I have read every post there is on the subject of dual monitor setup and tried everything I can think of, but I still can't get my Sony HDTV to show up in an X session. It's connected via DVI with my monitor on the VGA connection. It will load by itself if I disable the VGA, but with VGA enabled I get nothing after the X session starts (I can see everything cloned on both screens prior to the X session start). It's an AGP card, the LeadTek WinFast 7600GT.

Can someone please take a look at my Xorg.conf and see if they can figure out the problem? I'm tired of tearing my hair out over this.

Thanks in advance,
SinoDave

---

### Post by fenian on 2007-03-31
> 
Can someone please take a look at my Xorg.conf and see if they can figure out the problem? I'm tired of tearing my hair out over this.


If you have the latest nvidia drivers you can set up twinview or seperate x screens using the command...
> 
sudo nvidia-settings

In the window that opens , under X server Display Configuration you can set your configuration options then be sure to hit the save to x configuration button (updates your xorg.conf).Quit and rebootand you should have dual monitors.

---

### Post by ckc07 on 2007-06-12
I have been using kubuntu for about one week so I am lost.  I have that little NVIDIA settings display thing that comes up and I tell it to do the dual monitors and i reset my resolution and I save to the x file. But when I reboot it goes back to the wrong resolution and stil does not have both monitors working.
HELP HELP HELP

---

### Post by gregtheodosis on 2008-01-11
> **ckc07 said:**
> I have been using kubuntu for about one week so I am lost.  I have that little NVIDIA settings display thing that comes up and I tell it to do the dual monitors and i reset my resolution and I save to the x file. But when I reboot it goes back to the wrong resolution and stil does not have both monitors working.
HELP HELP HELP

I am having the same problem.
I tried to adjust the screens and resolution.
It keeps returning to reduced resolution on login.
I tried to enable the nvidia restricted driver and get an error message.

E: /var/cache/apt/archives/nvidia-glx-new_100.14.19+2.6.22.4-14.10_i386.deb: trying to overwrite `/usr/bin/nvidia-xconfig', which is also in package nvidia-xconfig
This is what i get when trying to enable the restricted driver.

Both monitors have the same image at the same resolution 800x600

Well i uninstall nvidia-xconfig and enabled the restricted driver.
What a mess i got.
Only one screen worked at reboot and was all lines.
I unhooked the second monitor from the vidcard and rebooted till i got one monitor working.
I think theres a few bugs in the code here.
This is a dell system 8400 dimention desktop.
7800 GTX card.
Monitors are Dell 2001fp one analog,one digital.

---

### Post by Tteddo on 2008-01-11
It might help you all to see my xorg.conf for my MythTV box. I have 2 desktops that are independant. One is my 1080p TV running native at 1920X1080 digital, and the other is just a desktop at 1024X768 that I use next to my couch to monito email etc. I am using 1 ATI Radeon 9550 with one DVI (to the TV) and 1 VGA to the monitor. I have the regular PS2 kbd and mouse and wireless USB kbd and mouse on the desktop (I have no idea how the USB part is working, it just does!).

> #	Created By Tteddo
#	sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Dual Head Layout"
	screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
 	screen 1 "Screen1" leftof "Screen0"
	#	Option		"Xinerama" "true"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
#	Load		"vnc"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"NoPM"	"0"
	Option		"blank time"	"0"
	Option		"standby time"	"0"
	Option		"suspend time"	"0"
	Option		"off time"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Option		"ModelName"	"Mitsubishi"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
	Horizsync	30.0	-	95.0
	Vertrefresh	60.0	-	60.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor1"
	Option		"ModelName"	"Optiquest Q71"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
	Horizsync	30.0	-	90.0
	Vertrefresh	50.0	-	150.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device0"
	Driver		"fglrx"
#	Driver          "ati"
	BusID		"PCI:3:0:0"
	Screen	0
	Option		"MonitorLayout"	"CRT,CRT"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Option		"AGPMode"	"4"
	Option		"DDCMode"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device1"
#	Driver		"ati"
	Driver          "fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:3:0:0"
	Screen	1
	Option		"MonitorLayout"	"CRT,CRT"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Option		"AGPMode"	"4"
	Option		"DDCMode"	"off"
	Option		"IgnoreEDID"	"on"
	Option		"SWCursor"	"true"
	#	Option		"CRT2Sync"	"30.0 - 70.0"
	#	Option		"CRT2VRefresh"	"50.0 - 150.0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Device0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0	0
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1920x1080"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen1"
	Device		"Device1"
	Monitor		"Monitor1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0	0
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
#	Option		"SecurityTypes"	"VncAuth"
#	Option		"UserPasswdVerifier"	"VncAuth"
#		Option "PasswordFile" "/root/.vnc/passwd"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

If you have any questions, just ask!!
I tried to upload the file, but it said it was invalid?

---

