---
title: "need to edit /etc/fstab after partition change"
date: 2007-06-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jargoman on 2007-06-15
I just squeezed in a mandriva one install. Now I'm triple booting with ubuntu and winblows. I had to edit my mandriva one grub file by hand to boot ubuntu. I guess I will have to edit that file every ubuntu kernel update as well. Oh well!

The only problem now is my Ubuntu fstab file needs to be updated. 
/dev/hda2 is now /dev/hda5 (mandriva one)
/dev/hda6 is now hda7  (Ubuntu)
/dev/hda7 is now hda8  (Ubuntu /home)

This is my old fstab file. My swap no longer works with this setup.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda6
UUID=956b3b5e-46b6-4cfb-8768-cd2bbcad87f3 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda7
UUID=1b8fac12-9f41-483f-9ba1-c522672261aa /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/hda1
# /dev/hda2
# /dev/hda5
UUID=91d82c37-5102-4c2f-a7b4-b05294086984 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hda2   /media/hda2   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-06-17
How do you know swap isn't working? 

Go into a terminal and type:

sudo fdisk -l

and post the output. I'm not sure this will tell us what we need to know since your partitions have changed, but we can at least start with that.

---

### Post by tchoklat on 2007-06-18
after re-partitioning a hard drive do I have to amend my fstab to ensure partitions get mounted on boot up?

tchoklat

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-06-19
> **tchoklat said:**
> after re-partitioning a hard drive do I have to amend my fstab to ensure partitions get mounted on boot up?

tchoklat

As far as I know fstab is not automatically modified after a change in partitions. So yes, you'll need to manually edit the file to reflect the new partition scheme. This is essentially the problem jargoman is having. It sound like he made a new partition so he could install mandriva and now his fstab doesn't reflect the actual partitions.

---

### Post by jargoman on 2007-06-19
yes that is the problem I had. 
I was also confused about the UUID entries. I now know that the uuid is a way for fstab to identify your partition regardless of where it is. To avoid the problem I was having. Because I use the same swap space for both mandriva and ubuntu installing mandriva rewrote the UUID of my swap. (at least I think)

I had to edit this line (my swap)
 UUID=91d82c37-5102-4c2f-a7b4-b05294086984 none swap sw 0 0

with this
/dev/hda6 swap            swap    sw              0       0

now swap works. 

tchoklat the UUID feature is designed so that you don't have to edit your fstab but in cases like mine (I'm not sure what happen really maybe a bug) you might have to erase the UUID and go with the old mount commands
example:
/dev/hda1 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

and even
/dev/hda2 /home ext3 defaults 0 2

thanks guys I figured it out

---

