---
title: "6.06LTS cf 7.04"
date: 2007-06-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jessejazza on 2007-06-27
I'd be grateful if someone could let me know why 6.06 is given Long Term Support and yet we have had two revisions since then. These revisions don't seem to get LTS. I'm just wondering as i have a book with a 6.06LTS CD and was thinking of installing that. Just been learning about Linux and will shortly try it out!

I have a couple of machines spare (current one needs a rebuild/reformat) - was going to put Linux on one and win2K on the other networking them through a router until i've got enough experience of Linux and can say bye to windoze. I notice most of you seem to have dual boot - as i have two machines which would be best.

I'm stuck with windoze for internet access at present as the BT broadband [UK] gives a voice router (thus an additional phone line, seems to have an encoder that allows switching between a house phone and internet phone for cheap calls).:D

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-06-27
Not an expert on LTS - but it means that 6.06 is being supported for longer than the newer releases.  Rather like Windows 2000 is being supported by Microsoft (with updates / security patches etc) for longer than Windows Me.

As for your broadband - I'm assuming you have BT HomeHub with the phone attachment.  Not 100% sure about the phone - but the router itself should have no problems interacting with Ubuntu.  Only thing is that the BT setup software won't run without Windows - but dual-boot would be an option.

---

### Post by deadgobby on 2007-06-27
Well how can explain this. OK when Dapper 6.06 came out with the LTS. That the backports are not turn off for 3 years. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backport](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backport) Once you read the link you may understand what I am saying. Once the support is turned off. There is basically there is no more support for it. Like when Micro Soft will no longer support 95, 98, 2000, and so on. It is too old and then you are forced to move on. I know some people who still run Breezy Badger on their system. They just do not want to go through the head ache of updating the system. Yet, it could be that their system is old and upgrading means upgrading their system. That can cost money and who wants to poor more money into some thing that cost you some hard earn cash. That is like getting a old car fixed to run a little bit longer. You know in the back of your mind that is not going to last forever. 
 I know that it will come to the point my CPU will be to old and no longer can update. I tell you what though. If I updated to Vista, I would have to put down cash for a new video card and more ram. 
  Linux moves faster than MS windows. Every 6 months there is a new version of linux kernel.  Than MS which is updated every many years. I do admit that the Linux distro's is a dog eat dog world. Each one wants to be on top and they all know that there is only going to be one winner. Thus people who hide behind the computer programming Linux are doing it much for peanuts. It gives the programmer a mark on their resume that they did this program.  And I give a bow down to them every day.
 OK what is so different about Linux. Oh wow I thought you never ask that question. Linux is build up of many and many different programs. This is why it is hard for Linux users to get a virus.  You have Linux has the operating kernel, then you add GNU, Gnome, KDE, Python, Java, HTML, PHP, MYSQL, C++, and so on. 
 When there is a delay for  lets say Ubie. Ubie wants to come out with a new version of the O/S. Some one did not supply a key part of the O/S. Thus a delay on the update. 
 Please put in mind that to Ubie to auto detect your hardware. Like sound card, mother board, video, and wifi card. Some one has to write a program to the kernel to see all of that. Windows does not do that. You have to install this drive and that drive. 
 Yet, not all hardware is seen by linux and thus you need to do some mojo to get to work. Or yet some one has not written drives for that USB card or that WIFI card.  It takes work and hopefully that the maker of the company would be so nice to open up their source code for the HW  and donate the hardware. Most are not so happy to give any thing. The main reason they company do not see to make any money. When a company have given a win win solution to sell more product. It is a door shut and that is that. 
 Why you ask? Oh I tell you why. We live in a Micro Soft world. From work to home the company has and wants to be the only thing you use. 
 Micro Soft has approach Linux distro's and say that they are infringing on 245 pats. What are those pats. MS is not saying what ones and how it infringing on the MS pats. Thus Ubie gave the middle finger and thus made a lot of Ubie user very happy. Some Linux distro's back down and sign on the dotted line to stop who knows what. 
Gobby

---

### Post by jessejazza on 2007-06-27
Thanks for your long replies - think i read into what you were saying.

So would i be better off with 6.06 as it has LTS?

---

### Post by jessejazza on 2007-06-27
> **ugm6hr said:**
> Not an expert on LTS - but it means that 6.06 is being supported for longer than the newer releases.  Rather like Windows 2000 is being supported by Microsoft (with updates / security patches etc) for longer than Windows Me.

As for your broadband - I'm assuming you have BT HomeHub with the phone attachment.  Not 100% sure about the phone - but the router itself should have no problems interacting with Ubuntu.  Only thing is that the BT setup software won't run without Windows - but dual-boot would be an option.

No not BT homehub. The router is a Voyager voice router so as i understand it has an encoder so one can make internet calls through the modem. So the plugged in phone is a standard tone phone and receives both my house BT calls and the additional internet phone number line calls. Great when you live in an area like me and a mobile doesn't work and you want a phone in the 'office'. Better to use a corded phone but haven't got round to buying one yet.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-06-27
> So would i be better off with 6.06 as it has LTS?
Yes, unless you want to reinstall or upgrade in 16 months. However, the downside of 6.06 is mostly one year old software, which they plan supporting for another 2 years.

---

### Post by Fitzcarraldo on 2007-07-07
> **ugm6hr said:**
> As for your broadband - I'm assuming you have BT HomeHub with the phone attachment.  Not 100% sure about the phone - but the router itself should have no problems interacting with Ubuntu.  Only thing is that the BT setup software won't run without Windows - but dual-boot would be an option.

Just in case someone does a search for "BT HomeHub" and arrives at this thread (as I did), it is not necessary to load or run the BT setup software for the BT HomeHub in order to use a BT HomeHub with Ubuntu. The entire setup can be done via the Web: that's how I did it. I never loaded the CD that came with the HomeHub. I'm using Ubuntu 6.06 LTS on a laptop with a BT HomeHub and it works perfectly either when I use a wired Ethernet CardBus card or when I use a wireless CardBus card in the laptop. Regarding the phone attachment, the phone that I have plugged into the phone socket on the HomeHub works perfectly too when I am using Ubuntu.

---

