---
title: "Unable to set 1280x1024 resolution with nVidia graphics card"
date: 2006-10-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by cmeek on 2006-10-08
Hi, I installed Ubuntu a few days ago and have been unable to set the resolution to 1280x1024. I have read through the other threads of people having problems setting high resolutions and none of the suggestions there have worked. I have been able to set 1280x986 reolution but not 1280x1024. I have it in my xorg.conf but it does not show up as an option in System->Preferences->Screen Resolution

Here is my xorg.conf in case it helps:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Mon May 15 14:17:32 PDT 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"

#       Load    "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc104"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6800 Ultra/GeForce 6800 GT]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6800 Ultra/GeForce 6800 GT]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-10-08
You can try to reconfigure X-server by ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh  xserver-xorg
```

Is your monitor capable of the resolution you want to use?

I have a 6800 Ultra too,and a 17 inch TFT,and I have a few more resolution options.

Is your nVidia driver properly installed?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-08
Just a quickie - I'm not sure that having spaces between the numbers in the HorizSync and VertRefresh lines will work. And these absolutely must be values specific to **your** monitor, not anyone else's.

EDIT: Bulldog's suggestion is a good one. Easy and to the point.

---

### Post by cmeek on 2006-10-08
Yes, my monitor is capable of that resolution. It is the resolution I use in Windows. I have had the HSync and VRefresh without spaces in them before. As far as I know the nVidia drive is installed correctly. I get the nVidia splash screen at startup. I'm not sure what else I can check. Is there anything I can check that would tell me why 1280x1024 is not valid? An error in some log somewhere perhaps? I don't even get the option to try to change to 1280x1024 when I pull up Screen Resolution. And I have tried the sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh  xserver-xorg command to add the resolution, but after restarting the Xserver, I still dont get the option to change it to that.

---

### Post by gn2 on 2006-10-08
Is the monitor a TFT?

Does it need a specific driver? (Generic Monitor in output)

Have you checked the documentation for the exact specifications for the h/v-sync rates?

Is it DVI or D-Sub, and if possible have you tried swapping to other connector?

Have you installed the latest graphics driver from Nvidia website?

Sorry it's all questions, not answers.....

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-08
> **cmeek said:**
> Is there anything I can check that would tell me why 1280x1024 is not valid? An error in some log somewhere perhaps?

The X log is at /var/log/Xorg.0.log.

---

### Post by cmeek on 2006-10-08
The monitor is tube, about 8 years old. A Panasonic Panasync 17. I have checked the h/v-sync rates and they should be right. I might have to double check. And I believe that it is the latest driver from Nvidia. Again, maybe I should double check.

I did check my /var/log/Xorg.0.log as suggested by CatKiller and found the following lines, indicating that there is a problem with 1280x1024. However, I do know that this monitor is capable of it.


(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA GPU GeForce 6800 GT at PCI:1:0:0
(--) NVIDIA(0): VideoRAM: 262144 kBytes
(--) NVIDIA(0): VideoBIOS: 05.40.02.30.03
(II) NVIDIA(0): Detected PCI Express Link width: 16X
(--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are supported on this GPU
(--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce 6800 GT at PCI:1:0:0:
(--) NVIDIA(0):     Panasonic (CRT-1)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Panasonic (CRT-1): 400.0 MHz maximum pixel clock
(II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: CRT-1
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1280x1024"; removing.
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1280x1024"; removing.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1024x768"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "800x600"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "640x480"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size determined to be 1024 x 768
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No size information available in CRT-1's EDID; cannot compute
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     DPI from EDID.
(==) NVIDIA(0): DPI set to (75, 75); computed from built-in default
(--) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
(II) do I need RAC?  No, I don't.

---

### Post by RanDinCarolina on 2006-10-09
Have you tried to:

CTL+ALT+BKSPC after you reconfigured?

I have forgotten to do that more than once when I reconfigured X. And then wondered why my monitor wouldn't show the res I wanted.

---

### Post by wirelessmonkey on 2006-10-09
Have you restarted your machine? Sometimes it can be magic, particularly when configurations don't reload properly...

You might want to backup your xorg.conf and then change the "driver" for your card to "nv" from "nvidia" and see if it works. If it does, then there are other options to look at so you can have "nvidia" glx.  Try it first, and I'll see if I can't find the documentation.

Good Luck

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-09
There is an option to turn off the EDID frequency check, which forces the values from xorg.conf to be used. I can't remember what the syntax is off the top of my head. You'll want to triple-check the monitor refresh rate ranges and syntax before you try it, but since there seems to be some problem getting the EDID from the monnitor anyway, it might be worth a shot.

---

### Post by tseliot on 2006-10-10
Try point 10 of the Problems Section of this guide:
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Dapper#PROBLEMS_SECTION](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Dapper#PROBLEMS_SECTION)

Then if that didn't solve the problem:

Try this guide:
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/ChangeResolution](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/ChangeResolution)


OR this one (read where it says "Getting the Right Mode for an LCD monitor"):
[https://wiki.caosity.org/tiki-index.php?page=X%20Server%20Configuration](https://wiki.caosity.org/tiki-index.php?page=X%20Server%20Configuration)

---

### Post by cmeek on 2006-10-10
Thank you Tseliot, the first option there worked great :D

---

