---
title: "Video Resolutions"
date: 2007-02-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BroadwayLion on 2007-02-03
I am using Dapper on a VM over WinXP.
My Video Card supports 1600 pixel resolution, but this does not appear to be available in the settings section of my installation. Usually in MS, you can load drivers later, of course this is a hand-me-down machine, and so I may have to hunt for drivers on the internet. MS found the drivers without difficulty.

So where do I go to look for drivers, and how do I install them once I have them. 

Thanks, Elias

---

### Post by Paerez on 2007-02-03
Are you asking how to set Dappers resolution to 1600x1200?

If that is the case, post your xorg.conf file and I'll modify it for you.

To post it, open a terminal and type:
"cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf"

then paste that here.

---

### Post by BroadwayLion on 2007-02-04
Thanks. I think that is what I am looking for. Here is the file that you requested:

elias@elias-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "VMWare Inc [VMware SVGA II] PCI Display Adapter"
        Driver          "vmware"
        BusID           "PCI:0:15:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "VMWare Inc [VMware SVGA II] PCI Display Adapter"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection


The only other issue may be that the Virtual Machine is not giving Ubuntu full access to the system, but is of course interpreting everthing. I notice that the cursor does not run smoothly either, and so that may be another indicator.

Actually the video looks just fine in the VMware window running at WinXP resolution, rather it is the full screen view that is bothersome, and that may be an issue of Windows rather than LInux. In any event, I am looking forward to trying your suggestion. After all, I want to be able to make this work.

Thanks, 

The LION

---

### Post by Paerez on 2007-02-04
See the lines that say:
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"

Change all of them to:
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"

To edit the file, run (you can open run by pressing ALT-F2):
"gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf"

Then you can do a find/replace or manually, whatever. Then you have to do one of two things:

1) Logout and press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to restart the GUI
or
2) reboot

it doesn't matter. Reboot is simpler but takes longer.



Then once you're in, go to System->Preferences->Screen Resolution and crank it up!

---

### Post by BroadwayLion on 2007-02-04
OK, Thanks, I have done this.

And rebooted.

But the Screen Resolution applet still gives me only the same three options, and not the new ones that we have installed. 

Thanks, Elias

---

### Post by reiki on 2007-02-04
In VMWare you're using the VM's allowed resolutions. Have you installed VMWare Tools for that VM? This would give you more resolution options (usually) however I doubt that your maximum resolution will be supported. This is not a limitation of Ubuntu, but rather of the VM itself. Changing xorg.conf inside of a VM gets you nowhere as you've already seen. If you're just using the VM to try Ubuntu, that's fine. And you'll get a pretty good taste of how most things work. However the VM environment does still have some limitations. If you like Ubuntu, consider installing a second hard drive or freeing up space on your existing hard drive and actually installing it. THEN you can use your high res screen to full advantage. 

Or... you can do like I did and finally just ditch windows all together. :)  Wait until you're comfortable though. I ran a dual boot for about a month. In August 2005 I pulled the plug on Windows. So far.... no regrets.

---

### Post by Paerez on 2007-02-04
To install vmware tools, see this file:
[http://www.vmware.com/pdf/server_vm_manual.pdf](http://www.vmware.com/pdf/server_vm_manual.pdf)

page 50 about halfway down the page

---

### Post by BroadwayLion on 2007-02-04
Thanks to both of you. 

Yes this is my first try with Ubuntu, but not my first attempt at trying to understand Linux.
Since I do not have a spare box that works, I am using the VM on my main console.

Changing to Linux will not be easy, since we are a Windows shop. I have three servers, and over 20 workstations on our system. I must say that this seems to be working well, and will probably try to set up some Ubuntu machines and maybe a server once I get the hang of what I am doing, and can convince other users to give it a try.

I will checkout those VM tools and see what more I can do. Maybe at least I will be able to make the mouse behave itself.

Thanks, Elias

---

