---
title: "Wireless problems"
date: 2008-04-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by VJ42 on 2008-04-01
I can't seem to configure Ubuntu to connect to my wireless network. It's not a driver problem as when in roaming mode Ubuntu picks up the network and asks me for the WEP key, however I'm using a static IP, so obviously it doesn't get assigned an IP via DCHP. Can someone point me in the direction of how to configure Ubuntu so to play nice with my network please? 
I've attached a couple of screen shots so that my analysis can be verified. (yes, I'm running from live CD, I don't want to install until I'm confident that it works; unless I need to install to make it work, of course...)

Note: I last tried Ubuntu "seriously" around a year and a half ago, I had similar problems then. I never figured them out.:(
On the plus side, Ubuntu has come on leaps and bounds since.

---

### Post by ghost_ryder35 on 2008-04-01
"System, Administration, Network, click on "Wireless Connection", then Properties, then Untick Roaming mode and enter the static information, make sure to add DNS servers to the DNS tab or you wont be going outside your local network

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-04-01
go to system>admin>network and highlight wireless and click on properties. uncheck roaming and enter your ip info.

EDIT: you beat me to it ghost.

---

### Post by VJ42 on 2008-04-01
> **ghost_ryder35 said:**
> "System, Administration, Network, click on "Wireless Connection", then Properties, then Untick Roaming mode and enter the static information,
Yep, I tried that.
>  make sure to add DNS servers to the DNS tab or you wont be going outside your local network
That would be the bit I didn't do :) 
Let's see if I can get this to work...

---

### Post by ghost_ryder35 on 2008-04-01
you can always do it in
```
sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces 
```
and change your interface information, which probally would be eth0 for wired or eth1 for wireless

```

auto eth0 #need this for the interface to work right
iface eth0 inet **static** #have to change to static from DHCP
address 192.168.1.100 #your ip address you want statically assigned
netmask 255.255.255.0 #subnet mask
gateway 192.168.1.1 #the default gateway for your computer (your router most likley)

```

then you need to edit your resolv file
```
sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
```
would look like this
```

# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit! (aaa, maybe maybe not :)

search WORKGROUP


nameserver 10.0.0.254 #your DNS server
nameserver 216.165.129.158 #Backup DNS server

```

---

### Post by VJ42 on 2008-04-01
1 Ubuntu install & some dinner later...

I still haven't got this working; I've installed an Ubuntu partition so I don't have the boot times of the live CD, and I enabled DCHP but I still can't connect to the internet. Any ideas anyone? 

Also I accidentally left a USB stick in whilst I did the install Now I cant read it, Windows won't let me format it, How do I format it from within Linux?

---

### Post by VJ42 on 2008-04-01
I've done some (more) searching round the forums, and it seems that the following might help someone fix my problems:

ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0D:87:CC:DD:9D  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 b)
          Interrupt:19 Base address:0xd800 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:16 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:16 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:1504 (1.4 KB)  TX bytes:1504 (1.4 KB)


iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11b  ESSID:off/any  Nickname:""
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:50:18:47:BB:D2   
          Bit Rate:11 Mb/s   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry limit:8   RTS thr=1536 B   Fragment thr=1536 B   
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:73/100  Signal level:73/100  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0


 cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-key s:**<my WEP Key>**
wireless-essid yellowstone
vijay@yellowstone-vj:~$

---

