---
title: "7.10 Won't Load After Restricted Driver Update"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by backlash2032 on 2008-01-26
After running the update tool for my Video Card(ATI Radeon X1300/X1550 Series), Ubuntu 7.10 gutsy won't run. After the loading screen for Ubuntu, all I get is a black screen. Anything I can do to fix this?

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-26
Can you get to another console with <Ctrl><Alt>F2?  

Log in with your username and password and reconfigure X again with

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
When you are done, get back to the GUI login screen with <Alt>F7 and restart X with <Ctrl><Alt>Backspace.

---

### Post by backlash2032 on 2008-01-26
Ctr+F2 doesn't seem to do anything. Still only getting a blank screen.

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-26
It's <Ctrl><Alt>F2.

Otherwise, boot into recovery mode from GRUB menu and run

```
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
shutdown -r now
```

---

### Post by backlash2032 on 2008-01-26
Sorry, did do ctrl+Alt+2, was a typo up there. Now the GUI is back, albeit in a low-graphics mode. Got an error about being unable to detect my card. Any idea how to get it back to its original state? It's currently running in 800x600, and I'm unable to set it back to its original resolution. Also, does this mean my video card cannot be updated? Did this so the desktop effects would work. Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by backlash2032 on 2008-01-26
Bump

---

### Post by Daawoow on 2008-02-03
When you boot up in recovery mode and type the

```
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

it should bring you to a screen select the first card it comes up with.

then type the rest of it to restart system.

I'm having the same issue every time I try install restricted drivers.

so if anyone knows how to install drivers for an x1300 radeon graphics card let me know.

---

### Post by greencookie on 2008-02-12
Bump! I'm having the same problem.

I have this love hate relationship with Ubuntu. 

I love the OS its just the graphics card has ALWAYS given me problems. I have the dell dimension c521 and its got the ATI x1300 card on it (I think, although some say this is a mini card).

I've tried the binary how-tos about fourteen times now still can't get it to work.

Has anyone had better luck?

Thnx.

---

