---
title: "7.10 LiveCD Fails to Properly Load on Dell Precision M70"
date: 2007-10-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by beno4433 on 2007-10-28
I have a Dell Precision M70 which I'm contemplating installing Ubuntu 7.10 in dual boot configuration with XP Pro.

I've been using the LiveCD to determine if there are any hardware incompatibilities.  The following is a listing of my components:

Computer Type - ACPI Uniprocessor PC (Mobile)
CPU - Intel Pentium M 780 (2.26 GHz)
Chipset - Mobile Intel Alviso i915PM
BIOS - Phoenix(with limited configuration functionality) Version A04
Video Adaptor - NVIDIA Quadro FX Go 1400 (256 MB) with 3D accelerator
Audio Adaptor - Intel 82801FBM ICH6-M AC'97 Audio Controller
IDE Controller - Intel 82801FBM Ultra ATA Storage Controllers
Hard Drive - 100 GB 7200 RPM Ultra ATA with 63 GB free space
Optical Drive - NEC DVD+- ND-6550A
Ethernet Adaptor - Broadcom NetXtreme 57xx Gigabit Controller
Wireless Adaptor - Intel PRO/Wirelesss 2200BG

I also have Dell D/Port Advanced Replicator Docking station and Dell 20" monitor.

I'm hesitant to install 7.10 on my M70 due to the following reasons:

When I'm docked and boot using the 7.10 liveCD, I end up with a funny looking blue screen which locks my laptop.  When I undock, however, I'm able to run the liveCD without any problems.  I'm actually currently using the liveCD for this posting.  But I'm not docked and using my 20 inch monitor.

I've only been working with Ubuntu for several months, so I'm still new to the workings of the operating system.  I have successfully installed 7.10 on my old Dell Dimension 4550 and would love to have it on my main machine.  However, I'm very apprehensive about installing my Dell on the M70 because of the problems I'm encountering when the machine is docked.

Does anyone have a similar dell laptop configuration that's experienced the same problem and been able to resolve it.

---

### Post by gn2 on 2007-10-28
If 7.04 works for you and does everything you need, just stick with it for a while.

I have had to give up on 7.10 because it would not work at all well on my old laptop.

---

### Post by longhornjoe on 2007-10-28
I've got nearly the exact same config. on my M70, but no dock.  

Using the 7.10 LiveCD, it would lock up during boot once every 4-5 times and I would get a black screen with a pattern of "_"'s.  No blue screen, though.

Post-install, my only problem was with setting up WPA with my wireless network.  [(This thread solved my problem.)]("http://http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=263136")

---

### Post by beno4433 on 2007-10-28
Thanks for the advice.  Actually, I don't have the problem when I use the 7.04 liveCd that came with one of the books I purchased.

---

