---
title: "7.10 desktop to server, or vice-versa? Help!"
date: 2007-11-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by lalldrin on 2007-11-10
I want the best of both worlds: a nice Ubuntu graphical desktop and LAMP server functionality. I installed 7.10 server, only to find it didn't have the desktop. I installed that, only to discover no package manager, "restricted" drivers management, etc. So I think I'm sorta stuck between two installs.

Should I keep adding stuff to the server version (not even sure where to begin there, frankly) or start over with the desktop version then add AMP features? I'm not afraid of the latter path, as I've been administering LAMP servers remotely for several years now. I don't want to regret having missing desktop features in the future.

I'd also like to read more about the differences between the two versions. Can anyone explain why the 7.10 Server iso is as large as it is, if it doesn't include all the desktop features? Seems like the 7.10 Server iso should be about 100MB. Is there documentation that explains this?

Any advice is appreciated!

---

### Post by richiewrt on 2007-11-10
I believe, but I could be wrong on this, that the server edition includes a lot of software on the disk that isn't included on the cd for the desktop edition. i.e.  apache, mysql, php, proftp, ssh....ect

my suggestion, and once again I could be wrong on this, I would install the server edition, and then install the desktop environment you want on top of that and add software as needed. I am a linux noob so I could be wrong on that, but it is what I did and seems to be working fine for me. Of course I only use the lamp stuff for local testing for myself though.

---

