---
title: "7.10 Start-up"
date: 2007-10-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by GaryLittlemore on 2007-10-15
Just installed 7.10 and it taken ages to bootup, with a blank black screen and then it boots as normal after about 3mins.

Anyone aware of this and my knows how to fix.

Regards

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-15
The kernel is probably having trouble with some of your hardware. Press 'Esc' while booting or remove 'quiet' from menu.lst to see what's going on.

---

### Post by GaryLittlemore on 2007-10-16
Press Esc, got options to boot 7.10, boot 7.10 safemode or mem test.

Not sure which one you mean?

> **Pumalite said:**
> The kernel is probably having trouble with some of your hardware. Press 'Esc' while booting or remove 'quiet' from menu.lst to see what's going on.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2007-10-16
safemode

---

### Post by GaryLittlemore on 2007-10-16
I've done the safemode and the following is what happened.

It scrolled up the screen, loads of text and stops at a point, to which is this...

Loading AppArmor profiles: Done
* checking minimum space in /tmp... [OK]
* configuring network interface... [OK]
* setting up font and keymap... [OK]
root@gary-laptop:~#

and then goes no further, if I type 'exit' it then seems to carry on booting and loads correctly.

> **LowSky said:**
> safemode

---

### Post by GaryLittlemore on 2007-10-16
Anyone shed any light on this???

---

### Post by LowSky on 2007-10-16
it might be you graphic chip drivers, they may need to be fixed, or  gutsy might need a patch

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2007-10-16
The developers do know about it, you will just have to wait until they get round to sorting it out. If it boots up normally, then just keep getting the updates, hopefully it will get sorted very soon. Mine boots up very slowly, although not with a black screen. Others do have the black screen as well as you.

---

### Post by njparton on 2007-10-19
I (and others) with nVidia 8800 series graphics cards seem to be experiencing blank screens. What sort of graphics card are you using?

---

### Post by orange2k on 2007-10-19
There are several bug reports with similair descriptions:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=gutsy+splash&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=gutsy+splash&orderby=-importance&search=Search&field.status%3Alist=NEW&field.status%3Alist=INCOMPLETE_WITH_RESPONSE&field.status%3Alist=CONFIRMED&field.status%3Alist=TRIAGED&field.status%3Alist=INPROGRESS&field.status%3Alist=FIXCOMMITTED&field.assignee=&field.bug_reporter=&field.omit_dupes=on&field.has_patch=&field.has_no_package=)

---

### Post by Okkaland on 2007-10-19
Yes, I think so. I have a HP-laptop (old-4-years), and have the same problem. Faisty was OK, but 7.10 is a slow starter! And my wirelesscard  has some problems to start up when the laptop is running on "battery". (bad english, I know...)

---

