---
title: "./ installing, powerusers, and me?"
date: 2006-04-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Migishu on 2006-04-18
So I decided to learn Linux.  This is probably my 50th time trying to learn and understand the basics of Linux so even though I know a few small little things, this is just really confusing the hell out of me.

I'm running Ubantu through VMWare and I'm trying to install the VMware tools, which is a .pl file.  It says to do ./vmware-install.pl from the directory in terminal.  So I did.

I'm not logged in as a power user.

I figured from the "easy breasy" installation of Ubantu that the username I provided to begin with would be my poweruser/root username.  I guess I'm wrong since after su <username> and entering my password, even though it never says that that user is not a poweruser, it still doesn't work.  What I also found weird is that the installation never asked me to put a password down for root.  I would've distinctively remembered if it did.

As much as I like the feel of Ubantu, the simple task of installing something from the terminal window is a luxury I just don't have.  Can someone out there help me?

---

### Post by ds[de] on 2006-04-18
To execute a command, add 'sudo' in front of it, e.g.

sudo ./vmware-install.pl

When you're being asked for a password, enter your user password. Then the file will be run as if root started it.

Don't worry, you didn't forget the root password, the root account is just disabled by default for security reasons.

So remember, just add a 'sudo' infront of the commands that should be run with superuser priviledges.

Regards,
ds[de]

Btw, if you are using another account than the one that was created during installation, you'll have to edit the sudoers file (/etc/sudoers)

---

### Post by macdo on 2006-04-18
Ubuntu doen't use root in the usual way. This is not a bug, it's a feature ;-)
Your memory is not at fault - root doesn't exist (for a given value of 'exist' - there is a root account, it's just unused by the user), and doesn't have a password.
So you have to use sudo with your user password to do superuser tasks like installing software - in this case: ```
sudo ./vmware-install.pl
```
Hope that helps.

---

### Post by 23meg on 2006-04-18
See also: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RootSudo](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RootSudo)

---

### Post by Migishu on 2006-04-18
That got it fixed, thanks a bunch  :)

Going to have to remember sudo...

---

