---
title: "NTFS Writing"
date: 2007-04-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Rob2Kx on 2007-04-27
Hi,

I have a small delema.  I have 2 external hard drives.  Both are formatted as NTFS (I just switched over to Ubuntu from Win XP... and man I love it).  But, from what I've read, I can't write to NTFS drives in Ubuntu.  My drives have lots of stuff on them, so I can't format them because I really don't want to lose all the data.  And my internal hard drive isn't big enough to store all the data from one of the hard drives (so I can't copy it all to my internal, then format the drive, then put it back).

Is there a solution here that I don't know about?  Am I mistaken that I can't write to NTFS drives?  And if I CAN write to them, how do I change them so they aren't read-only?

Thanks in advance... I'm really new to Linux, so sorry if my information is wrong.

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-27
Which version of Ubuntu are you using?  the ntfs-3g driver should work for you, but I'm not sure how easy it is to get from earlier versions of Ubuntu.  A Forum search for ntfs-3g should help too!

EDIT:  Here's a link that might take you through it regardless  :)  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions/ThirdPartyNTFS3G)

---

### Post by Rob2Kx on 2007-04-28
Thanks my man

---

### Post by Michaelt74 on 2007-04-28
It's fairly simple to set up, check out this link and look at 'Mount Windows..."

Good luck!

---

### Post by Michaelt74 on 2007-04-28
Sorry, [http://opensourceroolz.wordpress.com/2007/04/20/a-quick-customisation-setup-guide-for-ubuntu-feisty-704/](http://opensourceroolz.wordpress.com/2007/04/20/a-quick-customisation-setup-guide-for-ubuntu-feisty-704/)

---

### Post by sailor2001 on 2007-04-28
also go to automatix2

---

### Post by Drakkor on 2007-04-28
Yep, you could try this:

---

### Post by Rob2Kx on 2007-04-28
hi again,

I got NTFS writing to work... unfortunately, I'm not the owner of the drive... root is.  That guy owns everything these days.  How can I change either the ownership of the drive or change the permissions so I have write access?

Thanks!

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-28
Post the output of the following terminal command:

cat /etc/fstab

Need to know how it is being mounted...

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2007-04-28
sudo apt-get install ntfs-config

You'll have a new option available in "System Tools" menu - it should let you make the ntfs partition writable.

---

### Post by Rob2Kx on 2007-04-28
Freebird, here's the output:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=51fd3f17-549f-403b-a295-ad543c09a3a8 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7d393875-bd98-4f9e-8c47-c0f63ba1ee95 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by Rob2Kx on 2007-04-28
> **fwojciec said:**
> sudo apt-get install ntfs-config

You'll have a new option available in "System Tools" menu - it should let you make the ntfs partition writable.

Yeah I have that installed and I have the option checked but it's not allowing my to write to the drive still.  I think it has to do with the fact that it's owned by root.

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-29
Well - you got me.  That drive is not referenced in fstab at all.  It must be being handled elsewhere, possibly in a script file run by the ntfs-config program.  Note that the mount info for the cdrom's includes the word 'user' - which is what allows all to access it.  I'm only familiar with changing an entry in fstab to enable 'new' ownership.  I hope someone familiar with that setup knows what's up!

---

### Post by Rob2Kx on 2007-04-29
> **freebird54 said:**
> Well - you got me.  That drive is not referenced in fstab at all.  It must be being handled elsewhere, possibly in a script file run by the ntfs-config program.  Note that the mount info for the cdrom's includes the word 'user' - which is what allows all to access it.  I'm only familiar with changing an entry in fstab to enable 'new' ownership.  I hope someone familiar with that setup knows what's up!

thanks for trying man.  I'll keep searching

---

### Post by Rob2Kx on 2007-04-29
Freebird, you're gonna hunt me down and beat me.  I just realized I forgot to reboot after I installed the NTFS configs and writing tools... so I rebooted and I can write to the drives now.  oopsies.

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-29
Never thought of that!  (Don't use Win much anymore).  Glad to hear it works for you now!

Enjoy...

---

