---
title: ".avi files won't play in xine..."
date: 2007-07-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ARandomKid on 2007-07-11
SO I download a random avi file, and try to play it using xine (I doubt I'm going to get mplayer installed on here for a while, so I'm trying to make it work with xine). The bar goes across and I get every sign that it's playing, except there's no picture, just the blue screen that loads at startup. (There's no sound either, but there wouldn't be seeing as I don't have a soundcard. And if there was, I'd turn it off since my speakers are crap and any sound is basically static ;x_X Gotta get those fixed sometime...)

I'm using Knoppix 3.8 (Yea, old, etc. I know. Waiting for Feisty to come in and honestly don't care. Unless it's the problem...)

-ARK

---

### Post by Ek0nomik on 2007-07-11
You are waiting for Feisty to come in?  What does that mean?  You ordered a CD?

If you want to play the .avi file, you will need to download the proper codec(s).

---

### Post by ARandomKid on 2007-07-11
> **Ek0nomik said:**
> You are waiting for Feisty to come in?  What does that mean?  You ordered a CD?

If you want to play the .avi file, you will need to download the proper codec(s).

*nods* Only way I can get a copy is through ordering. Can't download and burn (computer doesn't have a burner, and the two that do either the burner isn't working correctly or the whole computer's fried...

But I don't mind waiting 6-10 weeks. So...codecs...I'll go hunt those down for a while now. Nothing better to do. :) (I realize there's an easy solution such as easyubuntu or automatix, but where's the fun in that? ;^_^

---

### Post by anewguy on 2007-07-11
You may want to read through this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=486378](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=486378)

:)

---

