---
title: "help with 3d grapic card drivers"
date: 2007-12-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jpw111163-newbie on 2007-12-17
any one on skype that can talk a 44 year old how to get my 3d graphic card going.im using latest ubuntu i know i have the hardware .just cant get it to work . only booted xp off a couple days ago and i am very pleased i tried ubuntu    im not going back . but im a bit thick when it come to pc.they say you cant teach an old dog new trick , please someone prove them wrong !!!     :confused: my skype id is jpw111163 my name is john :)

---

### Post by stchman on 2007-12-17
> **jpw111163-newbie said:**
> any one on skype that can talk a 44 year old how to get my 3d graphic card going.im using latest ubuntu i know i have the hardware .just cant get it to work . only booted xp off a couple days ago and i am very pleased i tried ubuntu    im not going back . but im a bit thick when it come to pc.they say you cant teach an old dog new trick , please someone prove them wrong !!!     :confused: my skype id is jpw111163 my name is john :)

What kind of video card does your computer have?  That is step #1.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2007-12-17
there is a restricted drivers manager you can navigate to that might contain what you need. Navigate to System->Administration->Restricted Drivers Manager.

---

### Post by jpw111163-newbie on 2007-12-17
thank you, just tried it and got " your hardware does not need any restricted driver" im not sure what card i have i still got cd just says" his 3d graphics card" , i did say i was a bit think :) john

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2007-12-17
```
sudo lshw
```in a terminal will list your card

---

### Post by D_invictus on 2007-12-17
I've got a radion ATI card, and it's incompatible, and I have no idea where the forum thread to update it is. Makes comp fusion impossible.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2007-12-17
sorry try```
sudo lshw -C video
```

---

### Post by jpw111163-newbie on 2007-12-17
my card is a radeon9200 pro

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2007-12-17
so...now you know how to detect your video card. do you also have these packages installed?    *  Software requirements
    * Qt 4.2.1+
    * D-Bus 1.0.0
    * libsigc++ 2.0.2
    * libasound2 1.0.12
requriements for skype...unless you found a deb package. I don't use skype or now much about it, but last time i looked into it, it did NOT offer video for linux. Has this changed?

Update: just checked. skype does not offer video for linux according to what i saw on their site:Free video call works on  Windows, Mac OS X.

---

### Post by jpw111163-newbie on 2007-12-17
still no video but just got it from th net i think. also if i download something how do i install it eg wolfenstein et i know it wont work with out my card but i hope to fix that problem:)

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2007-12-17
ur too old for wolfenstein :lolflag: try something cooler like Alien Arena, or a really cool text MUD like Achaea.

---

### Post by maharbA on 2007-12-17
jpw111163-newbie (John), Welcome to the community!
I've found this command to be very helpful. It creates an HTML file in your home folder with all your hardware listed. It's very easy to read and it's a small file to hold onto for when you want to know what's inside your computer.
```
sudo lshw -html > ~/hardware_info.html && firefox ~/hardware_info.html
```
I, too, have an ATI radeon card and, while it's a bit more of a hassle to get working, it's possible to have full functionality in Ubuntu (and it's only gonna get better since ATI has opened the specs on their cards!)

The most helpful thing to know about your card when it comes to drivers is the RV number. For example, in the hardware_info.html file which was generated by the above command, in the video card section (about 1/3 of the way down the page) I see this:
> RV350 [Mobility Radeon 9600 M10]
So I know that I have a Mobility Radeon 9600 M10 card. But as far as the driver for this card is concerned, the important thing is RV350. Different cards are RV350 but, AFAIK, they all take the same driver.

(sorry for the long post -- I'm afraid there's more)

So you can either use the open-source driver for your card or the closed-source (proprietary) driver. There are stable versions of each in the Ubuntu repositories -- but they're not the latest-greatest versions with the newest features.

In my experience, the easiest way to get the newest drivers is to use a program called Envy ( [http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html) ). You can download the .deb file from that page (right below the "Supported Operating Systems" cart). A .deb file is very similar to an .exe file in Windows, just download it to, say, your desktop and double-click it to install the program. (once it's installed Envy is in the APPLICATIONS>SYSTEM TOOLS menu).

Envy is very automatic, just do what it says and you'll get the latest PROPRIETARY driver which can do fancy Compiz desktop effects. But do pay attention to the warnings on the Envy website about upgrading your Ubuntu version.

I hope this helps give you an idea of your options.
Best of luck.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2007-12-17
Ack! I'm a total idiot sometimes. sorry I thought you were trying to get skype working with video, when you were asking for audible help actually.

I tink what you need is```
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
```

assuming you have the repos enabled. then
```
aticonfig --initial
```

---

