---
title: ".exe files"
date: 2006-08-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Forko on 2006-08-10
I want to open a .exe file. It is a driver for a USb audio interface and i want to see if it works with Linux. I haev searched for a while and i can't seem to fnd a way to do this, all i have found is things about wine (which i tryed installing with the instructions on their site, but it still didn't work). I just want to open a .exe  file, is there a way to do it?

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-08-10
> **Forko said:**
> I want to open a .exe file. It is a driver for a USb audio interface and i want to see if it works with Linux. I haev searched for a while and i can't seem to fnd a way to do this, all i have found is things about wine (which i tryed installing with the instructions on their site, but it still didn't work). I just want to open a .exe  file, is there a way to do it?

EXE files are executables specifically for Windows. You will need wine. You can also install Wine from the repositories with Synaptic or typing

**sudo aptitude install wine**

But, that's not going to solve your problem, I bet. Give us the make and model of the device you're trying to get to work. You could also search the forums and see if someone else has tried running the device.

---

### Post by Forko on 2006-08-10
I have already tried searching the forums, and i have tried searchign the net. I have gone onto the website of the manufacturers and they don't make any Linux drivers. I am using a M-audio Jamlab. It seems impossible to find a  
driver for it.

---

### Post by Forko on 2006-08-10
I tried the jamlab, and thought it wasn't working because i wasn't gettign sound from XMMS, but i am getting sound effects when i click things. How do i change the output device for XMMS?

Edit: It's ok, i have got it working.

---

### Post by Forko on 2006-08-10
I typed exactly what you said into the terminal, but it still isn't showing up.

---

