---
title: "6.10 on USB Hard Drive"
date: 2007-02-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Oen386 on 2007-02-25
Hello all!

I am trying to test out Linux really for the first time. I have used a Knoppix CD before (for a class), but never really tried much else.

My friend recently showed me Ubuntu installed on his laptop, and I figured I should give it a try.

I wanted to put Ubuntu onto an external USB hard drive I have. I started following the tutorial by DaBruGo.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811)

I got stuck at the part about entering "rescue" mode.

When I insert the Live CD I only get an option to Run/Install from CD, a second option I can't remember, Memcheck of some sort, and finally to boot from a partition.

I hit "F6" to other options and type "rescue" as described. Yet Ubuntu just starts up like I wanted to install again, and my external HD where Ubuntu is installed does show up, but appears encrypted so I am unable to make any of the changes so that I may boot directly from the USB hd.

Do I need another installation package? I saw some mention "Recovery" from the Alternate Install Disc. Or is there a command in the shell I need to use to get to the point where I can start editing files as described? Or should I use Breezy and maybe update to 6.10? I honestly am lost at this point.

Thanks for your input.

---

### Post by Oen386 on 2007-02-25
Also I would be willing to try the text-mode installer...

"Ubuntu can now be installed to USB devices, such as removable hard drives and flash memory, using the text-mode installer" - 6.06 Release notes.

I have yet to find any directions on how to do that though.

---

### Post by Oen386 on 2007-02-26
Alright I got to the point of the install where I have to select the "root file system" I assume this is the second partition. However it will not let me select this partition while I am in the recovery mode on the alternate install cd.

I can select the first partition, that is also the boot partition. It seems fine until I try to find "mkinitrd" which doesn't seem to exist on the first drive.

Once again any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by superpelican on 2007-02-26
Oen386,

Are you just wanting to try out Ubuntu by installing it on a USB drive?  

The live CD is really quite good and designed for this purpose as well, unless of course the system you're wanting to test it on dosen't have a cd drive :)

Thanks,

-Dave

---

### Post by Oen386 on 2007-02-26
I want to install stuff and not have it reset everytime i reboot. I know about the Live CDs (I had to use them to install :) ). Thanks though.

---

### Post by superpelican on 2007-02-26
Ahh, I figured it was probably something like that... there may be a way to just save your settings, to the flash drive.  There should be a way to install on the flash drive like you stated above, I'll do some digging around and see if I can find anything that would help you out.

-Dave

---

### Post by vincent orange on 2007-02-26
I'm also interested in this method.

I would like to have ubuntu boot from a usb flash disk and then use the system as normal. 


Is it now better (or more convenient) to simply boot from live cd and then save files to flash disk?

---

### Post by Oen386 on 2007-03-01
Here is the deal. I found on some PCs when I try to boot with GRUB it gives me some kind of "can not write" error. If I tell it to boot again though, it works flawlessly after that. That makes no lick of sense to me at all. I can't figure out why after trying to boot a 2nd time it would do anything different.

The issue I am having now is unless I am on one of those computers it appears no other computers can boot the hard drive.

I think I need to make changes as suggested in the tutorial, but whenever my HD is automounted like I stated, it is appears encrypted. Any ideas?

I believe I have to edit the fstab? Add a mount point or something? I am not sure how to determine that info though.

---

### Post by Oen386 on 2007-03-02
What is the equivalent to the "/etc/mkinitramfs/modules" in 6.10?

---

### Post by Oen386 on 2007-03-03
Now I get to the point where "GRUB " shows up with a blinking cursor. The issue is now I have done all the stuff listed, but it does not work. I think because the USB doesn't fully work when it tries to load.

---

### Post by superpelican on 2007-03-04
I did come across this tutorial... looks a little different than the one you posted above.

Might be worth a shot.

[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/01/25/usb-x-ubuntu-610](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/01/25/usb-x-ubuntu-610)

Have fun,

-Dave

---

