---
title: "Alt 1250"
date: 2007-04-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2007-04-30
In a windows based password program one of the password characters is an ALT and then a high number  such as ALT 1250. How do I enter such a numeric number from within Ubuntu, with ease?

---

### Post by jfinkels on 2007-05-06
> **Robbyx said:**
> In a windows based password program one of the password characters is an ALT and then a high number  such as ALT 1250. How do I enter such a numeric number from within Ubuntu, with ease?

I think in Windows when you type <Alt>+four digit number, that's just a shortcut for a character from the system character map (in Ubuntu, the character map is at "Accessories > Character Map", or type "charmap" in the terminal). I'm not sure if you can do that in Ubuntu...but I don't really know.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2007-05-07
The character map is not easy to use. How do I find the digital equivalent of 1250?

Do you know of a macro programmer for Linux? Once I worked out how to manually find the digital number, with the help of a macro programmer I could do it automatically. I would have to write it so that it asks for the number.

---

### Post by jfinkels on 2007-05-07
> **Robbyx said:**
> The character map is not easy to use. How do I find the digital equivalent of 1250?

Do you know of a macro programmer for Linux? Once I worked out how to manually find the digital number, with the help of a macro programmer I could do it automatically. I would have to write it so that it asks for the number.

I'm afraid I've never come across any such utility, perhaps someone else has?

---

