---
title: "Desktop freezes"
date: 2007-12-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-19
Hi I tried a lot for 3d compiz with my legacy nvidia card and did a lot of editing it (with some tutorials) changing "nv" to"nvidia" etcetra.
Now whenever I try to shut down with the red Quit button (top-right),my desktop just freezes and I have to hard boot.
On rebooting,somtimes I am asked to get my display drivers correct,and I specify everytime about screen resolution/driver/monitor.
Heres my xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV5 [RIVA TNT2/TNT2 Pro]"
	Driver		"nvidia" #[COLOR="Red"]**CHANGED THIS**[/COLOR]
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"COMPAL M554"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
#[COLOR="Red"]**I DID SOME CHANGE BELOW WHICH I AM UNABLE TO RECALL**[/COLOR]
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV5 [RIVA TNT2/TNT2 Pro]"
	Monitor		"COMPAL M554"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-19
Try shutting down with ```
sudo shutdown -r now
```That should reboot you, and possibly give you some better information rather than just freezing. Of course it might just freeze anyway but it's worth a shot. Another thing to try, when it freezes hit ctrl+alt+backspace (to restart X) to see if it's just X crashing rather than the kernel as well.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-19
Hi thanks for replying:)
 I did try "shutdown 0" after alt+control+f1 so X reboots.But the problem continues after this.I wil try rebooting the kernel too as u suggested.But can u tel me something from my xorg.conf.I think there is something in it thats making it happen.

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-19
Your xorg.conf is fine. There's nothing in that file that can only take effect when attempting a graphical shutdown, so it's not xorg.conf causing the problem. It could be the different nvidia driver crashing when you attempt to shutdown, but that would be it.

This sort of thing is rather hard to debug, but to clarify:
If you press ctrl+alt+backspace, do you wind up back at the login screen after a couple of minutes?

If you press ctrl+alt+F1 and take yourself to a console and shutdown manually from there, is it successful?

Neither of those things will "fix" the problem, they'll just tell us a bit more about what's actually happening.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-20
> **jw5801 said:**
> 
If you press ctrl+alt+backspace, do you wind up back at the login screen after a couple of minutes?
Yes
> **jw5801 said:**
> 
If you press ctrl+alt+F1 and take yourself to a console and shutdown manually from there, is it successful?
Yes
Is there anything where i can go back (like system restore in windows)?

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-20
I have followed a tutorial for getting compiz.Then edited my xorg.conf "nv" to "nvidia" and now i cannot log into X.
I can log only in failsafe mode.With least drivers.Otherwise during login i enter my name and password and i m directed to the same screen after a while.
I think i screwed my system big time.
Pl help me

---

### Post by natehall on 2007-12-20
I noticed that some of what you did was forgotten. You can always open up .bash_history to see what you did. (If in the home directory type in    less .bash_history    and it will come up. type q to get out.)

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-20
From failsafe mode change the "nvidia" back to "nv" and see if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-20
I wil try both things as suggested.Hope that wil help me.Thanks for being there.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-20
Hi
I have done a lot of things now.
As suggested I replacd "nvidia" with :nv" only to realise that I had disabled Restricted driver nvidia-glx-legacy.So it primarily ran with the replacing name thing,I enabled the restr driver
And then I could very well login to X..so thanks for the tip :)

the bash script returned a "bad command" error. :(

But the shutdown/quit button doesnt work still.System hangs/freezes on that button press.
I can ctrl+alt+backspace to relogin to X as well as ctrl_alt_F1 to console from where i can shutdown or reboot.
There r so many tutorials or tips I found/followed that its really not possible to tell what all things I have done..but the above is a summary (more or less of the things I did)

After a while I downloaded compiz from the terminal and typed compiz in terminal.and all seems ok..but on reboot I find the display broken here and ther.And I havent even enabled any desktop effects.And when I try to,I am given that they wont be enabled.

So I looked for more when I found that a later version of the nvidia legacy driver is present which I am downloading as I type.Lets see what it returns...

Meanwhile can someone help me with all the things above especially red button quit?

---

### Post by philinux on 2007-12-20
See the link below for known workarounds.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-20
Hi philinux..that links awesome :)

It solved most of my problems and saved a lot of threads...!

But my main issue is stil ther...quit button hang...I have found a link to that problem as well..i'll just check..

meanwhile this @#$% nvidia legacy driver is irritating me a lot..

just see how my display looks on enableing this nvidia-glx-legacy(and disabling it would not allow me to boot into X)

After d/l compiz and running it heres how it looks
abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: present. 
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for Xgl: present. 
Enabling Xgl with nVidia drivers...
Starting gtk-window-decorator
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: Support for non power of two textures missing
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :1.0

can anyone figure something out of this?

also see how my desktop looks now (attached)

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-21
Can anybody help me on this ?

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-21
Hi
My Desktop screen is still broken and on pressing shutdown,the desktop just freezes.
But in constant trying,I had once been able to activate the shutdown button (showing me options of shutdown/restart/suspend..)..At that time my desktop also looked nicer in graphics than the current one I've got.
So I think I have somehow a working monitor/display but something is keeping it from getting good resolution

I tried running "compiz" in terminal and this is what I get
[COLOR="Red"]abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: present. 
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for Xgl: present. 
Enabling Xgl with nVidia drivers...
Starting gtk-window-decorator
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: Support for non power of two textures missing
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :1.0
Window manager warning: Window 0x2403158 () sets an MWM hint indicating it isn't resizable, but sets min size 461 x 278 and max size 2147483647 x 2147483647; this doesn't make much sense.
Window manager warning: Window 0x2403158 () sets an MWM hint indicating it isn't resizable, but sets min size 461 x 278 and max size 2147483647 x 2147483647; this doesn't make much sense.[/COLOR]

Does it mean anything?

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-22
Hi I am still trying with my broken display and no ones helping:confused:

Ok i tried this
abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)

How do I try the LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose setting?

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-22
Sorry, I've been away from my computer for a few days. If you want to set the verbose setting, simply type:```
LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose
glxinfo
```
Then post the output here. It would appear that your display driver is faulty, so we'll have to see what we can do about it. I don't have an nvidia card so I'm not all that experienced with them, but we'll see what we can do.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-22
Hi jw5801
Your words are so much assuring and because of that I have become fond of the fraternity within the community and the concern for a restless newbie like me Really,I am cursing myself for joining Linux so late..nevermind..better be late than never!
(And yes I too try imbibing the culture that holds this community together..and before posting,I try a lot )

As you suggested
abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose
abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :1.0
display: :1  screen: 0
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, 
    GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, GLX_OML_swap_method, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_hyperpipe, 
    GLX_SGIX_swap_barrier, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig
client glx vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
client glx version string: 1.3
client glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_visual_info, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_SGI_video_sync, 
    GLX_NV_swap_group, GLX_NV_video_out, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_NV_float_buffer
GLX version: 1.2
GLX extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, 
    GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_ARB_get_proc_address
OpenGL vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: RIVA TNT2/AGP/SSE2
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5.3 NVIDIA 71.85)
OpenGL extensions:
    GL_ARB_imaging, GL_ARB_multitexture, GL_ARB_point_parameters, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_add, GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_ARB_window_pos, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_add, GL_EXT_abgr, GL_EXT_bgra, 
    GL_EXT_draw_range_elements, GL_EXT_fog_coord, GL_EXT_multi_draw_arrays, 
    GL_EXT_packed_pixels, GL_EXT_rescale_normal, GL_EXT_secondary_color, 
    GL_EXT_separate_specular_color, GL_EXT_stencil_wrap, 
    GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp, GL_EXT_texture_env_combine, 
    GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias, GL_EXT_texture_object, GL_EXT_vertex_array, 
    GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_NV_blend_square, 
    GL_NV_texgen_reflection, GL_NV_texture_env_combine4

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x2c 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x2d 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x2e 32 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 Ncon
0x2f 32 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 Ncon

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-22
Which driver were you using when these issues started? I can see three nvidia driver packages: nvidia-glx, nvidia-glx-legacy (which I think you're using unsuccessfully now) and nvidia-glx-new.
We can try reinstalling nvidia-glx-legacy and see if it helps:
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-glx-legacy
sudo apt-get autoremove --purge
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy
```
You'll need to reboot after that.

Also, which card do you have?

---

### Post by philinux on 2007-12-22
If its not the graphics try installing and running startupmanager, it's in synaptic.

It sorts out shutdown hiccups too. Well worth installing just for tweaking the startup.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-22
Ah well.I can try this on monday.
Yes jw i was using glx-legacy.I had separately installed this in hope of better desktop rendering.But the conflicting drivers made it useless. And i wil try with startup manager too.
Thanks guys.:) much appreciated

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-22
Ah well.I can try this on monday.
Yes jw i was using glx-legacy.I have an old Nvidia riva tnt2/tnt2 pro card.I had separately installed this in hope of better desktop rendering.But the conflicting drivers made it useless. And i wil try with startup manager too.
Thanks guys.:) much appreciated

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-24
So i removed the drivers and reinstalled them.But it doesnt work.The display is stil broken.And the driver is stil in a mess.When i checked display settings with the live cd,its 1024x768 and looks ok.But on my actual os it looks crappy and unprofessional and in low graphics.I want to experience the good looking desktop.
But the startup manager is a very cool  app.Thanks for that tip.

EDIT: Every time (on reboot) I have to set the Screen resolution to 1024x768@75Hz
On booting ,I m told to keep either X settings or GNOME settings,and the screen is 800x600 and then I have to set it.
One more thing I noticed,When I push the red quit knob,(as I said earlier) the screen freezes,but I observed that after about 3-4 minutes,The menu for shutdown (shutdown/restart/hibernate/suspend) appears.Now everytime after this,the menu is instantly loaded on the quit button press.But on rebooting,the situation continues

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-24
Ok, well I've had a look around and there are a few posts about your graphic card. I also found a link to this blog: [http://blog.shevin.info/2007/04/dont-panic-if-you-broke-graphic-in.html](http://blog.shevin.info/2007/04/dont-panic-if-you-broke-graphic-in.html), which may or may not be useful.

There's also [this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221313) thread, which if you run a thread search for "tnt2" returns some useful posts.

Often when it gets to the point where your screen gets corrupted and you can't seem to fix it even after undoing everything you may have done to get it there, it becomes incredibly difficult to trace the issue to it's source, and a clean install might be a faster option. That way you can apply what you learned this time around and get the driver up and running cleanly. Then we can try and suss out what's causing the gui shutdown to take so long to load, if in fact, it still is.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-24
> **jw5801 said:**
> Ok, well I've had a look around and there are a few posts about your graphic card. I also found a link to this blog: [http://blog.shevin.info/2007/04/dont-panic-if-you-broke-graphic-in.html](http://blog.shevin.info/2007/04/dont-panic-if-you-broke-graphic-in.html), which may or may not be useful
There's also [this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221313).

This is a very good help.Very useful links.Thanks

> **jw5801 said:**
> 
....and a clean install might be a faster option. 

I agree.This seems logical and the only option I would be having after I tried above links.Since my desktop is slowing down a lot and eating a lot of the processor (P4 1.7Ghz) only when I have Firefox+Totem+two terminals open.I hope this is related to the driver issue,because in winxp I could atleast run 5 programs (2 would be my microcontroller code development softwares AVRstudio and keil running/debugging/simulating)
and still it would be 50% of my processor and half of my(768mb) RAM.

Newayz jw5801 and philinux,thanks for the help and MERRY XMAS to you and all!:)

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-27
Hi jw
I reinstalled ubuntu.All of my problems are gone.I can shutdown properly,etc
But I am not able to get my nvidia-legacy driver to work (or I think)
I did everything by the book..I have a glxgears frame rate of above 1500.
Does this say anything about my display?Is it ok for compiz?
Whenever I try to 
[COLOR="Red"]abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

Error: your X configuration has been altered.
This script cannot proceed automatically. If you believe that this
not correct, you can update the md5sum entry executing the following
command:
md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf | sudo tee /var/lib/x11/xorg.conf.md5sum
otherwise edit manually /etc/X11/xorg.conf to change the Driver section
from nv to nvidia.
[/COLOR]

But i have it set to "nvidia".and all the "AllowGLXWithComposite" "1" and stuff mentioned 
elsewhere.

One more question.Is compiz already there in my system?..beacuse when I say 
[COLOR="Red"]abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 10de:0028 (rev 15) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity [/COLOR]

How do I solve this error?
Thanks for any help

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-27
Hi
[COLOR="Red"]Checking for Xgl: not present. [/COLOR]meant that xgl was not present!
So I got it like this
[COLOR="Red"]abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl compiz-gnome
[/COLOR]

[COLOR="Red"](before this when I put
abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: Yes[/COLOR]
and glxgears gave a frame rate of more than 1500...so I presume I have a  good enough video card for compiz)


then i put "compiz" in terminal only to find that something was wrong!
 
Upon rebooting a notifier informed me
  [COLOR="Red"]Xgl server setup changed

The Xgl server will now be started automatically next time you login.  It is no longer necessary to use any special X session to start Xgl, and such sessions will likely fail to work properly.  Please select a regular session from your session manager next time you log in.  To disable Xgl autostart for this user, create a file named ~/.config/xserver-xgl/disable[/COLOR]

so i rebooted.Only to find my nightmare of broken gnome-display/desktop back to haunt me,,man I was dead.

I needed to remove xgl so i removed it thus
 [COLOR="Red"]mkdir ~/.config/
 mkdir ~/.config/xserver-xgl
 touch ~/.config/xserver-xgl/disable #disable xgl[/COLOR]

Now on rebooting i atleast get a non-broken display and evrything is fine..

But what should be wrong here?It isnt that my box isnt working,it does,with quite a  good
desktop theme.But I want to see compiz/emerald and want to show a windows-fanboy friend of mine that I can get these awesome effects with so less of hardware than his hardware hungry vista (for which he got a 2gb ram box with the latest video card)

p.s:I could save myself with good backups of xorg.conf

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-27
> **abicash said:**
> Hi jw
I reinstalled ubuntu.All of my problems are gone.I can shutdown properly,etc
But I am not able to get my nvidia-legacy driver to work (or I think)
I did everything by the book..I have a glxgears frame rate of above 1500.
Does this say anything about my display?Is it ok for compiz?
Whenever I try to 
[COLOR="Red"]abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

Error: your X configuration has been altered.
This script cannot proceed automatically. If you believe that this
not correct, you can update the md5sum entry executing the following
command:
md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf | sudo tee /var/lib/x11/xorg.conf.md5sum
otherwise edit manually /etc/X11/xorg.conf to change the Driver section
from nv to nvidia.
[/COLOR]

But i have it set to "nvidia".and all the "AllowGLXWithComposite" "1" and stuff mentioned 
elsewhere.

This is all ok! From the framerate you're getting and your glxinfo, the driver itself is working perfectly! There's just something missing from your xorg.conf which is stopping compiz from running. I'm an ATi boy though so I'm not sure what it might be.
The nvidia-glx script appears to take a default xorg.conf and alter it, which you've done manually. Since you changed it manually the md5sums don't match anymore so the check that the script runs fails. You could try taking the default xorg.conf (copy it from the LiveCD), and replacing the one you have now with it, then running "sudo nvidia-glx... etc." Make sure you back up what you've got now first though! You could also update the md5sum and then try the script again, make sure you back it up though!
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-working
md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf | sudo tee /var/lib/x11/xorg.conf.md5sum
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```
And see where you wind up. If things break, run "sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-working /etc/X11/xorg.conf" to get you back to where you are now.

> One more question.Is compiz already there in my system?..beacuse when I say 
[COLOR="Red"]abhi@abhi-desktop:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 10de:0028 (rev 15) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity [/COLOR]

How do I solve this error?
Thanks for any help

Yes, compiz is present by default in Gutsy so you don't need to install anything for it. I believe the issue with compiz is related to rendering, which goes back to the first issue about something in your GLX config. So lets see if we can get the script running correctly first.

You won't need Xgl, so don't worry about where it says "Xgl: not present." As far as I'm aware nvidia drivers shouldn't need Xgl to run a composite manager (like compiz). Xgl is an alternative X server that runs on top of your Xorg server, you shouldn't need it since you can get direct rendering with the correct driver anyway, and in fact it appears as though it isn't working, so make sure you remove it:
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xgl
```

Let's see what we can do about getting this nvidia-glx script to run correctly as it should set everything up correctly.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-28
> **jw5801 said:**
> 
..You could also update the md5sum and then try the script again, make sure you back it up though!
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-working
md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf | sudo tee /var/lib/x11/xorg.conf.md5sum
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```
And see where you wind up. If things break, run "sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-working /etc/X11/xorg.conf" to get you back to where you are now.

This didnt take me anywhere.I rebooted to find my display resolution to 800x600 so I got my orig xorg

> **jw5801 said:**
> 
You won't need Xgl,...so make sure you remove it:
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xgl
```

I removed it.
> **jw5801 said:**
> 
Let's see what we can do about getting this nvidia-glx script to run correctly as it should set everything up correctly.

I think I am on the verge of it working correctly....

So what next?

And yeah thanks for the support :)

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-28
So did nvidia-glx-config run correctly after you updated the md5sum? Could you give me your xorg.conf before and after running "sudo nvidia-glx-config enable"? So run the command then give me the outputs of:```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-working
```if it runs correctly. If it spits out the same error as before then update the md5sum manually and try running it again.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-29
Hi jw
I am attaching the document where xorg before and after nvidia-config-enable is run.(that after md5 correction)
But the problem persists.My desktop reverts to 800x600 which should be 1024x768.And an info tab announces "whether i want to keep the original x settings or gnome settings" and also something about the keyboard being pc101 and pc105 mentioned...

I also read yday that if i am having the generic kernel then i might run into trouble with restricted drivers..isthat so?

newayz..looking forwrd to your help :)

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-29
Ok, so this is your current xorg.conf but I've highlighted the important things that aren't included in the xorg.conf that nvidia-glx-config produces:
```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc101"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
[COLOR="Red"]	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"COMPAL M554"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync 30-96
	VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"COMPAL M554"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
[COLOR="Red"]	Option 	"AllowGLXWithComposite" "1"[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  	screen		"Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

[COLOR="Red"]Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection[/COLOR]
```

There are a few others, but these are what I believe to be the important ones. What I would do, is leave your configuration as is, but try commenting out certain parts of xorg.conf (by adding a "#" at the start of the line (without the quotation marks though)). Then restarting X (ctrl+alt+backspace) and trying to run compiz. The first one I would try would be the entire "Extensions" section, so try making your xorg.conf look like this (we have a backup already, yes?) ```

[color="red"]#changes I made are in red like this[/color]
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc101"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"COMPAL M554"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync 30-96
	VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"COMPAL M554"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"	
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	Option 	"AllowGLXWithComposite" "1"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  	screen		"Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

[color="red"]#Section "Extensions"
#	Option "Composite" "Disable"
#EndSection[/color]
```
Then restart X and see what happens. I'm thinking that section might be the issue because you've added AllowGLXWithComposite, but then disabled composite. Try a few different combinations of things. Once again, I don't have an nvidia card so I don't know what's important and what isn't.

As for needing a specific nvidia kernel, I wouldn't know. You definitely don't need one in order to use any Restricted Driver. And you have the nvidia driver running beautifully so I wouldn't think you'd need one to run this driver. It's just compiz that's playing up. But if the people recommending this know how to go about it and know what they're talking about then it could be worth a shot.

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-29
Hi jw
After about playing with xorg a couple of times (with keeping the working copy at hand) I now get a xorg like this
```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA Legacy"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"COMPAL M554"
	Vendorname	"Compal"
	Modelname	"Compal M454"
	Horizsync	30-96
	Vertrefresh	50-160
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@85" 36.0 640 696 752 832 480 481 484 509 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@85" 56.3 800 832 896 1048 600 601 604 631 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@43" 44.9 1024 1032 1208 1264 768 768 776 817 +hsync interlace +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"COMPAL M554"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1024	768
		Modes		"800x600@60"	"832x624@75"	"800x600@85"	"1024x768@60"	"800x600@75"	"1024x768@43"	"800x600@72"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@85"	"640x480@75"	"640x480@72"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
```

I am now getting your point *somewhat*.I now am getting a screen resolution as 1024x768 but my screen is not handling this .I mean my screen is becoming small for the resolution because all the panels/fonts have become large,which were previuosly well suited to my desktop.
I dont know what this is..or how to solve this..since there are so many steps I have run-rerun-busted-worked-crashed so I am really not in a position to exactly point out what is/was wrong.
So I will try fidgeting with xorg some more..:popcorn:

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-29
I am trying and trying...but not getting it :(
I dont know whether its a driver issue or xgl issue.
I am tired to see "desktop effects not enabled" all the time:(

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-12-29
I'm sorry I can't be of more help. It might be an idea to post in one of the how-tos you've been following, that way the people who wrote the how-to (and people who have successfully followed it) are much more likely to read your post and be able to help.

Also, don't forget you've got "/etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-working" sitting there ready to replace anything that ends up broken, this way we can find our way back to a proper working state to start from.
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia-working /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by abicash on 2007-12-29
Yeah jw..I think that is what i wil try.Thanks for all the support.U have been very helpful.

---

