---
title: "USB wont mount"
date: 2007-04-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by chaka53 on 2007-04-30
When I insert a USB drive I get the message

Cannot mount volume
You are not privileged to mount this volume.

This is driving me nuts.

Help please

---

### Post by JebusWankel on 2007-04-30
I would try going to System >  Administration > Users and Groups and checking that "Access External Storage Devices Automatically" is checked.

---

### Post by chaka53 on 2007-04-30
tried that, no go. AAAGH

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2007-04-30
what version of ubuntu are you using?

---

### Post by chaka53 on 2007-04-30
7.04  Feisty

When I go to system/diskmanager  I get the message

There are no filesystems which you are allowed to mount or unmount.
Contact your administrator.

Any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by GrueTamer on 2007-04-30
Try mounting them through the terminal, in a way similar to this

```
sudo mount /dev/sda /media/sda
```

I'm only guessing that it's sda, and if /media/sda doesn't exist, then do

```
sudo mkdir /media/sda && sudo mount /dev/sda /media/sda
```

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by chaka53 on 2007-05-01
Could not get CD's or DVD's to mount - ended up reinstalling from scratch - now all is working again - something I installed must have screwed it up.

Thanks for your help in any event.

:)

---

### Post by Bloch on 2007-05-01
I am getting the same problem. 

When I plugin in my usb memory stick the message pops up:
> Cannot mount volume
You are not privileged to mount this volume.


I can mount it using the command line but other people use the computer and I want to get automounting back.
Any ideas what I can do?

CD's mount with no problem

---

### Post by Dave_Man on 2007-05-22
any more info on this problem?
I am having it too.

Thanks.
Dave

---

### Post by SomethingUniqueHere on 2007-05-24
I'm having the same issue, I wonder if this has something to do with my having installed the 64 bit version?  Anyways, symptoms are the same, cds auto mount just fine, ipod auto mounts fine, just my flash drive thats giving me problems.

---

### Post by smoovew on 2007-05-24
I have this problem as well.  However, I add a new level of complexity:

I did not have this issue until I ran the software updates one or two iterations ago.  This morning I discovered that in addition to USB not mountin, my previoulsy mounted NTFS partitions are also not mounted and give the same "You do not have priviledges to mount..." blah blah.

This is on 7.04.  I have the issue on both a Dell D620 DuoCore machine and my home AMD64 running the x64 distribution of 7.04.

Someone needs to figure out which update is stripping away all of the previous security settings and fix it.  This goes in the opposite direction of user friendly.

---

### Post by PSPguru1001 on 2007-05-27
HI all..I have just joined on the bandwagon with ubuntu and linux... I too ran into the same problem with ubuntu not giving me permission to mount my usb drives. I too have Ubuntu 7.04 and recently installed automatix. I read [this article]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=413822") and realized that I may be having the same problems. 

So heres what I did : "cd /etc/" next I opened fstab with write permissions"sudo gedit fstab"

Near the bottom were the following lines:
> # Generated by Automatix
/dev/sdb1   /media/sdb1   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hdb1   /media/hdb1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0

I changed the /dev/sdb1 to be ignored (instead of removed since I was unsure of the effects) by adding a "#" in front of the code

> # Generated by Automatix
#/dev/sdb1   /media/sdb1   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hda1   /m...

All is working great for me now....let me know how it works out for you guys! :grin:

---

### Post by homer77 on 2007-05-31
No Automatix here but actually I had an entry in fstab (which I wrote myself before) to mount sda1 which has formerly been my Windows-partition.  I guess the latest kernel-update changed the naming of my harddrive again back from sda to hda which made my system mix-up with my manual changes in fstab.

So just check your fstab for any entrys which haven't been added by udev but by programs or yourself. Annoying problem, ain't it?

---

### Post by mikessong on 2007-06-03
PSPguru1001 suggestion worked for me.  I had duplicate entries, one defined by a UUID.

---

### Post by cas118 on 2007-06-04
It's definitely the changes to the kernal that cause the mounting problems.

Another problem that hit me was that my SATA disks were reassigned from sda and sda to hdf and hdg!

Of course, if I was using the UUIDs that it keeps putting on, that wouldn't have happened.

Still, [this is what I had to do]("http://ccgi.maxpower.plus.com/2007/06/04/ubuntu-704-fails-to-mount-usb-drive-after-kernal-upgrade/") to get the my USB drives to work.

Still, all working now!

---

### Post by mouseboyx on 2007-09-04
> **PSPguru1001 said:**
> HI all..I have just joined on the bandwagon with ubuntu and linux... I too ran into the same problem with ubuntu not giving me permission to mount my usb drives. I too have Ubuntu 7.04 and recently installed automatix. I read [this article]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=413822") and realized that I may be having the same problems. 

So heres what I did : "cd /etc/" next I opened fstab with write permissions"sudo gedit fstab"

Near the bottom were the following lines:


I changed the /dev/sdb1 to be ignored (instead of removed since I was unsure of the effects) by adding a "#" in front of the code



All is working great for me now....let me know how it works out for you guys! :grin:


Yes this works if you have a usb drive mounted that is vfat or ntfs automatix will add it to the fstab when it makes it so that vfat and ntfs drives are mounted automatically.

---

### Post by rshel on 2007-09-08
OK,

I was looking at the properties of a flash drive mounted on my desktop; under the tab Volume, there is a button "Settings."  Stupidly, I clicked on it and changed the filesystem to Fat32 (don't ask why, trying to fix minor related problem that I have now forgotten--stupid, as I said).  Anyway, now Ubuntu will not mount the flashdrive at all.  I get a message saying that Ubuntu cannot mount it because it is a FAT32 FS, which my system cannot use.  Of course, I have other flash drives that are fat32 and mount fine.  I have access via samba to various fat32 network shares.  They mount fine.  I can see the problem flashdrive in fdisk and in gparted; gparted will not allow me to format it to anything, giving me the error in attempting the format.  
I have tried modifying fstab to no avail.  Same problem.

 Of course, since the flashdrive won't mount, I cannot return to the properties/Volume tab and reset the settings.  Any ideas what I have done here? Or how to resolve it?

---

### Post by martn on 2008-03-18
Hi, first I was not able to use chmod with folders on the external drive then I also had the mount problem with previleges. I did the following steps:

I created a directory for the explicit mount and set previleges to 777:
```
sudo mkdir /media/LACIE
sudo chmod 777 /media/LACIE
```
I add the following line to "/etc/fstab" which caused the mounting problems you have too:
```
/dev/sda1       /media/LACIE    auto rw,utf8,noauto,exec,umask=000  0  0
```
I found out that the "user" option was missing:
```
/dev/sda1       /media/LACIE    auto rw,utf8,[COLOR="SeaGreen"]user[/COLOR],noauto,exec,umask=000  0  0
```
Everything worked fine with this entry.
Cheers Martin

---

