---
title: "Gusty Compiz 3-D Acceleration Help!"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by cosmiccharles on 2007-10-23
I have a Dell Inspiron E1505 laptop and I had recently upgraded from Feisty to Gusty but ended up deciding to reformat and do a whole new clean install instead of just an upgrade. Before my upgrade I had used beryl and had done some editing to my xorg.conf file in order to enable beryl to work properly. After my upgrade, compiz configuration settings manager had basically worked and took over where beryl left off in Feisty. Now that I have reformatted and have done an entirely new fresh install of Gusty I am back at square one with nothing working. The cube is a 2-D wall and none of the other 3-D effects seem to work properly either. I believe this has something to do with needing specific video drivers and enabling 3-D acceleration, since this was the problem before. Since I am such a newbie with this, I need help asap. Can anyone explain this to me and break it down step by step for me? PLLLLLLEEEEEAAAAASSSSSSSEEEE HELP!


**Here what my xorg.conf says**:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)

#

# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using

# values from the debconf database.

#

# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.

# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)

#

# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*

# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg

# package.

#

# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated

# again, run the following command:

# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg



Section "Files"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"

Driver	 "kbd"

Option	 "CoreKeyboard"

Option	 "XkbRules"	"xorg"

Option	 "XkbModel"	"pc105"

Option	 "XkbLayout"	"us"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Identifier	"Configured Mouse"

Driver	 "mouse"

Option	 "CorePointer"

Option	 "Device"	 "/dev/input/mice"

Option	 "Protocol"	 "ImPS/2"

Option	 "ZAxisMapping"	 "4 5"

Option	 "Emulate3Buttons"	"true"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"

Driver	 "synaptics"

Option	 "SendCoreEvents"	"true"

Option	 "Device"	 "/dev/psaux"

Option	 "Protocol"	 "auto-dev"

Option	 "HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Driver	 "wacom"

Identifier	"stylus"

Option	 "Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"

Option	 "Type"	 "stylus"

Option	 "ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"	 # Tablet PC ONLY

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Driver	 "wacom"

Identifier	"eraser"

Option	 "Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"

Option	 "Type"	 "eraser"

Option	 "ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"	 # Tablet PC ONLY

EndSection



Section "InputDevice"

Driver	 "wacom"

Identifier	"cursor"

Option	 "Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"

Option	 "Type"	 "cursor"

Option	 "ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"	 # Tablet PC ONLY

EndSection



Section "Device"

Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"

Driver	 "intel"

BusID	 "PCI:0:2:0"

EndSection



Section "Monitor"

Identifier	"Generic Monitor"

Option	 "DPMS"

EndSection



Section "Screen"

Identifier	"Default Screen"

Device	 "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"

Monitor	 "Generic Monitor"

DefaultDepth	24

SubSection "Display"

Modes	 "1280x800"

EndSubSection

EndSection



Section "ServerLayout"

Identifier	"Default Layout"

Screen	 "Default Screen"

InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"

InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"



# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet

#	InputDevice "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"

#	InputDevice "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"

#	InputDevice "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"

InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"

EndSection

**Here is my laptop's Specs**:
(Taken from the Dell Website)
Dell Inspiron E1505 Laptop
Processor type
Intel® Core™2 Duo processor

Video type:
integrated on system board
Video controller
Intel 945 GM
Video memory
up to 128 MB of shared memory (with 256 MB of system memory) or 224 MB of shared memory (with 512 MB of system memory)
LCD interface
LVDS
TV support
NTSC or PAL in S-video, composite, and component modes

Video type:
discrete video card 
Data bus
PCI Express X16
Video controller
ATI Mobility Radeon X1300 or X1400 or nVidia GeForce Go 7300
Video memory
64 MB (X1300) or 128 MB (X1400 or GeForce Go 7300)
LCD interface
LVDS
TV support
NTSC or PAL in S-video, composite, and component modes
__________________

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-23
Hi. Please post the output of this:
```
glxinfo | grep rendering
```

When you say that the cube is a 2-D wall, do you mean you can flip it, but it only has 2 sides? if so, try right-clicking on the workspace switcher, select "Preferences", and increase the number of columns to four.

---

### Post by BLTicklemonster on 2007-11-30
Well, he may not want to know any more, but I do.

bill@laptop:~$ glxinfo | grep rendering
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
bill@laptop:~$

---

### Post by BrotherLeRoy on 2007-12-31
Looks like the problem has been resolved for you.  I had the same problem and used the ati driver available through ENVY.  Follow the link here [http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2007/12/installing-newest-ati-driver.html](http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2007/12/installing-newest-ati-driver.html) hope it is useful for anybody else who has these issues.

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2007-12-31
> **BrotherLeRoy said:**
> Looks like the problem has been resolved for you.  I had the same problem and used the ati driver available through ENVY.  Follow the link here [http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2007/12/installing-newest-ati-driver.html](http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2007/12/installing-newest-ati-driver.html) hope it is useful for anybody else who has these issues.


Evny's not going to do much good here, he has an intell graphics card. More over using envy really isn't recommended it has a nasty habit of breaking upgrades, and as the restricted drivers manager gets better at handling the drivers there is less and less need to use envy.

---

