---
title: "DUAL BOOT in Ubuntu"
date: 2005-05-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by salsero on 2005-05-16
I installed ubuntu as on my new bought primary master, not wanting to damage my primary slave which contains winxp. When I get the boot loader in ubuntu which comes standard in the one cd, and I choose windows, it doesn't feel like going to the other HD. I gets stuck and I see the following text:

root(hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader +1


Does anyone know what information I need to type in order to make it go to the other hd and start winxp?

(as you can tell I know virtually nothing about linux)

Thanks

---

### Post by shof2k on 2005-05-16
Do you get an error message?  If so could you post it.

Also did Ubuntu detect winxp when you installed it?

I'm new to linux myself, but I'll try n help :)

---

### Post by salsero on 2005-05-16
I didn't get any error message. During installation, ubuntu asked to create a boot loader in case of a second windows partition. When I boot now, i get a few choices, the last being to go to windows. The system displays the message I posted above when I choose windows and then gets stuck.

Thanks for your reaction so far :)

Any suggestions

---

### Post by zxc on 2005-05-16
[Ubuntu DUALBOOT](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/WindowsDualBootHowTo) 

Might find something there to help.

---

### Post by Nu-Buntu on 2005-05-16
Perhaps Ubuntu's Grub installed itself in the MBR of the Windows partition and not the Master HDD's MBR. Just a thought, so I could be wrong.

---

### Post by jkndrkn on 2005-05-16
I had this problem the first time I tried to set up my dual-boot winxp/ubuntu machine.

As far as I can tell, it seems that Grub thinks windows is located in the incorrect partition. I recommend identifying the names of all your partitions and finding out what partition contains what. Write these down. Then edit the Grub menu so that your windows entry points to the correct partition.

I recommend searching this forum, google, and linuxquestions.org for issues relating to dual-boot. Dual-booting is tricky and full of uncertainties.

Good luck.

---

### Post by salsero on 2005-05-16
My god,...
I thought this would be much easiar...

Maybe if i install another bootloader program it wil work better...
I'll see if I can find one on the net.

Thanks for your reactions.

---

### Post by Segovia on 2005-05-16
Well if you know which drive it installed the bootloader on, you just need to change the boot order in your bios to boot from that drive.

By default, it installs grub at the MBR of the Windows drive.  However, your bios is probably configured to boot the master drive first.  Go into your bios and change it to boot the other drive first, the slave.

---

### Post by jkndrkn on 2005-05-16
Stick with Grub. Most of the literature I've run into recommends Grub over Lilo. Keep experimenting and trying new things. However, be sure to back up all your data.

Good luck.

---

### Post by shador on 2005-05-16
Remember to install all OS on the same HDD (preferably the primary) and u won't get this problem again

---

### Post by shof2k on 2005-05-17
Windows can get 'cranky' if it doesn 't find itself on the primary master (I thought the latest GRUB handled this??).  The simplest solution is to make your winxp your primary master, and ubuntu as your primary slave.  You can then set your default OS in your GRUB config menu later.

However, if you have to have an ubuntu master, can you try the following?

1) Can you boot into ubuntu ok?  If so, open a terminal and type
"sudo fdisk -l"  (without the quotes)
show the output here

2)Can you confirm that you set your disks as master and slave? This is usually done by a jumper next to the data interface.

---

### Post by dorris on 2005-05-17
This is in fact a known issue with many 2.6 kernels, sometimes its as easy as going into BIOS, and setting drive mode from CHS/Auto to LBA, sometimes this isn't enough, its basically caused by an error generated by parted during the install, if changing to LBA isn't enough, see the following topics 
[http://lwn.net/Articles/86835/](http://lwn.net/Articles/86835/)  - requires a rescue cd
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1396&highlight=parted+chainloader](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1396&highlight=parted+chainloader)

many people have been in your shoes, theres a few solutions, the 2nd topic references a tool called testdisk, I can't vouch for it, I fixed mine using a rescue disk and parted.

---

### Post by jkndrkn on 2005-05-17
[QUOTE=shador]Remember to install all OS on the same HDD (preferably the primary) and u won't get this problem again[/QUOTE]

HDD is the designation given to the slave HD on IDE controller 2

the designation goes as follows:

IDE1 master: HDA
IDE2 slave:    HDB
IDE3 master: HDC
IDE3 slave:    HDD

when i first tried installing ubuntu, i had my windows partition in HDB and attempted to install ubuntu in HDC
i got the exact same problems you are describing, but i also got the lovely problem of not being to boot into linux either
now i have both my OS partitions in HDB and have no problems

---

### Post by JimmyBEng on 2005-05-17
Something to consider.  Some BIOS won't boot from the slave.  This was the case with mine.  I have XP on hda and ubuntu on hdb, and I put grub into the MBR of hda.  It all works fine.  So not having them on the same drive shouldn't be a problem once grub gets configured right.

try and confirm that you have the right partition for ubuntu. (shof2k posted how to get a list of your partions)

---

### Post by Segovia on 2005-05-18
[QUOTE=JimmyBEng]I have XP on hda and ubuntu on hdb, and I put grub into the MBR of hda.  It all works fine.[/QUOTE]
That's how I'm setup too.  Seems to be the easiest setup, if you've got two physical drives.

---

### Post by paulb on 2005-05-23
[QUOTE=salsero]My god,...
I thought this would be much easiar...

Maybe if i install another bootloader program it wil work better...
I'll see if I can find one on the net.

Thanks for your reactions.[/QUOTE]

I think it should be  :?  just look at the Xandros streamline install Dual Boot in under 20mins. Ubuntu really should work on this, as it makes it a lot easier for newbies to learn linux and switch between the two. Like when they are having problems getting on-line with linux, you can switch back to xp and get back here for help...

---

### Post by JimmyBEng on 2005-05-23
Ubuntu did fine at autodetecting everything with my GRUB setup. I had dual boot ability right away without having to do anything.  the only changes I have had to make to GRUB are to add customizations like changing timeouts, defaults, and adding a splash backgound to the menu.

---

