---
title: "Mounting &amp; Unmounting"
date: 2007-07-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Snitz on 2007-07-19
Hello there, as I already said that Ubuntu automatically detected my windows NTFS drives. They're listed under /media/sda3 and /media/sda5

However, I'm not being able to write on these drives, only read access.

I tried doing it via the NTFS configuration tool but it didn't work, as the application didn't open.
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/widows-ntfs-partitions-readwrite-support-made-easy-in-ubuntu-feisty.html)

Can you tell me how to do it in the terminal please?

---

### Post by jw5801 on 2007-07-19
Open up /etc/fstab: ```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
There should be a line in that file for each of the 2 extra drives, something like:
/dev/sda3 /media/sda3 ntfs **ro**,user,noauto
where it says "ro," if you change that to "rw" then save the file, the next time you automount the drive you should be able to write to it.

---

### Post by Outrunner on 2007-07-19
EDIT: Sorry missed the last part in your post try 'gksudo ntfs-config'

---

### Post by Snitz on 2007-07-19
> **jw5801 said:**
> Open up /etc/fstab: ```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
There should be a line in that file for each of the 2 extra drives, something like:
/dev/sda3 /media/sda3 ntfs **ro**,user,noauto
where it says "ro," if you change that to "rw" then save the file, the next time you automount the drive you should be able to write to it.

There's no **ro** in the NTFS extensions.

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=629fda63-1505-490d-b7f9-a62092f4a751 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1634371D3436FF75 /media/sda3 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=229CAE299CADF805 /media/sda5 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=dbb26e9a-ece8-4d3b-999e-9f030cff263b none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

> EDIT: Sorry missed the last part in your post try 'gksudo ntfs-config'
I did that already and it didn't work, I checked the 2 checkbox and nothing happened.

---

### Post by Nythain on 2007-07-19
sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1634371D3436FF75 /media/sda3 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 1

```
to look more like
```

# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1634371D3436FF75 /media/sda3 ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=1000,umask=007,utf8 0 1

```
dont quote me on the umask though, i never could figure those numbers out so i always used 000 because i didnt care who could write to the drive and read from teh drive at all

naturally change the next one to look like that also

---

