---
title: "for internet connection sharing"
date: 2006-12-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by shashi123 on 2006-12-04
i installed ubuntu 6.06 abt some months back through i am able to connect my xp pc to ubuntu pc and i am also ablt to surf

now i want to use ubuntu as a server but i am not able to share internet connection to windows client i did installed firestartr but it gives following error


an unknown error has occured

plz check ur network device setting and make sure your internet connection is active

my etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf file looks something like this i tried to configure it

my ubuntu pc has two lan cards
et0 is the internet interface with ip 203.109.77.206 subnet mask 255.255.255.240
eth1 is internal network interface with ip 192.168.0.100 subnnet mask 255.255.255.0
my dns servers are  203.187.192.15 and 203.187.192.12
gateway is 203.109.77.193
and client pc ip is 192.168.0.101 subnet 255.255.255.0
and 

my etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf file looks something like this i tried to configure it

actually it was showing nothing 

# DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
	option routers 192.168.0.100;
	option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
	option domain-name-servers 203.109.77.206;
	option ip-forwarding off;
	range dynamic-bootp 192.168.0.200 192.168.0.254;
	default-lease-time 21600;
	max-lease-time 43200;
}

i must have something terribly wrong since its not working

plz help with the problem i asked the same query when i had installed it for the first time at that time i didnt knew any think abt dhcp server now i atleast know something so i would be definetly be able to understand if u can suggest me something

thanx in advance

---

### Post by dvarsam on 2006-12-04
Hello!

Why don't you buy an ADSL Router instead?

It will cost you 50-70euros,

everything is so easy to setup,

and with NO hassle at all you will be running in NO time!

Good Luck!

---

### Post by shashi123 on 2006-12-07
thanx for the reply

i am having a cable connection so will i be able to share the connection through it?


and what abt the mailserver will i be able to send and receive mails in client PC with r all win98 by setting a mailserver on ubuntu server

---

### Post by dvarsam on 2006-12-15
Hello again!

Sorry for the late reply...
... but I had not subscribed to this thread.

> **shashi123 said:**
> thanks for the reply.
I am having a cable connection so will i be able to share the connection through it?
And what about the mailserver will I be able to send & receive mails in client PC with r all win98 by setting a mailserver on ubuntu server

Yes, an ADSL Router will have 4 Fast Ethernet Ports in the back, so you could easily share, one Internet connection with 4 PCs!!!
You would plug 1 PC into 1 of the 4 Router's available plugs.

About the mailserver, yes you will be able to send E-mails (from 1 PC to the other LAN PCs & on the Internet).
On your Router, you will open the appropriate ports, so that Internet users can come in & visit your Site (lying on your Ubuntu Server).
Now, regarding Windows 98 & connecting to your Ubuntu, all you need is to install package "samba" & you can share your files/printers across your network.

Regarding the "mailserver" & windows & ubuntu related...
What is your question?
I don't understand...

Good Luck!

---

### Post by shashi123 on 2006-12-21
sorry for not telling u the exact requirment

currently i am using windows based operating system for server  with "Cmailserver" as mailserver application which downloads all mails for different users and distribute on their respective PC

and for internet sharing i am using "Ccproxy" which gives me right to grant rights to individual clients PC as to which site the view and which they will not

now i want to replicate the same system with ubuntu 6.06 as a server and windows PC as client as earlier

r there any ready made software like cmailserver and ccproxy in ubuntu distribution 
which can be setup and configured easily

sorry for the late reply but i almost stopped seeing the responce to my threds  bcoz noone is responding

i hope u will be ablt to help me

---

