---
title: "Radeon 9200/9250 problems :("
date: 2008-01-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by syn` on 2008-01-16
Thanks for reading everyone. Here's my problem:

A while back I installed 7.4 -- my first time using Linux. I have a Dell Dimension 2350 with some cheap integrated card. The card is horrible and I have a Radeon 9200 and 9250. Neither one of them I can get to work. I tried various tutorials and a few people tried to help me, but in the end, I had a few things I had to work on that needed my graphics card, so I just went back to Windows.

Now, I decided to give it another shot and JUST reinstalled off a Live CD, so everything is completely fresh. The only thing I have tried so far is getting Envy and trying to install the driver from there. What I got in return was:


[i]"Envy - Version 0.9.9
Ubuntu Gutsy 32bit
Your graphic card has been detected as a ATI Radeon 9200/9250 Series
Your graphic card is supported by the legacy Driver
ENVY ERROR: ATI's legacy driver does not support your operating system"[/i]


Another thing I'd like to point out there is I'm pretty clueless on computers. When I used Windows, I never, ever disabled my integrated card. I'd simply download and install the ATI drivers, goto display settings, and set my monitor to display only the Radeon. But everytime I'd start my computer up, it would use my integrated card until Windows was on the login screen. Once I reached the login screen it would switch over to the ATI.

I don't know if disabling the integrated would help. That's what I have my monitor on now. If I plug it into the ATI I get a black screen. 

Anyone who could help a noob get a simple driver working? Yes, I read the other tutorials and threads, none of the fixes worked for me so far.

---

### Post by syn` on 2008-01-16
**My xorg.conf:**

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"E151FP"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"E151FP"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x819" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by shae on 2008-01-16
The problem is that Gutsy uses a kernel that is not supported by ATI's legacy driver.  To fix the problem, you should build a custom kernel of 2.6.15 or 2.6.18(not 100% sure this will work).  To be honest this is not very noob-friendly, but unfortunately because ATI removed support for your graphics card in later versions this is what you will have to do.  For further information about compiling a kernel check the[ Master Kernel Thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311158&highlight=Master+Kernel+Thread").  If you have any specific questions I am happy to help.

---

### Post by syn` on 2008-01-16
> **shae said:**
> The problem is that Gutsy uses a kernel that is not supported by ATI's legacy driver.  To fix the problem, you should build a custom kernel of 2.6.15 or 2.6.18(not 100% sure this will work).  To be honest this is not very noob-friendly, but unfortunately because ATI removed support for your graphics card in later versions this is what you will have to do.  For further information about compiling a kernel check the[ Master Kernel Thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311158&highlight=Master+Kernel+Thread").  If you have any specific questions I am happy to help.

Does my integrated need to be turned off? My BIOS is old, so if it does, and I'd have to do it from there, I'd have to update it.

But I'm going to go check your link and and try out that solution. Just out of curiosity, tho, is it going to effect performance? The only things I really need the card for is WoW (go figure) and another game that really isn't too graphics intensive.


**Edit:** First couple lines of the post I seen, "Note that this program will (as of 1.1.0) also support the automatic compilation and installation of proprietary video drivers." <== does that apply to my problem @ all? :P

---

### Post by syn` on 2008-01-16
> **shae said:**
> The problem is that Gutsy uses a kernel that is not supported by ATI's legacy driver.  To fix the problem, you should build a custom kernel of 2.6.15 or 2.6.18(not 100% sure this will work).  To be honest this is not very noob-friendly, but unfortunately because ATI removed support for your graphics card in later versions this is what you will have to do.  For further information about compiling a kernel check the[ Master Kernel Thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311158&highlight=Master+Kernel+Thread").  If you have any specific questions I am happy to help.

I clicked the link provided and followed the instructions all the way through. Then I noticed you told me I need to build a custom kernel of 2.6.15, but I think the guide got me 2.6.23 or something. /sigh.

Did I do something wrong? I don't even know what a master kernel is >.<

---

