---
title: "Gutsy install fails"
date: 2007-11-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ronjan41 on 2007-11-30
I installed gutsy on my machine ok from the CD but when I try to install on my wifes pc, it runs up to the point where I click install, then the monitor goes weird. It just has coloured lines running horizontally all across the screen and stops and there is no way I can get it back without restarting.
Any help much appreciated.
Pent 4 2.8Gb
1 Gb RAM
Gigabyte 81865GVMK motherboard with video, sound and Lan built in.
10Gb HDD for Gutsy and 40Gb for XP

---

### Post by KhaaL on 2007-11-30
Hmmm, wierd problem... How is the harddisk connected to the motherboard?

Besides, have you tried installing ubuntu through the alternate install CD? that would help narrow down the problem.

---

### Post by ronjan41 on 2007-11-30
Hi. I use the CD from Canonical sent in the mail. The HDD is connected to the m/b correctly with an IDE cable

---

### Post by KhaaL on 2007-11-30
Alright, are you able to read and/or write to your harddisk through the live-cd?

Also, do you have a setting called boot sector virus protection enabled in the BIOS?

---

### Post by ronjan41 on 2007-11-30
Hi, Yes I can read/write with the live CD. The anti virus is disabled in the BIOS.

---

### Post by quandary on 2007-11-30
looks like your graphics/video driver doesn't install/load correctly.
However, it is also possible that the system has problems with your mouse driver.

In both cases, try a non-grahpical install (text install) and configure xorg server (graphics/mouse/keyboard) manually.
Unsupported resolution, bad frequency, or incorrect setting of graphics card memory can also cause this kind of crash.

The manual configuration is done with command line programms, like xorgconfig, or whatever is actual by now. It's not that difficult.
Use the command:
Xorg -configure
to fully automatically configure your xorg.conf file.

That's probably what went wrong in your install (failure on hardware auto detect).
You should try the semi-automatic generation of xorg.conf. Type the following command:
xorgconfig

Another tool, also provided by Xorg, is xorgcfg, which you could use instead. Type:
xorgcfg
This tool will first attempt to run Xorg -configure and then start the X server for more final tweaking.

After you have configured xorg, you have to start the X-window-system (the normal graphical user interface). Type:
startx

If it crashes at this point, the config file is incorrect, and you just have to keep trying until you have the correct settings.

Alternatively, you could try installing another Linux distro (eg. Mandrivia, Gentoo, Suse or RedHat, ) and if it works, you can copy the working xorg.conf file from there, and use it with Ubuntu ;-)
That's something i learned while working with OpenBSD, which is a great operating system, but which has a horrible automatic hardware detection ;-)


/etc/X11/xorg.conf
--------------------------- Here my xorg.conf file ----------------------------------
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"ch"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"de_nodeadkeys"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
---------------------------

---

### Post by ronjan41 on 2007-11-30
Hi. Thanks Quandary. How can I do all that if I cant get into the program to install it? 
7.04 installs ok from scratch but 7.10 just dies.

---

### Post by quandary on 2007-11-30
> **ronjan41 said:**
> 
it runs up to the point where I click install, then the monitor goes weird.

Don't click install, press F1 to see the advanced options. You should be able to select a text only install.

If not, you can use the 'alternate' install cd.
------------

Oh try this: 
You can also install 7.04 and then use the upgrade feature. 
You probably should try that, it's probably the easiest way.
That way you will get 7.10
See: [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading)

---

