---
title: "[SOLVED] Burning ISO problem... Hmmz?"
date: 2007-11-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Deadmode on 2007-11-07
Hello, I'm having a problem burning iso's on ubuntu fiesty fawn 7.04.  I've burned so many ISO's in the past, but now I'm having a problem.  They simply will not burn!  I've looked at other threads, but none seem to have the problem I'm having.  Once I right click on the ISO and click burn I get this box.  [IMG]http://i135.photobucket.com/albums/q153/cbsketchpad/Screenshot-WritetoDisc.png[/IMG]

In which I have no choices except those in that image.  I can't change a thing!  So then I go ahead and choose "write".  And now I get this image... and nothing happens after this.
[IMG]http://i135.photobucket.com/albums/q153/cbsketchpad/Screenshot-CopyingDiscImage.png[/IMG]
 
No burning is done no computer process is done.  It comes up instantly and never does anything.  So, I think Ubuntu is just maybe confused or something?  Am I doing something wrong?  I feel like it's just something small and stupid that I'm overlooking or something.  Does anyone know what's going on with it?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-11-07
In the box where it says "Write disk to" click and chose your cdrom instead of "File image".  That should do it.

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2007-11-07
You may want to try K3b for your CD/DVD burning needs. It's a very robust program with a pretty easy interface (similar to Nero or Roxio on Windows).```
sudo apt-get install k3b
```

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2007-11-07
The only one i use is brasero, never had any problems with it. Very simple to use.

---

### Post by Deadmode on 2007-11-07
I am unable to choose "Write to CD-Rom"  instead of "File Image".  I think I understand why now.  I installed k3b like fire_chief suggested and I saw this as soon as I started k3b. 
[IMG]http://i135.photobucket.com/albums/q153/cbsketchpad/Screenshot-SystemConfigurationProbl.png[/IMG]

Apparently Ubuntu doesn't recognize my DvD burner.  This must have happened within the past couple weeks.  How should I go about remedying that?

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-11-07
> **Deadmode said:**
> I am unable to choose "Write to CD-Rom"  instead of "File Image".  I think I understand why now.  I installed k3b like fire_chief suggested and I saw this as soon as I started k3b. 
[IMG]http://i135.photobucket.com/albums/q153/cbsketchpad/Screenshot-SystemConfigurationProbl.png[/IMG]

Apparently Ubuntu doesn't recognize my DvD burner.  This must have happened within the past couple weeks.  How should I go about remedying that?

IHave you checked for a firmware upgrade for your burner?

What's your** /etc/fstab** look like?

---

### Post by Deadmode on 2007-11-07
My /etc/fstab looks like this

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=985a50cf-0952-4ecb-a5b2-e84f260cef47 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=22D1-40E3 /media/sda1 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=346C44F86C44B700 /media/sda2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=D4A8B80AA8B7E8DE /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=29df9778-14f6-4f88-93e1-0a946602b52f none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2007-11-07
> **Deadmode said:**
> 
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

These appear to be entries for your removable drives (CD/DVD). Except I remember typically the device name is /dev/**sdc** not /dev/scd. I'm also not sure why it has 0 and 1. I thought the fstab would identify the drives as separate devices (i.e. /dev/sdc & /dev/sdd). You could try commenting out the first entry and adding one entry to look like this```
/dev/sdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
```

Anyone know if the existing config is actually correct for Ubuntu?

*Edit*: Nevermind...The original entries are correct. I just verified them against my own system. :(  Since the original entry is right...not sure why your Ubuntu is not seeing the drives.

What brand/model DVD writer do you have?

---

### Post by Deadmode on 2007-11-08
The DvD burner brand is :  NEC 16X DVD±R DVD Burner Black IDE/ATAPI Model ND-3550A - OEM

I looked it up off of my newegg history.  I bought it way back in April of 2006.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2007-11-08
> **Deadmode said:**
> The DvD burner brand is :  NEC 16X DVD±R DVD Burner Black IDE/ATAPI Model ND-3550A - OEM

I looked it up off of my newegg history.  I bought it way back in April of 2006.

Either your DVD burner has broken down or some settings in Feisty have been screwed up. I think the best way to know which one is to use a Linux Live CD (be it Ubuntu Feisty, Ubuntu Gutsy, Linux Mint or PC Linux OS) and check whether you can burn DVD's from within the Live CD environment.

By the way, your below fstab configuration:
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
is correct. I have a CD-RW drive, which has more or less the same configuration.

---

### Post by Deadmode on 2007-11-08
Alright I'll test the live cd tonight when I get home from work.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-11-09
Unless you've got two cdrom or dvd drives, I don't think you can do that in the live system as you will need to keep the liveCD in the drive;  I don't think it is possible to unmount the CD and remove it.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2007-11-09
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Unless you've got two cdrom or dvd drives, I don't think you can do that in the live system as you will need to keep the liveCD in the drive;  I don't think it is possible to unmount the CD and remove it.

Good point. As I have two drives (one reader, one writer) I couldn't think of this...

---

### Post by MrKlean on 2007-11-09
Stating the obvious here,  but if he can run the live cd... doesn't that mean Ubuntu DOES recognize his CD-Rom ????

---

### Post by erginemr on 2007-11-09
> **MrKlean said:**
> Stating the obvious here,  but if he can run the live cd... doesn't that mean Ubuntu DOES recognize his CD-Rom ????

Correct, but although the reading may work, the writing / burning capabilities of the CD-ROM may be gone. I exactly had the same thing with my previous CD-RW drive (I had to throw it away in the end.)

But chances are that not the real hardware but its settings in Linux may be incorrect. This may be the case if he is dual booting with Windows and can burn CD's from under Windows.

---

### Post by bigboy_pdb on 2007-11-09
This was mentioned in the last post, but if you have a dual boot computer then you can check the drive in Windows (using a rewritable disc). If you don't then you could repartition the drive and install Windows to check the DVD drive (but you'll need to re-install grub). You could also remove the drive and try it in another computer with Windows.

There might be a problem with how the jumpers are set up on the drives (they are located at the back of the drive). To understand what a jumper looks like you can look at this site:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jumper_%28computing%29](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jumper_%28computing%29)

If it is a problem with how your jumpers are set then the drive might not work in either operating system. Your jumpers should **both be set to cable select** (for the one IDE cable if that's what you have) **or one should be set to master and the other should be set to slave**. Information about where the jumpers should be placed to get those configurations is usually printed on the sticker on the drive.

---

### Post by Deadmode on 2007-11-10
Thank you so much everybody :).  You helped me find the problem.  After I checked my jumper settings I changed IDE cables and viola!  It works!  Apparently my IDE cable went bad so both DvD Rom and DvD RW were not responding.  I apologize for the wait of my response, but I hadn't been home in the past day.  Thank you again ;) you guys rock!

---

### Post by erginemr on 2007-11-10
> **Deadmode said:**
> Thank you so much everybody :).  You helped me find the problem.  After I checked my jumper settings I changed IDE cables and viola!  It works!  Apparently my IDE cable went bad so both DvD Rom and DvD RW were not responding.  I apologize for the wait of my response, but I hadn't been home in the past day.  Thank you again ;) you guys rock!

We are very glad that you have solved the problem. 

Could you please mark your thread as solved from under the thread tools drop-down menu, to let the other people know?

Take care yourself!

---

