---
title: "[SOLVED] Problem with X Server, and 1280x800 Display"
date: 2007-07-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mattnz on 2007-07-24
Hi,

I have installed Ubuntu 7.04, and am having troubles with getting 1280x800 screen display to show up properly. I have followed a couple of tutorials that I have seen on here, and they have had disasterous consequences!

Every time I try to start Ubuntu now, I get a blue screen, with a grey box, and the text:
**"Failed to start the X Server (your graphical interface). It is likely that it is not set up correctly. Would you like to view the X server output the diagnose the problem?"**

I read through that (which made no sense to me), and thn was given the following message:
**"The X Server is now disabled. Restart GDM when it is configured correctly."**

I am then given a black screen (sort of like Command Prompt in Windows) with the login prompt on.

Can someone please help me out with how to sort the 1280x800 resolution out? I reckon I'll have to reinstall Ubuntu on that particular partition, but that is fine.

For the record, I am using a Dell Inspiron 6400 latop with Intel 945GM Integrated Graphics card.

Thanks in advance,
Matt :)

---

### Post by w4ett on 2007-07-24
in the terminal type

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```


Post the output and let's see what's going on.

---

### Post by w4ett on 2007-07-24
Sorry...we need to reconfigure your xorg.conf first.  from the terminal:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

select your driver, and resolution,  then close the interface...do a <ctrl><alt><Backspace> to reset the Xserver, and you SHOULD be able log into your GUI.

Then do the command I previously posted....SORRY...got ahead of myself :)

---

### Post by jsr on 2007-07-24
I am also having the same problem with my Toshiba, mine started today  when I got my LCD panel changed, I am yet to figure out why am i not able to get 1280 800.

BTW check /var/log/Xorg.0.log for any error messages and post the messages.

---

### Post by AbuAnsar on 2007-07-24
there is a program called auto915resolutions or 915resolution which needs to be installed so you can get the proper resolution. i had the same problem to get 1280x800 resolution but the fix helped. 

here is the detailed instruction on how to get it work :

[http://roland-lopez.blogspot.com/2007/03/auto915resolution-ubuntu-resolution-fix.html](http://roland-lopez.blogspot.com/2007/03/auto915resolution-ubuntu-resolution-fix.html)

please let us all know if it helps or not. good luck.

---

### Post by Mattnz on 2007-07-25
Thanks, I tried to run the "sudo dpkg-reconfigure....." command, and I couldn't quite work out what some of it was meaning. I got as far as the resolution screen, then when I tried to go on, the terminal screen just came up.
So....I uninstalled Ubuntu, and reinstalled it. I have run the cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf and here is what it came up with:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Driver          "i810"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-64
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection 

I notice that the resolution is actually set to 1280x800 there, but it doesn't appear in the "System" --> "Prefs" --> "Screen Res" thing.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-07-25
I believe you need the 915resolution package as AbuAnsar suggested.  

As well as the link he provided, you might want to check out this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=269052&highlight=915resolution](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=269052&highlight=915resolution)

---

### Post by Mattnz on 2007-07-25
Great, thanks.

It's working now, and everything looks a lot more in focus :)

---

