---
title: "Unable to resolve resolution problem - Nvidia FX5200 and Viewsonic PS775"
date: 2007-05-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Bozanimal on 2007-05-07
Any help is appreciated!

I am unable to resolve a display issue: the resolution defaults to 800x600 and 50Hz and will not let me modify it. I have tried a number of alternative threads, and have come up with a hundred different solutions to the same problem, but do not have the technical knowledge to get them to work. I've edited my xorg.conf file a couple times, but none of the changes I've made seem to have had an effect. Consider me an uber noob! The following is the content of the xorg.conf file:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Viewsonic PS775"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-95
	Vertrefresh	50-180
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"Viewsonic PS775"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"4095x4095"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"255x848"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"4095x4095"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"255x848"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"4095x4095"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"255x848"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"4095x4095"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"255x848"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"4095x4095"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"255x848"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"4095x4095"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"255x848"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-07
I know this sounds stupid, but... did you actually restart X after editing xorg.conf? Sometimes, that's all it takes to solve the problem. Other than that, just reboot and see if that works. It's probably the only time you'll ever have to reboot, but it will be soo worth it. :D

---

### Post by Bozanimal on 2007-05-07
> **Happy_Man said:**
> I know this sounds stupid, but... did you actually restart X after editing xorg.conf? Sometimes, that's all it takes to solve the problem. Other than that, just reboot and see if that works. It's probably the only time you'll ever have to reboot, but it will be soo worth it. :D

Yeah, I rebooted (a couple times), and it still won't let me do anything unless it's in 800x600 at 50Hz. In fact, I only just found out that X is the Ubuntu GUI.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-07
I'm sure you already tried this, but I have to ask to eliminate possible options: did you run 
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
?

---

### Post by Bozanimal on 2007-05-07
> **Happy_Man said:**
> I'm sure you already tried this, but I have to ask to eliminate possible options: did you run 
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
?

I never ran this but, after running it, it did nothing. I'm still defaulting to 800x600 and 50Hz. This is driving me nuts! If anyone can think of anything, drop a note, I'm heading to bed.

Thank you, Happy Man.

---

### Post by bobplano on 2007-05-07
well if sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and then restarting X didn't work, it's most likely a driver problem. you can try some programs like automatix2(a 3rd party program that installs common programs) which lets you install nvidia drivers. unfortunatley i don't use nvidia so i can't help too much more

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-05-07
Did you try running nvidia-settings in super user mode.  In the terminal enter:

> gksudo nvidia-settings

select the screen size you want under "x server display configuration".

save your selection by clicking on "save to x configuration file.

try rebooting the x server by clicking ctrl+alt+backspace.

login in and rerun nvidia-settings and see if the screen size set in "x server display configuration" is correct.

If not try adding a modeline ([http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php](http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php)) for the specific screensize and refresh you are looking for.  Enter the modeline string into your monitor section of xorg.conf as shown below.

> Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Viewsonic PS775"
Option "DPMS"
Horizsync 30-95
Vertrefresh 50-180
# 1280x1024 @ 70.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 74.62 kHz; pclk: 128.94 MHz
Modeline "1280x1024_70.00"  128.94  1280 1368 1504 1728  1024 1025 1028 1066  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection 

hit ctrl+alt+backspace

login again

rerun nvidia-settings and check screen size and resolution again.

If this does not work please post back here and I will try to help.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-08
Oh, and when you get to the screen where it asks you to choose resolutions, remember to USE THE SPACEBAR to select. 

EDIT: Nvm, there are other solutions available....

---

### Post by ABCgang on 2007-05-08
Thanks Happy_ Man (and the rest that supplied suggestions too),

I was having the same resolution problem (800x600 was my highest) and kept trying to use the "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" suggestion from another ubuntu user in my thread.  I just didn't understand that I had to use the ctrl+alt+backspace to apply it with a boot.  After reviewing this thread, the light finally went on and I was able to change my resolution.  

Thanks to all and I hope it works out for you too bozanimal.  

PS:  I think they really need a "Pre-Absolutely Beginner Talk" forum for my grew-up on windows type.  Sometimes the hardest part about understanding this OS is not having a "Linux to English" dictionary around - lol.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-09
> **Bozanimal said:**
> Any help is appreciated!

	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"4095x4095"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"	"255x848"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

EndSection

What is up with the mode of 4095x4095?

Check my xorg.conf section... I would edit yours and remove that 4095x4095 part.  Save it, restart x and you should have it.

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation GeForce 7300 LE"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Bozanimal on 2007-05-11
Thanks for all the help. What I ended up doing was uninstalling the Nvidia drivers from the Restricted Drivers Manager and reinstalling them through Automatix2 (thanks bobplano). Per the suggestion of HappyMan I then ran:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

After rebooting I received a bunch of errors and could not get into X. So I went back in and made some manual changes to the xorg.conf file, per some of the suggestions. I added a modeline per the suggestion of alienexplorers after tooling around with [http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php:](http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php:)

# 1280x1024 @ 70.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 74.62 kHz; pclk: 128.94 MHz
Modeline "1280x1024_70.00"  128.94  1280 1368 1504 1728  1024 1025 1028 1066  -HSync +Vsync

This actually did not work so I went back a removed numerous modelines. Now I can run at 1280x1024 in X but cannot get a refresh rate over 60Hz. At this point I'm just happy to have the higher resolution, I'm not going to chance the higher refresh rates.

Phew! Thanks everyone, and I hope this thread may help someone else with Nvidia driver problems, since there seem to be so many!

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2007-05-11
I gave up on that card for the same reason only ever worked in xp but not in Linux replaced with ATI

---

### Post by ahmadb on 2007-05-13
Hey guys,

I'm running into a similar issue with my GeForce 6600. I am unable to change my resolution in the 'Screen Resolution' settings.

If I run the X configurations and use vesa, I am to successfully get my desired high resolutions. However, whenever I choose nvidia as the driver, even after restarting X, using ctrl+alt+backspace, I am stuck at 800x600@50Hz. I have tried nvidia-settings, but I am unable to change my resolution from there.

A bit of background information: I was unable to install the nvidia driver through the enable desktop effects method and automatix. I ended up using the install script from nvidia. This seemed to work, as I am able to enable the desktop effects at this low resolution.

Any advice? And thanks in advance!

---

### Post by ahmadb on 2007-05-13
Here's a snippet from my xorg.conf file:

```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA GeForce 6600"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:4:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA GeForce 6600"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I've made sure it is loading "glx", etc.

---

### Post by ahmadb on 2007-05-18
Bump.

---

### Post by ahmadb on 2007-06-03
*sigh*

Bump. Bump. Bump.

---

