---
title: "2.6.20-8 - boot problem"
date: 2007-02-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Lunovis on 2007-02-13
Hi all,

I updated to 2.6.20-8 (64bit). After booting into the new kernel the xserver complained about wrong configuration and the boot process stopped (no terminal, so I couldn't even try to reconfigure). 
However, 2.6.20-6 is running fine.
Board: Asus M2N-MX

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by PPAAUULL on 2007-02-13
Well if the other kernel works then see what the error is and fix it in the other kernel.

---

### Post by annda on 2007-02-13
there was some lag between the new kernel and restricted modules being uploaded to the repositories. you may need to install those and maybe reinstall your video drivers as well.

---

### Post by Lunovis on 2007-02-13
Right, what would be a good starting point for this?

---

### Post by PPAAUULL on 2007-02-13
Go into the working kernel get the modules updated and try again.

---

### Post by annda on 2007-02-13
you are running feisty, right? what video driver do you use?

---

### Post by Lunovis on 2007-02-13
yes, feisty. Currently I'm using the nvidia driver from their homepage...

---

### Post by annda on 2007-02-13
install restricted modules for 20-8 and then reinstall your video drivers. if it doesn't help (reboot to be on the safe side) try to revert to nvidia binary drivers in the repositories (nvidia-glx in my case).

---

### Post by mgriffin on 2007-02-20
He may be seeing the same issue that I am:

# > apt-get upgrade &> /dev/null
# > echo $?
0
# > apt-cache search 2.6.20-6 | grep lowl | grep rest
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-6-lowlatency - Non-free Linux 2.6.20 modules on x86/x86_64
# > apt-cache search 2.6.20-8 | grep lowl | grep rest
# > 

Thoughts?

---

### Post by mgriffin on 2007-02-20
Perhaps this is the wrong thread and/or forum to have posted this to? Moderators?
~mg

---

### Post by jjf on 2007-02-20
I had the same problem.  The nvidia drivers were somehow tied to the previous kernel version (I guess) and needed to be reinstalled.  Here's how I fixed it.

1.  Get to a command prompt (either by clicking "OK" past all the errors or booting into recovery mode).

2.  Backup your xorg.conf file
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

3.  Open your xorg.conf file in the text editor nano
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

4.  Change the video driver back to the default 2d driver.

---> a. Find the following section:
```
Section "Device"
     Identifier    "Whatever your graphics card is called"
     Driver        "nvidia"
     BusID        "PCI:something:or:other"
EndSection
```

---> b. Change the Driver from **nvidia** to **nv**

---> c. Save the file by pressing CTRL + O ("Write **Out**")

---> d. Exit nano by pressing CTRL + X

5.  Restart your computer
```
sudo restart now
```

Ubuntu should boot normally.  Now reinstall the nvidia drivers.  The easiest way is to run Automatix.

Good luck!

---

### Post by mgriffin on 2007-02-20
I have reposted this issue to [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=366343](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=366343)

---

