---
title: "915 resolution"
date: 2006-10-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ozan76 on 2006-10-29
Hi all i wonder if anyone can point me towards some help on this subject. i have looked through the forums and havent been able to make any sense out of it. i probably need some baby instructions how to do this.

i have a dell latitude 120l and a inspiron 1300. both use this 915GM chipset. i am on ubuntu 6.10 which i am loving very much. i need to get the 1280x800 resolution working. the drivers are installed but the screen still uses 1024x768

i tried the 915resolution forum pages and couldnt make any sense out of it.

any ideas? it seems like quite a popular problem out there, but im lost

---

### Post by SendDerek on 2006-10-29
I'm using the same chipset with the resolution that you want (1280 x 800).  It was pretty easy for me to setup (I didn't even have to have the 915resolution package, but I installed it anyways).

Have you tried just simply changing the resolution in the System->Preferences->Screen Resolution?

If that doesn't work, you may need to change the xorg.conf file found in the /etc/X11/ directory to reflect the changes you want.

```

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

```

Here's what mine looks like:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by ozan76 on 2006-10-29
Yeah i looked at that but mines like that too, i think its to do with the fact that it dont recognise the screen 

cheers for the reply

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2006-10-29
Could you post your xorg.conf, just for troubleshooting purposes?

---

### Post by ozan76 on 2006-10-30
here is my xorg.conf file



# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection



hope this helps

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2006-10-30
That is strange.  The way you have it set up, you should **only** be able to get 1280x800 and not 1024x768

Maybe you have two xservers running or something.
In a terminal, does this display :0.0   ?
```
echo $DISPLAY
```

This problem is interesting...

---

### Post by unlokia on 2006-10-30
Hi ozan76!.

Try this:

(1) Run synaptic and COMPLETELY remove 915resolution
(2) Install it again using either ```
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
``` or using synaptic.

(3) Reboot your laptop.

(4) If that didn't work try this:

```
sudo gedit /etc/init.d/bootmisc.sh
``` and 'gedit' program will open with your 'bootmisc.sh' file in it. Simply copy and paste this:---> ```
sudo /usr/sbin/915resolution 38 1280 800
sudo /usr/sbin/915resolution mode 1280 800
```

PASTE THIS UNDERNEATH EVERYTHING ELSE IN THE FILE!!!

Restore your xorg.conf to the ORIGINAL one before rebooting

I have an Acer with 915GM chipset and it runs like a dream - if I may be of any more assistance just ask - I am here until 8pm Uk time, tonight.


### PS: LEAVE editing your xorg.conf file as a last resort, if ALL else fails. People on here who give you advice on editing it to get 915resolution working, probably are the ones who don't own the 915gm chipset, in my opinion. If they DID, they would know it is as simple as I have shown above! ###

---

### Post by ozan76 on 2006-10-30
Hi all thanks for your replies, just sorted it before seeing your post Unlokia.

heres the site for anyone having the same trouble:

[http://linuxmint.com/content/view/212/52/](http://linuxmint.com/content/view/212/52/)

and after i went through all the instructions i found that it could be done like this:

sudo aptitude install 915resolution

lol

the font smoothing doesnt look too great yet but i got the right resolution happening now

thanks again

oz

---

