---
title: "Having a heck of a time recording from a webcam"
date: 2007-12-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by siciliancasanova on 2007-12-19
I'm still trying to figure this one out because it comes and it goes.  I'm using wxCam to record and it does everything great at times but I can't figure out why sometimes it doesn't.  Like last night, I was getting more clarity from my webcam, almost the same clarity as when I check my cam with ```
camstream
```
 
but then I turn around today and try to do a new video and the quality is less, which I can deal with, but then the audio is off track.  By the end of a 10 minute video the audio was off by about 15 seconds.  I just can't get my head wrapped around this and no one seems to know what could be causing this.

Another question would be how to record the effects generated by this app: [http://effectv.sourceforge.net/index.html]("http://effectv.sourceforge.net/index.html")

I've installed it and can change the effects on the output which is great but I haven't a clue where to start if I want to record this.  Just recording my desktop with this running is an option but not really what I want.

I would like to use kino for editing with my webcam but it just wants IEEE1394 input and I'm not really sure how to bridge that over to video4linux so it picks up my webcam.

Sorry several questions but they all seem to be pretty abstract and no one has really had any ideas thusfar as to how to correct or solve these issues.

---

### Post by siciliancasanova on 2007-12-19
bump*

---

### Post by siciliancasanova on 2007-12-20
bump*

---

