---
title: "compiz fusion not working anymore"
date: 2008-04-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-10
I updated ubuntu 8.04 on my main pc a few days ago.  Now compiz-fusion doesn't work anymore.  First, it gave me a black screen when I rebooted.  Then, I pressed Ctrl+Alt+F1 and I didn't get the shell.  So, I booted into recovery mode and selected the fixX option.  When I booted into ubuntu after that it worked fine except the effects settings didn't work.  So, I made sure that xserver-xgl was installed.  It wasn't.  So, I installed it, restarted X and the effects didn't work still.  So, I typed "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xgl" into the shell and then X didn't even boot after I logged in.  However, when I ran "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xgl" I noticed that I couldn't decide what driver I wanted to use (which is 'nvidia" by the way).  So, I edited my xorg.conf and added the driver entry into the "Device" section.  After that, I got the same problem that I had at after the update.  Now I'm here:(.  Please help!  Thanks so much!:)+

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-04-10
> **mattk132 said:**
> I updated ubuntu 8.04 on my main pc a few days ago.  Now compiz-fusion doesn't work anymore.  First, it gave me a black screen when I rebooted.  Then, I pressed Ctrl+Alt+F1 and I didn't get the shell.  So, I booted into recovery mode and selected the fixX option.  When I booted into ubuntu after that it worked fine except the effects settings didn't work.  So, I made sure that xserver-xgl was installed.  It wasn't.  So, I installed it, restarted X and the effects didn't work still.  So, I typed "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xgl" into the shell and then X didn't even boot after I logged in.  However, when I ran "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xgl" I noticed that I couldn't decide what driver I wanted to use (which is 'nvidia" by the way).  So, I edited my xorg.conf and added the driver entry into the "Device" section.  After that, I got the same problem that I had at after the update.  Now I'm here:(.  Please help!  Thanks so much!:)+

HI and what is the model of the graphics card? Could you post your xorg ```
 cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` You can use the code tags on the reply message to wrap the xorg text to conserve space. 
```
Like this
```

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
My xorg is this:
[code]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"vmmouse"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
[code]
I know that this is the default for X.  However, whenever I try to put in the Driver "nvidia" under "Device" X refuses to work.  I have an nvidia 7300 GS:)

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
My bad I forgot the code tag after the xorg output;)

---

### Post by Moop on 2008-04-12
Do you have the nvidia driver installed? In hardy go to System- Administration-Hardware Drivers.

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
I don't know why put when I go to hardware drivers the program crashes every time.  I get the crash report window.:(

---

### Post by Moop on 2008-04-12
Did you have an update that failed? What happens when you run ```
sudo apt-get update 
```

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
I did [code]Sudo apt-get update[code] then I started hardware drivers.  It crashed again.  I reinstalled it in synaptic and this time it started.  However, I got this screen when it started up:  [img]/home/matthew/Desktop/Screenshot.png[img].  I then enabled the effects and I got the same problem from when I first rebooted.  I get a black screen the second GDM starts and I can't go to the shell.:(

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
UHHHHHHHHH, those [img] things were supposed to put an image in my post.  I screwed it up here is that pic:  post.file:///home/matthew/Desktop/Screenshot.png

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
trying again:  [img]file:///home/matthew/Desktop/Screenshot.png[img]

---

### Post by joshrobinson on 2008-04-12
> **mattk132 said:**
> I did [code]Sudo apt-get update[code] then I started hardware drivers.  It crashed again.  I reinstalled it in synaptic and this time it started.  However, I got this screen when it started up:  [img]/home/matthew/Desktop/Screenshot.png[img].  I then enabled the effects and I got the same problem from when I first rebooted.  I get a black screen the second GDM starts and I can't go to the shell.:(
you need end tags
at the end of your img, or your code, when you put the code tag, put a / in front of the word code
[/code with the end bracket

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
I give up.

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
Thanx let's try that again:  [img]file:///home/matthew/Desktop/Screenshot.png[/img]

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
/ didn't work

---

### Post by joshrobinson on 2008-04-12
> **mattk132 said:**
> / didn't work
for img it has to be capitalized, but those tags only work for a link, to upload an image from your computer, scroll down below the reply box, click manage attachments, browse for the file, upload it, then type your reply and submit

---

### Post by mattk132 on 2008-04-12
thanx

---

