---
title: "5.1"
date: 2008-02-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by st4rk3 on 2008-02-18
Need a little help.. I can play 5.1 with films but not with music is there any way of fooling it to play it on all 5?

I have looked at other posts and they have been about general 5.1 problems, like it not working. It seems to be working fine when i try this command.

speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav

speaker-test 1.0.14

Playback device is plug:surround51
Stream parameters are 48000Hz, S16_LE, 6 channels
WAV file(s)
Rate set to 48000Hz (requested 48000Hz)
Buffer size range from 32 to 16384
Period size range from 16 to 8192
Using max buffer size 16384
Periods = 4
was set period_size = 4096
was set buffer_size = 16384
 0 - Front Left
 4 - Centre
 1 - Front Right
 3 - Rear Right
 2 - Rear Left
 5 - LFE
Time per period = 8.363697

I also tested a ac3 movie which played in all channels with no problems.

I am using Exaile. I tryed in Amarok as well but no luck with that either.

BTW i am a lot of a noob to linux. 

Cheers.

---

### Post by Crooksey on 2008-02-18
```

$ alsamixer
```

No settings in there?

---

### Post by st4rk3 on 2008-02-18
Can you be more specific? I looked through alsamixer and played with things managed to get films playing in all 5 channels but if there is a setting for spreading mp3 over 5 channels i can't see it.

---

### Post by st4rk3 on 2008-02-19
Just to update on the situation and also bumps this cas i still need help.

I have now installed amarok again and managed to get the mp3s working but they still won't upmix onto 5.1. I have played with all the settings in amarok and xine and set it to play in surround but it just doesn't seem to want to work. 

Alsamixer is set up to deal with and ac3 movies play in surround so it is not a hardware issue.

Can anybody give me some advice about how to upmix using amarok and xine?

---

### Post by st4rk3 on 2008-02-20
Anybody?

---

