---
title: "./configure doesn't work and question regarding window manager"
date: 2006-07-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Vitamin X on 2006-07-26
Hey,

first time poster, long time reader here.. you guys seem pretty helpful, but I need a big help here.

I've been trying to install a tarball, but when I put ./configure in the extracted tarball directory, it says no file or directory exists.. Which is true, but then where do I go from there? make and make install both say they need a target also.

The readme said something about using python also, does anyone know what that means? I'm trying to install the ELISA media center, which is in a very early stage of development I know, but I want to try something like that out on my Ubuntu.

And while I'm posting, I'd also like to ask.. I was trying to use both XFCE and Openbox, and neither of them gave me a taskbar. Is something messed up in my Ubuntu install that this happens? What could be going wrong?

Any help would be appreciated, thanks. :)

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-07-26
> I've been trying to install a tarball, but when I put ./configure in the extracted tarball directory, it says no file or directory exists.. Which is true, but then where do I go from there? make and make install both say they need a target also.

To compile, build-essential needs to be installed.

Applications > Accessories > Terminal

sudo apt-get update

sudo aptitude install build-essential

---

### Post by Vitamin X on 2006-07-26
I already installed build-essential, and it still doesn't work.

---

### Post by croak77 on 2006-07-26
Check the included README again. Install all dependencies. Then follow directions:

1. Initialize you Python Elisa environment, and activate it
   (activation updates your PYTHONPATH variable)

  $ python env.py
  $ source elisa-env/bin/activate

2. Go in development mode:

 $ python setup.py develop

3. Run elisa:
    
 $ python elisa.py

---

### Post by Vitamin X on 2006-07-26
ah okay thanks, dude. 

Any idea as to my second question, anyone?

I appreciate all your help.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-07-26
Vitamin X:

I assume you are asking about XFCE and Openbox.

First, the easier. Openbox is a very minimal window manager and does ot come with a taskbar. You can install one, use Openbox in conjunction with Gnome or KDE, use Rox, etc but there is none by default. I came across your post, in fact, seeking ways to configure Openbox in Arch (Surprise- You're on Google).

XFCE is different. I do not think you have a problem with the install. Try running "xfce4-panel &" (without the quotes) from xfce within a terminal. The panel sometime crashes if there are pulgins (like weather) and so I presume this is your problem.

If the command is not found- re-install xfce4. If you get errors (in the terminal) fix or post them.

---

