---
title: "7.04 vs 7.10"
date: 2008-03-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by brdohman on 2008-03-12
I have noticed a problem when installing 7.04 vs 7.10, both ubuntu + kubunt, on my thinkpad r52.

I recently installed 7.10 and had an issue with an extremely slow start up.  The computer starts, grub loads and then it says system starting... and then I wait almost 5 mins, before I get to the OS.  

However, I don't have this issue when installing 7.04 and then doing an upgrade to 7.10.  This happens both on ubuntu and Kubuntu.

What is the fundamental difference between them, that could be causing this?

Thanks

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-03-12
gutsy seems to be bug ridden, but feisty seemed to be that way too.
I hope hardy will not sacrifice stability

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-03-12
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> gutsy seems to be bug ridden, but feisty seemed to be that way too.
I hope hardy will not sacrifice stability

I run Feisty on my laptop very well.  I tried Gutsy and I was cursed with the extremely slow startup as well.  Feisty will work until Hardy for me.

---

### Post by brdohman on 2008-03-12
good to know i'm not the only one on this issue then.

Does anyone know where I can find a kubuntu 7.04?  I have done some searching but most links turn up dead.  I would really like to find a torrent for it.

---

### Post by brdohman on 2008-03-12
nvm  found it.

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/feisty/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/feisty/)

---

### Post by sandysandy on 2008-03-12
on a desktop computer 7.10 works very well. in fact i am impressed by the booting time.

i am using the 64 bit version on a 64 bit computer.

regards

---

### Post by brdohman on 2008-03-12
I agree.  The 64bit version on my desktop works great, but can't seem to kick the issues I'm having on my laptop.  I would go to 64bit on it except it isn't a 64bit.  

I have had good success installing 7.04 and then upgrading to 7.10.  Haven't seen to have any issues with that.

---

