---
title: ".tgz file extracted.....now what?"
date: 2006-09-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-01
I just installed Ubuntu, and this program I want to install comes as a .tgz file; so I extracted it on the desktop, and now there are a bunch of folders under the main one and I can't figure out what to do.  The folders are bin, doc, fonts, icons, include, keys, lib and icons.pak.  They all have files in them.  Someone mentioned typing ./configure   or make   or make file, but none of this is working and I am somewhat of a newb to Linux so any help would be great as to how to install this program.  Thanks.    -Ian

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-01
If I may ask, what program? is it available in the Ubuntu repositories? If so, I advise synaptic over what you are about to do.....

First you will need these files later. I would move them to a folder in /home/user_name/src (src for source; you will need to make the src directory in your home directory).

Is there a README -> read it.

Next, in a terminal:
```
cd ~/src/program_name
sudo aptitude install build-essential checkinstall
./configure
make
sudo make checkinstall
```

post any errors.

---

### Post by compwiz18 on 2006-09-01
I'm also gonna bet that you need to install the compliers...so **sudo apt-get install build-essential** before you run what bodhi.zazen posted.

---

### Post by edrodgers731 on 2006-09-01
What exactly is it?  Does it need to be compiled?  What's in the bin directory?  Do you see any README or INSTALL files?

If you need to compile:

sudo apt-get install build-essential

This will give you a compiler, a linker, make, binutils, etc..

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-01
> **compwiz18 said:**
> I'm also gonna bet that you need to install the compliers...so **sudo apt-get install build-essential** before you run what bodhi.zazen posted.

I snuck this in there [along with chedkinstall] (used aptitude, apt-get or synaptic are fine as well).

---

### Post by compwiz18 on 2006-09-02
OK.

Change to the directory that you exctracted the tgz into and then, in the Terminal...

[QUOTE=bodhi.zazen]
sudo aptitude install build-essential checkinstall
./configure
make
sudo make checkinstall
[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
FYI: As of your first post you extraced the ".tgz file" to /home/user_name/Desktop.

---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-02
ok.  ./configure  and   make  and   make install   dont work when I am in the directory logged in as root.  Says no file found or something.  And yes I also have the build essentials installed. 

 As a breakdown of what I have....    the folders are bin, doc, fonts, icons, include, keys, lib, and icons.pak.  Inside the bin folder  is a mkpak file with no extention, 2 files with no extension with a picture of a foot on paper, and 3 .exe files (which i dont think have anything to do linux if im not mistaken).  Inside the doc folder is a buildDoc.bat file, makefile with no extention, and Makefile.run.  In the include folder is nreal.h and nrui.h.  In the lib folder is a bunch of .so files. 

Please bare with me because I am somewhat new to linux.  1st time for everything  :).  Thanks again.        -Ian

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
.exe files?? is this a package for windows or Lnux (or both)?

If windows, you may need wine or the linux package.

Is there a README file, config file, or install.sh file anywhere?

---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-02
no there are no README files, config files, or install.sh files.  And it is a linux program so I dont know why any exe files would be included.  I even tried opening the exe files in windows and nothing happens.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
What did you download? R U sure this is for Linux ? Are there instructions on the website?

---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-02
it was a torrent of a program that i downloaded from a torrent site (demonoid).  and the only instructions that came with it say  unpack, install, enjoy.  lol.  and yes im sure this program is for linux, its not for windows.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
What are the contents of the /bin directory then.

---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-02
mkpak, shake, shkv.exe, shkx.exe, tshake, tshkx.exe

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
This still looks very much like a windows program.

First: It does not look like sometihg you need to complie (no use for ./configure/make/make install).

Second: Security concerns. What is this?

Third I would guess it runs under wine?

Only other thought, is the program called shake?

If so, in a terminal in the /bin diectory, type:
chmod a + x shake

And in a terminal type 
bash shake (from the bin directory)

If this is for wine you will need to istall wine.

---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-02
it is called shake.  seems like u r on the right track there  let me try that...

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-09-02
If I were you, I wouldn't even try running it on any operating system. It sounds to me like a huge security risk.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
files use "permissions". you can not execute a file (ie run a program) if you do not have permission.

In windows a file can be read only or read write, yes.

In linux add read, write, and execute permissions.

chmod changes the permissions allowing you to execute the file.

to see the permissions, in a terminal use ls -l.

Permissions are in short hand, owner,group, and all owthers
rwx = read, write, adn execute permission
rw- = read and write, no execute
r-- = read only

The chmod command I gave you allows all users to execute this file (program).

Edit: See cautions from 3rdalbum and myself earlier re security risks. Ask yourself, do you trust this source?

---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-02
yea i understand the chmod stuff a little    i did "chmod a + x shake" as u said but it said 
chmod: invalid mode: 'a'.  
so i just did "chmod 777 shake"   to open up permissions to this file   then i did "bash shake" in the /bin directory as you said, but it said

shake: line 23: syntax error near unexpected token `else'
shake: line 23: `else'


hmmm....

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
Is this what you are trying to run?
[http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/5851](http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/5851)

If so, it appears there are some isntuctions in this page for Linux, although I did not read it in detail.

---

### Post by X14Halo on 2006-09-02
some guy posted a comment on demonoid under the file,  Of course I can't get it b/c they r down for maintenence now so isn't that convenient  haha.  But I'll get it tomorrow when I wake up.  He spoke very bad english but he said something about the key.dat file (which is in the keys folder) and he said something about editing that and then executing shake or something.  But again it was very vaugue instructions and bad english.  I dont know if that helps or not.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
Good luck to you. As far as I can tell this is an illegitimate copy of proprietary software.

I do not have a problem with you running this, for evaluation purposes of course as the company gives a free two week trial.

Beyond that you should move the discussion off Ubuntu forums perhaps to deminoid.

---

