---
title: "Xfce menu help"
date: 2005-12-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by [Nirvana] on 2005-12-28
First off, I have to say that I am not a complete beginner, I've used Kubuntu for 2 months, and I read the beginner talk rules of this forum, but I didn't know where else to put this thread. Anyways, problem time:

I've installed Xubuntu after a fresh server install on my box, and I (after being used to KDE) am having a hard time with this menu. It seems that the menu is autogenerated, so I presume I can't edit it. I know I can edit through the menu editor, but I really just want to add the package under System called "synaptic" (y'know, the package manager). Also, when I try to open it through the appfinder (neat invention btw), I get permissions errors. In KDE it would prompt me for my password, but here, it just gives me the error. To open synaptic, I have to sudo *sudo xfce4-appfinder*, then choose synaptic.

Also, speaking of sudo, what is the gksude or KDEsu equivalent in XFCE? I don't feel...umm, right using sudo.

Also, if I decide I just can't use XFCE, would installing KDE and using iceWM as the window manager, would I get a big improvement? And how do I stop KDE's already-running Window manager? Or is there another lightweight Desktop Environment that has better menu functionality?

Does [Equinox Desktop Environment](http://ede.sourceforge.net/page/about) come in the repos? It looks nice, but I don't want to install it from source.

---

### Post by [Nirvana] on 2005-12-28
bump.

anyone know what I can do?

---

### Post by Kimm on 2005-12-28
I dont know about menu editing in XFCE, but if you want to run synaptic without the terminal you can do this:

first, apt-get install gnome-sudo, for a dialog box that asks for your password, then do this:

Alt + F2

then type (after the box apears): gnome-sudo synaptic

a box will apear and ask for your password.

If you dont like this sulotion, you can right click on the xfce4 panel (the one on the bottom) and select "Add new Item" ->Launcher.
 Then put gnome-sudo synaptic in the command box and something like "Synaptic Packagemanager" in Tootil (optional).
 In the drop down box at the top select "Other Icon" and put this in the text box: "/usr/share/pixmaps/synaptic.png".
Make sure to uncheck "Attach menu to launcher" and close

This will give you fast access to Synaptic

PS.
I just had a look, and I can see "Synaptic Package Manager" in my settings menu in XFCE ;)

---

### Post by vayu on 2005-12-28
As Kimm described, Synaptic is in my xfce menu under settings.

Also, when I want to create a panel icon for a program: what I do is open the smeg application editor (which seems to have no bearing on the xfce menu).
I then find the item I'm looking to put on the panel.  I right click and choose properties.  That gives me the command to put in the panel item.  To do that I right click on the panel and choose add new item/ launcher.  I copy and paste the command from the smeg menu editor into the panel dialog.  

The command that works for me in the xfce panel is:
/usr/bin/gksudo /usr/sbin/synaptic

As Kimm showed, for the other icon entry I then put:
/usr/share/pixmaps/synaptic.png

I have Ubuntu (Gnome) also installed on my system, so I don't know if these items will be the same in an xfce only system.

---

### Post by [Nirvana] on 2005-12-29
[QUOTE=vayu]As Kimm described, Synaptic is in my xfce menu under settings.

Also, when I want to create a panel icon for a program: what I do is open the smeg application editor (which seems to have no bearing on the xfce menu).
I then find the item I'm looking to put on the panel.  I right click and choose properties.  That gives me the command to put in the panel item.  To do that I right click on the panel and choose add new item/ launcher.  I copy and paste the command from the smeg menu editor into the panel dialog.  

The command that works for me in the xfce panel is:
/usr/bin/gksudo /usr/sbin/synaptic

As Kimm showed, for the other icon entry I then put:
/usr/share/pixmaps/synaptic.png

I have Ubuntu (Gnome) also installed on my system, so I don't know if these items will be the same in an xfce only system.[/QUOTE]

Ahh that's why yours was shown. I tried installing XFCE after my Kubuntu install, and all my apps showed, but on a server install, plus apt-get install xubuntu-desktop it wouldn't show.

BTW youcan close this thread, I re-installed Kubuntu, and just trimmed it down with all the unneeded fuzz here and there, so I don't need anymore help :D

---

### Post by ceros on 2006-07-20
> Also, speaking of sudo, what is the gksude or KDEsu equivalent in XFCE? I don't feel...umm, right using sudo.

The commands "gksu" and "gksudo" should be installed. Try those.

---

### Post by OU812 on 2006-07-20
To edit the menu look in

/usr/share/applications

you'll see a bunch of files: name.desktop. Open one of those in an editor. Study it. Then if you want to add a program that doesn't put itself in the menu, edit one of the *.desktop files (I suggest one for a similar app or program category).

To add an icon, when I was using xfce I would put them in /usr/share/pixmaps.


BTW: If the entry doesn't show up right away - open preferences and click on desktop. Find the button for editing the menu (it's in the first or second tab - I don't run xfce anymore, so just look for it). Then check any box. Uncheck it. Choose save. This should "reset" the menu and your entry should be there.

john

---

