---
title: ".rars in multiple parts (split archive)"
date: 2007-06-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Hork on 2007-06-20
In my case, I'm dealing with files named name.part1.rar, name.part2,rar., ..., name.part5.rar.

I tried rightclicking the first one (name.part1.rar) and clicking 'Extract Here' but that only extracts the part of the file from the first rar.

Help please? :(

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2007-06-20
If it's a good rarset, you can open #1 then extract the file from within.
I just did a bunch of pron this weekend. Some by opening and some by command line. Installed a couple apps from the repositories that made it easier. Don't recall which ones but a quick search of synaptic should find them.

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-06-20
I've found it to work *ok*.  You still have to select them all like in windows, but make sure you stop it after the first one finishes - you need to select them all to make it extract them all, but it wil extract it # number of times, # being number of parts!

---

### Post by Hork on 2007-06-20
Hmmm, I tried that and it still extracts seperately.

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-06-20
Weird.  Well, I'm just saying what I did once and it worked!  I made the split files myself on winrar under windows previosly, but they wern't anything strange; they were all *.part##.rar or whatever!

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-06-20
Hi. **Hork**, have you tried double-clicking the first file (name.part1.rar), so it opens with File Roller (the archive manager)? I seem to remember doing that to join files like those a while back; double-clicking on the first file brings up File Roller, which will show you the complete file. Just click the "Extract" button. It should work.

---

### Post by Hork on 2007-06-21
Only extracted the first one... :(

---

### Post by Hork on 2007-06-21
Not sure if this is allowed, but bump!

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-06-21
ooo, risky! :p

(what's that supposed to do?! ;))

---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2007-06-21
Open a terminal window and run ```
unrar x name.part1.rar
``` in the directory that contains all of the rar files.

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2007-06-21
get par2 to verify/repair rarfiles using parfiles.

---

### Post by ppsieradzki on 2007-09-02
:confused:
I installed the rar and unrar thing and can compress files in one big chunk. But, i need to copmpress 3.6 gb onto less than 2 gb for a flash drive to move to another computer. i dont want to do networking and cant burn dvds, so this is my only option. BUT... how do i split the files... the archive manager only lets be do in one chunk...
PLEASE HELP!!!

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2007-09-02
```
 man rar
``````
-v<size>[k|b|f]
              Create volumes with size=<size>*1000 [*1024, *1].
```

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-09-02
oh, cool!  I didn't think you could split rars in linux!

---

### Post by ppsieradzki on 2007-09-03
Thanks NT4usB, but i dont understand the code.... please ellaborate what everything means...

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-09-03
> **yabbadabbadont said:**
> Open a terminal window and run ```
unrar x name.part1.rar
``` in the directory that contains all of the rar files.
Thanks, Worked like a champ for me. BTW I liked it better when your avatar was the two chicks :biggrin:

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-09-08
> **NT4usB said:**
> ```
 man rar
``````
-v<size>[k|b|f]
              Create volumes with size=<size>*1000 [*1024, *1].
```

ok, sorry if my previous comment gave you the impression that I knew what I was doing :)  :confused:

Let's saw I wanted to make a folder in my home directory into a rar file and split it into 100Mb pieces.  what would be the exact command, if:
-the folder was called "folderA"
-the destination was $HOME
-size of parts is 100Mb

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2007-09-09
```
/path/to/folder/  rar a -v100000k somerarfile
```

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-09-09
ok, thanks :)

---

### Post by gOLdenHaWK3D on 2007-09-13
Thanks.
Anybody tried PeaZip??? It can also open/create 7Z, BZ2, GZ, PAQ/LPAQ, PEA, QUAD, TAR, UPX, ZIP etc!!!
And its Free! Rar is not! :(

---

### Post by glotz on 2007-09-13
[quote="ryanVickers"]I didn't think you could split rars in linux![/quote]
You can split anything in GNU/Linux! :D
```
man split
```

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-10-15
oh, have a look at my split RAR maker :) :) :)

Signature

---

### Post by glotz on 2007-10-16
Screenshots or it never happened! :lol: (nice zombie avatar btw!)

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-10-16
> Screenshots or it never happened!

:confused:

---

### Post by aktiwers on 2007-10-16
I always just pick one of them and right click, then pick "Extract here"

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2007-10-16
yeah, that's what I said a while ago - it always works for me!?...

---

### Post by stomponthis on 2007-10-25
> **yabbadabbadont said:**
> Open a terminal window and run ```
unrar x name.part1.rar
``` in the directory that contains all of the rar files.

Worked like a charm for me, much appreciated :-)

---

### Post by glotz on 2007-10-25
oops, wrong thread...

---

