---
title: "problem with blank re-writable dvd disc......"
date: 2007-07-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-07-15
i dont know how long this has been a problem as today is the first time ive tried using a re-writable dvd disc.
basically im using it to back up some files, to free up some space on my external hard drive, and so i have a backup of all the files incase of hard ware problems.
so i put a blank re-writable dvd disc into my dvd drive (its a read write drive) and it mounted up as a blank dvd disc (icon on desktop and all that) so i then open k3b to add the files i want to burn.
so ive added my files and now i want to burn them to the disc, but i get an error regarding the length of the file name (over 16 characters or was it 25 ?) so i click to go back and change it and start again, but this time k3b gives me the error that there is no suitable media to burn to.
so i close k3b and theres no longer abn icon on the desktop, so i eject the disc and then close the drive again, but now instead or mounting the disc i get this error - " Cannot mount volume - Invalid mount option when attempting to mount the volume " so theres my problem, i tried the disc in a windows pc and it loads up as a blank disc.
ive tried other types of disc, blank dvd +r and -r discs, and blank cd's and cd-rw and they all mount fine, just not blank dvd-rw discs.
thanks in advanced for any help.
here is the contents of my fstab file.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=821e2c7d-7081-4d71-bbe2-8e78c4c705eb / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=048d98ea-5af6-4a1c-9c3d-6e3732408ca0 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,unhide,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/dvddrive udf,iso9660 user,unhide,noauto 0 0 - _this is the drive in question._
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
usbfs         /proc/bus/usb usbfs   devgid=14,devmode=0660 0 0

---

### Post by Arwen on 2007-07-15
->>>/dev/hdb /media/dvddrive udf,iso9660 user,unhide,noauto 0 0 
My fstab doesn't have unhide in here  -------------------| and everything is ok..

---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-07-15
no wasnt the " unhide " in fstab, the curious thing is that all though i get the error, i have managed to burn the data to the re-writable dvd using k3b, and it has written ok and now it automounts as a data disc should.
strange but true.
cheers

---

