---
title: "[SOLVED] Request help with scary filesystem irregularities"
date: 2008-01-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by m9ke on 2008-01-06
Hi all,

Any thoughts would be appreciated on an issue I am having with my filesystem.  

Symptoms of the issues are:  
1-fsck is running more often than it should; 
2-fsck died one time while checking root and threw an error saying it died, but requested a restart, then the box restarted successfully with no intervention from me; 
3-fsck says it has been 47K (thousand) days since it last ran when it runs which is incorrect; 
4-fsck sees the last mount time and last write time for the superblock as in the future which it claims to fix however this sysmptom keeps reappearing.

The config details that might be relevant are:  running Fiesty 32-bit; the box has two internal hard drives a 20GB (sda1) and a 500GB (sdb1).  The OS and apps are on sda1; data on sdb1.

fstab
=====
Here is my fstab.  Note that it was automatically generated when I installed ntfs-config, which I subsequently unintstalled.

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=c00c08fa-5804-43c9-8210-640a7e9499d8 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=1a5b433c-aeb6-4fa1-9fd7-ef7fc763ffa2 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
```

fsck logs
=========
Date Modified in /var/log/fskc shows Sunday 06 Jan 2008 around 10 am
This is the correct day and time when the fsck ran.  
However note the dates in the logs.

```
Log of fsck -C -a -t ext3 /dev/sda1 
Wed Feb 27 16:02:59 2002

fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
/dev/sda1: clean, 139814/2403744 files, 884709/4803427 blocks

Wed Feb 27 16:02:59 2002
----------------

Log of fsck -C -R -A -a 
Wed Feb 27 16:02:59 2002

fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
/dev/sdb1: Superblock last mount time is in the future.  FIXED.
/dev/sdb1: Superblock last write time is in the future.  FIXED.
/dev/sdb1 has gone 47572 days without being checked, check forced.
/dev/sdb1: 10228/61063168 files (20.2% non-contiguous), 26194890/122096000 blocks
fsck died with exit status 1

Sun Jan  6 10:06:31 2008
----------------
```

Any thoughts or pointers would be greatfully appreciated.  Also if you have read this far in the long winded post, thanks!

Cheers,
m9ke

---

### Post by gmaniac on 2008-01-06
Something to do with utc and windows maybe?
Haven't read it myself but check here...
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/89069](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/89069)

---

### Post by m9ke on 2008-01-06
Thanks gmaniac.

I read the bug you pointed me too.  There are some similarities, but I don't think that bug is exactly like what I am seeing.

I should clarify that mine is a single boot system, no Windows installed, with several reformats on the boot drive since Windows may have been installed.

Also the day and time are correctly displayed in the UI.

BTW I rebooted the system since my last post and now the UI running with fsck says it's 2138 days since fsck ran.  This is wrong, and different from the 45 K days or so it was reporting on the last boot.

---

### Post by m9ke on 2008-01-06
Looking into this on the web and Launchpad.  There is at least one known bug that is similar but not the same as what I am seeing.  Note that mine is not a new installation, and this bad behavior did not show up for many months after I installed.

Also i will try to change the title of this post to something mentioning "Superblock last write time is in the future.  FIXED."


I took a look at my hwclock and I see it's wrong, and the wrong date is close to the wrong dates in the fsck logs.

Anyone have any thoughts?  

hwclock info
============
m9ke@ubuntu:~$ hwclock
Wed 27 Feb 2002 05:19:05 PM PST  -0.594387 seconds

m9ke@ubuntu:~$ hwclock --debug
hwclock from util-linux-2.12r
Using /dev/rtc interface to clock.
Last drift adjustment done at 1199647779 seconds after 1969
Last calibration done at 1199647779 seconds after 1969
Hardware clock is on UTC time
Assuming hardware clock is kept in UTC time.
Waiting for clock tick...
...got clock tick
Time read from Hardware Clock: 2002/02/28 01:19:49
Hw clock time : 2002/02/28 01:19:49 = 1014859189 seconds since 1969
Wed 27 Feb 2002 05:19:49 PM PST  -0.576807 seconds
m9ke@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by m9ke on 2008-01-16
OK here is an update.  I make no claim to have troubleshot this problem systematically, but it's gone now.  Here is what I did.

Problem got worse.  fsck is running at each and every boot, then restarting the system and running again.  Same bogus "superblock last mount is in the future-FIXED" and "superblock last write is in the future-FIXED" messages from fsck.  Same bogus messages about the last time fsck ran, off by thousands of days.  OK, problem getting worse, lots of poking around on the web and this forum don't show me a solution.  BTW there are a couple of bugs in launchpad that show exactly the same symptom, down to the wording of the fsck messages, but they seem to be caused by things not present in my system.

So I decide to reinstall Fiesty.   Preparing to do that I:  1-add the updates that showed up in Notification area (I keep the system fully updated); and 2-uninstall software I tried out but decide not to use.  The two main uninstalls were 1-a down-rev jre (1.4x that I installed so I could print checks with Moneydance), and 2-nfts-3g.

As soon as I completed the above changes the problem went away.  I rebooted the system 6 or 7 times trying to make the problem come back but it was gone.  I have booted it several times since and not seen the problem once.

BTW I made jre 1.4x the default and immediately lost sound.  When I made 1.6 the default, sound came right back.  But it was not until I completely removed the old jre that the fsck problem went away.

I am going to mark this solved and post this update in case it might help someone else.  I have no idea why these changes made the problem go away, and I certainly did not do any isolation to figure out the exact cause of the problem.  

For what it's worth-YMMV!
m9ke

---

