---
title: "Problem during installation"
date: 2007-01-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by JRAlkire on 2007-01-21
I am trying to install Ubuntu 6.10 Edgy Eft on my Dell Inspiron 4000 using ubuntu-6.10-desktop-i386.iso (which I of course burned).
The iso matched the MD5 checksum and the live CD has no defects on it according to the checker. The RAM test doesn't seem to find any errors either (though it does restart after about 25 mins).

The problem is this:.
Upon boot, before it launches Gnome, it gives me an error saying:

"udevd-event [4430] : wait_for_sysfs: waiting for 'sysdevices/platform/i8042
/serio0/serio2/bus' failed
* Activating swap...                      [ ok ]
mount: Function not implemented :
*checking file systems...     
fsck 1.39 (29-may-2006)
                                                 [ ok ] "

I dunno if it's related, but after restarting Gnome (CTRL+ALT+BCKSP) about 15 times, I got another set of errors:
[17180791.144000] cpufreq: change failed with new_state 0 and result 0
[17180793.696000] cpufreq: change failed with new_state 1 and result 0

But the CD boots fine (albeit really slowly, which AFAIK is normal). It seems to work seamlessly with my other devices, detects my PCMCIA network adapters (Belkin 802.11G wireless, D-Link 10/100 CAT-5) and plays sound/looks good etc.
But when I click install it shows a  grey window titled install. It seems that the program is waiting for the window to load, but the stops reading the disk after a few minutes, at which point the computer is completely frozen--Control+Alt+Backspace doesn't do anything and the mouse doesn't move.

I've tried Googl'ing the errors, and it seems that the "mount: function not implemented" message is a pretty common error that you can pretty much ignore, and "sysdevices/platform/i8042
/serio0/serio2/bus failed" has to do with the mouse input, either the touchpad or the pointing stick (this particular model has both).

I plan on completely replacing Windows on here (by reformatting), so I don't care about my files on the HD.

I'm a noob at Linux so it could just be something simple =)
I posted this problem on the Ubuntu mailing list, but it's been 4 or 5 days and I haven't received a response so I posted it here in hopes to find an answer (sorry if I made you read this twice!).

Thanks for your help, you guys rock =)

Below is a list of my specs as generated by Everest Home Edition.

    Motherboard:
      CPU Type                                          Mobile Intel Pentium IIIE, 700 MHz (7 x 100)
      Motherboard Name                                  Dell Inspiron 4000
      Motherboard Chipset                               Intel 82440BX/ZX
      System Memory                                     192 MB  (SDRAM)
      BIOS Type                                         Phoenix (04/09/01)
      Communication Port                                Communications Port (COM1)
      Communication Port                                ECP Printer Port (LPT1)

    Display:
      Video Adapter                                     ATI Rage Mobility 128 (English)
      3D Accelerator                                    ATI Rage Mobility 128 AGP2X (M3)
      Monitor                                           Default Monitor
      Monitor                                           Default Monitor

    Multimedia:
      Audio Adapter                                     ESS Technology ES1983S Maestro-3i Audio Accelerator

    Storage:
      IDE Controller                                    Intel 82371AB/EB PCI Bus Master IDE Controller
      IDE Controller                                    Primary IDE controller (dual fifo)
      IDE Controller                                    Secondary IDE controller (dual fifo)
      SCSI/RAID Controller                              D347PRT SCSI Controller
      Floppy Drive                                      GENERIC NEC  FLOPPY DISK
      Disk Drive                                        GENERIC IDE  DISK TYPE55
      Optical Drive                                     HL-DT-ST DVD-ROM GDR8084N
      SMART Hard Disks Status                           OK

    Partitions:
      C: (FAT32)                                        9435 MB (688 MB free)

    Input:
      Keyboard                                          Standard 101/102-Key or Microsoft Natural Keyboard
      Mouse                                             Microsoft PS/2 IntelliMouse

    Network:
      Network Adapter                                   Belkin Wireless G Notebook Card  ( 192.168.0.3)
      Network Adapter                                   D-Link DFE-670TXD Fast Ethernet PC Card
      Network Adapter                                   PPP Adapter.
      Modem                                             Parallel cable on LPT1
      Modem                                             Serial cable on COM1

    Peripherals:
      USB1 Controller                                   Intel 82371AB/EB PIIX4 - USB Host Controller

---

### Post by bladeless on 2007-01-21
I've actually run into the same problem quite often...  X, for some reason, when it comes to ubuntu, has a problem with ATI video cards.

Here is the proper xorg.conf file
-------------------------------------------------
# Xorg configuration created by system-config-display

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "single head configuration"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Keyboard0"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

 ### Comment all HorizSync and VertSync values to use DDC:
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	ModelName    "Samsung SyncMaster 150N/152N/153N"
 ### Comment all HorizSync and VertSync values to use DDC:
	HorizSync    30.0 - 61.0
	VertRefresh  56.0 - 75.0
	Option	    "dpms"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Videocard0"
	Driver      "radeon"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Videocard0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by JRAlkire on 2007-01-21
Thanks for the fast reply. But, since I'm a noob to GNU/Linux, I don't know what to do with that info. Please elaborate?

Thanks again.

---

### Post by JRAlkire on 2007-01-22
man, I hate to do this, but this page is getting buried so fast...
I can't install Ubuntu until this matter is resolved...

BUMP.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-01-22
You could try the Alternate CD. The installer is text-based so it's a bit less pretty but also far less likely to fail on you, and not much more difficult to handle.

---

### Post by JRAlkire on 2007-01-22
i was kinda shy about using the alternate CD due to my aforementioned Linux newbiness. but I guess I'll give it a shot.

Also, I plan on using Xfce on there since the system doesn't have much RAM. I just install that in package manager after Ubuntu's installed, right?

P.S. Thanks for helping a noob in need!

EDIT: I found the Xubuntu alternate CD, so you don't have to answer that question =)

---

