---
title: "7.10 update on laptop"
date: 2008-01-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by linux_challenged on 2008-01-03
I recently took the update to 7.10 on my laptop and now my root user password is not recognized.
I upgraded when the popup appeared saying that a system update was available so I am sure that I didn't just forget what my password was because it was required to get the update.

I am thinking that I need to re-install 7.10 from an iso image which is okay, but I am wondering if I can just install over the existing version. I am running in a dual boot with xp pro.

thanx in advance..

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2008-01-03
you can install over the top of the old install

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-01-03
> **forestpixie said:**
> you can install over the top of the old install

Have to say, I generally re-format the partition before reinstalling, because Ubuntu sometimes refuses to write over itself (or it has for me pre-Gutsy).

Of course, this does not make sense at all, and I'm sure it is just something I was doing wrong.  Nevertheless, formating to ext3 (from GParted) and then running the install again worked.

---

### Post by wjp.reg on 2008-01-03
You could try[ resetting the root password]("http://wiki.clug.org.za/wiki/How_do_I_reset_my_root_password%3F") before doing something as drastic as a re-install.  If you need to re-install, then you are advised to reformat the root partition of the existing install.

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2008-01-03
doesn't the installer format if you tick the box for it  

that said I do as ugm6hr does myself generally and do the partition work before I put the install disc in

---

