---
title: "I think I got my ATI card working. This is how..."
date: 2007-09-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ROUBOS on 2007-09-13
After enabling repositories and editing the repository files as per the guide and posts on this forum, I used the following commands:

$ sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx fglrx-control

then I checked the xorg.conf file

$ sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and made sure that the line looked like this:

Driver "fglrx"

Then I did a restart and ran the following command to test 3D:

fgl_glxgears

The window with the colored spinning gears came up and it looked to work fine. So I guess I have 3D working and the Restricted Driver is Enabled.

Here is my xorg.conf file:
why does it say Generic Video Card and not ATI X1950pro or something??????


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "SyncMaster"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Generic Video Card"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Generic Video Card"
	Monitor    "SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by startherepodcast on 2007-09-13
If the driver is suitable for you you should be able to install it with the restricted drivers Manager (System -> Administration), that will set everything up for you, including xorg.conf. 

I only had to change the Screen Resolution Manually. With the manual install with apt-get I have no experience and I can not help you, Sry!

---

### Post by ROUBOS on 2007-09-13
When I go to the Restricted Drivers Manager, it is enabled

---

### Post by Nulifier on 2007-09-13
A better way to find out if you have direct rendering is to use the command:

glxinfo | grep direct

this will give you a better Idea of what is wrong with it if it is not.
If you want to install the propretary drivers for your ATI card (which I have to do as my card does not run by default until Gutsy comes out, I run Gutsy) is to use the [Envy script]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html") which will update your driver to be the most recent driver.

As to why your xorg.conf does not say that it is a x1950 is because this is just a text file and that would be set up by a program. This string is not really needed to be changed as the driver knows what card it is, it just doesn't update it.

Hope this solves your problem.

If it is working through the Restricted drivers manager then there is really no reason to change it. The way of knowing is if that command returns Direct Rendering: yes. Then the driver is working properly

---

### Post by ROUBOS on 2007-09-13
well I ran the command and got a YES answer for direct rendering.

Will this script give me all the multimedia codecs I need????

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-09-13
> **ROUBOS said:**
> well I ran the command and got a YES answer for direct rendering.

Will this script give me all the multimedia codecs I need????

Multimedia Codecs: [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Feisty#Multimedia_Codecs_.26_Browser_Plug-ins](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Feisty#Multimedia_Codecs_.26_Browser_Plug-ins)

---

### Post by Nulifier on 2007-09-13
Then that means that your driver works properly.

If you want to use multimedia codecs then the way that worked for me was to open the file in Totem (the default media player) and it asked me if I wanted to search for codecs I simply checked all the boxes and installed these codecs.

If you want more info about codecs in Ubuntu here is a [helpful link]("https://help.ubuntu.com/7.04/musicvideophotos/C/codecs.html")

Have fun!!!

---

### Post by ROUBOS on 2007-09-13
I'm writing from the live cd now.
Envy did its work and gave me a black screen. Had to edit the xorg.conf and did not know what to change.. need to remember my VI commands... I used to use emacs.

Anyway, by the looks of things, Ubuntu 64bit seems to be more trouble than what its worth.
Don't understand why though., It has been around for ages.

So should I just forget about it and go back to a 32bit fresh install?

---

### Post by Nulifier on 2007-09-13
If you want to recover I recommend running

dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

and selecting the flgrx driver again. This command can be run in recovery mode.
but if you get direct rendering working with the restriced driver then there is no point in messing with it as will do anything you need.

Probably what went wrong is that the support for ATI cards is not very complete past the x1400 (what I have)

The envy script is just for getting the drivers to work but once you have direct rendering you do not need to mess with it.

---

### Post by ROUBOS on 2007-09-13
thanks for that command. I'm writing now from a clean 32bit install.
Looks like 32bit is the way to go. Don't know why there is no support for 64bit. 

Are there similar problems with dual core processors?

---

