---
title: "6.06.1 LTS Installation Question(s)"
date: 2007-08-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kimo9909 on 2007-08-18
After the initial boot I chose the LAMP Server option.  I realize that because it is server based that the GUI on the desktop version isn't a priority or maybe not available at all.  To clear up some confusion about this, I need to know whether I can reboot with the CD in and choose "Install to the Hard Drive"?  If I can, will I have the option to choose a Windows environment like Gnome or KDE?  My main confusion is what is the difference between the "Install to Hard Drive" option and the "Install LAMP" option? 

 I truly want to be able to run Linux from the command line but at this point it is quite daunting.  That said, I want to learn to configure LAMP from command line but there is so much to it that I was thinking maybe a GUI would help me get some footing until I can learn more about Linux Administration.  Thank you for your help with this matter!

Regards,
Kimo

---

### Post by Arthur Archnix on 2007-08-18
What are you trying to do? That is, what are you using this computer for?

I've never set up a server installation before, but if I were going to, being completely new to it like you are, I'd probably install Feisty (the desktop version), then try to build a server on top of that by installing LAMP and using my normal desktop to help me learn more. 

Best of luck,

---

### Post by heimo on 2007-08-18
I second Arthur. Install Desktop version. Or if you want to install from server cd, you can still easily install KDE or Gnome on it afterwards. It's just one command.

For Gnome:
```
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop
```

For KDE:
```
sudo aptitude install kubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by freeflyer57 on 2007-08-18
I built a server on my laptop with ubuntu 5.1. I did it for fun to see if it could be done. It worked. I shared all of my music with friends, but then my bandwith started getting clogged so I stopped it. It is very possible to install the server requirements through a GUI desktop and run it from commandline. If you want you can install everything one at a time like I did in the terminal. Then you really get to know what you are doing.

---

### Post by kimo9909 on 2007-08-18
All I can say is WOW!!!  I have never seen this type of help so quickly...I knew the Linux community was helpful but WOW!  :)  Thank you all for your advice...I'll use the command line to install what I need then! :D

Regards,
Kimo

---

### Post by kimo9909 on 2007-08-19
> **heimo said:**
> I second Arthur. Install Desktop version. Or if you want to install from server cd, you can still easily install KDE or Gnome on it afterwards. It's just one command.

For Gnome:
```
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop
```

For KDE:
```
sudo aptitude install kubuntu-desktop
```

[SIZE="3"]Just an update.  I tried your code above for KDE and there was a lot installed but it did not work.  I Bought a book called "Hacking Ubuntu" to aid me with getting into the world of Linux.  In the book , they used **"sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop kde-core"**.  Further, I learned that I can basically "test" the install with **"sudo apt-get -s install kubuntu-desktop kde-core"**.  After that all I had to do is type "startx" and KDE fired up!!  :D  My first, supported, success!  Well I better get back to it...there is a lot more to learn!  Thanks again everyone!!!

Regards,
Kimo[/SIZE]

---

