---
title: "permission troubles..."
date: 2007-08-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by fflarex on 2007-08-06
I have a partition that I share between my Ubuntu and Vista installs, which is mounted at /shared and owned by root. I can't seem to do anything with it in Ubuntu, including changing the permissions (I've tried 'sudo chmod -R a+rwx /shared' as well as 'gksudo nautilus'). Ideally I would like to change myself to the owner, but simply being able to work with the files is the real goal. It won't even let me create shortcuts to folders in the partition.

Any help is greatly appreciated. I know there are dozens of threads about permissions out there, but they only seemed to address my issue indirectly and they didn't work when I tried them.

EDIT: It's a FAT32 partition, by the way.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-08-06
Have you tried the "chown" command?
```
sudo chown -R *yourusername* /shared
```
This is used to set owner, not rwx permissions for Owner/Group/World.

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2007-08-06
Have you installed the NTFS Configuration Tool from within Programs/Add/Remove/System tools? Install this and enable read/write permissions through there. Hope this helps :)

---

### Post by Rab22 on 2007-08-06
The problem may reside in your fstab setup.

Please post the contents of your /etc/fstab file.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-06
You set permissions of FAT partitions at the time of mounting with umask

so umask=000 will give you permissions of 777

ntfs-config will do this automatically ...

see also : 

_Windows:_ [Psychocats Mount windows ](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)
For read-write: [list=number][*]vfat (FAT) use umask=000
[*]ntfs use [ntfs-3g](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/NTFS-3g) and a fstab entry something like this:
```
/dev/hda1  /media/windows  ntfs-3g  defaults  0  0
```
[*]An alternate is ntfs-config. ntfs-config uses ntfs-3g to mount windows partitions via a gui :)
[indent][http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Ntfs-config](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Ntfs-config)[/indent][/list]

---

### Post by fflarex on 2007-08-06
@Rab22: Here's the contents of my /etc/fstab files:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=c6e68e63-e128-4927-ba89-f5b00d331f83 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=6fcf8f38-2478-4252-bdff-a77ca8fc292f /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=1AEB-5993 /shared vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1CD055BDD0559E38 /windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=040691b5-f048-4f12-8b4e-5e8b71d6b496 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
```

@Rocket2DMn: I tried *chown* and it didn't work.

@Jimmyfj: Yes I have it installed with read/write enabled, but it's the FAT32 partition I'm trying to use, not the NTFS.

@bodhi.zazen: You sound like you know what you're talking about, but unfortunately I didn't really understand what you wanted me to do in your post.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-06
LOL

Modify this line :

```
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=1AEB-5993 /shared vfat defaults,utf8,**[color=red]umask=000[/color]**,gid=46 0 2
```

Then unmount and remount ; in a terminal enter the following commands:

```
sudo umount /shared
sudo mount /shared
```

Note: I changed the trailing "1" to a "2". This is a minor change, but 2 is better.

See this link if you want more information (careful of information overload) : [ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131](ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131)

---

### Post by fflarex on 2007-08-06
Alright, well I made those changes and nothing changed. I still can't create shortcuts or change owners. I can create and modify files though.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-06
> **fflarex said:**
> Alright, well I made those changes and nothing changed. I still can't create shortcuts or change owners. I can create and modify files though.

LOL

To change ownership and group of the mount point use gid= xxx and uid=xxx

uid=1000,gid=100,umask=007 should set you as owner, users as group, and permissions of 770

shortcuts are links, what are you trying to link ?

---

### Post by fflarex on 2007-08-06
So where does uid go?

What I've found is that I was able to change the owner of /shared using nautilus if I unmounted it first, but any files created within it are automatically owned by root with group set as plugdev, and I can't change any of it.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-06
Yea, that changes ownership of the mount point, which will be reset when you mount ... as you can see ...

LOL, edit fstab again ...

```
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=1AEB-5993 /shared vfat **[color=red]users,utf8,uid=1000,gid=100,umask=007**[/color] 0 2
```

That 4th column is for options ...

---

### Post by fflarex on 2007-08-06
Ugh, okay, I'm pretty sure that fixed my permission problems. Apparently my link troubles are something separate, I guess. I'm trying to put links in my home folder to redirect to my music and pictures folders, etc. on my FAT32 partition. Any ideas?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-06
LOL

You forgot to mention what you are trying to link ?

---

### Post by fflarex on 2007-08-06
/shared/Music

You laugh a lot... Anyway, I'm taking a break from the computer for today. I'm tired of trying to fix minutiea right now. Thanks for the help, I'll be back tomorrow trying to fix more little stuff like this.

---

