---
title: "6.06 : problem compressing +17,000 files"
date: 2006-06-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-06-25
I have +17,000 log files I want to compress into one single compressed file to keep as backup and keep all the original files for my personnal project.

When I use gzip or tar, it says "bash: /bin/tar: Argument list too long" but when I try the same command with other files in smaller number amount, it works ok.

So I guess I have hit a limitation on the number of files to be compressed.

Is there a workaround or another mean to achieve what I want ?

---

### Post by digby on 2006-06-25
What's the exact syntax you are trying to use?

---

### Post by kotatsu on 2006-06-25
Sounds like you're using * in Bash to pass tar an argument list, which has a limit on the number of arguments it can accept. I've had this happen to me with rm in the past.

Compress the directory itself. From inside of the directory, type something like:

```
tar czf ../archive.tar.gz .
```

That will put all the files into a flat archive without any directories. Just be careful when unzipping it. ;)

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-06-25
I found that in general, alot of commands have limitations to the amount of files when using the '*'. 

This limitation slows me down. I will have to find workarounds or build scripts.

What is the actual maximum amount allowed per commands for how many files to be used by them ?

---

### Post by devnulljp on 2006-08-15
> **Browser_ice said:**
> I have +17,000 log files I want to compress into one single compressed file to keep as backup and keep all the original files for my personnal project.

When I use gzip or tar, it says "bash: /bin/tar: Argument list too long" but when I try the same command with other files in smaller number amount, it works ok.

So I guess I have hit a limitation on the number of files to be compressed.

Is there a workaround or another mean to achieve what I want ?

This is a limitation in the kernel--there's a 128kb buffer and you've filled it...
Try something like this (if your files are called <whatever>.log):

```
find . -name '*log' -print0 | xargs -0 tar cvf - | gzip > logs.tgz

```

You can recompile the kernel to increase the pagesize
Have a look [here]("http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/6060")

---

