---
title: "Cleaning up ubuntu (unnecessary files)"
date: 2007-05-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Roen hayden on 2007-05-15
hello i just recently switch from windows to Ubuntu and i love it!! 
But i have a few questions so here they are.

Does Ubuntu create temp internet files like in windows that you have to clean out? if so how?
does Ubuntu create compressed old files that you have to clean out like in windows? is so how?
And waste that that Ubuntu  creates how can you clean it out ?
And what is a good all around media player for Ubuntu? i don't care if  i have to have them separate  for videos and music just want a to see what some prefer.
i would say i'm a moderate computer user so keep it kinda simple please 
thanks for you time
~Roen

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2007-05-15
All you need to know about cleaning Ubuntu is here : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=140920](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=140920)
About the temporary files etc. : Ubuntu and Firefox aren't as messy as Win+IE, you shouldn't worry about that IMHO...

---

### Post by mcduck on 2007-05-15
For browser cache, just use Tools/Clear Private Data in Firefox.

Other than that, run 'sudo apt-get clean' to remove cached package files (from installing apps with Synaptic or any other package management tool). If you feel like it, install deborphan and add a new filter in Synaptic to only show orphaned packages so you can easily remove them.

---

### Post by Death_Sargent on 2007-05-15
Temporary internet files generated by firefox the default browser can be cleaned by

tolls>clear private data

or tools>options

Old files that are not used must be manually compressed and removed. Linux does not automatically do that and i don't even know why you think windows does that. 

Ubuntu does not gnenerate wastefull files ever really as most files that are out of date are either removed or completely replaced. however if you uninstall a program and it had some dependencies that you no longer require you can remove those through the synaptic package manager.

---

### Post by Roen hayden on 2007-05-15
Thanks i saw that the other night but i figured there would be more to do..... i guess not... thanks

---

### Post by Metacarpal on 2007-05-15
> **Kobalt said:**
> All you need to know about cleaning Ubuntu is here : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=140920](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=140920)
About the temporary files etc. : Ubuntu and Firefox aren't as messy as Win+IE, you shouldn't worry about that IMHO...

A lot of the tips in that link are good, but I'm hesitant about recommending use of "deborphan".  This can sometimes mistakenly mark installed packages your system does use - such as multimedia codecs - as unused.  If you run deborphan, review the files it recommends removing before letting it delete anything.

---

### Post by Roen hayden on 2007-05-15
> **Death_Sargent said:**
> Temporary internet files generated by firefox the default browser can be cleaned by



Old files that are not used must be manually compressed and removed. Linux does not automatically do that and i don't even know why you think windows does that. 




you can find compressed old files in windows by right click on c drive and clicking disk clean up those are the files i'm talking about.

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2007-05-15
> **Metacarpal said:**
> A lot of the tips in that link are good, but I'm hesitant about recommending use of "deborphan".  This can sometimes mistakenly mark installed packages your system does use - such as multimedia codecs - as unused.  If you run deborphan, review the files it recommends removing before letting it delete anything.

You're very right, I should have added as I usually do : "do not remove orphaned packages without taking a careful look at them first. "

---

### Post by rggavubt on 2007-05-15
My favorite music player is Amarok.  Very nice interface with visualations that you can download.

---

### Post by KIAaze on 2007-05-15
The issue about cleaning up has already been answered.
[B]However, there is one more thing you might want to clean up if you use the command-line:
There is a file named ".bash_history" (with a dot at the beginning (hidden file)) in your home directory.
It contains all the commands you entered recently in a terminal.
You can either delete it or delete its contents selectively or completely (since it's a text file).[/B]

However, if you are only a moderate user and almost don't use the command-line, you probably don't want to do that since it allows you to find commands you entered previously again by hitting the up and down arrows in a terminal. :)

But it can still be useful if you once entered your password in a command-line by error. ;)
Having your password clearly readable in a text file is something you should avoid.

> **Roen hayden said:**
> 
And what is a good all around media player for Ubuntu? i don't care if  i have to have them separate  for videos and music just want a to see what some prefer.


I would recommend Amarok for music and Kaffeine for video.
They are really great, especially Amarok. :)
(amarok has a lyrics-finding feature, easy playing queue creation inside a playlist, customisable popup showing new song being played, etc...)

XMMS is also good. It's very similar to Winamp.

---

