---
title: ".exe's problem!"
date: 2007-02-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by henrylegg on 2007-02-19
Hi i'm a windows guy through and through and i've got loads of games etc that all use .exe... when i click on a .exe it either says there is no prgram to use this or it does nothing... is there a program i need....???? im running ubuntu 6.10 which i've found isn't the best for a newbie linux person....

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-02-19
You need to install wine first before you can run those .exe games.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/wine](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/wine)
[http://www.winehq.com](http://www.winehq.com)

---

### Post by henrylegg on 2007-02-19
thank you also how would i get my internet connection running... i need to instal the drivers for my modem. But after that what do i do?

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2007-02-19
> **henrylegg said:**
> Hi i'm a windows guy through and through and i've got loads of games etc that all use .exe... when i click on a .exe it either says there is no prgram to use this or it does nothing... is there a program i need....???? im running ubuntu 6.10 which i've found isn't the best for a newbie linux person....

Generally, .exe's dont run on linux but like taurus said you can run them *sometimes* in WINE.  Would you expect you games to run on a Mac? :) I would just use windows for games and linux for the rest. It will be less trouble for you.

I would say your in for a journey. Please search the forums first for the answers to your questions. Trust me, someone has already asked. ;)

---

### Post by henrylegg on 2007-02-19
ok but i also had things like windows live messenger i would like to install and office 2007 etc...

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-02-19
I can tell you right now that Office 2007 will not work with wine or CroosOver Office.  You can either use Office 2003 or OpenOffice in the meantime then.

---

### Post by henrylegg on 2007-02-19
ok ill use 200 for the moment... can i install/use windows live messenger... i know it needs IE to connect... but is there a linux version?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-02-19
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/ies4linux](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/ies4linux)

---

### Post by henrylegg on 2007-02-19
ok when i go to install wine it says error:dependancy is unstatisfible. in the package installer?

---

### Post by graeme_p on 2007-02-19
henrylegg, use Linux equivalents to the Windows programs. Some are already installed, other can easily be installed through synpatic:

Open Office instead of MS Office.
Gaim for messaging

As for drivers, search the forum for info about drivers for that particular modem. Ubuntu comes with drivers for most hardware, but some "win modems" and USB ADSL modems can be a problem.

Two important differences from Windows. Most the the software you install is free, and installs from the Ubuntu repositories. Synaptic will download and install it in a few mouse clicks. As it is free and easy to install, you have little to lose by trying lots of stuff to see what you like - e.g. different office and messaging programs.

For example, I suggest you try Abiword and Gnumeric, as well as Open Office.  You might like to try Lyx as well: it works very differently from Word or Open Office but is more productive when you get used to it. Linux is about choice - try things and see what works for **you**.

It is also a good idea to always install from the Ubuntu repository. Software installation is easier than Windows through Synaptic, more difficult (sometimes much more) without it. As most of what you need is in the repositories, that should be OK. Do read the instructions on the Wiki about adding extra repositories.

---

### Post by v8YKxgHe on 2007-02-19
henrylegg, like graeme_p said - you should use Linux alternatives for software instead of trying to run all you're Windows programs in Linux. If you're gonna do that you may as well not bother with Linux and go back to Windows.

There are many many alternatives out their for programs, you just have to try them - most of which are free (price and freedom). Openoffice is a very good office program and Gaim is also a very good IM Client, though if you want Web Cam or a more "MSN Messenger" like client then I suggest you install "aMSN".

---

### Post by jvc26 on 2007-02-19
I'll also second these guys opinions - its going to be much more worth your while to use other apps, alternatives to the windows ones - you cant really run much windows stuff in Ubuntu, and to cut a long story short, Ubuntu is not a free windows. If you want to make useful and productive use of Ubuntu use Ubuntu for everything you can and if you want to still run your games etc, keep windows and run it on that. If you dont want to use Ubuntu apps (and want a free windows) there isnt that much point in switching to be honest as Ubuntu isnt windows - a fundamental thing you need to remember :)
Il

---

### Post by graeme_p on 2007-02-19
Illuvato,

I agree with the principle that Linux is not Windows - and it cannot be better without being different.

However I think the article you link to gets a lot wrong.

1) You can get paid support for Linux, and in any case the free support from volunteers is often better than Windows support.
2) Most open source software is more reliable than closed equivalents. The not fully tested stuff is marked as such - and closed source software is often released to users in beta form as well.
3) A lot of open source software, including much of Linux, is commercial, in that it is written by someone who is being paid, by a profit making company, to do it.
4) The major distros, Ubuntu in particular, are designed to be usable by the average user.

I do encourage people to switch. I use Linux because it is the most productive and reliable OS I have tried, and I think others will find the same.

Windows is probably better for games, and if you are heavily into games you should consider dual booting, having a separate Windows PC, or buying a games console.

---

### Post by jvc26 on 2007-02-19
I went through and re-read that article after I'd posted the link, and have actually wondered whether it was the one I intended to link in - I very much agree with you graeme_p on your points... I realise I hadnt read that link in its entirety - its not the one I thought it was, so have consequently removed the link and shall look for the one I was actually after.
EDIT #2: After more frustrated looking around for the right link to sum up what I think on the issue here I think this one is the most accurate yet: [Fisherman story]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1488521&postcount=1")
Il

---

### Post by graeme_p on 2007-02-20
Illuvator, I love the story and will probably quote it myself if anyone complains about community support. To be fair to henrylegg he has been polite.

I also want to clarify (I think you would agree with me on this) that our advice to henrylegg is:

There is usually an as good, or better, linux equivalent, so use it. Its mostly open source so it is not going to cost anything.

Where there is no Linux equivalent, then use Wine, or [Codeweavers Crossover Linux]("http://www.codeweavers.com/") (for anything other than games) or [Transgaming's Cedega]("http://www.transgaming.com") (for games).

Personally, I find that Windows applications running under Wine still look and feel like Windows - which feels odd on a Linux desktop. The only commonly used Windows apps I think are worth the trouble are games. Excel is good if you regularly do really huge spreadsheets, and industry vertical applications may not have Linux equivalents.

If you are designing a web site it might be useful to have Internet Explorer to test the site for any problems caused by bugs in IE (otherwise why install a "me too" browser when you can have the cutting edge ones?).

Finally there is a** lot** of Linux software out there. You do not see it in the shops, but you will see most of it in Synaptic. Really, buying application software on CD is an anachronism, which we Linux users have largely moved beyond. This gives us some real practical advantages - a single system auto updating almost all the software on  my desktop is one.

There are versions on Linux that have tried to be a free Windows (integrating Wine so .exe files just run), but they have not succeeded. Even Linspire (which used to be called Lindows) emphasises Windows compatibility less then it used to. There is a reason for this - most Linux users think Linux is better than Windows. I sit in front of a computer for most of every day and I would be perfectly willing to pay for Windows if I thought it was better  - in fact I think Linux is better, and I have bought commercial versions of Linux before.

I live in a country where piracy is rampant, and MS does not dare do anything about it because higher prices might trigger a switch to Linux. In this context Linux is slightly more expensive - Windows gets installed for free on a new PC, but I need to obtain and install Linux myself.

Finally, the important free in Linux is "free as in freedom, not free as in beer". I used to be an investment analyst, and I learnt to distrust anything that is not transparent and independently verifiable. Anyone with the right skills can audit open source code, trusting your computer to closed source code is as safe as investing your money in a company that has unaudited accounts.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2007-02-20
What you want is windows, you are in no way ready to make a switch. Linux can fill most of those things you want with alternative apps, but you must be willing to leave as much of that windows crap with windows. Linux is a new game all together, you just need to play with it awhile and get the feel of it. Trying to turn linux into windows by installing crap that runs on windows for windows is stupid. Read around and see what linux uses to do those very things you want to install windows programs to do.

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2007-02-20
graeme_p has hit the nail on the head.

If you want the ability to run .exe's, you should make your focus Windows.  Outside of bleeding edge games and the superscaler applications, it's hard to not find an alternate option out there.

What I would recommend if you want to stick with Linux, ditch everything that has to do with exe files and stick with Linux files instead.  I had wine installed for a little bit, but I've since removed it along with all of the applications I thought I needed.  There are some wonderful applications out there like Inkscape, Gimp, and OpenOffice.  You should try them out before installing the Windows equivalents.

---

