---
title: "i386"
date: 2006-12-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by captgadget on 2006-12-09
I installed Edgy on my internal hd and now when I try to install like mplayer Movie Player it tells me it cannot install on this i386 computer. Man, I had it running on an external usb hd in Dapper. What goes here?

---

### Post by riven0 on 2006-12-09
That's strange. Can you post the error message here?

---

### Post by lonce on 2006-12-09
Also tell us how you are trying to install it.  From synaptic or command line?

---

### Post by captgadget on 2006-12-09
Applications: Add/Remove and here's what I get:The use, modification and distribution of MPlayer Movie Player is restricted by copyright or by legal terms in some countries.
MPlayer Movie Player cannot be installed on your computer type (i386). Either the application requires special hardware features or the vendor decided to not support your computer type.

---

### Post by igknighted on 2006-12-09
Have you enabled all the repo's?  Perhaps it is missing a dependency that it can't find.

Also, if you try to install it from a terminal using aptitude perhaps we could get a more specific error message

---

### Post by captgadget on 2006-12-09
in Synaptic mplayer doesn't even show but it is in Applications:Add/Remove

---

### Post by captgadget on 2006-12-09
Goooolllllyyyyy!!!!!! This has to be the best forum anywhere in the world. I've been updating Synaptic but I guess I didn't do it often enough. I went back again and now everything is there.


Thanks!!!!!!!!!!!

---

