---
title: "7.10 Performace Tweaks?"
date: 2007-11-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Jackrum on 2007-11-08
I have been running 7.10 for a little over three weeks now, and for about 1 week on my new system. I am running with compiz turned on and I have used the advanced configuration options to tweak the effects, but I was surprised at the lack of speed boost over my old system. Here are my stats:
OLD RIG:
P3 1.7Ghz
1 GB ram
IDE 80 GB HDD
256MB Geforce 5200

NEW RIG
P4 3Ghz (dual core)
3 GB ram
SATA 32 MB HDD
256MB Geforce 5700 BFG

But in applications like GIMP, and in the speed of rendered compiz effects, I see no huge difference. Also my audio still stutters (though it got much better by turning off mic input) and my CPU Frequency montor shows both CPU's at 100%, though it does tell me I am unable to adjust the fequency due to a setup issue.

My question is - I have seen a lot of Ubuntu tweaking tips, but they seem to all be pre 7.10. For instance, some posts I have read indicate it is no longer necessary to use a different kernel to get dual-core performance, and I was wondering if it was still worth switiching to InitNG.  The system's previous owner was dual booting XP and SUSE, both of which ran very fast on the system. Ubuntu even seems slow to load! One thing that may be contributing, the former owner was using RAID Striping across the 2 32 GB SATA drives, I have turned RAID off in the BIOS as when I tried to install Ubuntu it would still see the drives as 2 sperate disks and not load after installation.

Anyway, sorry for the long winded post, I have been using Ubuntu for over a year now, went cold turkey from XP And never looked back. I'm only now feeling comfortable enough with my knowledge level to post to the boards.


On a side note, has anyone ever found a sure fire LEGAL way for US residents to play DVD movies under Ubuntu? Surely some enterprising hardware manufacturer could bundle the cost of the license into their hardware. I know I'd drop some big cash for that!

---

### Post by staticvoid on 2007-11-08
[http://onlyubuntu.blogspot.com/2007/03/performance-tip-for-ubuntu-edgy-and.html](http://onlyubuntu.blogspot.com/2007/03/performance-tip-for-ubuntu-edgy-and.html)

apps will launch faster... :-/

do you really need the effects? a computer is to use. compiz is to show off to your friends ;)

w/out effects you'll go much faster

---

