---
title: "Turning wireless on at shutdown"
date: 2007-02-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Biochem on 2007-02-26
I have a Dell Latitude laptop that refuse to boot with Ubuntu if the wireless is off (Soft lockup bug on CPU0) 

Since I always close my wireless card when I don't need it I often get forced to boot WinXP just to open my wireless and reboot with Ubuntu.

The easiest work around would be to have an "wireless ON" command that get executed when I shutdown my computer.

Does anyone has suggestion on how to do that?

---

### Post by Biochem on 2007-03-01
Nobody can help me? :cry: 

All I need to know is what is the bash command that will control my Intel wireless card and how to run a script automatically during shutdown. 

I'm convinced there is a way to do that. I just don't know how!

please, pretty please :biggrin:

---

### Post by coinstarpatrick on 2007-03-01
Just from what I've read, Fn+F2

---

### Post by Biochem on 2007-03-01
Thank you coinstarpatrick for your suggestion but it is not what I'm looking for.

Actually Fn+F2 will toggle between ON and OFF manually. So when in a session I do Fn+F2 to shutdown the wireless (which I do for security, save battey power AND reduce the heat generated by the computer) I need to press Fn+F2 again before closing the computer otherwise it wont boot. 

Now the thing is I often forget it and I want to do it automatically as part of the shutting down sequence. In Gnome I know how to run a script at start up but not at shutdown and I'm unfamiliar with bash syntax (but I doubt that typing Fn+F2 in a script will produce anything).

---

