---
title: "7.10 Server Problems (No GUI)"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mcbenz55 on 2007-10-27
Hi, 
I had 7.04 Desktop but wanted to put LAMP on my box, so I decided to move up to 7.10 server. Installing was no problem, however, I don't seem to have a GUI now. I did a standard install and also selected the LAMP stack. Is there a command I need? Install option I missed?

Furthermore, now that I'm looking at some of the community guides it seems simple to get LAMP on 7.04 desktop(which I was very happy with). Is server worth it? Is there a significant difference? 

Just as a little background I'll be using this mostly to test sites, not to actually deploy and serve them. Performance is not a big issue.

Sorry for the long post.

---

### Post by jenhsun on 2007-10-27
Server version no GUI by default. The purpose of that because sysadmin doesn't need UI to do sys administration job.
If you want lamp with ui, you can try desktop version and manually do the install for httpd, php and database.
[http://www.mysql-apache-php.com/](http://www.mysql-apache-php.com/)

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-10-27
Server installation with a GUI? It's supposed to be pretty minimal, intended primarily for someone either wanting to run the unit as a webserver and little to nothing more, or someone wanting to build from the foundation up I guess we might say.

If you want a regular OS with GUI then either build up or use a full version from the ubuntu family if you like. If performance isn't a factor and it isn't serving pages except for local testing purposes, may I suggest ubuntu or kubuntu and XAMPP for Linux.

---

### Post by mcbenz55 on 2007-10-27
Ok thanks. Any advice on whether server is worth the hassle? Is there a GUI I could grab somehow? I just spent like 50 minutes setting it up so I'd like to play with it a little.

If I did go back to Desktop version would apt-get handle the configuration as well(my understanding is server does a lot of this for you)? Or just the installation?

---

### Post by mcbenz55 on 2007-10-27
> **TeaSwigger said:**
> Server installation with a GUI? It's supposed to be pretty minimal, intended primarily for someone either wanting to run the unit as a webserver and little to nothing more, or someone wanting to build from the foundation up I guess we might say.

If you want a regular OS with GUI then either build up or use a full version from the ubuntu family if you like. If performance isn't a factor and it isn't serving pages except for local testing purposes, may I suggest ubuntu or kubuntu and XAMPP for Linux.

Are you suggesting Desktop when you say ubuntu? Thanks for all the quick responses guys.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-10-27
You now can install Gnome on it without reinstalling the whole thing.

```
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop gdm
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

---

### Post by jenhsun on 2007-10-27
> **taurus said:**
> You now can install Gnome on it without reinstalling the whole thing.

```
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install ubuntu-desktop gdm
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

these are better to solve no UI problem.
So..now you should have UI, same as desktop.

---

