---
title: "6.10 LiveCD VGA problems?"
date: 2007-03-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Industrial PhD on 2007-03-01
Ok here's my setup:

P4 3.2 GHz
2GB RAM
DVD-RW
Gigabyte Geforce 6600 AGP 8x Video Card

I downloaded the image file...

ubuntu-6.10-desktop-i386.iso

burned it to CD, booted from it. I get the initial prompt asking me for options, I select the default options, I get to the splash screen with the little scrolling bar back and forth, and then my monitor goes to out of range.

If i reboot again and specifically select VGA settings at 1024x768 16 bit color it loads up the LiveCD just fine, and I can progress through the entire installation process, but when it's time to reboot at the end of the install, I eject the CD and reboot, and when it tries to load X it appears that some setting is wrong because the screen is totally scrambled. I can see vague icons and when I move the cursor, but can't really see anything.

unable to post xorg.conf, sorry. but any suggestions of what might be the case?

---

### Post by Industrial PhD on 2007-03-01
I should also add, that this machine works fine under an XP environment, including all 3D functions (Plays Half-Life just fine)

I also tried booting under the "VGA Safe Mode" boot option. Same results.

*edit* I've also tested this on 2 different 17" and 19" LCD monitors, both capable of displaying 1280x1024 with no problem, got the same issue on both.

---

### Post by em es on 2007-03-01
I have the same problem. I think it's to do with old screens and the graphics card, if you turn the screen off and on again does it work? If you degauss it?

---

### Post by Steel Bovine on 2007-03-01
I had the exact same problem and have had difficulty getting answers.

What "worked" for me: once your monitor goes out of range, try alt-ctrl-f1.  Do you have a signal (should see console)?  OK.  alt-ctrl-f7 to switch to X.  I have no idea why this worked for me, but it does.  I continued to have to do this during every boot until I updated my video driver to the ATI binary. Now I can /only/ see X, going to a console gives me a bunch of monitor gibberish and no functionality.

---

### Post by Industrial PhD on 2007-03-01
When I hit alt-ctrl-f1 I get what....*should* be a command prompt, but the display is so screwed up I can barely tell the text from the black background. Switching back with alt-ctrl-f7 returns me to the lovely land of "out of range" 

:(

---

