---
title: "Ubuntu stopped recognising my Windows partition"
date: 2008-03-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by h-town on 2008-03-13
What's funny is I just moved a lot of mp3s from one partition to another about 2 hours ago, then I did an update for ubuntu and after a while I needed to move another file and I noticed that the icon on my desktop for windows is gone and in the Places pull down menu as well. 

When I reboot the computer I can go into windows no problem but Ubuntu thinks it's not there. What can I do? It's Windows Vista if that makes a difference.

---

### Post by Spoken on 2008-03-13
Hold on, let me see if i can find someone that can help ok.

---

### Post by h-town on 2008-03-13
cool

I got to go out and do something but I'll check back in here in a couple of hours.

---

### Post by FreewheelinFrank on 2008-03-13
Make sure you shut down Windows rather than hibernate, otherwise Ubuntu won't see the partition.

---

### Post by Eclipse. on 2008-03-13
Could you copy and paste the output of:

gedit /etc/fstab

Thanks

---

### Post by h-town on 2008-03-13
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=1677b0f4-4192-4e2a-9f50-d5b2bb71b380 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=32e370a6-666f-4ff9-8af5-d6d43f6c8dc1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

ok now i really got to go haha

also, I didn't hibernate windows. I've already restarted/shutdown to see if anything would happen.

---

