---
title: ".rpm issues"
date: 2006-08-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Kodiak3000 on 2006-08-04
I've been trying to insall some software - it all seems to come as .rpm - but I can't get the files to open once they download.  I've discovered that I should be doing something in Terminal to get it to install, but I don't think I have rpm on this machine, and I can't figure out how to get it!  Do I need to activate it or something? I've done "man rpm", but I get the message that there is no rpm manual...

Help!

---

### Post by jethro10 on 2006-08-04
Hi,
Ubuntu is a debian based system and uses deb not rpm based packages. I think red hat and suse are rpm based systems
We use a program called alien to convert an .rpm to a .deb

this 'usually' get it to convert successfully from myprog.rpm to myprog.deb

then you just double click the deb to install it.

So.... in the package manager search for and add alien. When its intalled open a terminal and change to the directory you file is in.

then type
sudo alien myprog.rpm

in a few minutes you will have a deb file for yourself.

hope this helps.

alternativley you could search for myprog.deb in google and see if someone has already done it? Lots are available as a deb or an rpm.
Jeff

---

### Post by r4ik on 2006-08-04
Also worth reading imo,

[http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)

Good luck !

---

### Post by Kodiak3000 on 2006-08-04
Thanks both of you - a combination of the instructions and the link has got me much farther forward.  Now, though, when folling installation instructions, I get a message:

configure: error: no acceptable C compiler found in $PATH

Now what?

Help?

Thanks...

Oh, and while I'm here, I might as well ask if there's a list somewhere of the Terminal commands so I can stop asking the REALLY dumb questions...

---

### Post by kurniawands on 2006-08-04
> **Kodiak3000 said:**
> Thanks both of you - a combination of the instructions and the link has got me much farther forward.  Now, though, when folling installation instructions, I get a message:

configure: error: no acceptable C compiler found in $PATH

Now what?

Help?

Thanks...

Oh, and while I'm here, I might as well ask if there's a list somewhere of the Terminal commands so I can stop asking the REALLY dumb questions...

install glibc from the synaptic. and try install your application once more, see what's happen....

---

### Post by benmoreassynt on 2006-08-04
Hey, and make 100% sure you really need to use an rpm, and cannot install from Synaptic Package Manager.

---

### Post by r4ik on 2006-08-04
Some basic Terminal commands can be found here,

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BasicCommands](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BasicCommands)

There is a longer list there if you want to.

Good luck !

---

### Post by Kodiak3000 on 2006-08-04
Thanks to everybody.

I'm giving up for tonight (UK).  I was trying to install a RealPlayer type app, but I've found Rhythmbox.  It took a while to figure out that I had to extract the files in Juicer first, but I've got it working now.

I'll keep all your suggestions handy for the next time - especially the one about knowing I can't get what I want without using an rpm!

---

