---
title: "32 or 64?"
date: 2006-11-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by craaaig on 2006-11-16
I have a amd64 processor and i have ubuntu and xp dual boot, i have the amd64 version of edgy installed. I tried installing the restricted formats codec, but it did not work as it is only supported for 32bit. Is it possible to install the 32bit ubuntu on an amd64 and have it work fine, or should i stick with the version i have now?

---

### Post by Joe_CoT on 2006-11-16
You can certainly run 32 bit ubuntu without issue. I use 64 bit, and i'm happy with it. Some things don't work out of the box because they're 32 bit binaries, but there's ways around it. Check [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191205) about it (it's a dapper thread, but it still works). For the most part, any 32 bit stuff can be installed on the 64 bit system, as long as you have the 32 bit libraries it needs. Check that thread, and search the 64 bit subforum it's in.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-11-17
> **craaaig said:**
> I have a amd64 processor and i have ubuntu and xp dual boot, i have the amd64 version of edgy installed. I tried installing the restricted formats codec, but it did not work as it is only supported for 32bit. Is it possible to install the 32bit ubuntu on an amd64 and have it work fine, or should i stick with the version i have now?

Stick with the 64bit version you have installed. Without knowing what codec you want to install its kind of hard to help you. I also suggest posting problems with the 64bit version in the [64bit section of the forum]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=134"). There are a lot of helpful, knowledgeable people who can help you solve most any problem you will have. 
Remember, no version of Linux can be installed without some setup. Also be aware that there can be problems installing a 32bit os on a 64bit system.

---

