---
title: "Need dual monitors RCA"
date: 2008-03-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Dacarlson on 2008-03-16
Hey there. I just recently made the switch, and created another problem. I used to consider myself an "advanced" windows user, but no longer do i remain dominant. I am in need of help. I would like to run dual monitors. Specifically a monitor and a TV through my RCA out. I have an ATI Radeon 9200. It has an RCA out on the back. I played with it a little last night and I just ended up screwing up my my display settings rendering my computer useless. I've googled a few ways to solve this problem, and lets just say It's a bit over my head. Any suggestions for a first time linuxer would be greatly appreciated. Thanks in advance.

Oh, forgot to mention. I just reinstalled ubuntu my computer is not useless, otherwise I wouldn't be typing to you right now. The only issue at hand (for now) is my lack of dual monitors.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-17
Well, what things did you try yourself?
You should be able to set this up through System -> Administration -> Screens and Graphics

But if that doesn't work, take a look at this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=625435]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=625435")

---

### Post by Dacarlson on 2008-03-17
The simpler method you suggest simply doesn't give me the option to use my tv as a secondary. I've tried various programs in which I had little to no success, whether it was from from lack of understanding or hardware issues I'm not entirely sure. All i know is what i tried did not work. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174&highlight=dual+monitors+guide](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174&highlight=dual+monitors+guide)

I used this guide, but I think my problem is I did not install xorg proper. I think it had binaries in the file I got off of the Add/remove programs. Do you know where i can get a stand alone of this program ?

I found this site [http://xorg.freedesktop.org/archive/X11R7.3/src/](http://xorg.freedesktop.org/archive/X11R7.3/src/) but it seems to me as though i'd have to download each individual file by hand (talk about painful) 

As you can tell, I'm new with this whole linux thing. But I shoudl catch on quickly.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-17
Xorg is a very fundamental part of a basic ubuntu install, so I doubt you installed it wrong ;). You probably don't have the right driver configured, one that doesn't support the xrandr program..
Could you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by Dacarlson on 2008-03-17
If i knew how maybe, how does one do this? As you can tell im totally new with linux.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-18
Maybe you should read some things on this site then:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/)

Just to get to know Ubuntu a little better ;).
To get to the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, open a terminal ( Applications -> Accesoires -> terminal ). There, type :

```

gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
This will open gedit, with the xorg.conf file open. You can then use your mouse to select and copy the text.
Alternatively, type:
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
This will output the text in xorg.conf directly to the terminal.

Note that if you would want to edit the xorg.conf, you have to open it with root privileges:
```

gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
This will ask for your password, and then open xorg.conf with root privileges.(Thus, allowing you to edit it.)

---

### Post by Dacarlson on 2008-03-18
Here is the contents of Xorg.conf. Seems confusing to me. Nothing really jumps out to me as being horribly wrong. But I don't know any programing languages. 


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
Option "MergedFB" "true" #Enable MergedFB function
  Option "MonitorLayout" "CRT" # LVDS = Laptop Screen, TMDS = DVI Port, CRT = VGA Port NOT MONITOR TYPE!
  Option "CRT2Hsync" "30-65" #Horizontal Sync of the Monitor (check your monitor's manual for correct values)
  Option "CRT2VRefresh" "50-75" #Vertical Refresh rate of the Monitor (check your monitor's manual for correct values)
  Option "OverlayOnCRTC2" "true"
  Option "CRT2Position" "rightOf" #Physical location of your secondary monitor in relationship to your primary monitor. Values can be: LeftOf, RightOf, Above, Below, and Clone.
  Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024-1280x1024" #Monitor Resolutions for Primary-Secondary monitors 
#Option "MergedXineramaCRT2IsScreen0" "true" #determines which screen is going to be the primary screen; value can be "true" or "false"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
Horizsync    28-64 #You may wish to change the values to fit your specific monitor
    Vertrefresh    43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-18
Yeah, I asked you to post this, to check which driver your card was using. It is using the open source 'ati' driver. From what I gather on the internet, you need to use the proprietary  'fglrx' driver for your card (to be able to use the tv-out, that is). I am not entirely sure; but I think you can install that via System -> Administration -> Restricted drivers management.
Since I don't have an ati card myself, I don't think I can help you any further than that, since all I can give you is info I found somewhere else..
If you just do a 
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.bak

```
before you try anything, you can always get back to your working situation if something goes wrong with a
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

the first command copies the conf file into a backup file, the second command reverses that.
Good luck!

---

### Post by Dacarlson on 2008-03-18
What exactly does that do for me? Nothing really happens.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-19
Did you install the restricted driver? You can check this; see your xorg.conf, it should now say driver "fglrx" instead of driver "ati".
Then you could try the ubuntu display utility again, or the guide I gave you in one of the earlier posts.. The one that uses the xrandr program.

---

### Post by Dacarlson on 2008-03-19
When i click the restricted drivers option I get message "your hardware does not require any restricted drivers". When i check the configuration file it was still using the ATI drivers. I'm not sure why I'm sure fglrx is installed.

I did a little bit of playing. It seems that it is using generic "VERSA" drivers. Which funny enough i can get an image on my TV with these versa drivers. It will only display it as a mirror image of my current desktop on my CRT. Whenever I try to apply the Fglrx drivers it reverts back to the Versa drivers.

---

