---
title: "how to make fstab and fdsk -l the same"
date: 2007-12-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-16
here are the results of both i amtryung to get the drive to not give me errors at start up the names are different ....i think

> Disk /dev/sda: 320.0 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x2fc52fc4

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       38184   306712948+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2           38185       38913     5855692+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           38185       38913     5855661   82  Linux swap / Solaris


and fstab

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=60f74535-e82e-416a-baed-939a117ef4de / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=c29bcbc1-2102-4298-af29-2a934f9e8141 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

/dev/sda1 /storage ext3 defaults 0 2
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ext3 defaults 0 0
/dev/sdb5 /media/sdb5 swap defaults 0 0


note there is only 1 drive connected as of now  but i see sda1in fdsk and  sdb1 in fstab

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-16
One tells you the present configuration of your drives; the other is a static file that remains the same unless you edit it.

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-16
i know what they do but ,what i am asking, is it right?

i get an error during start up something it is fdsk related but i cannot read the text due to my other post:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=642185](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=642185)

---

### Post by thelatinist on 2007-12-16
Yeah, just comment out (#) or delete the line about /dev/sdb.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-16
You got your answer at the other post too.

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-16
> **thelatinist said:**
> Yeah, just comment out (#) or delete the line about /dev/sdb.

what one there is 4 /dev/sdb entry's

what does comment out # mean im sorry never heard that term before

---

### Post by thelatinist on 2007-12-16
> **rexxxlo said:**
> what one there is 4 /dev/sdb entry's

what does comment out # mean im sorry never heard that term before

Put a # in front of all lines that contain /dev/sdb.  This will cause your system to ignore those lines as 'comments' rather than actual instructions.

Reboot and make sure everything still works.  If it does, then you can delete those lines if you want.

Before you edit fstab, always be sure to back it up:

```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
```

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-16
i think its too late to back up 

it wil not reboot i am stuck at some status text where it tells me there is a fail

the left side of the screen is unreadable/not visible on the screen 

when i do get it going again where do i/how do i backup fstab?


i am on my eee right now and it will not connect to my camera to load pictures so i will type what i see and i can read:

is mounted e2fsk: cannot continue aborting

with exit status 8
stem check failed
eing saved in /var/log/fsckcheckfsif that location is writable
air the file system manually.
enace shell will now be started.
will terminate this shell and resume system boot.
os:command not found
oipe: command not found

i think i might reinstall ???

---

### Post by thelatinist on 2007-12-16
I'm not sure what you mean.  What did you do that caused this? If it was editing your fstab, can you boot into recovery mode?  If so, just do

```
sudo cp /etc/fstab.bak /etc/fstab
```

to restore from the backup you made.  You did follow my instructions to create a backup, right?

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-16
i wish i could have but it was too late before i read your post so i have no backup

i can boot fro cd but that will not load either ????

i get to that part where it asks what to do boor from cd check for defects memory test ....

then if it says this 

  > 
*starting differed execution scheduler atd
*starting perodic command scheduler crond
*checking battery state
*running local boot scripts (/etc/re.local)      


it will stay there indeffinately

---

### Post by thelatinist on 2007-12-16
You can't boot from the Live CD?  If you were able to before but are no longer able to, then it sounds like a hardware problem.  Have you tried doing a memory test from the Grub menu?

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-16
yes i did about 20 min of it with no problems

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-12-16
You should do it for 12 HRS. Also check all your cables and connections.

---

### Post by thelatinist on 2007-12-16
Pumalite is right.  Many memory issues won't show up until you've run the test for quite some time.  Most people recommend at least 12 hours.

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-23
i ran it for 23 hours not a single error couldn't get it working so i reformatted and installed again thanks anyways 

so when you do make a change to fstab where does the backup copy get saved to and if i were to need it how would i go about retrieving it ?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2007-12-23
If you use gedit, it will automatically save a backup copy called fstab~, but you need to enable showing hidden files to see it. And this gets overwritten with another backup every time you save a change, so I would recommend making a backup copy yourself, before you start, like this:
**sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.ORIGINAL**
so you always have the original file there to refer to later.

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-25
oh well isnt that ingenious it backs itself up what will they think if next ?

---

