---
title: "Temp. Shutdown"
date: 2007-08-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Loggert on 2007-08-05
I have a huge problem...
My ubuntu shutsdown and gives me this resan:
Critical temperature (37 c ) 
and then it shut down itself... 

This happens sometimes just as I start the computer or sometimes as i log in and reach the desktop. 
I gues it's when i put just a little load onto the comp....

I'm running the latest ubuntu dist..

Plz Help

---

### Post by mikeyphi on 2007-08-05
Sounds as though you have a lack of cooling. Probably a failure of the fan that cools the processor.
The message you quote is normally generated by the BIOS - the computer is shut down to prevent overheating from causing damage. It is possible (if this is the problem) to view a live feed of system temps and actually change the shutdown temp (but be careful!) by, usually, pressing the Del key during the computer power on sequence. If you find that your system fan is failing - it's not a huge problem to fit a new one!

---

### Post by Loggert on 2007-08-05
> **mikeyphi said:**
> Sounds as though you have a lack of cooling. Probably a failure of the fan that cools the processor.
The message you quote is normally generated by the BIOS - the computer is shut down to prevent overheating from causing damage. It is possible (if this is the problem) to view a live feed of system temps and actually change the shutdown temp (but be careful!) by, usually, pressing the Del key during the computer power on sequence. If you find that your system fan is failing - it's not a huge problem to fit a new one!

I'm using a laptop so there is a little more problem changin the fan. The interesting part is that it has run really hot in XP and earlier in ubuntu but now it shuts down as i turn i on. 30-40 degres C is not that hot tmp.. is there a way to get round it? it occured as i tried to instal beryl

---

### Post by Loggert on 2007-08-06
21 hours and still no more replys... wierd... 

Well is there a way to reinstall ubuntu without the boot cd?

---

