---
title: "7.04 + ApacheMySQLPHP installed but access problems with all mysql/php apps"
date: 2007-06-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-06-23
I installed desktop with lamp as described at
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP). I have restores all by mySql databases. But I am having problems. all my php/mysql apps are all giving errors, 

[dotProject]("http://www.dotproject.net/") gives:
Warning: mysql_connect() [function.mysql-connect]: Unknown MySQL server host 'tyk' (1) in /var/www/dotproject/lib/adodb/drivers/adodb-mysql.inc.php on line 354
FATAL ERROR: Connection to database server failed

[Taskfreak!]("http://www.taskfreak.com/") gives:
Can not connect to database
Can't connect to local MySQL server through socket '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' (2)

my [qwikiwik/]("http://www.qwikiwiki.com/") opens but when I go to edit it I get:
Warning: fopen(data/GLOBALLOCK) [function.fopen]: failed to open stream: Permission denied in /var/www/qwiki/_util.php on line 53
Fatal QwikiWiki Error: Cannot lock 'data/GLOBALLOCK' because it does not exist

It seems the permissions are all messed up. 

I tried to install PhpMyAdmin but the instructions are out of data and I haven't been able to get help when I  [posted ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=457491") a while back .

I would really appreciate someone helping me get back on my feet here.

Thanks a lot, Tom.

---

### Post by Wardazo on 2007-06-23
Hi

Can you check that at least root can login with the following php script:

if(mysql_connect ("localhost","root","[password]")){
 echo "pass";
}
else{
 echo "fail";
}

If this does not work try restarting apache.

sudo /etc/init.d/apache2/ reload

If that does not work install phpadmin via apt-get:

apt-get install phpmyadmin

post back with your results

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-07-16
Thanks for your help. I have not been able to get to my linux box for the lat 3 weeks, so apologies. I have been trying your suggestions tonight and should be able to work on it the next few days. I would really like to get it working.

Replacing password in that php script and then opening it I get:

Warning: mysql_connect() [function.mysql-connect]: Can't connect to local MySQL server through socket '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' (2) in /var/www/tester.php on line 2
fail

tom@tyk:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload gives:
 * Reloading web server config...                                               5498
apache2: apr_sockaddr_info_get() failed for tyk
apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1 for ServerName

When i tried to install phpmyadmin, it says it already was the latest version. I'm not sure how to run it.

Thanks for your patience.

Cheers. Tom.

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-07-23
@wardazo i know it's my own fault for taking so long to reply to you....

...can someone please take place on a newbie who's ubuntu server is completely unusable right now because of this problem :-(

---

### Post by Wardazo on 2007-07-24
> tom@tyk:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload gives:
* Reloading web server config... 5498
apache2: apr_sockaddr_info_get() failed for tyk
apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using 127.0.0.1 for ServerName 

... is annoying but not an error that stops things working.

The mysql problem is serious. Can you check that you can run any mysql querys by putting [http://localhost/phpmyadmin/](http://localhost/phpmyadmin/) in your browser. You should see PhpMyAdmin.

Post back with more info.

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-07-24
Thanks a lot for getting back. I see phpMyAdmin alright, when I try and login I get:

#2002 - The server is not responding (or the local MySQL server's socket is not correctly configured)

---

### Post by Wardazo on 2007-07-24
Check out this for 2002 errors:

[http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/servers/32162-mysql-error-2002-a.html](http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/servers/32162-mysql-error-2002-a.html)

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-07-24
Thanks. I did that and got:
tom@tyk:~$ sudo mysqld_safe --tom=mysql
Starting mysqld daemon with databases from /var/lib/mysql
mysqld_safe[5901]: started
STOPPING server from pid file /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.pid
mysqld_safe[5907]: ended
tom@tyk:~$ sudo ps aux | grep mysql
tom       5921  0.0  0.3   2896   744 pts/0    R+   20:59   0:00 grep mysql
Still had same problem...
Then it says "sYou can try to touch the file mysql.sock and then try to run the mysql in a normal mode. Then check if you still face any issues.". What do I do to touch mysql.sock?

---

### Post by Cypher on 2007-07-24
```

sudo touch /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock

```

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-07-24
Ta. mysqld --tom=mysql does not do a normal mode...how do i do that? I've been googling error #2002 for a while now but do not yet understand enough about it to see the wood from the trees. I've only done the above and still get error #2002 when accessing phpmyadmin....another hour trying to fix this tonight

To stop & run normally I tried:
tom@tyk:~$ mysqladmin -u root -ppassword shutdown
mysqladmin: connect to server at 'localhost' failed
error: 'Can't connect to local MySQL server through socket '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' (13)'
Check that mysqld is running and that the socket: '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' exists!

So much for ubuntu being easy, why can't all this come in a package built in to it :-( I'm ready to throw the computer out the window, after 4 years playing with linux I still have no idea what's going on really...

---

### Post by salaberrios on 2007-07-26
> **boardtc said:**
> 
So much for ubuntu being easy, why can't all this come in a package built in to it :-( I'm ready to throw the computer out the window, after 4 years playing with linux I still have no idea what's going on really...

I agree. Ubuntu may not have a price tag but it damn sure ain't free!! LOL!:lolflag:

I am having the exact same problem. Fot some issues, Forums help, but I find better help typing the error in Google and surf some of the .edu sites where people are actually tryong to master this.  Alot of users on these forums are looking to solve their problems and don't have time to be as thorough as you would like. But thats cool, what ever help we can get...:(

---

### Post by Wardazo on 2007-07-27
> why can't all this come in a package built in to it

It does:

sudo apt-get install apache2 libapache2-mod-auth-mysql libapache2-mod-php5 mysql-client-5.0 mysql-server-5.0 php5 php5-mysql phpmyadmin

How did you install it?

Also if you have altered any conf or ini files can you attach them.

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-07-31
I installed it with

sudo aptitude install apache2 php5-mysql libapache2-mod-php5 mysql-server

haven't done much else except install samba....should I do a reinstall?

---

### Post by Wardazo on 2007-08-01
I thought 

```
apt-get install libapache2-mod-auth-mysql
```

was necessary too for apache and mysql to interreact. The following article supports this:

[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/HowToServerGuide](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/HowToServerGuide)

The above apt-get (see two posts ago) has worked for me time and time again.

Have you altered any configuration files? If you have, or can remember exactly what you have changes then reinstalling might be a good idea, but make sure to use --purge to get rid of any unwanted confs

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge [applications]
```

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-08-01
Thanks for the post. I am well confused now having got alternate advice for creating a lamp installation when I made a query:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=448732](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=448732)

Your command does not mention php. I have made no updates to configs other than setting up the mysql database, etc....

how should I proceed to uninstall and reinstall?

---

### Post by Wardazo on 2007-08-02
Hi

I just tired an install (using xubuntu 6.06 vmware) :

```
sudo aptitude install apache2 php5-mysql libapache2-mod-php5 mysql-server
```

It works fine for me, so I can't replicate you problem. Honestly, no idea what's caused your problem if samba is the only other thing you've installed, and you've not touched any config files.

To completley delete aplications:

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge* [applications]*
```

I don't think it should matter that you used apptitude to install, but because I never use apptitude I couldn't swear by that.

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-08-06
Thanks for the post. Was going to do this tonight, but very afraid by your last command,. Will that not delete all my applications installed in ubuntu?

---

### Post by Wardazo on 2007-08-06
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge *[applications]*
```

You replace* [applications]* with the applications you want to remove. So...

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge mysql-server php5-mysql
```

Would remove common mysql components. Then try reinstalling. The *purge* flag means that the config files will be removed to.

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-08-10
Sorry I have been sick. I have done that & to get phpmyadmin  I did 
sudo apt-get install phpmyadmin. When I try to login to that I got the #2002 error and mysql -u root was giving:
 Can't connect to local MySQL server through socket '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' 

After some reading I did
```

sudo touch /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock
sudo chown mysql /var/run/mysqld/
sudo chown mysql /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock

```

This seemed to solve the #2002 but now admin with blank password does not work to get in to phpmyadmin or doing a  mysql -u root -p & blanlk password. I did not change any passwords.

I then followed [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MysqlPasswordReset](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MysqlPasswordReset) but
```
mysqld --skip-grant-tables
```
ended up giving the message:
The error means mysqld does not have the access rights to InnoDB: the directory.

I seem to close but so far away as I have no idea what's going on :-(

So then doing mysql -u root gave the same sql socket error...ah no!!!! :-(

---

