---
title: "NTFS Mount Problem  in Gutsy Gibbon Beta"
date: 2007-10-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Anthony M on 2007-10-05
When I was running GG off the live CD I was able to open Places-->Computer, and find both of my windows NTFS partitions available. I was then able to mount them. Now that I installed GG Beta, It doesnt even show those partitions as available. 

What happened? I can still boot into windows, so I know those partitions are still functional.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Seisen on 2007-10-05
You need to install ntfs-3g from the Universe Repository. This will enable you to have read and write access to NTFS partitions.

---

### Post by hat27533 on 2007-10-05
HI, I had a similar problem with Feisty it was intermittent, sometimes listing my old ntfs drive sometimes not.

To get round this I installed ntfs-3g and it works a treat and every time.

I thought that Gutsy included ntfs drive/partition support by intrinsically including ntfs-3g ?

---

### Post by Anthony M on 2007-10-05
Well, for some reason its now working! I booted into windowz, shut down and booted Ubuntu, and just like magic, both NTFS partitions were sitting on my desktop!

---

### Post by hat27533 on 2007-10-06
Thats exactly the behavior I had with feisty. If you switch off I bet it disappears again. Any way since installing ntfs-3g it all just works and I can write as well as read files on the ntfs partitions.

---

### Post by nothing on 2007-10-07
Since installing GG I saw my NTFS partition everytime I booted... Until today then it was just gone. 

Fdisk -l showed my NTFS drive as /dev/sda1... It was even present in /etc/fstab...

I tried installing the NTFS Configuration Tool and when I attempted to enable read/write for that partition the tool reported that Windows was hibernated... I currently am vnc'd in remotely and can't boot to the Windows partition to confirm but that may be why Ubuntu is anable to mount it... I only boot into windows to game but I may not have shut it down last time...

I'll try booting into Windows - shutting it down - logging back into Ubuntu when I get home and let you now...

---

### Post by Anthony M on 2007-10-08
That was my problem, I hadn't shut down Windows properly.

---

### Post by bigtdp on 2007-10-08
Hi,

I have been using ntfs-3g to mount my 2 NTFS partitions for both read & write under Feisty, but I have just upgraded to Gutsy and now cannot mount my partitions at all...

I have tried uninstalling/reinstalling ntfs-3g, using both the manual and automatic config as described here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009&highlight=ntfs3g](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009&highlight=ntfs3g)

I'm pretty much a n00b when it comes to linux, but am good at following instructions so I don't think I've done anything too stupid ;-)

xtx@msu-wksxtx:~$ sudo fdisk -l | grep NTFS
/dev/hdb1   *           1        6636    53298176    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hdb2            6636       20023   107535360    7  HPFS/NTFS


my /etc/fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=2c5144cc-4b0c-4474-8c01-870ae7dccb0a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=a33215f1-7478-4748-945c-372c62c327aa none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdb2 /media/data ntfs-3g umask=222,utf8 0 0
/dev/hdb1 /media/vista ntfs-3g umask=222,utf8 0 0

when I try to mount I get the following:

xtx@msu-wksxtx:~$ sudo mount -a
fuse: mount failed: Device or resource busy
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/hdb2 ()
fuse: mount failed: Device or resource busy
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/hdb1 ()


I have tried booting into Vista and shutting down, but I still get the above...

any ideas?

xTx

---

