---
title: "680x480"
date: 2006-08-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dal2k5 on 2006-08-31
My screen resolution will not go wider than that help!!!

---

### Post by %hMa@?b&lt;C on 2006-08-31
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
run that from terminal

---

### Post by dal2k5 on 2006-09-01
ummm i'm cofused i did wat u said...... now i'm lost...:confused: :confused: :confused: :confused: :confused: :confused: :confused: :confused:

---

### Post by TrIde2188 on 2006-09-01
yea someone todl me to do taht when i ahd a problem withthe gui not laoding ..then they give  no descrition of what to do next

well my problem was for the lvie cd tho.. i jsut typed it ... then continually pressed enter lol - seemed to work XD

---

### Post by Tashamon on 2006-09-01
I am having the same problem.  I ran through the hardware detection file in terminal but I'm still not able to change the screen resolution.  It's getting really annoying having to scroll all over the place.  Please help.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-09-02
> **Tashamon said:**
> I am having the same problem.  I ran through the hardware detection file in terminal but I'm still not able to change the screen resolution.  It's getting really annoying having to scroll all over the place.  Please help.

Open a terminal, and type the command given in an earlier reply:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

At the first screen, press "no" for autodetect, then go with the default settings for everything else, except select **vesa** for the video driver, and select or use the spacebar to place an * for the resolutions you want.  If you know your video card, for example  if it's nvidia, choose "nv"...or "sis" if it's a Sis chipset, "ati" for ATI...intel may be something like "i810". It's probably a matter of selecting the correct driver for your video chipset...Let us know if it's something other than what I've mentioned.
You may need to reboot, or at least logout & restart the GUI.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
If sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg does not work, you need to configure xorg.ocnf manually.

General steps:

What monitor do you have??
What are the HorizSync and VertRefresh fo your monitor?
If you do not know -> google till you find this information.

Now BACKUP: sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.cong.bak

Open /etc/X11/xorg.cong in an editor
Edit the "monitor section:
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor1"
	VendorName	"DEL"
	ModelName	"DELL P1110"
	HorizSync	**ENTER YOUR HorizSync HERE**
	VertRefresh	**ENTER YOUR VertRefresh HERE**
EndSection
```

Now change the defalult depth in the Screen" section

Change the line
```
DefaultDepth 24
```

to
```
DefaultDepth 16
```

Save xorg.conf

Re-start X -> Ctrl-Alt-Backspace

This returns you to the log-in screen.

Should be good to go.

If it works, backup xorg.conf

---

### Post by dal2k5 on 2006-09-02
> **confused57 said:**
> Open a terminal, and type the command given in an earlier reply:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

At the first screen, press "no" for autodetect, then go with the default settings for everything else, except select **vesa** for the video driver, and select or use the spacebar to place an * for the resolutions you want.  If you know your video card, for example  if it's nvidia, choose "nv"...or "sis" if it's a Sis chipset, "ati" for ATI...intel may be something like "i810". It's probably a matter of selecting the correct driver for your video chipset...Let us know if it's something other than what I've mentioned.
You may need to reboot, or at least logout & restart the GUI.kk thnx will this also work for the live CD??

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2006-09-02
Could people please recommend ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` as this misses out all the stages apart from the resolution one.
> **dal2k5 said:**
> kk thnx will this also work for the live CD??
Yes, although it is a lot easier to do the command above.

---

### Post by dal2k5 on 2006-09-02
> **bruce89 said:**
> Could people please recommend ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` as this misses out all the stages apart from the resolution one.

Yes, although it is a lot easier to do the command above.

**_THANK YOU!!!!!!_**:mrgreen: :mrgreen: :mrgreen:

---

### Post by dal2k5 on 2006-09-02
WAIT A MINUTE......
[http://i67.photobucket.com/albums/h314/geexo777/Screenshot.png](http://i67.photobucket.com/albums/h314/geexo777/Screenshot.png)
now wat do i do???

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-09-02
> **dal2k5 said:**
> WAIT A MINUTE......
[http://i67.photobucket.com/albums/h314/geexo777/Screenshot.png](http://i67.photobucket.com/albums/h314/geexo777/Screenshot.png)
now wat do i do???

I think it just restored your original xorg.conf file, don't think it's anything to worry about.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-02
Re-start X -> Ctrl-alt-Backspace

---

