---
title: "I am missing sound"
date: 2006-10-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by hamp on 2006-10-11
Hello, i am new here and therefore i migth have missed something but i have a problem i hope i guys have a possibly solution. I have for some time missed all audio on my laptop, the only audio there is is a short "Blop" sound made when i download files attached to mails from the program called "FirstClass". Otherwise my speakers have been silent and i tried out all settings i could find and all audio types and video files i have, I tried to reinstall Mplayer and no matter what, still no sound.

---

### Post by Hinko on 2006-10-11
You can use xmms to easily try some different sound servers. Further with gnome-alsa-mixer try swthcing everything on. Some switches are hidden but you can still access them through the settings menu.

I've got two soundcards and that causes my sound to act funny or reset itself sometimes ](*,)

---

### Post by podunk on 2006-10-11
did you try right clicking the speaker icon in the upper right and opening volume control to make sure your speakers aren't muted?

---

### Post by hamp on 2006-10-11
Thanx it helped. I changed the modul for the "outdata" from ALSA to OSS, and suddenly there where sound. A voice said let there be sound, and it came. I am very happy now

---

### Post by hamp on 2006-10-11
Yes i checked that it was not muted. 
A little update: Since i changed the settings i have closed down my laptop and now as i have started it again the sound has gone once again. Now there is just a failor message that i did not get before. It sounds like this:
please check that
your soundcard is configured properly 
you have the correct output plugin selected 
no other programs is blocking the soundcard

I know that there is no other programs running, i only ran aMule and XMMS. But i dont know what the correct output plugin is. And i dont know where i configure my soundcard(and i absolutly dont know what configureation i should choose)

PS: Sorry about any spelling mistakes, i am from scandinavia...

---

### Post by Hinko on 2006-10-15
Is that message generated by XMMS? is so you can select the proper 'output plugin' in the options menu where you can select the sound engine.

---

### Post by xpod on 2006-10-15
Try checking the "Multimedia system selector".
if it`s not in your Prefs menu you can enable it by going into the "Alacarte menu editor" in Apps>accessories and scrolling down to the "prefs" option in there,double clicking and checking the multimedia system selector box.

That gives you an easy app for testing your sound and changing which type you use....alsa,oss etc .

might help

---

### Post by Cannaregio on 2006-11-23
Solution (at least for me, but it seems to work):

Open xmms
rightclick on it ---> options
options ---> preferences
preferences ---> "output plugin"
change (for instance to "OSS driver", but try all the others as well),try out until it works and enjoy.

---

