---
title: "my friend wants an account"
date: 2006-01-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by palatka on 2006-01-13
i was chillin in the computa lab at my school when my friend msg'd me and he was like, "yo d00d create me an account on ur linux box." so i logged onto my linux computa which was at home with putty. then it typed dis in:

palatka@131.91.225.62:~$ sudo useradd l33th4x0r -m -G users,admin
palatka@131.91.225.62:~$ sudo passwd l33th4x0r

then he asked me to put in "tofdd438" as his password so i did that. however, whnever he tries logging in, he says he get "Permission denied, please try again." is he trying to play me. or did i do somehting wrong.

---

### Post by Juippisi on 2006-01-13
This guy shows he's IP, one user and a password to it. Ok, even though he has sshd open, I would be scared to connect to it. He is maybe about to start some DDOS_ATTACK after that, you never know about the scriptkiddies... But it might be that he isn't showing the right informations (just figured it out).

Ok, so, check /etc/passwd and see your friends home-path and shell. Does he have the rights for he's home directory? Is he trying to log in as local or over the ssh?

---

### Post by DeadEnd on 2006-01-13
Hi
personally Id say "wHaT dA f00K DuDe", just built ya self an honeypot?
If he aint trying to play ya im sure the rest of the world is by know lol

---

### Post by Koybe on 2006-01-13
This should be moderated to avoid any kind of exploit. (for him... or surely from him)

---

### Post by meborc on 2006-01-13
_uhhhh..._ i wanna try... i have always like hackers... and with **IP,** **login** and **pass...** well it would just be too easy... but... :D:D:D... damn... so [COLOR="DarkRed"]tempting...[/COLOR] will i... really... :rolleyes: i have to prepare miself wor a netwar... like old times... PORTS OPEN :D

---

### Post by Sambie on 2006-01-13
[QUOTE=palatka]i was chillin in the computa lab at my school when my friend msg'd me and he was like, "yo d00d create me an account on ur linux box." so i logged onto my linux computa which was at home with putty. then it typed dis in:

palatka@131.91.225.62:~$ sudo useradd l33th4x0r -m -G users,admin
palatka@131.91.225.62:~$ sudo passwd l33th4x0r

then he asked me to put in "tofdd438" as his password so i did that. however, whnever he tries logging in, he says he get "Permission denied, please try again." is he trying to play me. or did i do somehting wrong.[/QUOTE]

Some people want Linux for the wrong reasons :(

---

### Post by d1337 on 2006-01-13
Embedded idiot cell...sorry I had to.  I'm wondering if he's been h4x0rd by looking at his join date.  Spam is typically generated by a new user, he's been registered for at least a month & a half.  For grins, I had to ping it...it's not responding.  He either took it down, someone did it for him, or Florida Atlantic University (whois) doesn't respond to outside pings.

d1337

---

