---
title: "Unable to get past 800x600 for Live CD"
date: 2007-10-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by orion2087 on 2007-10-28
Trying to install 7.10 32 bit, getting video mode not supported from monitor when loading regular, have to load graphics safe mode but there isn't enough vertical pixels to navigate the installer. I have an Nvidia 7600GT and this wasn't an issue with the feisty x64. Help!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-28
Try Alternate CD.

---

### Post by orion2087 on 2007-10-28
With alternate CD, I get all the way through installation and then when it boots I get Video Mode not Supported out of my monitor.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-28
Try editing your xorg.conf. This is mine (Iuse Nvidia 7600GS in this computer I think):
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Hope it helps. I use a CRT.

---

### Post by orion2087 on 2007-10-28
How could I edit this without having visuals on normal boot?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-28
You can choose the second option. I thought you said you got all the way through the installation. Can you see Grub? If not, you can get a command line with: Ctrl+Alt+F1

---

### Post by orion2087 on 2007-10-28
Second option on the Live CD, right? The problem once I get into the safe graphics mode for live CD the setup window doesn't vertically fit on the monitor, and I'm not sure how I could edit that file before I install.

---

### Post by orion2087 on 2007-10-28
It seems like switching to a command line and editing the file in VI would work with the install I did from the Alt CD, but where would I find this xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by orion2087 on 2007-10-28
Alright, I found and took a look at xorg.conf. It looks like it correctly identified my 7600GT and is using the nv driver. Any other ideas?

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-10-28
Fix the resolution to fit your needs.

---

### Post by orion2087 on 2007-10-28
Thanks for your help. You pointed me in the correct direction for figuring out that X11 wasn't using the monitor I thought it was. Rather it was using the TV I was watching another input the whole time.. haha!

---

