---
title: "TVout ATI card and compiz"
date: 2008-01-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by angels on 2008-01-12
Hello,
I have problems to configure TV out. I have the ATI graphic card and I tried to configure my xorg.conf  like in the link here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98456](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98456) (for nvidia), but after restart, there was no picture on the TV, I heard only the sound.
Another question arises in my mind: somewhere I read, that I have to drag the video to the right (on the newly added monitor-the tv monitor). I tried to do so, but as I have my compiz enabled,and the video was moved to the second desktop, not to the added monitor. Do I have to disable the compiz?
Please, help me, I would appreciate your help very much.

Here is my xorg.conf:

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"si"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device[0]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Device" 
   	Driver          "fglrx" 
   	Identifier      "Device[1]" 
   	Screen 1 
   	BusID           "PCI:1:0:0" #adjust using 'lspci' or cat /proc/pci 
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor[0]" #CRT
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-206
	Vertrefresh	43-75
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor[1]" #TV
	Horizsync	30-50
	Vertrefresh	50
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen[0]"
	Device		"Device[0]"
	Monitor		"Monitor[0]"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option  "ConnectedMonitor" "CRT"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen" 
   	Device "Device[1]" 
   	Identifier "Screen[1]" 
   	Monitor "Monitor[1]" 
   	DefaultDepth 24 
        Option  "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO"
        Option  "TVStandard" "PAL-G"
        Option  "ConnectedMonitor" "Monitor[1]"
       	SubSection "Display" 
               Depth 24 
               Modes "1024x768_50" 
       	EndSubSection    
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Simple Layout"
  		Screen 0 "Screen[0]"
		Screen 1 "Screen[1]" RightOf "Screen[0]"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"true"
EndSection

Cheers, 
Angel :KS

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-01-12
HI and you may look here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174)
I used Bigdesktop. Good luck!

---

### Post by angels on 2008-01-12
hm...

If I followed the instructions for OneBigMonitor, there were several errors ... so I manually added only these few lines, as suggested:
> Option "DesktopSetup"  "horizontal" #Enable Big Desktop
Option "Mode2"         "1280x1024" #Resolution for second monitor
Option "DesktopSetup" "LVDS,AUTO" #the types of monitors that is connected LVDS = LCD, CRT, AUTO
Option "EnablePrivateBackZ" "yes" #Enable 3d support <= May Not Work
Option "HSync2" "65" #This sets the horizontal sync for the secondary display. 
Option "VRefresh2" "60" #This sets the refresh rate of the secondary display.

after restart I end up with one big monitor without anyhting - not on the tv screen, not even on my computer monitor. 

I removed those lines and tried to restart the computer and now - I can see my computer monitor :D as before as well as the whole monitor on my tv screen. The only problem is that the tv screen is black and white and the resolution is bad.

How can I change this?
very strange, because I tried to connect the TV and the computer several times without any success, today I made it even if the picture is bad and I'm pretty satisfied ... but  I would like to have better picture. Can you help me, pleeeease? :)

---

