---
title: "Mount stuff and Automatix2 :("
date: 2007-06-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Arwen on 2007-06-29
Hello all !
I nstalled a tool that could help me write on my ntfs disks,included in automatix2(I dont remember its name)
I rebooted and found out that the 2 ntfs partitions were not mounted(instead my fat32 is ok).
In /media there are hda1 + hda3 dirs which are empty and the hda2 dir is still ok.I changed a bit my fstab,I pasted it below but all I could was mount and unmount hda2,but no change for hda1,hda3.
sda1,sda2 are in my second hd and are linux partitions and they are ok too.
I really need partition hda3 to show up again..
Thanx for any help.
Arwen

fstab
------

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
 /dev/sda1
UUID=e5a224a1-aab0-48d2-bd61-9ecb07778713 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
 /dev/hda1  /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    1
 /dev/hda2  /media/hda2   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
 /dev/hda3  /media/hda3   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
 /dev/sda2
UUID=faa1e6cc-aa1e-447e-8854-50e92f381f3f none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

# Generated by Automatix
#/dev/hda2   /media/hda2   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
#/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
#/dev/hda3   /media/hda3   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

---

### Post by benerivo on 2007-06-29
I'd first open synaptic to make sure that the ntfs-3g driver is installed. Then I'd edit fstab and delete all the Automatix lines (they're commented out with the # symbol anyway). Then i'd go into /dev/disk/by-uuid. By right clicking and going in to the properties you may ascertain the UUID for each drive / partition (it tells you the device name in the 'Link target'), so that you may then use that in your fstab file.

Back in fstab, change the entries for 1 + 3 so that they use the uuid for each one. For example, the line for my ntfs partition looks like this...

# /dev/hda3
UUID=CEDC712FDC7112C7 /media/Storage     ntfs-3g    gid=1000,rw 0       1

Hope this works. I know the only real difference between your fstab line and mine is the uuid, but i've read somewhere this is a better way than just giving the /dev/hda3 format.

---

