---
title: "xorg.conf dell inspiron 6000 edgey alps"
date: 2007-06-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by MrSandman on 2007-06-07
this is my xorg.conf file for dell inspiron 6000 it enables alps and does away with the cumbersome touchpad doubleclick, and set proper screens res. i have not tested this in feisty





# File generated by xorgconfig.

#
# Copyright 2004 The X.Org Foundation
#
# Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
# copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
# to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
# the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
# and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
# Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
#
# The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
# all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
#
# THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
# IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
# FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
# The X.Org Foundation BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
# WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
# OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
# SOFTWARE.
#
# Except as contained in this notice, the name of The X.Org Foundation shall
# not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
# dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from
# The X.Org Foundation.
#

# **********************************************************************
# Refer to the xorg.conf(5x) man page for details about the format of
# this file.
# **********************************************************************

# **********************************************************************
# Files section.  This allows default font and rgb paths to be set
# **********************************************************************

Section "Files"

# The location of the RGB database.  Note, this is the name of the
# file minus the extension (like ".txt" or ".db").  There is normally
# no need to change the default.

    RgbPath    "/usr/share/X11/rgb"

# Multiple FontPath entries are allowed (which are concatenated together),
# as well as specifying multiple comma-separated entries in one FontPath
# command (or a combination of both methods)
#
#

#    FontPath   "unix/:-1"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/ttf-bitstream-vera/"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/corefonts/"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/TTF/"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/arphicfonts/"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/ja-ipafonts/"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/misc/"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/75dpi/"
    FontPath   "/usr/share/fonts/100dpi/"

# The module search path.  The default path is shown here.

    ModulePath "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"

EndSection

# **********************************************************************
# Module section -- this  section  is used to specify
# which dynamically loadable modules to load.
# **********************************************************************
#
Section "Module"

# This loads the DBE extension module
    Load        "dbe"

# This loads the miscellaneous extensions module
    Load        "extmod"

# This loads the font modules
    Load        "type1"
    Load        "freetype"

# This loads the GLX and DRI modules
    Load        "glx"
    Load        "dri"

# This loads the synaptics touchpad modules
    Load        "synaptics"

EndSection

# **********************************************************************
# Server flags section.
# **********************************************************************

Section "ServerFlags"

# Uncomment this to cause a core dump at the spot where a signal is
# received.  This may leave the console in an unusable state, but may
# provide a better stack trace in the core dump to aid in debugging

#    Option "NoTrapSignals"

# Uncomment this to disable the <Crtl><Alt><Fn> VT switch sequence
# (where n is 1 through 12).  This allows clients to receive these key
# events.

#    Option "DontVTSwitch"

# Uncomment this to disable the <Crtl><Alt><BS> server abort sequence
# This allows clients to receive this key event.

#    Option "DontZap"

# Uncomment this to disable the <Crtl><Alt><KP_+>/<KP_-> mode switching
# sequences.  This allows clients to receive these key events.

#    Option "Dont Zoom"

# Uncomment this to disable tuning with the xvidtune client. With
# it the client can still run and fetch card and monitor attributes,
# but it will not be allowed to change them. If it tries it will
# receive a protocol error.

#    Option "DisableVidModeExtension"

# Uncomment this to enable the use of a non-local xvidtune client.

#    Option "AllowNonLocalXvidtune"

# Uncomment this to disable dynamically modifying the input device
# (mouse and keyboard) settings.

#    Option "DisableModInDev"

# Uncomment this to enable the use of a non-local client to
# change the keyboard or mouse settings (currently only xset).

#    Option "AllowNonLocalModInDev"

EndSection

# **********************************************************************
# Input devices
# **********************************************************************

# **********************************************************************
# Core keyboard's InputDevice section
# **********************************************************************

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier  "Laptop Keyboard"
    Driver      "keyboard"

    Option "AutoRepeat" "500 30"
    Option "XkbRules"   "xorg"
    Option "XkbModel"   "pc104"
    Option "XkbLayout"  "us"
EndSection


# **********************************************************************
# Core Pointer's InputDevice section
# **********************************************************************

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier "ALPS GlidePoint"
    Driver     "synaptics"

    Option      "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
    Option      "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
    Option      "LeftEdge"              "120"
    Option      "RightEdge"             "830"
    Option      "TopEdge"               "120"
    Option      "BottomEdge"            "560"
    Option      "FingerLow"             "14"
    Option      "FingerHigh"            "15"
    Option      "EmulateMidButtonTime"  "70"
    Option      "VertScrollDelta"       "20"
    Option      "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
    Option      "MaxTapTime"            "0"
    Option      "MinSpeed"              "0.3"
    Option      "MaxSpeed"              "0.75"
    Option      "AccelFactor"           "0.015"
    Option      "EdgeMotionMinSpeed"    "200"
    Option      "EdgeMotionMaxSpeed"    "200"
    Option      "UpDownScrolling"       "1"
    Option      "LeftRightScrolling"    "0"
    Option      "CircularScrolling"     "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier  "External Mouse"
    Driver      "mouse"

    Option      "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
    Option      "Protocol"              "imps/2"
    Option      "Emulate3Buttons"       "no"

    Option      "Buttons"               "5"
    Option      "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

# **********************************************************************
# Monitor section
# **********************************************************************

# Any number of monitor sections may be present

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier  "Dell 1680x1050 LCD"
    HorizSync   31.5 - 100
    VertRefresh 60 - 90
    #ModeLine    "1680x1050" 193.16 1650 1920 2048 2256 1050 1200 1201 1204 -HSync +VSync
    DisplaySize 320 200
    Option      "DPMS"
EndSection


# **********************************************************************
# Graphics device section
# **********************************************************************

# Device configured by xorgconfig:

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Intel i915"
    Driver      "i810"
    Option      "VBERestore"      "true"
    VideoRam    65536
    # Insert Clocks lines here if appropriate
EndSection

# **********************************************************************
# Screen sections
# **********************************************************************

# Any number of screen sections may be present.  Each describes
# the configuration of a single screen.  A single specific screen section
# may be specified from the X server command line with the "-screen"
# option.
Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "Screen 1"
    Device      "Intel i915"
    Monitor     "Dell 1680x1050 LCD"
    DefaultDepth 24

    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes       "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes       "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes       "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        ViewPort    0 0
    EndSubsection
EndSection

# **********************************************************************
# ServerLayout sections.
# **********************************************************************

# Any number of ServerLayout sections may be present.  Each describes
# the way multiple screens are organised.  A specific ServerLayout
# section may be specified from the X server command line with the
# "-layout" option.  In the absence of this, the first section is used.
# When now ServerLayout section is present, the first Screen section
# is used alone.

Section "ServerLayout"

# The Identifier line must be present
    Identifier  "Simple Layout"

# Each Screen line specifies a Screen section name, and optionally
# the relative position of other screens.  The four names after
# primary screen name are the screens to the top, bottom, left and right
# of the primary screen.  In this example, screen 2 is located to the
# right of screen 1.

    Screen "Screen 1"

# Each InputDevice line specifies an InputDevice section name and
# optionally some options to specify the way the device is to be
# used.  Those options include "CorePointer", "CoreKeyboard" and
# "SendCoreEvents".

    InputDevice "ALPS GlidePoint" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice "External mouse" "AlwaysCore"
    InputDevice "Laptop Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"

# We have the display enter powersave mode after 5 minutes, standby
# mode after 10 minutes, and completely off after 15 minutes.
# Note that "blank" just means making the display all black, and
# does not yield any significant power savings, so we disable it.

    Option      "BlankTime"     "0"
    Option      "StandbyTime"   "5"
    Option      "SuspendTime"   "10"
    Option      "OffTime"       "15"

EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode 0660
    Group "video"
EndSection

---

