---
title: "Does not show Maxtor External USB Drive?"
date: 2007-08-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
Hello,

When I use my SanDisk flash USB stick, it works great. When I insert it in a USB port, automatically a folder opens up titled "disk-1" on my desktop. If I click on this folder, I can see the files on my USB stick, read/write from that folder - just perfect. 

Then I just connected Maxtor One Touch II USB external hard drive which I was using with my other Windows computer for a long time - nothing happened!  When I go to terminal and do a "lsusb" command, I get following:

Bus 005 Device 008: ID 0d49:7100 Maxtor 
Bus 005 Device 004: ID 0781:5406 SanDisk Corp. 
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 045e:0040 Microsoft Corp. Wheel Mouse Optical
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000 

so this Maxtor does show up in this list. Can someone please tell me what I need to do so that it will show up as another USB disk folder on my desktop, and I can read/write to the existing the contents of this Maxtor drive, just like I do with my other SanDisk USB stick?

---

### Post by eapache on 2007-08-11
Go to terminal again and try```
sudo fdisk -l
```(lowercase L, not capital i). Post the output here.

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
Here is the output:

========

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       19080   153260068+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2           19081       19457     3028252+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           19081       19457     3028221   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 4103 MB, 4103938560 bytes
128 heads, 63 sectors/track, 993 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 8064 * 512 = 4128768 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1         992     3999649    b  W95 FAT32

Disk /dev/sdc: 203.9 GB, 203928109056 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24792 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1               1       24792   199141708+   7  HPFS/NTFS

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2007-08-11
First of all - To obtain read/write rights for the disk you need to make sure you are the owner of the disk:

sudo chown -R Username:Username /dev/mynewdrive

Then you need to install NTFS read/write and enable it. Install this software either from Add/Remove or Synaptic.

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
I ran this command and I still I cannot see this 200 GB Maxtor disk. I am completely new to Linux and I am not sure if I am explaining my problem correctly so please pardon me, but my problem is that this 200 GB Maxtor disk does not even show on my desktop! For example, using the file browser, I went to the file system and under the media sub-folder, this Maxtor does not even get listed there! Other things such as CDROM, Floppy, and one other already connected USB disk (which is my 4 GB SanDisk flash stick) are listed there. Please kindly let me know what I need to do?

---

### Post by eapache on 2007-08-11
Install the NTFS Configuration Tool through Add/Remove. Run it through Applications>System Tools, and enable external devices. Then try removing and re-adding the disk. If it still doesn't show up, run```
sudo mount /dev/sdc1
```

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
I just did NTFS Configuration Tool and ran it through applications. When I removed and re-added Maxtor disk, I got a error window saying the following:

"CANNOT MOUNT VOLUME
Invalid Mount Option when attempting to mount volume"

and there is only an OK button to close this error window. There is no other button there to edit the "Mount Option" for Maxtor drive. 

2) When I ran the command in terminal:
sudo mount /dev/sdc1

I got the following error message:

ash@ash-desktop:~$ sudo mount dev/sdc1
mount: can't find dev/sdc1 in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab

---

### Post by yorkie on 2007-08-11
open synaptic package manager search for

ntfs-config click on install you should then be able to read/write on maxtor disk

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
Please note that the NTFS-config was already installed. I just re-installed NTFS-Config and restarted the whole computer - still the same problem.

---

### Post by meierfra on 2007-08-11
post the output of

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
Here it is:
-----------------------

root@ash-desktop:/# cat etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=efd35288-98b6-4de1-ac43-658bfa5b5efd / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=d7fddd4b-6641-4de7-a602-cca24a5409d8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

---

### Post by yorkie on 2007-08-11
sorry about last message it should have been 
ntfs-3g not ntfs- config 
found a thread explains it better read allthe thread before you start typing commands in terminal
good luck

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481029&highlight=mount+ntfs+external+drive+on+ubuntu](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481029&highlight=mount+ntfs+external+drive+on+ubuntu)

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
Note NTFS-3g was also already installed. 

I tried something interesting from thread #522723. I went to root, created a folder mnt/USB. Then I used the command
sudo mount /dev/sdc1 /mnt/USB
It mounted it OK, but now the problem is that it says that I do not have user privileges in order to see the content of this folder mnt/USB. I then went to root (from terminal), and went to mnt/USB and at least now I can see the listing of the content in my Maxtor - a big positive step!

As a newbie I am not sure I am on right track here, but if I am, then last thing left to do is to change the user privileges to this folder under root called "mnt/USB", so that me, as a user (username "ash") can see the contents of the folder /mnt/USB. Am I on right track here? If I am, can you please let me know how to do that?

---

### Post by meierfra on 2007-08-11
Create a directory with a name of your choice in /media:

```
 sudo mkdir /media/name_of_your_choice
```

open /etc/fstab via:

Code:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

add the following line at the end:

/dev/sdc1 /media/name_of_your_choice  ntfs-3g     defaults,locale=en_US.utf8         0      0

Save the file and reboot.

---

### Post by meierfra on 2007-08-11
I just fixed a typo in my previous post.

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
Thanks. Ok, I will do that shortly and will definitely post on what happened. 

In the meantime, I have a quick newbie question which I guess most of you Linux gurus can easily answer, and it is as follows:

This fstab file seems to have been auto-generated by ntfs-config. Is this file auto-generated each time I restart my Ubuntu computer? If yes, then if I manually edit the fstab file to add a line (per the above post), would these changes be lost next time I reboot?

---

### Post by meierfra on 2007-08-11
> Is this file auto-generated each time I restart my Ubuntu computer?I

No, only if you manually run  ntfs-config.

---

### Post by aoak100 on 2007-08-11
THANK YOU..THANK YOU..THANK YOU...You guys are awesome...IT WORKED!!! :) I named the folder as "USB" (per above instructions) and followed the rest of steps per MEIERFRA's post above. After I rebooted my  computer, the Maxtor drive showed up straight on my desktop under a new folder called "USB". I can read/write to this Maxtor just perfect. Thanks again :)

---

