---
title: "6.10 Edgy won't quit"
date: 2006-11-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by HamCoder on 2006-11-08
I had 6.06 Dapper on the PC, then I upgraded to 6.10.  In the process, I lost my wireless connection and haven't been able to get it restored.  When I clicked on the icon in the upper right and selected Shut Down, everything was unloaded and the PC turned itself off.

Since I wasn't making any headway with the wireless problem, I decided to wipe the HD and reinstall 6.10 from the CD.

Install went fine and the reboot went as expected.  Then I tried to shut down the PC.  Everything unloaded and the screen had the Ubuntu logo with an empty progress box.  And the PC remained that way, but it never shut down.  

I powered it off, turned it back on and re-booted.  Then I shut it down.  Same behavior - the PC doesn't turn off.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by TheRingmaster on 2006-11-08
could you list the specs of your hardware please.

---

### Post by HamCoder on 2006-11-08
PC is at home; I'm at work.  So this is from memory.  486 cpu with 500mb ram at about 500mhz.  12gb hd.  Serial, keyboard & mouse on motherboard.  2 extra serial ports on PCI card.  Wireless ethernet on PCI card.  Video card is in a non-PCI slot - AGP I suppose.

P.S. Sorry for slow response.  Servers went down for a while.

---

### Post by TheRingmaster on 2006-11-08
maybe you just have a bad cd

---

### Post by Rackerz on 2006-11-08
Have you told Ubuntu the name of your access point? Simple I know but it was that simple for me in the end.

---

### Post by HamCoder on 2006-11-09
Rackerz, I hate to sound dumb, especially when I am.  What do you mean by _access point_? I only know the phrase in the context of wireless internet.  I guess that also means 'No, I haven't told Ubuntu the name'.

---

### Post by Ireclan on 2006-11-09
I hate to be insistent to the point of rudeness, but I am having this same problem. I am worried that manually turning my computer off may damage my Ubuntu install in some way (sorta like when you manually turn Windows off without going through the proper shut down sequence). Can somebody please help the both of us? I wouldn't post in somebody else's' topic like this normally, but this forum's so active that the topic I made is already a few pages back with no response.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-11-09
See reply #9 in this thread, may work if it's a similar problem:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=290713](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=290713)

---

