---
title: "FAT32 is NOT FAT32?"
date: 2005-10-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by robenroute on 2005-10-16
Hi there.

Just gparted my USB drive (40GB): 2 FAT32 primary partitions, 1 30GB, the other about 10. However, rebooting my laptop and trying to access the drive in XP-Pro was a bit of a no-goer: the drive was rocognized alright, but the partitions weren't. I had to use XP's Administrative Tools (Disk Manager?) to reformat the drive and re-create the two partitions.

Is this normal? If so, that would mean big trouble for people without a dual boot system who would just like to share there drive with Windows users.

What's going on? Anyone? I'm a bit puzzled.

Thanks,
Rob

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-10-16
I have no idea what you're trying to do.
Can you explain what you're trying to accomplish, and we'll take it from there?

---

### Post by kvidell on 2005-10-16
[QUOTE=aysiu]I have no idea what you're trying to do.
Can you explain what you're trying to accomplish, and we'll take it from there?[/QUOTE]
My guess is that he formatted a partition in Ubuntu to be Fat32 so that he could dual boot and put a Windows install on it, but for whatever reason it isn't quite the Fat32 windows wants it to be to install on...

IE: Does Linux's idea of Fat/VFAT/Fat32 differ from Windows', and will that difference cause it to be unusable to Windows if the partition is generated by linux?
- Kev

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-10-16
Oh, is that what it was? Thanks for the clarification. As far as I know, they're the same. I made my FAT32 with DiskDrake (Mandriva's partitioning tool), and Windows thinks of it as D: automatically.

---

### Post by robenroute on 2005-10-16
Well, just for clarity: it's just a shuttle drive, one that I want to use to exchange large files with between my laptop at home (Ubuntu) and my PCs at work (W2000 and W98 ). Therefore, the drive needs to be FAT32. And that's exactly what I did: created 2 primary partitions with gparted, both FAT32. Checked the lot with "testdisk": everything seemed fine. Yes, and guess what: like I said before, W98, W2000 and also my XP-Pro at home, they all wouldn't recognize the partitions. They recognized the drive alright (showed up in the Windows hardware manager), but no partitions. XP-Pro even declared them "healthy", but something along th lines of "invalid" or "unknown" partition type.

Bloody annoying, to have to have XP still on my laptop, just for silly things like this.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-10-16
I don't have any ideas on this. I have run into the problem of Windows XP saying some partitions are "healthy" but not fully recognizing them, but those were EXT3 (i.e., Linux) partitions. My FAT32 was fully recognized, as I said before, as the D: drive.

I don't know what to tell you.

---

### Post by GTvulse on 2005-10-16
[quote=robenroute]
Just gparted my USB drive (40GB): 2 FAT32 primary partitions, 1 30GB, the other about 10. However, rebooting my laptop and trying to access the drive in XP-Pro was a bit of a no-goer: the drive was rocognized alright, but the partitions weren't. I had to use XP's Administrative Tools (Disk Manager?) to reformat the drive and re-create the two partitions.
[/quote]
Next time, open a terminal window, fire up cfdisk:
```
cfdisk /dev/hda
```
or whatever device file your disk is seen as. There navigate to the **Type** menu and make sure that the partition(s) you have selected to install Windows on are tagged as "W95 FAT32" (0x0B) if a primary partiton or "W95 FAT32 (LBA)" (0x0C) if a logical partition or beyond the 7 (or is it 8?) GB mark. Also remember that **NO** FAT32 partition can have more than 20GB, period.

---

### Post by jnoreiko on 2005-10-16
[QUOTE=dradul]Also remember that **NO** FAT32 partition can have more than 20GB, period.[/QUOTE]

You sure?

> In theory, this should support a total of approximately 268,435,438 (< 228) clusters, allowing for drive sizes in the range of 2 terabytes. However, due to limitations in Microsoft's scandisk utility, the FAT is not allowed to grow beyond 4,177,920 (< 224) clusters, placing the volume limit at 124.55 gigabytes
--Wikipedia

---

### Post by GTvulse on 2005-10-16
[QUOTE=jnoreiko]You sure?


--Wikipedia[/QUOTE]
Have you tried to **actually** do it? I speak from direct hands-on experience. Nothing replaces the scientific method. :-)

EDIT: I won't go into polemics, but although you can have partitions that big, both the WinNT partitioner and the one used by the debian installer set up partitions flags such that you can't have FAT32 partitions bigger than 20 GB if you define them as FAT32 from the beginning. 

OK. If you set up the partition flag to HPFS/NTFS (0x07), you can have a FAT32 partiton within the limitations mentioned in Wikipedia, but that is something after the fact. I should have said no W95 FAT32 partition can have more than 20GB.

---

### Post by jnoreiko on 2005-10-16
I have an 80GB FAT32 partition that seems ok. :)

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-10-16
```
Disk /dev/hda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        1911    15350076    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda2            1912       18494   133202947+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/hda3           18495       19457     7735297+  83  Linux
/dev/hda5            1912       14763   103233658+   b  W95 FAT32
/dev/hda6   *       14764       16434    13422276   83  Linux
/dev/hda7           18363       18494     1060258+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda8           16435       18362    15486628+  83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order

``` I have a 103 GB FAT32 partition that I created with Mandriva's DiskDrake. It seems to work perfectly fine in both Windows and Linux.

---

### Post by Omnios on 2005-10-16
I did a partition and format of a 120gig Hd a while ago creating a VFat partion/drive successfully. From what I read a lot of it counts on what tools you use. I found Qt parted would not properly resize my ntfs drive but that was a long time ago in Ubuntu terms (about 3 or 4 months ago). I managed to find a solution that worked by using QTParted which works better resizing and partioning ntfc though you need to also install a ntfs plug in. Lastly I used the regular ubuntu terminal formatter as XP would not format fat32 over 30 gigs, that worked whell at making a Vfat part and it kind of fakes permitions.  Not shure if it will work for what you are doing but there is a better chance that the partitions are recognised.

---

