---
title: "6.06 or 6.10?"
date: 2007-01-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-03
I read the sticky in this section, it suggests that if I have no compelling reason to upgrade, then don't. But that is for people with a version of ubuntu installed already. I get my laptop friday (and I'm pretty excited to have a computer with only linux on it... :mrgreen: ) and **I want to know if I should install 6.06 or 6.10?**

---

### Post by meng on 2007-01-03
Whatever works! My advice is to try 6.10 first.

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-03
:o wow a 1 minute reply. thank you. I like these forums :mrgreen:

---

### Post by meng on 2007-01-03
Yeah just remember quick answer's not always a good answer!

---

### Post by MkfIbK7a on 2007-01-03
try these posts...
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325924](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325924)
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=324926](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=324926)

---

### Post by emarkay on 2007-01-03
Remember 6.06 is LTS, so it's got more "lifespan".
Personally, I have had problems on THREE computers with Edgy (6.10) and I could NOT get 2 laptops to work with it (Intel and Nvidia graphics problems).  For constincey I "downgraded' the desktop to 6.06

Dapper, 6.06, works fine on all 3 now.

---

### Post by ramjet_1953 on 2007-01-04
I was using 6.06 LTS and decided to try 6.10, with a clean install on a new hard drive.

The install with the Live CD went well and it is working perfectly.
As AIGLX is installed with Edgy, the installation of Beryl was straigt forward and flawless.

I was having lock-up problems with both Evolution and Opera under Dapper, which have disappeared under Edgy.

Edgy works for me, and many others. For a fresh install, it's worth a go.

Regards,
Roger 8)

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2007-01-04
As said by emarkay, 6.06 has long term support. I personally will settle for that (also to keep my girlfriend happy as she will not like it when I need to install a new version when the old one is no longer updated)

You can always consider using both (dual boot). 6.06 as the normal one and 6.10 and newer ones to testdrive.

---

### Post by fsando on 2007-01-04
Hi I've been using 6.10 for a week or so - I have had only minor issues moving from XP. There are some issues with graphics though that were solved for me here:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325732]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325732")
and here:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=328751]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=328751")

---

### Post by Quillz on 2007-01-04
> **kavon89 said:**
> I read the sticky in this section, it suggests that if I have no compelling reason to upgrade, then don't. But that is for people with a version of ubuntu installed already. I get my laptop friday (and I'm pretty excited to have a computer with only linux on it... :mrgreen: ) and **I want to know if I should install 6.06 or 6.10?**
Go with 6.10. I tried out a Live CD, and it didn't work at all, but I took a chance and upgraded to 6.10 anyway. Not only is your old partition (6.06) automatically saved (so you can choose to boot to it if you want,) but all my hardware, etc. was recognized and configured for use in 6.10. Not to mention that with 6.10, you can take advantage of Firefox 2, the 2.17 Linux kernel, and better support for Compiz/Beryl, should you choose to use them.

Like you, I was comfortable with 6.06 for a couple of days, but to me, one of the greatest aspects of Linux is the freedom it gives you. Therefore, I like to experiment. Another great aspect of Linux is that nearly every change you make can be reverted via the CLI. So I highly recommend you use 6.10.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2007-01-04
If you want to be able to use the absolute latest programs, then give 6.10 a try, as many of the newest programs are much easier to install on 6.10 (Jokosher, Beryl, etc).

If you've got a wireless card, and you have trouble with it on 6.10, go to 6.06.

---

### Post by rlozano on 2007-01-04
its all about you. you have to decide on your preference:

1. More stable OS version and  longer support span or;
2. Newer version of OS, shorter support life span, but easier to configure.

i said easier to configure, not really easy to use, coz both dapper and edgy are easy to use.

:)

---

### Post by eilu on 2007-01-04
I was just going to post a similar question- good thing I searched first! I have 6.06 on my PC but I'll be getting a new laptop too (yay laptops)... I'm happy with 6.06, but are there any concrete differences between the two? e.g., 6.06 cannot do xyz but 6.10 can; 6.10 uses B while 6.06 still has A etc. etc...?

---

### Post by kEinstein on 2007-01-04
When moving from 6.06 to 6.10 I experienced some 'problems': 6.10 didn't recognize some of my hardware out of the box, as the relevant drivers were categorized 'non-free' (e.g. Atheros wifi). Therefore, I had to install the 'restricted' kernel modules...  
```
Non-free Linux 2.6.17 modules on x86_64 generic
This package provides restricted modules for Linux version 2.6.17 on
generic x86/x86_64.
Currently the following modules are included:
 - madwifi (Atheros)
 - fglrx (ATI)
 - nvidia
 - fcdsl2, fcdslsl, fcdslslusb, fcdslusb, fcdslusb2, fcpci (AVM ISDN)

These modules are "restricted" because they are not available under a
completely Free licence.
```

As a result, you can't use your WiFi to update your 6.10 distro during the installation process. Since I haven't been aware of that fact, it took me some forum-search to figure out why WLAN didn't work at all... (and I had to dig out my LAN cable of course)

Contrastingly, installing video drivers, getting 3D support works better in 6.10 for me. Especially using proprietary drivers (fglrx) to enable ATI's 3D rendering with Dual-Head support didn't work in 6.06. To sum up, if you are looking for eye-candy like beryl & compiz, 3D support, AiGLX, XGL, etc. you might want to go for 6.10.

---

### Post by CroEragon on 2007-01-04
There is one other thing to consider.
If you need Linux box for work that need to be fast and efficient without reconfiguring  after every release, hat just have to work and doesnt need support for all latest hardware and eye candy things then choose Dapper. After you set it up and tweak you do not have to worry for three years (five in server edition).

But if you like to play wit your OS and get every possible advanced feature, eye candies and simply want to have latest software then take Edgy and change when Feisty gets out and relese after Feisty and so on.

As easy as that.

---

### Post by kEinstein on 2007-01-04
Further software examples:
6.06 didn't allow me to upgrade from Firefox 1.5.0.1 to 1.5.0.8 or even 2.0.0.1 via synaptic (a work around of course did it). Due to LongTermSupport, stability and continuity is emphasized in thie release. Since I am willing to challenge my notebook with the most recent drivers, software & hardware support to get the most out of it, I usually upgrade my notebook twice a year - using different distros. If you are looking for a suitable stand-alone PC/notebook that will serve you throughout its entire hardware lifetime without the need for major improvements (and not willing to play & tweak around) - you are best suited with 6.06 LTS. If you are thinking of using an external monitor, taking full advantage of your graphic card (e.g. architectural, engineering apps) go for 6.10 - and do not hesitate to upgrade your system regularly.

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-04
I'll get the Live CD for 6.10 and if there are problems which aren't fixable then i'll grab 6.06.... 1Gb RAM is great for testing live cd's :mrgreen:

---

### Post by wykedengel on 2007-01-06
I was able to run both 6.06 LTS and 6.10 on my old Thinkpad T22 (with 192mb ram) while I had good performance with both, It was the LTS release (6.06) that gave me the fewest problems. (There are some really funky font issues with Edgy.)

In short, if getting the latest and greatest distro is important to you, then go with Edgy. If stability and long support are what you seek, then go with Dapper.

---

### Post by eilu on 2007-01-07
> **kEinstein said:**
> ...if you are thinking of using an external monitor... use 6.10 and upgrade regulary

This statement got my attention. I'll be needing to connect the laptop toan LCD projector to give powerpoint presentations for my oral reports & (future) thesis defence... does that mean 6.06 can't do something like that (wouldn't mind installing additional stuff to be able to)? If so then I'll *definitely *have to get 6.10.

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-01-07
my experience is linux install success is very much down to hardware, even using alternate iso can be interesting. I have two dapper systems and one edgy.

My grandparents ended up with edgy because it seemed more suited to their hardware. I think that if you intend upgrades go for edgy- then unless you have a specific issue there are no reasons to upgrade further until it becomes an issue.:KS

---

