---
title: "multi monitor trouble"
date: 2007-10-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by MaxGunnar on 2007-10-10
I can't get both my monitors(CRT) to work together,  I'm using Ubuntu 7.10 and a nvidia 5200 card.   If somebody has a magic bullet or could suggest the most Ubunto friendly video card  I'd appreciate it

---

### Post by graben3 on 2007-10-10
you can use the Nvidia tools (you must install nvidia proprietary drivers in order to do so I think) or do as i've done : download displayconfig-gtk and 
copy the xorg.conf file generated by the app from 

/var/lib/displayconfig-gtk/locations

to 

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by MaxGunnar on 2007-10-10
uh   how do I do that?

---

### Post by graben3 on 2007-10-11
[http://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/main/d/displayconfig-gtk/displayconfig-gtk_0.3.3_all.deb](http://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/main/d/displayconfig-gtk/displayconfig-gtk_0.3.3_all.deb)
Download and install....

Then in a terminal window, just type :
displayconfig-gtk

A graphical mode utility will popup. It allows currently to configure 2 screens really easily under ubuntu. Not more than 2 screen are actually supported. You can change the driver you'll use with each screen. Pretty useful to me and has always worked for me.

You can test your config and once all is working, just hit the save icon once you entered a location. This will produce a file which is your xorg.conf file.

Once you saved your good config in displayconfig-gtk, go at that location :
/var/lib/displayconfig-gtk/locations/

You should see a file named <locationsavename>.conf

This is your xorg.conf file you need to copy over your actual xorg.conf file.

To copy the xorg.conf file, do this :

1. First, lets backup your xorg.conf file in case something goes wrong
in a terminal type :
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg_old.conf

2. in a terminal again, type this :
sudo cp /var/lib/displayconfig-gtk/locations/<locationsavename>.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf

------
Everything should be OK at this point.

Test if all is ok by restarting X server :
Do this by hitting  CTRL + ALT + BKSPACE simultaneously.

---

### Post by graben3 on 2007-10-11
Didn't you already configured both monitors to work together ?

This is another thread you started 4 weeks ago :
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=544767](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=544767)

Did it worked with nvidia?
Did you try the displayconfig-gtk program?

Keep us informed !

---

### Post by MaxGunnar on 2007-10-11
I started with 7.04 and couldn't get it to work until I loaded "Envy" and got the it work fine....until I rebooted,  then it goes back to single screen until I reconfig it again.   Later I loaded 7.10 and tried to set it up using "Screens and Graphics" which did not work at all and it  killed my vid altogether.  What I finally ended up doing is reloaded 7.04 installed Envy upgraded to 7.10 and got the original problem of of having to set up two monitors thru "Envy" after each reboot

---

