---
title: "File Permissions problem"
date: 2007-04-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by trishacupra on 2007-04-26
Okay, I've tried so many things, and just have a headache to show for it.

My problem is that I have a partition containing all my files I created in Windows and want to use now in Ubuntu (which I just installed for the first time a couple of days ago - dual boot). This partition is ext3 format, created by gparted (on live cd) before I installed Ubuntu.

I don't have read/write access or ownership of the files in this partition - root does. So, I've been trying to change the owner to my username - trisha. This is my method:

1. Created desktop launcher to gksudo nautilus.

2. Looked in Computer for the partition. It just says Filesystem, so I click on that, click on media directory, then click on the directory I mount that partition to - 'Work'.

3. I right-click > Properties > Permissions.

4. I change permissions like this:

Owner: trisha

Folder Access: Create and delete files

File Access: Read and write


Group: root (I really don't know much about what a Group is - how does this work?)

Folder Access:  Create and delete files

File Access: Read and write


Others (also not sure what this means)

Folder Access:  Create and delete files

File Access: Read and write


Then I click the button "Apply permissions to enclosed files".

But when I close Nautilus and then open up my Work partition as trisha, the owner of the folders and files within Work are still root. 

Also, the permissions on the Work directory are not what I asked for. I think it changes the Group to trisha, or something - it seems to be different each time I try it to the point where it's all becoming a bit of a blur.

How do I change the ownership and make it stick? What am I doing wrong?

Oh, maybe the way I set up the fstab is contributing:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=a60e46bc-de9c-4023-88e1-c984c569dc5b / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=2f369f40-f19f-486f-98dd-90380b08dc66 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/Trisha's\040Laptop ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Work ext3 rw,trisha 0 0
/dev/sda4 /media/Multimedia\040Centre ext3 rw,trisha 0 0

---

### Post by gilda on 2007-04-26
> My problem is that I have a partition containing all my files I created in Windows and want to use now in Ubuntu (which I just installed for the first time a couple of days ago - dual boot). This partition is ext3 format, created by gparted (on live cd) before I installed Ubuntu.

try editing this line 

/dev/sda1 /media/Work ext3 rw,trisha 0 0


where is says trisha  replace with user 

See if that helps. Your username im assuming is trisha but the group you would belong to would be user.

---

### Post by trishacupra on 2007-04-26
Okay. Tried that. Changed fstab, then changed Permissions again, then unmounted and remounted Work. But the owner of the files in that directory are still root.

---

### Post by trishacupra on 2007-04-27
I read somewhere about unmasking a partition using fstab. Would that help, and if so, how do I do it?

---

### Post by gilda on 2007-04-27
Well we can try this through the fstab as well trying to set permissions for you via the group

/dev/sda1   /media/Work   ext3   users,uid=1000,umask=022   0 0

Should give your user full access and others only r + x 

worth a shot

---

