---
title: "booting off external drive?"
date: 2007-05-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by al2six on 2007-05-28
So after having friends tell me over and over again how much better linux is than windows, i've decided i'd like to give it a try. However, I still need windows for certain things like work. So what I was thinking is maybe I could install ubuntu on my external hard drive and then I could boot into either windows or unbuntu.

is this possible? if it is, can someone point me to some directions on how to do this? thanks!

---

### Post by omkarwagh on 2007-05-28
of course it is possible. just run the live CD and make the necessary partitions on your external hard drive. 
it will also automatically install grub which will allow you to choose at the time of boot which os you want to use for that session.
i have a reversed thing on my personal lappy. ive got ubuntu on my internal hard drive and windows on an external usb drive. no problems at all.
omkar.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-05-28
It's true - it is possible.  Just be aware that it might throw up an issue or two that isn't mentioned in many How To Install guides.  

If you initially install with the LiveCD, it will put GRUB (the Linux bootloader) onto the same drive you put Ubuntu on.  Which, if that's an external USB drive, will need to be the first boot device on BIOS (or at least ahead of the internal HD) in order for you to *easily* get into Ubuntu.  That way, if the external drive is plugged in, GRUB will boot, and it automatically gives the option of Ubuntu or Windows.  If not plugged in, Windows carries on as previously, completely oblivious.  The good thing about this is that it truly does nothing at all to the Windows drive.  And if you don't like it, you can just change the BIOS back, format the Ubuntu drive, and you're back to your prior Windows install.

If your BIOS doesn't have the ability to boot from USB, then you will have to sort out a small fix.  
If you have Vista - it should be easy - just install EasyBCD ([http://neosmart.net/software.php](http://neosmart.net/software.php)).
If you have any other current Windows (2000/XP) - then there are numerous solutions.  In order to leave Windows as untouched as possible, replacing the Windows bootloader is perhaps not sensible.  Grub4DOS I think is reasonable ([http://grub4dos.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Grub4dos_tutorial](http://grub4dos.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Grub4dos_tutorial), [http://sourceforge.net/projects/grub4dos/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/grub4dos/)).  You want the "Booting GRUB for DOS via the Windows NT/2000/XP/2003 boot manager" section in the wiki.  Probably easiest to do that, then simply copy the menu.lst auto-generated by Ubuntu (from /boot/grub/menu.lst) onto a floppy/USB (from the Ubuntu LiveCD), then copy it to C:\ from within Windows.

This fix is not entirely straightforward, and it may take a little tweaking - but at least there will be no risk to Windows (as long as you only add, not delete from boot.ini).

PS: best to keep a copy of boot.ini BEFORE you start messing around with it, just in case.

---

### Post by al2six on 2007-05-28
> **ugm6hr said:**
> It's true - it is possible.  Just be aware that it might throw up an issue or two that isn't mentioned in many How To Install guides.  

If you initially install with the LiveCD, it will put GRUB (the Linux bootloader) onto the same drive you put Ubuntu on.  Which, if that's an external USB drive, will need to be the first boot device on BIOS (or at least ahead of the internal HD) in order for you to *easily* get into Ubuntu.  That way, if the external drive is plugged in, GRUB will boot, and it automatically gives the option of Ubuntu or Windows.  If not plugged in, Windows carries on as previously, completely oblivious.  The good thing about this is that it truly does nothing at all to the Windows drive.  And if you don't like it, you can just change the BIOS back, format the Ubuntu drive, and you're back to your prior Windows install.

If your BIOS doesn't have the ability to boot from USB, then you will have to sort out a small fix.  
If you have Vista - it should be easy - just install EasyBCD ([http://neosmart.net/software.php](http://neosmart.net/software.php)).
If you have any other current Windows (2000/XP) - then there are numerous solutions.  In order to leave Windows as untouched as possible, replacing the Windows bootloader is perhaps not sensible.  Grub4DOS I think is reasonable ([http://grub4dos.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Grub4dos_tutorial](http://grub4dos.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Grub4dos_tutorial), [http://sourceforge.net/projects/grub4dos/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/grub4dos/)).  You want the "Booting GRUB for DOS via the Windows NT/2000/XP/2003 boot manager" section in the wiki.  Probably easiest to do that, then simply copy the menu.lst auto-generated by Ubuntu (from /boot/grub/menu.lst) onto a floppy/USB (from the Ubuntu LiveCD), then copy it to C:\ from within Windows.

This fix is not entirely straightforward, and it may take a little tweaking - but at least there will be no risk to Windows (as long as you only add, not delete from boot.ini).

PS: best to keep a copy of boot.ini BEFORE you start messing around with it, just in case.

unfortunately i started installing before you posted. Anyway, I installed ubuntu to my external drive.  Now when I start up without my drive plugged in, Grub tries to load, which results in an error. I have to plug in my drive otherwise I can't get to windows. Next I changed the boot order to boot from USB 1st as you suggested. But when it attempts to boot from USB nothing loads.

any help? I have no idea what to do

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-05-28
Hmm...

First of all - is it Windows XP/2000 or Vista?

Best plan is to try and reinstate the Windows Bootloader to at least get back to Windows.  You can then sort Ubuntu out after.

I haven't had to do this myself - but I know in theory what needs doing.  You might need to google or search this and possibily other linux dual-boot forums to find the precise solutions.

If it's XP - and you have the original XP disc - then boot from that in recovery mode.  I think you then type something like "fixmbr" - I just googled it myself, and that looks right:
[http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/bootcons_fixmbr.mspx?mfr=true](http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/bootcons_fixmbr.mspx?mfr=true)

Then reboot, and it should load Windows.  We can try and access Ubuntu after that!  But I think the Grub4DOS solution I posted earlier should work just fine.

---

### Post by Michelpt on 2007-05-30
> unfortunately i started installing before you posted. Anyway, I installed ubuntu to my external drive. Now when I start up without my drive plugged in, Grub tries to load, which results in an error. I have to plug in my drive otherwise I can't get to windows. Next I changed the boot order to boot from USB 1st as you suggested. But when it attempts to boot from USB nothing loads.

any help? I have no idea what to do

Hi,

I have installed Ubuntu into my internal drive and Debian into external USB hard disk. But to put things in order I did:
 -- backups of /boot/grub/menu.lst files on internal and external drives.
 -- boot system from Live CD and **install grub into internal and external hdd. **
      [How to install grub from Live CD]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351")
 -- check BIOS settings and in the Boot menu put **USB hard drive into the first place into Boot device priority** and Hard disk submenu and **internal hard drive into the second place** in the list (this way, when you have unplagged your USB external drive you can boot from your internal) . 
-- maybe (optional) you will need to edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst ,  but mines it was not necessary.

I attach my menu.lst from internal and external drives, this way independently from drive I am going to boot I can boot any system (exept of cource system on external hdd when it is unplugged :) )  
If you need I output my hdd structure (hda - internal and sda - external USB):

> Dispositivo Boot Início Fim Blocos Id Sistema
/dev/hda1   *           1        3280    26346568+   7  HPFS ou NTFS
/dev/hda2            3281        3408     1028160   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda3            3409       12161    70308472+  83  Linux

Disco /dev/sda: 320.0 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 cabeças, 63 setores/trilha, 38913 cilindros
Unidades = cilindros de 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

Dispositivo Boot Início Fim Blocos Id Sistema
/dev/sda1   *           1         365     2931831   83  Linux
/dev/sda2             366       38913   309636810    5  Estendida
/dev/sda5           38549       38913     2931862+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6           34901       38547    29294496   83  Linux
/dev/sda7             366       18601   146480607   83  Linux
/dev/sda8           33685       34900     9767488+  83  Linux
/dev/sda9           21527       33684    97659103+  83  Linux
/dev/sda10          21466       21526      489951   83  Linux
 

Hope it helps you

---

### Post by TGooch on 2007-05-31
This doesn't really help you now, but in the future there's an option during install(I think it's in the advanced section on the last or second to last step), which tells it where to put the bootloader.  On mine it defaults to my internal drive.  If you want to boot from BIOS off of your ext. drive, specify that drive for this option and it should put GRUB onto the external drive.  This should prevent it from touching your internal drive at all.

---

### Post by sdrawkcab on 2007-06-10
> **Michelpt said:**
> Hi,

I have installed Ubuntu into my internal drive and Debian into external USB hard disk. But to put things in order I did:
 -- backups of /boot/grub/menu.lst files on internal and external drives.
 -- boot system from Live CD and **install grub into internal and external hdd. **
      [How to install grub from Live CD]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351")
 -- check BIOS settings and in the Boot menu put **USB hard drive into the first place into Boot device priority** and Hard disk submenu and **internal hard drive into the second place** in the list (this way, when you have unplagged your USB external drive you can boot from your internal) . 
-- maybe (optional) you will need to edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst ,  but mines it was not necessary.

I attach my menu.lst from internal and external drives, this way independently from drive I am going to boot I can boot any system (exept of cource system on external hdd when it is unplugged :) )  
If you need I output my hdd structure (hda - internal and sda - external USB):

 

Hope it helps you




I have the same trouble as the above person as well. Can't seem to get anybody to reply to my thread, so I'll post here and see what happens.

So, if I do everything here in these quotes, I can boot from my external hard drive when plugged in as default, and when it's not plugged in, it boots Windows? 'Cause I've seen **A LOT** of tutorials on the dual booting stuff, and they all seem to differ wildly.

---

### Post by thevenerablez on 2007-06-11
Hi,

I have had success booting off of an external hard drive. Just make sure grub is installed on the external drive and not the internal drive. If you want Ubuntu to load by default when plugged in, go into your BIOS (for me, I have to press enter while the computer is starting up). Then, make your USB drive a higher priority than your internal drive. The setting should be somewhere under "Boot Order" or something similar to that. What this is telling the computer is when starting up, look for bootable information on the USB drive. If you don't find that, proceed on to the internal hard drive. This works for me. Let me know what problems you are running into and I will try to help you.

_zach

---

### Post by sdrawkcab on 2007-06-12
Well, I just followed a tutorial to install GRUB onto the external Ubuntu drive. I think I have to now fix the Windows bootloader...I was going to try this by downloading "Super GRUB Disc". I guess it's a program that can be put on a CD or a Flash Drive (my case) and you can fix the Windows bootloader with it. I'm having a little trouble with it at the moment though. 

I downloaded the Flash Drive file from the website and it is on my flash drive. The file is a ".td.gz" or something like that (sorry, can't remember). Am I supposed to unpack this? Does anybody know anything about this program and how it may help me? If so, could you give me a hand at figuring it out? Thanks for any help :)

---

### Post by Campitor on 2007-06-15
> **thevenerablez said:**
> Hi,

I have had success booting off of an external hard drive. Just make sure grub is installed on the external drive and not the internal drive. [...] This works for me. Let me know what problems you are running into and I will try to help you.

hello,

  I'm going to install Ubuntu FF for my boss, on an external 500 GB usb drive (I think the brand is Western Digital).  the laptop is an Acer with Windows Vista.  needless to say, if I screw this up, my boss is gonna be mad.  He wants to give ubuntu a try to determine if he switces all lab computers to linux. I've read a bunch of forum posts and webpages and, as I see it, the main problem is determining where GRUB is going to be installed. So I have the following questions:

1.  Can I use the regular Feisty Fawn CD I got from he mail, or do I need to use the alternate CD?
2. When booting the LIVE CD, or when I start the install process; do I need to add the "expert" boot option?
3.  Once I'm in the Live CD, do I need to disable the "Mount drives automatically when plugged in" option ? (I've read disabling this get's rid of nasty problems).
4.  When installing GRUB and such, willl the device address (i.e. sda, sdb, sdc, etc.) change if I plug the external drive in different usb ports?  (The laptop has three usb ports, and Idon't know if my boss will plugin his drive in a different one every time he boots into ubuntu)?
5.  My boss has some files and info on the drive, when I partition the drive, should the linux partition be the first one? will this cause any problems when booting?  Can my boss still access his information in the external HD?
5.  During installation, when I specify the drive to install GRUB, do I only include sda (no numbers) or sda0.  I've read different opinions on this.

6.  Is there a step-by-step tutorial on this subject, anywhere on the web?  I think it would be very usefull.

Thanks for your help. BTW, I'm not an IT or anything like that.  I'm a grad student in ecology and my boss is my adviser...but I've convinced him to switch all computers to linux, and he wants to give it a try...but he also has a terrible temper when things don't work out smoothly :)

Thx.
Camp

---

### Post by absolut1983 on 2007-06-23
Hi, folks.

   I'd like to install 7.04 on my 80 GB external drive and boot it from a Vaio VGN-FE48E, but as it is a laptop (a Sony laptop), I'm not sure if I'll be able to boot from USB and, in case I am, where should I install the Grub so my friend (owner of the laptop) can use Vista normally when my HD is not plugged.

thanks

---

