---
title: ".iso Question :)"
date: 2007-10-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Jeordy on 2007-10-29
ok, so... i have a modded psp... and a game i downloaded in 2 parts.. GameNamePart 1.rar and GameNamePart 2.rar, inside the .rars are .isos, both the isos inside these folders have the same name... i need to combine them into 1 iso...
aperantly on windows if u just unzil the first part it will do the second, which isnt the case here... its just doing the first... yes i did get the .rar thing so the file manager can deal with them...
is there a command where i can just join them together? if i drag them into the same folder i just get GameName.iso and GameName.iso(1)
thanks for your help!

---

### Post by 1337455 10534 on 2007-10-29
jeekx. In XP, you can get MagicISO to accomplish this easily.. Idk about Ubuntu, im sure u can somehow though..

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-10-29
extract the iso & (re)name them to game.iso.1 and game.iso.2

cat game.iso.1 > game.iso
cat game.iso.2 >> game.iso

---

### Post by rscott5 on 2007-10-29
Would cat really work for merging two .iso files???

---

### Post by markharding557 on 2007-10-29
you can use iso master to add files to an iso you would have to try it to see if it works download here
[http://www.getdeb.net/search.php?keywords=iso+master]("http://www.getdeb.net/search.php?keywords=iso+master")

---

### Post by Jeordy on 2007-10-29
the program itself doesnt seem to be working right... i think cat worked cuz it did make a new iso file like u said it would with the size of the other two added together... then that didnt work on my psp.. so it might be the firmware on my psp that doesnt like iso files.. cuz  right now the two games ont he stick are both .cso files.. ill have to look into that...

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-10-29
> **rscott5 said:**
> Would cat really work for merging two .iso files???

Sure will.

You could save a step with :

cat game.iso.1 game.iso.2 > game.iso

---

### Post by Jeordy on 2007-10-29
yep it does work.. i just looked it up and the firmware i have doesnt support .iso files, only .cso... so i either need to find somthin that will convert, or put new firmware, id rather the previous cuz messing with that more might brick it... which i would not like happening...

---

### Post by Jeordy on 2007-10-29
ok im prolly talkin to myself but w/e lol.. i checked and there seems to only be one program that can convert .iso to .cso and it has like 8 dependencies and i dont feel like messing with it so ill jsut put new firmware on.. thanks for your guys' help :)

---

### Post by rscott5 on 2007-10-29
It might not be my place and I'm not shunning anyone but I would doubt that UbuntuForums allows for discussion of how to pirate video games. Just giving you a heads up

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-10-29
> **rscott5 said:**
> It might not be my place and I'm not shunning anyone but I would doubt that UbuntuForums allows for discussion of how to pirate video games. Just giving you a heads up

Your point is well taken, and no we do not.

However, the question was how to combine two iso's. You are assuming it is pirated, and you may be right, but it is still an assumption and this thread is not an explicit crack.

If you are questioning such things, feel free to report the post/thread and the mods will check into it.

I can not moderate this thread as I posted into it ;)

---

