---
title: "Anyone successfully using dialup?"
date: 2008-01-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-01-25
Could anyone help configure /etc/wvdial.conf? I'm fairly sure that's where the problem is. I have tried a number of guides (nearly everyone google turns up) and init scripts using gnome-ppp, but still cannot connect. Usually "NO CARRIER," though most recently, "NO DIALTONE." Thinking of adding X3 to init2.
Unfortunately, don't have access to land line and broadband at the same location, so a lot of traveling involved in this trouble-shooting.

Have run scanModem and have files. gksudo wvdialconf does not overwrite the self-configured file. Willing to purge all and start over.
This is an IBM T30 thinkpad with internal analog modem. Using retricted driver and slmodemd

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2008-01-25
```
sudo rm /etc/wvdial.conf
sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf
```

That will generate a new wvdial config file. Then it would help if you could paste the whole wvdial output, not only the final message.

---

### Post by fatality_uk on 2008-01-25
Hi spiderbatdad. Easy solution to my 3G card dialup problems was KPPP.
I, like you had tried messing about with editing wvdial.conf and never seemed to work. I also installed Gnome PPP but that didn't seem to work.

Try installing KPPP and configuring from there.
hope this helps!

---

### Post by fourscore on 2008-01-25
There is some bug in gnome-pp.   Use  Kppp instead.    Install  Kppp and K-logview from  Add/Remove programs.   This works fine.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-01-25
yes there is a bug related to gnome-ppp. Supposedly patched and released as gnome-pppfixedforgutsy_0.3.24-1_i386.deb  The purpose of the fix had to do with the way a certain config file was written to prepend every line with -->, I will have a look at kppp after a few more attempts with wvdial.conf, and will post back results.

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-01-26
no dialtone - make sure the cord is plugged into the wall and phone/dialup ports on the computer via a telephone cord and mske sure they/it didn't come loose, etc.. Also make sure that line is working - pick up ur phone set and make sure u hear a dialtone.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-01-26
Still no success with gnome-ppp after at least 5 hours of trying. Once I got home, I was reading through the Smartlink.txt generated by scanModem, which says libasound2-dev is necessary for an ALSA competent slmodemd.
Unfortunately it was not included as a dependency when enabling the restricted driver and slmodemd. Now I cannot test again without traveling to a phone line...Vonage ya know.




```
 To compile slmodemd WITH support for ALSA modem drivers, there are two additional requisites.
[B] 1) additional ALSA code must be installed.  For Debian/Ubuntu related Distros, these
 are provided by the package libasound2-dev, in addition to the standardly installed libasound2[/B]
 For other Linuxes, the needed package may have another name
 2) The compile must be done in the modem/ subfolder:
 $ cd modem
 $ make clean
 $ make SUPPORT_ALSA=1 
 will incorporate the needed libasound2-dev code in the resultant slmodemd. 
 It should be manually installed:
 $ su root 
   OR for Ubuntu systems "$ sudo COMMAND" to execute Root/adm permission commands.
 # cp slmodemd /usr/sbin/
 # chmod +x /usr/sbin/slmodemd
 # chown root:root /usr/sbin/slmodemd
 completes the installation of the ALSA competent slmodemd.
```

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-01-26
if ur getting no dialtone - then it's a problem with ur telephone line maybe - have it checked out, :)

---

### Post by AnonCat on 2008-01-26
If you're using slmodem, make sure you also have the ungrab-winmodem driver installed (which didn't come with the precompiled Ubuntu 7.10 drivers).  Your smartlink modem will not work without that if it's an internal softmodem even though it'll detect the modem and will sometimes appear to be trying to connect only not to in the end.  You also need to add the line:

Carrier Check = no

to your wvdial.conf file to keep from losing carrier frequently if you're using a smartlink modem.  If you need any of the files above, let me know.  I successfully got my smartlink winmodem working after a lot of trials so I know how this can be.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-01-27
I have been trying to use the restricted driver with slmodemd. It dials out, and I can hear the transmission. The log says waiting for carrier, but the handshake never seems to take place. After about 30 seconds, the message is No Carrier. And the call is dropped. Now this is not the same as carrier checking as part of wvdial protocol, as far as I can tell.
Here is wvdial.conf:
```

[Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Auto DNS = yes
Modem Type = Analog Modem
ISDN = 0
Phone = XXXXXXX
Username = XXXXXXXXXXX
Password = XXXXXXX
Modem = /dev/ttySL0
Carrier Check = no
Stupid Mode = yes
Baud = 460800
```
Lower Baud rate will not pass wvdial test.

Here is wvdial:
```
private@private-laptop:~$ wvdial
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATDT7483352
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATDT7483352
WvDial Modem<*1>: NO CARRIER!
WvDial<Err>: Maximum number of attempts exceeded.
WvDial<*1>: Disconnecting at Sun Jan 27 01:01:47 2008

```

Of course I have been on the phone with the isp a number of times. Other computers in the house connect. I wont mention any OSes.
I have tried manually setting DNS. I have tried kppp with the same output log error.
What a drag. I'm sure the average software engineer could get this dial-up modem working.

---

### Post by bwtranch on 2008-01-27
I know absolutely nothing about this. But, in my travels I have found that companies that specialize in this usually do a good job. I use Vonage for my home and they also have good roaming plans. Is this something that you can use or am I way off base?

---

### Post by AnonCat on 2008-01-27
Have you visited the page linked to below and joined their email list?

[http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/)

If they can't help, I doubt if anyone can as all they specialize in are winmodems, especially of the Smartlink variety.

---

