---
title: "7.10 Internet Screen Too Bright (Problem)"
date: 2007-11-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dswhite85 on 2007-11-12
The screenshot below is to help show what my exact problem is. On the CNN flash player, it has the red loading bar and to the left of that is the time playing/time remaining and next to that is the volume control and email control. The only trouble is for me I can barely even see the time played/time remaining on the flash player. It's not just CNN that I have this issue with, it's a lot of other websites as well and I was hoping there would be a fix for this brightness issue of mine. I've tried changing my contrast/brightness, but that hardly does that job. Any help is always appreciated.

[[IMG]http://img98.imageshack.us/img98/2848/screenshotdj3.th.png[/IMG]](http://img98.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotdj3.png)

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-11-12
It's almost certainly a problem with the way you have your monitor set up.
I can see everything in your screenshot fine.

I don't know what to do to fix it to be honest, but these things will help whoever does:

1.  The output of ```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
2.  The type of graphics card you have (if you don't know, don't sweat it...it should be in your xorg.conf already anyway)

In the mean time, try playing with xgamma.
```
xgamma -d :0 -gamma [COLOR="Red"]anumber[/COLOR]
```
where [COLOR="#ff0000"]anumber[/COLOR] is the amount of gamma you want.
1.00 is the default, and numbers greater than 1 add brightness, and numbers less than 1 decrease brightness.
Try .5 or so and see if it helps any.
Hope that tides you over until someone else can help.

---

### Post by dswhite85 on 2007-11-12
Here is my output of "cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf"
Hope this helps some!


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "AddARGBVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        Horizsync       30-70
        Vertrefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-11-12
Just something else for you to try while you're passing the time:
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```
Does anything in there help out?  (I haven't used it so I'm not sure exactly what it lets you configure)

---

### Post by dswhite85 on 2007-11-12
I find that .65-70 for the gamma setting is almost exactly what I was looking for, thank you very much. But when I restart, I have to re-enter in the gamma -d :0 -gamma command. Is there a way I can make it so the gamma command is permanent and I don't have to re-enter it everytime I start? Thanks again!

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-11-12
In this part of your xorg.conf
```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
Horizsync 30-70
Vertrefresh 50-160
EndSection
```
You can add this:
```
Gamma 0.65 0.65 0.65
```
To produce this:
```
Section "Monitor"
      Identifier "Generic Monitor"
      Option "DPMS"
      Horizsync 30-70
      Vertrefresh 50-160
      [COLOR="Red"]Gamma 0.65 0.65 0.65[/COLOR]
EndSection
```

To edit your xorg.conf (in case you don't know how), first back it up
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```
then edit it.
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

restart X and your gamma *should* be set.

If worse comes to worse, you can just add the xgamma command to your startup items in system --> preferences --> sessions, but that is a less than ideal solution I'd imagine.

---

### Post by dswhite85 on 2007-11-12
I just started using Ubuntu as my main OS these past three weeks and I'm still very new to Linux, so I will take the night and digest this and give you a post of how it goes later on or tomorrow perhaps. Thanks a lot for the speedy replies!

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-11-12
No problem, hope it works out for you!
(by the way, I appreciate your competence, which is something that seems to be lacking in new users lately.  I didn't even know you were brand new to this.)

---

