---
title: "Something wrong with my graphics..."
date: 2005-12-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by WackToMack on 2005-12-28
I downloaded the drivers package for my ATI Radeon X800 graphics card and I ran glxgears in the terminal and ot this...

> chris@Linux:~$ glxgears
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":0.0".
X connection to :0.0 broken (explicit kill or server shutdown).


The gears ran perfect for like 3 seconds and then they starting to move in slow choppy motions.... anyone know what's wrong?

THANKS IN ADVANCE!!!

---

### Post by bjourne on 2005-12-28
DRI is missing. Add

Load "dri"
Load "glx"

to Section "Module" in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by WackToMack on 2005-12-29
Hey, thanks for replying... I tried what you said, but the file is read only...  How would I go about editing it?  Anyone know?

---

### Post by varunus on 2005-12-29
You need to be root to edit the file.  Open up a terminal, and type "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf" and enter your password.

Since its a system file, normal users aren't allowed to access it.  Its a safety mechanism so you can only screw up your system if you've entered your password. :) 

There's a howto in the tips and tricks section that details how to set up Nautilus so that a right-click can let you choose to open files as root.

But, you're using the official ATI drivers...so you should have openGL working. What does the command "glxinfo" output?  Can you post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf and /var/log/Xorg.0.log here?

---

### Post by WackToMack on 2005-12-29
Here is the xorg.conf :

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X800 (R420 JK)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X800 (R420 JK)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


I am having trouble finding Xorg.0.log though...

---

### Post by WackToMack on 2005-12-29
glxinfo gives me this :

> name of display: :0.0
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":0.0".
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: No
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating,
    GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_make_current_read,
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig
client glx vendor string: ATI
client glx version string: 1.3
client glx extensions:
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_EXT_import_context,
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_ATI_pixel_format_float,
    GLX_ATI_render_texture
GLX version: 1.2
GLX extensions:
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_EXT_import_context,
    GLX_ARB_multisample
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.2.1)
OpenGL extensions:
    GL_ARB_imaging, GL_ARB_multitexture, GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp,
    GL_ARB_texture_cube_map, GL_ARB_texture_env_add,
    GL_ARB_texture_env_combine, GL_ARB_texture_env_dot3,
    GL_ARB_transpose_matrix, GL_EXT_abgr, GL_EXT_blend_color,
    GL_EXT_blend_minmax, GL_EXT_blend_subtract, GL_EXT_texture_env_add,
    GL_EXT_texture_env_combine, GL_EXT_texture_env_dot3,
    GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias
glu version: 1.3
glu extensions:
    GLU_EXT_nurbs_tessellator, GLU_EXT_object_space_tess

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x23 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  1 0 None
0x24 24 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 16  8 16 16 16  0  1 0 None
0x25 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  1 0 None
0x26 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  1 0 None
0x27 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  1 0 None
0x28 24 dc  0 24  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  0  0 16  8 16 16 16  0  1 0 None
0x29 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  1 0 None
0x2a 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  1 0 None

---

### Post by polpak on 2005-12-29
I hope that when you say you installed the packages for your ATI card you were following the instructions located here:

[http://help.ubuntu.com/starterguide/C/faqguide-all.html#installatidriver](http://help.ubuntu.com/starterguide/C/faqguide-all.html#installatidriver)

If so then you've installed the xorg-driver-fglrx from the multiverse restricted repos.

Then it would seem to me that you need to run the commands:

echo fglrx | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
sudo depmod -a ; sudo modprobe fglrx
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup 
sudo sed -i -e 's/"ati"/"fglrx"/' /etc/X11/xorg.conf


At the very least it seems that you didn't run the 

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup 
sudo sed -i -e 's/"ati"/"fglrx"/' /etc/X11/xorg.conf

part of the commands since your driver in your xorg.conf clearly says ati, and it shouldn't.

So if you need to rerun them all then feel free. Otherwise run the commands you left out, and restart your computer. It should work fine.

---

### Post by WackToMack on 2005-12-29
Sweet!  It works!  I guess I was just thinking that if I downloaded the package, it would install itself.  Now I know better.  Thanks!  Thanks a million!  Now though, when I run glxgears, it runs perfectly but it doesn't tell me my fps. :confused:

---

### Post by varunus on 2005-12-30
The new glxgears requires you to type:
```
glxgears -printfps
```

in order to see the FPS.  Wait 5 seconds and it'll show how many frames it displayed in the first 5 seconds.

---

### Post by erikpiper on 2005-12-30
[QUOTE=varunus]The new glxgears requires you to type:
```
glxgears -printfps
```

in order to see the FPS.  Wait 5 seconds and it'll show how many frames it displayed in the first 5 seconds.[/QUOTE]

And yes, it will also convert that into frames per second for you. You just have to be patient and let it run at least five seconds. ;)

---

### Post by DoorGunner on 2005-12-30
hey when did that occur?? I thought glxgears was broken on my machine. It also seems to be moving at an abnormally slow rate.

---

### Post by nbhaskar on 2005-12-30
Hi, Although I have been working in the IT field for over 18 years including unix, I'm still new to Linux especially Breezy. I installed the OS (AMD64 version), x server failed due to my ATI driver problem, all I was getting was the command line nothing else. Then I read from a forum that I should change the config file and replace "ati" with "vesa". I did that and now I get a blank screen when the OS starts x server, I could not do any thing after this but push the power button to shutdown the pc.

My set up is AMD Athlon 64 X2 3800+ on ECS nForce4 mobo with 2 GB Kingston DDR400 PC3200 ram. Mobo has sound processor built in, then the problem part ATI X700 256MB DDR3 PCIe card.

I have Windows XP pro already running on my machine, I installed GRUB loader for dual boot.

When I tried the live cd too I had the same problem.

Can any body help me out solve this problem and boot Breezy?

thanks.
a noob.

---

### Post by nbhaskar on 2006-01-05
[QUOTE=nbhaskar]Hi, Although I have been working in the IT field for over 18 years including unix, I'm still new to Linux especially Breezy. I installed the OS (AMD64 version), x server failed due to my ATI driver problem, all I was getting was the command line nothing else. Then I read from a forum that I should change the config file and replace "ati" with "vesa". I did that and now I get a blank screen when the OS starts x server, I could not do any thing after this but push the power button to shutdown the pc.

My set up is AMD Athlon 64 X2 3800+ on ECS nForce4 mobo with 2 GB Kingston DDR400 PC3200 ram. Mobo has sound processor built in, then the problem part ATI X700 256MB DDR3 PCIe card.

I have Windows XP pro already running on my machine, I installed GRUB loader for dual boot.

When I tried the live cd too I had the same problem.

Can any body help me out solve this problem and boot Breezy?

thanks.
a noob.[/QUOTE]
 Finally I got this working, thanks to Gabor I changed "ati" to "radeon" in xorg.conf file and it worked.

thanks a lot for the support.
:D

---

