---
title: "802.1x Supplicant help"
date: 2006-09-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by solari on 2006-09-01
Hi all,

I am very new to running Linux in general, and have some friends who have been able to give me pointers and such, but I can't figure out how to actually get the xsupplicant_1.2.1 running successfully on my machine. I am setting it up for testing purposes because we are implementing 802.1x on the wired side where I work. I had the old version of the supplicant running, but it still failed to authenticate my laptop. Now I can't even get it to run. It doesnt seem to like my config file. When i try the command "xsupplicant -i eth0 -f" it gives me an error in my config file. It is as follows


### GLOBAL SECTION
network_list = all
default_netname = default

startup_command = ifconfig eth0 allmulti 0.0.0.0 up
first_auth_command = dhconfig eth0
reauth_command = dhconfig eth0

logfile = /var/log/xsupplicant.log

deny_interfaces = lo, eth1, cipsec0, sit0

### NETWORK SECTION
default
{
	type = wired
	allow_types = all
	identity = i807811@sap_all

	eap-peap 
	{
		root_cert = /root/Desktop/SAP-ENS.cer
		#root_cert = NONE
		chunk_size = 1398
		random_file = /dev/urandom
		session_resume = yes
		allow_types = all # where all = MSCHAPv2, MD5, OTP, GTC, SIM

		eap-mschapv2 
		{
			username = something
			password = something
		}
	}
}

I have tried it with and without the begin/end brackets with no success. You guys have any ideas?

---

### Post by yanqian on 2006-09-11
I have the same problem,I have installed xsupplicant,but don't know how to configure,my network environment is&#65306;

Windows Active Directory

PEAP-MSCHAPv2

Without Certificate

---

