---
title: ".iso updates for 7.10?"
date: 2007-12-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mr_burns on 2007-12-02
Hi,

Does anyone know if the .iso files for the 7.10 release have been updated to reflect bug fixes?  Or if such an update is planned?

The consensus I saw from an earlier thread was that the 7.04 .iso was not updated post-release, but the replies were not conclusive.  I was thinking (hoping) that 7.10 might be different due to the seemingly large number of installation issues.  In my particular situation, an .iso update would be appreciated because I simply could not get any version of 7.10 to functionally install.  Ideally an updated .iso would solve the problems I encountered with the initial .iso release.  I'm eager for the upgrade to 7.10 due to the lack of WPA wireless support on 7.04.

I know there are probably work-arounds to resolve my particular issues with 7.10, but I'm just a basic user and complicated "HowTo" solutions have typically defeated me.

Thanks

---

### Post by niteshifter on 2007-12-02
Based upon what one sees here: [http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/releases/gutsy/release/]("http://cdimages.ubuntu.com/releases/gutsy/release/") I'd say the answer to your question is no.

What kind of hardware are you using? Give us the machine type and some specs, along with the type of wireless card you're using and maybe we can uncomplicate things for you.

---

### Post by mr_burns on 2007-12-02
Thanks, that link seems to answer my question...not the result I hoped for, but I guess April is not so far away now.

I also appreciate your offer to "uncomplicate" things for me, but I'll have to pass.  The install problems with 7.10 were just too extensive and I already spent a good amount of time trying to fix them.  Hopefully the 8.04 release will "just work" like the 7.04 release.

---

