---
title: "livecdproblem: enter preinstalled session"
date: 2006-01-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by siegie on 2006-01-30
Hello,

I'm totally new with ubuntu. Before I install it on my computer  I wanted to try the livecd.

Everything goes ok but at a certain moment it goes wrong: at the stage enter pre installed session he says: cannot enter preinstalled sesson.
The bar went until 21%.

I already rewrote the iso on cd-r and cd-rw still the same problem.

What doe I have to do??

Thanx

---

### Post by TeeAhr1 on 2006-01-30
*kicking this up in the hope that someone more knowledgeable than Pete will tell you how to verify the integrity of your download*:rolleyes:

---

### Post by siegie on 2006-01-30
up:) ;)

---

### Post by siegie on 2006-01-30
I have some more info:

When he starts loading de preinstalled version he stops at configuring language.

I hope someone can help me.

---

### Post by siegie on 2006-01-31
no-one???

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-01-31
I had a similar problem, only it mostly froze on Timezone, not Language. You see, most CDRs manufactured these days are bad quality. You've probably got a bad block on the CD you're using. I burned two Live CDs which were only useful as drink coasters.

The trick is, buy the CDRs that are designed specifically for music. The packaging may say something like "For music", "for consumer", "for home audio CD recorders" or something like that. Try burning the image onto one of those, and even the most fussy CD drive will boot it.

Alternatively, go to ShipIt and request 1 PC, 1 64-Bit, and 1 Mac. In 3.5 weeks time or so, you'll be able to use your shiny new Live CD to test Ubuntu without problems.

---

### Post by siegie on 2006-01-31
ok

I'll rewrite on other cd-r

---

### Post by Bartender on 2006-01-31
Did you do the md5 checksum thing?  That and burning the .iso at a slower speed are the two things most often suggested at this point.

Are you doing this on a Windows machine?  Here's what I did.  I made a new folder under C:\ Drive, called it "Ubuntu", and when I downloaded the .iso I asked Firefox to save it to that folder.  Do you have the download in a convenient folder already?  Well, then, let's proceed to Step #2...
 
Here are the checksums for the six different Ubuntu downloads.  The checksums are those long alpha-numeric strings on the left. 

7fbe948be484ba2f4740ab6113890652  ubuntu-5.10-install-amd64.iso
126751a2dc5528c2f9044d9e4ee36d61  ubuntu-5.10-install-i386.iso
8886a26a1da1daa3669ed6e1253bd93b  ubuntu-5.10-install-powerpc.iso
8523ee4b5490c9b77ac4ec5e5a12b2f5  ubuntu-5.10-live-amd64.iso
49f36f8aef009d6403360de23b5a47d4  ubuntu-5.10-live-i386.iso
752c8d641ca486955c7747cac1c8a305  ubuntu-5.10-live-powerpc.iso

You downloaded the LiveCD .iso, right?  O.K., that's probably the 5th one, the "live-i386.iso".  The 4th one is for AMD64 and the 6th one is for a Mac.  Write it down or print it or whatever so you have it handy.  The first three are the install .iso's.  Six different md5's for six different downloads.  If, after we get this all worked out, you download the install .iso, the checksum for that download will be one of those first three.  O.K. so far?

I did all this on a Windows machine.  I think checking md5's on a Linux machine is easier if you know how to do it but I don't.  I scrounged around for a Windows md5 utility that was understandable and stumbled across md5summer.  I tried a coupla others but was unable to figure them out.

[http://www.md5summer.org/](http://www.md5summer.org/)

It took me a few tries, but I was actually able to use this.  It's pretty recognizable to a Windows-based intellect.  The "About" pages even give you some idea of what to expect.  Download the zipped file, expand it to your desktop, then double-click on it to open md5summer.  You get a Window-ish directory tree.  

Now how did I do this exactly?  Ummm - highlight the folder where you have your download, and ask md5summer to "Check", not "Verify" the md5 sum.  Another window popped up, I think, and you had to "Add" your file to the column on the right, then ask it to go.  I'm sorry these directions aren't clear, but it's almost 3:00 AM.  'Nother window pops up, showing the progress of the check.  It took a few minutes on my 3.0 GHz machine.  Md5summer generates a checksum of your download.  What we want to see is that the checksum generated by md5summer is exactly the same as the original from the list above.  Close doesn't count.  It must be identical.

So, check your download first.  If md5summer cranks out the exact same string of characters, the download was good.  Congratulations.

Then pop your burned CD in your drive, open md5summer again, and ask it to check the CD.  I didn't check my CD, just the download, but md5summer is supposed to read a CD exactly the same way as it does a folder on your hard drive.  If md5summer generates a checksum that doesn't match the original, try burning again.  Don't let your burn utility (Nero, Adaptec, NTI, whatever) burn at 40X.  If you can, crank it all the way down to 2X or even 1X.  I spun mine at 8X and it did just fine.  I always ask it to test, then write, instead of just writing.  If you burn it really slow you might want to go into "Settings" and turn your Power Management to "Always On" beforehand.  You can reset it when you're done. 

If both of your checksums (download and CD) matched the original, then - er - well, I better stop right there instead of taking wild guesses.  I'm just a newb.  Maybe someone else can help out if that's where we end up at.

---

