---
title: "Taskbar"
date: 2008-01-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by metaspore on 2008-01-30
I'm REALLY new to ubuntu/linux so this may sound silly.

My taskbar (the bottom of my screen) is acting odd. 
I cannot left click (or click) on the menu items (K menu, System, quick launch buttons, open windows) etc.
When i mouse over the tooltips activate by i cannot click.
It was working fine up until today.

KUbuntu 7.10

---

### Post by rubbsdecvik on 2008-01-30
What about the taskbar is locked?  Is it just that you can't move it, or is the whole thing frozen?

---

### Post by metaspore on 2008-01-30
I cant click any of the menu items.
right-click on the systray icons seems to work

I cant click on the time, K menu, System, quick launch buttons, open windows nor the Desktop "boxes".

Its seems there is a "mask" of sort preventing a left click operation on the icons/window boxes
cant move it either, although the "auto-hide" works

---

### Post by rubbsdecvik on 2008-01-30
Hmm... I haven't used KDE in a long time... so I"m not sure how much help I can be, but I'll try.

Have you tried restarting X11.  If not you can do this by hitting "CTRL-ALT-Backspace."  Be warned this will log you out, but you can log  back in again.

---

### Post by metaspore on 2008-01-30
I just tried that, no go.

I have a stalled sfps session it tries to open tho. This could be causing the lack of functionality in the task bar... i dunno 

Is there a way to "reset" all the desktop settings for kde?

I've tried CTRL-ALT-Backspace, rebooting, and starting a new session, no go either. :(

---

### Post by metaspore on 2008-01-30
Also in the top menu bar all my icons are behaving the same way.

The text menu items do function.

---

### Post by sumguy231 on 2008-01-30
> Is there a way to "reset" all the desktop settings for kde?
You can remove the .kde directory in your home folder to remove *everything*, but I get the feeling that removing ~/.kde/share/apps/kicker should do the job.

---

### Post by rubbsdecvik on 2008-01-30
> **sumguy231 said:**
> You can remove the .kde directory in your home folder to remove *everything*, but I get the feeling that removing ~/.kde/share/apps/kicker should do the job.

this sounds like the only way I can think of doing it too.

Here's how you do it.

open a terminal (if it's not possible to do this it's ok, I know how to help you still)

type in this command (Please Be careful because this will delete for good!)

```
rm ~/.kde/share/apps/kicker
```

Then restart X11 again and see if that works.

---

### Post by metaspore on 2008-01-30
No go either... :(

Its like the buttons are not even registering my click :( 
My left click mouse button shows the regular mouse over "info" (K menu Applications tasks and desktop sessions) but no clicky.

---

### Post by rubbsdecvik on 2008-01-30
OK... it might be a mouse thing.

Can you post your X11 file.  Just copy the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file into another post.

---

### Post by metaspore on 2008-01-30
Thanks a ton for your responses, good folks like make the world  go 'round.

Also I'm unable to alt-tab to the sftp app that is open. Im starting to think its konqueror


As reqested!!


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7800 GTX]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL 1905FP"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7800 GTX]"
	Monitor		"DELL 1905FP"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by rubbsdecvik on 2008-01-30
Hmm... everything seems to be in order there.

Maybe we have to delete the whole .kde folder.

I don't like that idea but i'm out of any others

```
rm -r ~/.kde/
```

---

### Post by metaspore on 2008-01-30
Well that worked!

Thanks for your help!
/cheers!

---

### Post by rubbsdecvik on 2008-01-30
Sorry it had to come to that.

Hope everything else works for you!

---

