---
title: "more modem glitches"
date: 2008-03-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by wildwoodbill on 2008-03-17
I tried the driver package for the Intel 537 modem but Ubuntu still wouldn't recognize it. It was funny though because Gnome PPP seemed to dial out okay. It got hung up on "authenticating".

An Agere OCM Serial Modem T156-2080 (Trendnet) with a serial to USB adaptor was recognized by Ubuntu but it too got "hung" on authenticating.

I've tried re-entering my user name and password but still can't get past "authenticating".

Am I missing something?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-03-17
maybe post your wvdial.conf sans username, password.

---

### Post by wildwoodbill on 2008-03-17
Thanks. 

036475372249
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56 
WvDial<Warn>: Warning: section [Dialer cofig] does not exist in wvdial.conf. 
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem. 
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ 
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 
WvDial<*1>: Re-Sending: ATZ 
WvDial<Err>: Modem not responding.

It's slowly coming together, if I can just get online! Hmph!

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-03-18
ok. that is an instance of wvdialconf trying to run. What I would like to see is the actual configuration file, found in   /etc/wvdial.conf

navigate to it using the file browser or enter this command in the terminal:```
cat /etc/wvdial.conf
```

if you find the file to be empty, or lacking configuration, run the command
```
sudo wvdialconf
```  be aware that the command to run wvdialconf does not have the "dot" separating wvdial & conf, whereas the path to the file does, ie. /etc/wvdial.conf

---

### Post by wildwoodbill on 2008-03-18
I got this from Gnome ppp Log and so I present it in it's entirety:
Hope it means something to you. Thanks.

wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!" 
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56 
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port. 
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem. 
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ 
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATZ 
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK 
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK 
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized. 
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L1DT6135679194 
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier. 
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATM1L1DT6135679194 
WvDial Modem<*1>: CONNECT 26400 V42bis 
WvDial Modem<*1>: belotwcnas08 line 95  
WvDial Modem<*1>: Unauthorized Access Prohibited 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Acces non-autorise interdit 
WvDial Modem<*1>: BELOTWCNAS08  
WvDial Modem<*1>: User Access Verification 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Username:  
WvDial<*1>: Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt. 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Username:  
WvDial<*1>: Looks like a login prompt. 
WvDial<*1>: Sending: b1eiih46 
WvDial Modem<*1>: b1eiih46 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Password:  
WvDial<*1>: Looks like a password prompt. 
WvDial<*1>: Sending: (password) 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Selection:  
WvDial Modem<*1>: Selection:  
WvDial Modem<*1>: Selection:  
WvDial Modem<*1>: Entering PPP mode. 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Async interface address is unnumbered (Ethernet0) 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Your IP address is 0.0.0.0. MTU is 1500 bytes 
WvDial Modem<*1>: Header compression is on. 
WvDial<*1>: Looks like a welcome message. 
WvDial<Notice>: Starting pppd at Tue Mar 18 22:34:31 2008 
WvDial<Err>: Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied 
WvDial<Err>: --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky. 
WvDial<Err>: Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied 
WvDial<Err>: --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky. 
WvDial<Notice>: Pid of pppd: 5579 
WvDial<*1>: Using interface ppp0 
WvDial<*1>: local  IP address 216.209.117.119 
WvDial<*1>: remote IP address 216.209.117.241 
WvDial<*1>: primary   DNS address 207.164.234.129 
WvDial<*1>: secondary DNS address 207.164.234.193

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-03-19
Looks like you successfully dialed out, registering a primary and secondary DNS.
If you are still having trouble, you can take a look at this as a temporary fix: [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/archive-sixth/msg04656.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/archive-sixth/msg04656.html)

I did once, use a script I found for touching pam authentication during the dial-out process. I will try to find it for you. Another thing I noticed, is that you may have eth0 enabled. This will compete with ppp0 and should be disabled in network manager while using dial-up.

I think we should also add some configuration to your wvdial.conf file...which you still haven't posted :)
It is located in /etc/wvdial.conf 
See if you have the line "Stupid Mode = yes," if not add it at the end of the file.

Ok. Here is the script i was talking about, though I am not sure you need it, as you appear to be dialing out.

```
Now we will use PAM to authenticate to gnome-ppp which will allow us to run it as a non-root user.

As root do the following:

1. move gnome-ppp to /usr/sbin

> mv /usr/bin/gnome-ppp /usr/sbin/

2. create gnome-ppp symlink in /usr/bin to consolehelper

> ln -sf /usr/bin/consolehelper /usr/bin/gnome-ppp

3. Now create the PAM script

cat > /etc/pam.d/gnome-ppp << EOF
#%PAM-1.0
auth sufficient /lib/security/pam_rootok.so
auth sufficient /lib/security/pam_timestamp.so
auth required /lib/security/pam_stack.so service=system-auth
session required /lib/security/pam_permit.so
session optional /lib/security/pam_xauth.so
session optional /lib/security/pam_timestamp.so
account required /lib/security/pam_permit.so
EOF


4. Next create console.app script

cat > /etc/security/console.apps/gnome-ppp << EOF
USER=root
PROGRAM=/usr/sbin/gnome-ppp
SESSION=true
EOF 
```

[http://www.gnomefiles.org/comment.php?soft_id=41](http://www.gnomefiles.org/comment.php?soft_id=41)

---

### Post by wildwoodbill on 2008-03-19
I ran your suggested commands from your 2nd post but only got "no such file or directory" with the cat, and "no such command" with the sudo. I'll look at the 2 links you suggested and see if I can get a friend to help me with the commands. I'm afraid it's still too much like gobbledeegook to me yet. I ran a "report" from gnome ppp using my onboard modem and although I couldn't actually see where it recognized the modem, it reported making a connection but kept getting dumped because of time outs trying to authenticate (user name, password?). Thanks again for your input as I'd be TOTALLY screwed by myself, as opposed to being only MOSTLY screwed. Bill

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-03-20
Internal modems and dial-up config files can be tricky in Linux.
If you got errors on those two commands, you must have had  typos. Each must be entered just as posted, preserving spaces and case.  You should also be able to run the command "sudo wvdial" without quotes of course, to connect. But the /etc/wvdial.conf file has to be configured correctly, and indeed it should auto configure when you run the command "sudo wvdialconf"

You can also navigate, graphically, to the wvdial.conf file by clicking, Places>>Computer>>File System>> Then select the file labeled "etc" and scroll all the way to the bottom. You will see what looks like a page of paper, labeled "wvdial.conf." Click that, and you can view the contents of the file. You cannot edit the file in this mode, however. To do that you need root permissions. You would open the file, for editing purposes,  by running the command ```
gksu gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
``` After making changes, you would save the file by clicking the little floppy disk image near the top of the window.
If you see semicolons at the beginning of the lines in your wvdial.conf file, this is a problem. Those semicolons are causing the lines to be ignored. Simply delete them. But based on your last post, it looks like you connected, so I am not sure what's going on. Anyway...

Hope you have success soon. If you can spare a few dollars, you might consider an external modem.

I don't know if you've seen this wiki: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto)
It offers links to instruction for 3 different methods...gnome-ppp, wvdial, or pppconfig. Note: gnome-ppp is basically wvdial with a GUI.

Your present issue does not appear to be a driver one. Your modem is recognized, and you are dialing. It appears to be an authentication problem. So, I speculate, your password and user ID are commented out in /etc/wvdial.conf, or Gnome-ppp is not running with root permission.

---

