---
title: "8.04 takes 5 minutes to boot -_-"
date: 2008-04-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Rioku on 2008-04-17
As it states in the title... 5 minutes to boot is horrible. I used wubi and have the choice of vista or ubuntu. Ubuntu works ok soon as your in the OS but it takes a horrible 5 minutes to boot... it shows the logo screen with loading bar.. and the loading bar freezes... for 5 mins then starts to continue loading again and then goes to the desktop.

Can anyone please help?

I have a slight feeling its to do with my laptops inbuilt camera...as after the load a few messages come up saying "cannot configure camera" and I had thise problem with any Ubuntu versions after 6.04 -_- .

maybe there is a way to stop it loading the camera ?

I am using a acer aspire 5634WLMI laptop
1.83ghz dual core 2
2gb ram
7300go nvidia 
120gb hdd

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-04-17
It is probably a hardware detection problem in general. Read the output of dmesg, run in a terminal. Look for a line that says something like "apic disabled by system bios." and much further down..."try adding lapic" If this is the case...or some other parameters suggested, edit the kernel line in /boot/grub/menu.lst bt removing quiet splash and replacing with lapic...or whatever is appropriate.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=757091](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=757091)

---

### Post by Rioku on 2008-04-17
I am a complete newbie with linux so I dont entireley understand your post sorry :S.

I can get to the kernel part and remove the words you mentioned but do i simple replace them with the word "lapic" ?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-04-17
Yes and save the file. You will need to be in superuser mode to actually have write permission in the file. Open and navigate to the file by running gksu nautilus in the terminal...
Also see this thread please: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=757728](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=757728)

---

### Post by Rioku on 2008-04-17
ok here is the output from the terminal

---

### Post by Rioku on 2008-04-17
bump

sorry.. is there any chance i can get a easy step by step instruction on what to do? Like i said previously im a complete newbie when it comes to this... i rarely use terminals in anything except osx but again VERY rarely.

Would be greatly appreciated. Hoping to get ubuntu completely set up for experimenting and also because it may come useful at Uni when I start in september

thanks again :) and thanks for the help so far.. i must be a very frustrating poster

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-04-17
well hardy is still a beta so issues will come up.
as for not having to use the terminal I am afraid linux is still a hands on experience for that.
I know the terminal can be annoying but for now its practically everyones way of fixing things.
But linux is always adapting

---

### Post by Rioku on 2008-04-17
yeah I understand thats what linux is all about but installing stuff isnt to bad with terminal. It is just these lines to add to or remove ect and not knowing what words mean or do is abit painful... lol

But im willing to learn. The Ubuntu interface and performance is great

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-04-17
install bootchart.  Reboot.  Post the chart created in /var/log/bootchart on here.  It might give us some clues as to what is being so slow.
```
sudo apt-get install bootchart
```

---

### Post by Rioku on 2008-04-17
I did what you said ran that in terminal rebooted. I cant seem to find the chart :S? can you push me in the right direction. I ran a search too with the search feature but it didnt show anything up.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-04-17
type **bootchart **in terminal

---

### Post by gitpik on 2008-04-17
I found mine in /var/log/bootchart/ and it was a .png image file here's what I got. :)

---

### Post by mcarni on 2008-07-22
Hi,

I-m not sure it will help, but suddenly my boot time went from 40-50 secs to several minutes.

I found that the problem was the in-built camera detection, have a check at the following.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5436761&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5436761&postcount=2)

Hope it helps

M

---

