---
title: "6.06 v 7.04"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-06-13
I've been around for a while now, and was wondering. Some people are use the LTS instead of 7.04. What would the advantages/disadvantages be?

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2007-06-13
> **Nekiruhs said:**
> I've been around for a while now, and was wondering. Some people are use the LTS instead of 7.04. What would the advantages/disadvantages be?

for me, i see no need to change every six months. i've got 6.06 working like i want it. i'll do a clean install of the next lts version.

---

### Post by ajskhan on 2007-06-13
How often do they update?

---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-06-13
Every 3 years for LTS I think. The regular Ubuntu releases every 6 months.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-06-13
If you have Dapper working on older hardware (5-10 years old) then it's a good idea to stick with it.  If you have newer hardware, or Dapper won't recognize your mega-SATA-RAID disk, then it's time to move to Feisty.

The applications run the same on both distros.  The OS is just a platform for the applications to run.  Use the distro that works on your hardware and be happy.

---

### Post by rich.bradshaw on 2007-06-13
I don't really see the point of staying with 6.06, I wouldn't say Feisty was unstable, and lot's of things are much easier to set up. (Wireless/Ntfs/Codecs etc etc)

---

### Post by Zzl1xndd on 2007-06-13
> **tgalati4 said:**
> If you have Dapper working on older hardware (5-10 years old) then it's a good idea to stick with it.  If you have newer hardware, or Dapper won't recognize your mega-SATA-RAID disk, then it's time to move to Feisty.

The applications run the same on both distros.  The OS is just a platform for the applications to run.  Use the distro that works on your hardware and be happy.

Iv gotta agree here I have a couple of 1 gig machines and 6.06 works way better on them then 7.04 although I would not go back to 6.06 on my main desktop or my Laptop.

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2007-06-13
There is no reason to update to 7.04 if you're happy with your 6.06 LTS - I did it to keep up and be able to do support for the latest and greatest

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-06-13
I also have SUSE, Freespire, DSL, and Dynebolic running on machines in my house.  They all work and do what I want them to do.  Trying to load Feisty on all of those machines would be a pain.

You have to weigh the time spent reconfiguring a machine versus what the machine is currently doing.  If you have a spare machine, then you can change distros weekly.

---

