---
title: "6.1 server lamp install includes samba?"
date: 2007-04-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-04-13
I've had a Mandrake 9.2 installation for about 3 years. I had to get a new mouse but could not figure out how to get it working so have been exclusively accessing my linux box via secure crt. I know a little linux now but stiill consider myself a riookie.

I recently tried to upgrade mysql & php as the version was too old for the app I was using and it just got too messy with all these dependencies and it seems time to reinstall now.

My uses of the linux box are :
- a home server to run some mysql/php apps and some html pages for in house use
- a samba server accessible by our windows machines for backlups

I was wondering what distribution to install and some sites pointed me to unumtu. I have downloaded 6.1 server and burned a cd. I want to check that the lamp install option will also setup samba for me>

Thanks a lot,

Tom.

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-04-13
I don't think it will install samba automatically, but it is easy to install once you have your system running:

sudo apt-get install samba smbfs

You will have to configure the samba server after that.

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-04-13
Thanks. Going to take a deep breath now and give it a go :)

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-04-13
First issue! Put the cd in but a fresh boot does not boot to cd but the mandrake login comes up. I can access the box over securecrt (no mouse). What do I have to do to get it to boot to cd? Thanks.

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-04-13
Enter your BIOS setup, make sure that the boot order is set to boot the CD before the hard disk. To get to BIOS setup, you usually press a function key (F2, or F12) or sometimes delete at the very first splash screen when your computer is turned on. Sometimes it says which key on the splash screen, sometimes you have to check your computer's manual, or google it.

---

### Post by boardtc on 2007-04-13
Thanks a lot. I got in. 

Ok it installed very easy, I wiped the existing installation. I choose lamp package and when finished did a samba install as you instructed. It now is looking for ubunu server 6.10 _edgy eft_ release 1386 in /cdrom and keeps asking for it when I hit enter with the ubunto cd in the tray. What do I need to do? 

I was expecting a graphical interface even with the server edition but it seems not. I guess I was spoiled with mandrake that way..

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-04-13
If you have enough space and memory, it is easy to install a graphical interface. This thread has a good discussion of the pros and cons of using the Ubuntu or Xubuntu interfaces:

[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?t=463053](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?t=463053)

I don't know what process is asking for the CD. Can you just cancel out? One possibility is that the process asking for the CD expects it to be mounted. You can try to mount the CD first, using the mount command:

**sudo mount -t iso9660 -o ro /dev/hdc /media/cdrom**

You can also edit your /etc/fstab file to put in an instruction to automatically mount the CD ROM when you put in a disk:

**/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom   udf,iso9660 user,auto     0       0**

I think that automounting of the CD might not be implemented in the server install, because of security concerns.

---

