---
title: "7.10 and New Sony N38 laptop"
date: 2007-11-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by epa611 on 2007-11-01
Hi folks,

I'm considering a clean install of 7.10 in my new laptop whjich came installed with Vista Home Premium.  It is so slow and clunky that I just want rid of it.  Should I do a clean install (how?) or a dual boot?

Also, are there any potential problems I should know about?

I also want to use my Netgear DG834N Draft N router adn the new W711 Draft N wireless card when it becomes available in the UK -  until then, I'll need to keep using the wirless card built into the Sony.

Any hints before I do this? :confused:

Thanks... Paul

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-01
Do you want get rid of Vista or dual boot?
[http://www.howtoforge.com/dual_boot_windows_xp_vista_ubuntu_feisty_p2?](http://www.howtoforge.com/dual_boot_windows_xp_vista_ubuntu_feisty_p2?)

---

### Post by epa611 on 2007-11-01
I'd like to get rid of Vista, but a bit nervous doing it.  I'll probably get a live disc, try that, dual boot for a while and if no problems then go for a clean install with no Vista.

TIA.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-11-01
> **epa611 said:**
> I'd like to get rid of Vista, but a bit nervous doing it.  I'll probably get a live disc, try that, dual boot for a while and if no problems then go for a clean install with no Vista.

TIA.seems like the best thing to do.

---

### Post by josh air balloon on 2007-11-01
I just went through the same thing (i have a dell inspiron 1501 and just switched from vista).  I suggest getting a ubuntu book from thebookstore.  Its very helpful and comes with a live cd (install disk) with ubuntu on it.  Its very easy and takes you step by step, and is very helpful if you are new to linux as a whole (like I was).  

I did a dool boot though, that way I would be able to move my music files and other files over from windows.

---

