---
title: "Nvidia 169.04 &amp; 8800GT HELP!! ARGH!"
date: 2007-12-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
hi all, ive been tryin to get these drivers working on my 8800GT for ages now, i have successfully installed the drivers but it doesnt seem to make a difference, if i go to nvidia x server setting it just tells me i am not running the nvidia xconfig, so i run nvidia-xconfig as root and it says the file was copied, retart X and nothing changes..
help?
:confused:

---

### Post by spydon on 2007-12-12
Try out this command:
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-12
Well, I just installed the drivers via the restriction driver pop-up, and check in /etc/X11/xorg.conf if the driver did change from nv to nvidia. You can do that by;
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

[ctrl]+[o] save
[ctrl]+[x] exit

(got a 8800 card as well).

---

### Post by Law506 on 2007-12-12
if your on 7.10 then the restricted driver should do the job, no need for the downloaded one.

then to change settings just open up a terminal and type

gksudo nvidia-settings

solved my 8600GTS problem a little while back.

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
the 8800GT is different, its not on restricted drivers

---

### Post by Law506 on 2007-12-12
oh, well... disregard :)

---

### Post by skymera on 2007-12-12
use:

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
alredy tried that, doesnt work for 8800gt

---

### Post by skymera on 2007-12-12
o, perhaps becuase its a new card.

hmmm, have you tried the driver off the nVidia webstie?

i know its not the best, nor the msot practical, but the only alternative i can see from Envy and Restricted masnager.

good luck getting it going.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-12
> **DeltaUK said:**
> the 8800GT is different, its not on restricted drivers

Please post the step you did, trying to install the nvidia driver.

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
thats what im trying to do, the linux 169.04 driver form nvidia website, i have no problem installing the driver, but the xconfig dont work

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-12
But how? The commands etc.

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
ctrl alt F1
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo sh drivername.run

let it install

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-12
...and you have the right tools and libs installed?

```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential gcc gcc-3.4 xserver-xorg-dev
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-xxxx-pkg1.run
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*

whats the *?

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-12
* alone means everything
nvidia-* means everything that starts with nividia- so it could be nvidia-1 nvidia-jhgjhgd nvidia-12345
*test meand everything that ends on test

The command will delete if there's any leftovers of nvidia.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-12-12
Just copy and paste each line from AI's instructions.

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
ok i did that, driver installed. but didnt work.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-12
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
(displaying your xorg.conf)

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (matt@Z-Machine)  Wed Dec 12 18:09:20 GMT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "screen1" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Failsafe Monitor"
    VendorName     "Plug 'n' Play"
    ModelName      "Plug 'n' Play"
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

 # 
    Identifier     "monitor1"
    VendorName     "Generic LCD Display"
    ModelName      "LCD Panel 1440x900"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 56.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 65.0
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Failsafe Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA"
    BoardName      "NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"

 # 
    Identifier     "device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA"
    BoardName      "NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
    BusID          "PCI:10:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Failsafe Device"
    Monitor        "Failsafe Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     640 480
        Depth       24
        Modes      "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

 # 
    Identifier     "screen1"
    Device         "device1"
    Monitor        "monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "640x480@60" "800x600@56" "800x600@60" "1024x768@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-12
Two cards and two screens?

---

### Post by DeltaUK on 2007-12-12
its becuz i have an SLi setup, yes i have 2 cards, but becuz its not using SLi ubuntu says they are 2 screens.
anyway i just stopped x and started it and now i cant get any GUI at all from linux, not even recovery mode works now, i think i just killed my linux

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-12-13
boot up in failsafe, then:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and change the driver back either to nv or vesa instead of nvidia

---

### Post by Cresho on 2007-12-15
I'm having same issues.  I recently changed memory and hardrive and cannot reinstall.  I was fine before.  No problems installing the beta drivers.  NOthing works.

---

### Post by Cresho on 2007-12-15
okay, now im reading a thread about build-essential recently being updated and breaking the 169 beta driver install.  i been at this for 16 hours now.

here are my steps though mileage will vary.

1. fix software sources "Download from" usa to main server.  update the resources.  It is in Administration->Software Sources.
2. sudo apt-get install automake1.9 build-essential cvs libpango1.0-dev libgtk2.0-dev libgconf2-dev libglitz-glx-dev librsvg2-dev checkinstall libglade2-dev xserver-xorg-dev
3. uninstall in synaptic nvidia kernel common.  Do a search. apply the changes before exiting synaptic
4. download the driver from nvidia  [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=102509](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=102509)
5. log out of ubuntu after download is finished
6. hit ctrl+alt+F1
7. log into your username at the prompt in terminal
8. then in terminal cd /home/yourusername/Desktop
9. ls (just to see if your in the right directory where you downloaded the file in firefox)
10. sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
11. sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.04-pkg1.run (ignore the question or say no to kernel download during instal and have nvidia xconfig update the x)
12. "sudo reboot" in the terminal
13. add startup file to system->preference->sessions "nvidia-settings --load-config-only"
14. color correction is under system tools->nvidia x server settings. 1.240 for gamma correction under "x server color correction contrast  4096 sync to vblank"
15. sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and add this line to it.

add this to this section "Option         "NoLogo" "true""


Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "true"
EndSection

16. test in terminal glxgears

---

### Post by UBCToad on 2007-12-15
Hi all,
I know this thread it getting a little dead but I'm guessing there are still several people who are having this issue.

From what I've read here are things to do that may or may not get this working (for me this has not worked):

1. Uninstalled Previous NVidia Drivers.
sudo nvidia-installer --uninstall
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*

2. Verified you have all the required software.
[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/169.04/README/chapter-02.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/169.04/README/chapter-02.html)
Note: glibc reported 6, not > 6.
Ubuntu ships with Xorg not XFree86.

3. Verify Kernel Sources, Header, and Devel packages are installed.
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential gcc gcc-3.4 xserver-xorg-dev

4. Quit X.
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

5. Installed the NVidia Drivers:
   sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-169.04-pkg2.run

6. Verify the installed files are in the correct place
[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/169.04/README/chapter-05.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/169.04/README/chapter-05.html)
Note: Your lib modules will be in /usr/lib/xorg/modules.
On my machine the following file does not have a .o extension as is suggested.
/lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/kernel/drivers/video/nvidia.ko

7. startx -- -logverbose 5
CHECK THE OUTPUT.  In order for people to help resolve a problem they need to know a lot of information about a problem.  This includes error messages seen.
The error messages I am receiving are
sh: /sbin/lrm-video: not found
(EE)NVIDIA(0): Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module!
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

The Xorg.0.log file does not show much more than this...
...
(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
        compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
        Module class: X.Org Server Extension
        ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 0.1
(II) NVIDIA GLX Module  169.04  Wed Nov 14 16:42:27 PST 2007
(II) Loading extension GLX
...
(II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nvidia_drv.so
(II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
        compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.0
        Module class: X.Org Video Driver
...
(II) v4l driver for Video4Linux
(II) NVIDIA dlloader X Driver  169.04  Wed Nov 14 16:04:03 PST 2007
(II) NVIDIA Unified Driver for all Supported NVIDIA GPUs
(II) Primary Device is: PCI 03:00:0
(--) Assigning device section with no busID to primary device
(--) Chipset NVIDIA GPU found
(II) NVIDIA(0): Found 1 NVIDIA X Screens
(II) Loading sub module "fb"
(II) LoadModule: "fb"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libfb.so
(II) Module fb: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
        compiled for 1.3.0, module version = 1.0.0
        ABI class: X.Org ANSI C Emulation, version 0.3
(II) Loading sub module "wfb"
(II) LoadModule: "wfb"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libwfb.so
(II) Module wfb: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
        compiled for 7.1.99.2, module version = 1.0.0
...
(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(**) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using HW cursor
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(==) NVIDIA(0): Video key set to default value of 0x101fe
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module!
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) UnloadModule: "wfb"
(II) UnloadModule: "fb"
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

If anyone has any ideas or finds a solution please keep this thread alive.

Thanks,
Adam.

---

### Post by Cresho on 2007-12-15
okay...now my nvidia works.  appearantly, i had to use synaptic, do a search for nvidia and mark for installation of nvidia kernel common was removed.  i am going to reinstall again and ill clean up my posts in this thread.  ill post the steps i used.  updated...steps are above this last post

---

### Post by Rupertronco on 2007-12-15
SLi on 8800s does not work with the Linux drivers. Therein lies your problem. You're going to have to take your cards out of SLi, either remove the bridge or take one out in order to get proper 3d.  

There are some who claim it works, but I've been trying for 8 months now with my 8800gtx setup and have had close calls, but nothing that's stable and viable. I just put my SLi bridge back on when I feel like gaming and actually boot windows.

---

### Post by UBCToad on 2007-12-15
> **Cresho said:**
> okay...now my nvidia works.
Yay mine works too.  I'm not sure about all of the features but the basic output is definitely working now!

---

### Post by Discombobulated on 2008-02-17
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> ...and you have the right tools and libs installed?

```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential gcc gcc-3.4 xserver-xorg-dev
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-xxxx-pkg1.run
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Worked for me - thanks! :)

---

