---
title: ".pl installation"
date: 2008-01-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by thomseddon on 2008-01-06
i am really new to Linux, hence why i am grazing this sub forum,

but i saw this little program that i wanted to install, so i downloaded the .tgz file and extracted it and everything but was met with 3 files all ending in .pl a 'manual' which just boasted the authors other ventures and a change log, and i have been searching the internet far and wide so no avail,

i have established that this is a perl file?
and that you are meant to use a program called perl to compile a .pl file but i try to run the file with perl and nothing happens?

i presume that the app is installed? try the "Alt F2" it is not there?

as i scour the web in search of some help all i find is, "use perl to install"

im sorry if i am being ignorant but i just cannot find a useful instruction anywhere,

many thanks :)

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-01-06
Installing perl files amounts to putting them some where and then remembering where you put them. Perl files can be run from anywhere. To run them open up a terminal: (this step only needs to be done once per file)
```

chmod +x ./something.pl

```
This tells the system that the file is a program and should be allowed to execute. Then to run it:
```

./something.pl

```
The system will use magic (yes that's what it's actually called) to figure out what type of file it is and then run it as needed.

---

### Post by thomseddon on 2008-01-06
Thank you very much i understand it more now...

thanks

---

