---
title: "Low Refresh Rate with Nvidia 1.0-9629"
date: 2006-11-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by shanepardue on 2006-11-13
While running 1.0.9629, my refresh rate in screen resolution settings only
allows for 54hz and the display is choppy. I don't have problems with older
Nvidia drivers, but unfortunately, AIGLX won't run on those drivers and XGL 
is having problems with Edgy.

My video card is an fx 5500 256mb. This shouldn't be getting this bad of
performance. Here is my hacked xorg.conf. I've tried to force 75hz, but it 
doesn't seem to help.

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Nov  1 19:48:08 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic G810-3"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 97.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 180.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    # 1600x1200 @ 75.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 93.97 kHz; pclk: 205.99 MHz
    Modeline "1600x1200_75.00" 205.99 1600 1720 1896 2192 1200 1201 1204 1253 -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5500"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    Option    "AddARGBGLXVisuals"    "true"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1600x1200_75 +0+0; 1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by ReaderRat on 2006-11-13
nVIDIA - (Resolution {stuck @ low res.} & Refresh Rate)
          **[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=289269&highlight=modeline](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=289269&highlight=modeline)**
This may help...

---

### Post by shanepardue on 2006-11-13
Yeah, I've seen that thread and I have a modeline in my xorg already. I
changed the colors to 16 and that made things much faster as they used 
to be, but of course 16 colors won't play well with AIGLX and should not be
 needed to run my video card at it's best.

I believe Ubuntu is not recognizing my hardware. It shows it as generic 
video card in the xserver-xorg reconfiguration.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by ReaderRat on 2006-11-13
There are a number of posts about this problem. Try 'Tags', if you haven't alraedy. Sorry I could not help.

---

### Post by shanepardue on 2006-11-14
I'm sorry, 'tags'? I'm not following. I DO appreciate your help!!

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-11-14
> **shanepardue said:**
> I'm sorry, 'tags'? I'm not following. I DO appreciate your help!!

It is a new feature (tags)

At the top of this thread is a "box" called "tags"

Click say nvidia and viola - instant search on nvidia.....

good luck....

---

### Post by igknighted on 2006-11-14
I've got the same card (but with 128mb) and have run into the same issue... It's weird tho, because I have maxed it at 54hz and 50hz on seperate installs, and I'm not sure what was different.  I've got a mandriva partition that runs XGL off the old drivers just fine... it's just been a screwy card

---

### Post by shanepardue on 2006-11-19
ehh, I decided to go back to an old driver and settle with XGL. It runs best 
for me that way.

---

### Post by CyberAngel on 2006-11-30
If you open nvidia-settings it has the right display modes but I don`t know how to make it default :(

---

### Post by CyberAngel on 2006-11-30
OK here is a workaround that works (at least for me)
I am using Kubuntu and when I am going to "Monitor & Display" the only refresh rates that are availiable to me (After upgrade to nvidia latest drivers) are 50Hz, 52Hz, 66Hz, 67Hz. If I set the refresh rate to 67Hz it is actually setting the display to 60Hz.
I found A useful command that it tells you the "real" refresh rate.
```
nvidia-settings -q RefreshRate
```
If you run the above command you will see an output similar to the following:
> ~$ nvidia-settings -q RefreshRate

  Attribute 'RefreshRate' (aurora:0.0; display device: CRT-0): 85.02 Hz.
    'RefreshRate' is an integer attribute.
    'RefreshRate' is a read-only attribute.
    'RefreshRate' is display device specific.
    'RefreshRate' can use the following target types: X Screen, GPU.


After changed through the four availiable refresh rates I found that 85Hz@1280x1024 is when I set it as 52Hz :)


As I said in my previous post you can set the right refresh rate through the nvidia-settings panel but if tou restart X it is losing the settings so it is not so useful.
BTW The new nvidia-settings panel is much better than the previous one :)

---

### Post by shanepardue on 2006-11-30
I responded to your thread on the nvidia forum, but I'll reply here also.

You can keep the settings if you write the changes from nvidia settings to your xorg. the option is available in the nvidia settings interface. If it still doesn't stick, try opening nvidia-settings through the command with the sudo command.

---

### Post by CyberAngel on 2006-12-01
> **shanepardue said:**
> I responded to your thread on the nvidia forum, but I'll reply here also.

You can keep the settings if you write the changes from nvidia settings to your xorg. the option is available in the nvidia settings interface. If it still doesn't stick, try opening nvidia-settings through the command with the sudo command.

Yes, but if I do that it is a creating an xorg.conf with minimal options.. 
I have messed it up a little :)
Anyway I checked from the preview of nvidia-settings what it wants to save into xorg.conf and I coppied the missing lines but no different behavior :(
The only one it was that the system fonts became normal again! (After the drivers upgrade they grew up :) )

---

### Post by gent_k on 2006-12-02
I have the same problem, but I think it's really just a problem with the "screen resolution" preference not displaying the correct refresh rate, because when i select 75 hz in nvidia-settings it displays it az 91 hz in the "screen resolution" in UBuntu (which my monitor doesn't even support, and when it's on "auto" at nvidia-settings (but 75hz in reality) it displays it as 50 on Ubuntu.

so something weird going on, but the 'real' refresh rate seems to be fine.

---

### Post by ChrisNiemy on 2006-12-09
In 1.0-9631 this bug is still not fixed. :(

Have the same problem here on edgy. Since the 9xxx-driver series.

However, refresh rate is fine at 85Hz, but e.g. gnome-display-properties will show only 50Hz. That's weird.

Can someone post with a more technical background can post a bug here:
[NVIDIA Linux Forum](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14)

---

### Post by FaceLeg on 2007-03-03
!

I wasted 3 hours trying to fix this!

I broke Ubuntu several times, and had to use command line to fix it.

You are right, if you use the nvidia-settings panel to save, it just deletes your custom xorg.conf and creates a new one...without all the additions for beryl.

Beryl is incredible, if you haven't tried it...  Vista ...*snigger*...

Oh and I can run all my *Windows only* study software through Wine.  Heh heh Thanks Ubuntu!

And thanks CyberAngel, I can finally go to sleep!

:D

---

### Post by CyberAngel on 2007-03-03
> **FaceLeg said:**
> .....
And thanks CyberAngel, I can finally go to sleep!
:D

You `re Welcome :)
I am happy that my post helped another one to go to sleep :lolflag:

---

### Post by starNIX on 2007-07-28
I GOT IT!!!!

Run nvidia-settings with sudo and it will work.

At least it worked for me.

---

