---
title: "Problem Changing Permissions"
date: 2008-01-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2008-01-07
I have a NTFS internal disk that I use for all data (doesn't matter if I trash the operating system).

I have different folders for different users and want them to be private/secure.

I had problems [[COLOR="Red"]before[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=483300") when I started using Ubuntu for the first time, but got them sorted out thanks to great advice.

I've installed (clean) Gutsy and [B]can't change permissions using sudo nautilus. 
[/B]
Can anyone help?

fstab:

 /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=8023d29d-dae4-4a9c-b7c9-c620fcf1bb62 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=8241cb8f-6934-4d2e-b63e-2b808de6742e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
**UUID=7634751C3474E113 /mnt/Documents/ ntfs-3g gid=1000,umask=007, 0 0**

The drive in question is in bold. I want the folders below "Documents" to be accessed by different users, at present all the information is seen by my original user.

Any help much appreciated!!

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-01-07
What's the output of this?:
```
ls -l /mnt/Documents
```

---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2008-01-08
p

michael@michael:~$ ls -l /mnt/Documents
total 0
drwxrwx--- 1 root michael 0 2007-11-11 23:35 Admint
drwxrwx--- 1 root michael 0 2007-11-21 03:13 Stuff
michael@michael:~$ 

The Stuff folder I want accessed exclusively by michael, the Admint folder I want exclusively accessed by admint.

Thanks for your interest

Michael

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-01-08
Presuming that "admint" is the *exact* name of the user you want to have access to that folder, this command will do the trick:
```
sudo chown -R root:admint /mnt/Documents/Admint
```
You may also need to set the GID, so that new files and directories will automatically belong to this user:
```
sudo chmod g+s /mnt/Documents/Admint
```

---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2008-01-08
Tried those commands (twice) and it hasn't made any difference (I restarted after one of the attempts). When I input the commands I got no screen response, only the reappearance of "michael@michael:~$" 

admint (user - exact spelling) can't see Documents/Admint - in fact can't even open the Documents folder, and michael still sees everything.

Checked permissions in Nautilus and they are still the same. 

Further ideas appreciated!!

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-01-08
I'm not sure I understand what you mean by "no response" . . . did you get a password prompt after enter the command? Did it say "command not found"? Or simply nothing?

---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2008-01-10
Yes, after I input the command I got the password prompt, input the password, and then the immediate next line was the reappearance of the "michael@michael:~$" prompt.

There was no "command not found" and no response/confirmation that something had happened eg: "command actioned" or a blurb of information that you sometimes get.

It's almost as if the command is being ignored or overruled, just as when I tried to change the permissions in sudo nautilus, they automatically revert to what already existed.

---

