---
title: "........confused........"
date: 2006-04-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-04-13
I just uninstalled the kubuntu desktop from synaptic, along with kubuntu-artwork-uspalsh, and kubuntu-default-settings. then i log out and it takes me to a sort of minimalized version of the kubuntu login screen. 
shouldn't the ubuntu login screen appear? how do I change it?

---

### Post by vyruss on 2006-04-13
[QUOTE=erik1397]I just uninstalled the kubuntu desktop from synaptic, along with kubuntu-artwork-uspalsh, and kubuntu-default-settings. then i log out and it takes me to a sort of minimalized version of the kubuntu login screen. 
shouldn't the ubuntu login screen appear? how do I change it?[/QUOTE]

Unfortunately, removing kubuntu-desktop does not get rid of KDE from your system. You will have to do that by hand by removing the installed packages (and probably reinstalling ubuntu-desktop and the packages it depends on). I'm sure I've seen a HOWTO here in the forums, if you search you can find it.

---

### Post by Sutekh on 2006-04-13
How did you remove kubuntu? Did you use Synaptic to remove kubuntu-desktop or did you find and remove each and every package?

I think you should read this thread

[Ubuntu Forums - Howto Fully Uninstall the kubuntu-desktop meta-package](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=96048)

Try this first, it might fix the splash screen aswell. If not, you can change it back to the brown Ubuntu one, using
```
sudo update-alternatives --config usplash-artwork.so
```
You get an output like
```
user@ubuntu:~$ sudo update-alternatives --config usplash-artwork.so
Password:

There are 3 alternatives which provide `usplash-artwork.so'.

  Selection    Alternative
-----------------------------------------------
*     1        /usr/lib/usplash/usplash-default.so
 +    2        /usr/lib/usplash/kubuntu-splash.so
      3        /usr/lib/usplash/xubuntu-splash.so

Press enter to keep the default[*], or type selection number:

```

Then you can go ahead and change that splash screen

---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-04-14
Thanks guys for all the replies.

---

