---
title: "7.10 kubuntu  hell"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by wheels. on 2007-10-23
Here is my problem(s) with 7.10
hardware: Toshiba Sattelite Laptop
Ati Radeon X200
thats about all the exciting stuff anyway.
But:
Install went perfectly flawless, quick, no errors.
Reboot, remove the cd and grub boots kubuntu, first of all there is no splash or loading bar that I got with previous versions so I hit alt f4 to see whats going on, its still booting up but I guess I just don't get a splash screen, no big deal.
Get to the log in window and everything is out of wack, The text is about a hundred sizes too big but everything else is normal!! Ok thats strange,
Log in and go to connect to my wireless network enter my WEP passphrase and it is connecting, and when it gets to 57% it asks me again I tell it, and it goes and assigns an IP then dissconnects and asks for the password again!
So I can't get on the net ok no biggy take security off of my network, 
Click on the K menu to open some programs and all the entries are screwed up, Instead of Kate it will say something like Kmenu entry for program blah blah kate.
So I open a program and then it freezes.

So I said screw this and ran another install same thing!!
Switched to my desktop rechecked md5 sums and burned a new disk.
Installed again! Same Thing!
Verified the data on the disc after burning and it all checks out and there are no errors during installation. 
Can anyone give me any idea what is going on?
I have had no problems with previous releases and am quite excited to try this!

---

