---
title: "7.10 or 8.04"
date: 2008-03-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ism. on 2008-03-31
Hey guys i have a quick question.  I am going to install Ubuntu on an old Sony Vio and i was hoping that someone with much more Linux smarts, skills, and experience could tell me if i should go for the 7.10 or wait a couple of days and get the 8.04.  I wont have the internet on that computer for awhile.  Thanks for the advice in advanced

ism.

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-03-31
> **ism. said:**
> Hey guys i have a quick question.  I am going to install Ubuntu on an old Sony Vio and i was hoping that someone with much more Linux smarts, skills, and experience could tell me if i should go for the 7.10 or wait a couple of days and get the 8.04.  I wont have the internet on that computer for awhile.  Thanks for the advice in advanced

ism.

get 7.10 you can upgrade to Hardy later next month. if you don't have a internet connection for awhile its not worth messing with the Beta version of Hardy IMHO

---

### Post by ism. on 2008-03-31
ok that sounds pretty good.  Thanks Oldsoldier for the advice

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2008-03-31
you would still need the internet to install the umpteen updates that have been made available ever since 7.10 was launched.

Hopefully everything will work for you :)

---

### Post by mrsudo on 2008-03-31
definately choose 7.10 
it is more stable than 8.04 right now

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-03-31
I'd say 8.04 and if you have troubles try 7.10

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2008-03-31
I as well say try the Beta and if any problems go back to 7.10. You could like it better that way. Try them both and see. :)

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-03-31
better go with 7.10 ... even though 8.04 is LTS it will have quite a few bugs which will take time to resolve.. and you will need internet to update those bug fixes .. so 7.10 is better..

---

### Post by luceerose on 2008-03-31
I've been using the pre-release of 8.04 for what seems like months.
And I have to tell you, I have had far less issues from 8.04 than I had with 7.10.

The only trouble I ever had with 8.04 was an update that gave me a blank desktop. I simply waited for the next update (less than an hour later) and installed it via command line and everything was fine. I was also installing pre-released & unsupported updates as well, so you can expect things like that to happen. After that, I deselected 'pre-released updates' & 'unsupported updates', and from then on I have been completely issue-free with 8.04.

Everything else has been so much smoother & easier than it was under 7.10.
8.04 has given me so little trouble that I actually depend on it on my primary machine. I have run Kubuntu 5.10 / 6.04 / 7.10 / 8.04, Xubuntu 7.10, Ubuntu, 7.10 / 8.04, Debian Sarge, Windows 3.10 / 3.11 / 95 / 98 / XP, & a few smaller Linuxes like Puppy, DSL, etc...
and I consider Ubuntu 8.04 the most stable, productive and problem-free OS I have ever run.

However, I would caution you to stay clear of pre-releases of Kubuntu. I have had problems with them, eg. my graphics drivers wouldn't install under Kubuntu 8.04 whereas in Ubuntu 8.04 it happened pretty much automagically. Kubuntu seems to adapt updates later than plain Ubuntu, or something.
I don't know if anyone else has actually had bad experiences with Ubuntu 8.04, but my time with it has been good to me.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-03-31
8.04 just supports more hardware also... so it's my first choice... only if that fails I'd go a step back.

---

### Post by luceerose on 2008-03-31
> **hyper_ch said:**
> 8.04 just supports more hardware also... so it's my first choice... only if that fails I'd go a step back.

Yes 8.04 recognized my Canon MP780 automagically.

Under 7.10 I had to install 5 gutenprint packages and then took hours to figure out that I needed the hal-cups-utils package as well.

One of those magic moments in Hardy History that I was talking about.
:guitar:

---

### Post by anaconda on 2008-03-31
I would choose the 8.04.. That way you would need to download a LOT less..

If you install 7.10 now you will first have to DL 7.10  install disk ~700MB then all the updates for 7.10 ~300MB then when you upgrade to 8.04 you would need to DL Hardys upgrade stuff ~700MB.

..

---

### Post by ism. on 2008-04-01
Well wow guys.  I never thought i'd get this many opinions hahaha.Thanks!  Well i decided half because of the great points made and have because i'm not very patient and wanted somthing fast, that im going to try the 8.10 Beta and see if i have to many problems.  If i do then i'll switch back before the internet on THAT computer is gone.  Thankyou guys so much for the great points,ideas, and opinions.  

ism.

---

### Post by joshrobinson on 2008-04-01
if you have any problems with hardy (8.04), youll want to post your questions in this forum

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305")

its specific to this version of ubuntu until its official release date

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-04-01
> **ism. said:**
> that im going to try the 8.10 Beta

Release date is april 2008 hence it's 8.04 ^^

---

### Post by ism. on 2008-04-01
sorry. i meant the beta.

---

### Post by tango_ninja on 2008-04-01
Just remember, f you choose 8.04 and have problems your threads shouldn't go in the general forums for another couple weeks :)

---

### Post by ism. on 2008-04-01
ok thanks for the advice i'll rember that

---

### Post by ghost_ryder35 on 2008-04-01
8.04 rocks my world, except Network Manager hates my bcm43xx card... at least for now :)

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-04-01
I'd try 8.04, it has a few minor bugs, but it seems at lot more stable than 7.10, at least for me :)

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-04-01
> **ghost_ryder35 said:**
> 8.04 rocks my world, except Network Manager hates my bcm43xx card... at least for now :)

Have you tried [Wicd]("http://wicd.sourceforge.net/")? I had the same problem on my laptop and I installed Wicd and everything works perfectly now :)

---

