---
title: "6.06 or 6.10 and 386 or 686?"
date: 2007-02-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by TekMuzik on 2007-02-16
I used Ubuntu 6.06 for about a month before and enjoyed it, but I recently bought a 320GB SATA hard drive, and rather than do a disk clone I opted to just reinstall windows and Ubuntu. I'm pretty new to Linux, but very good with computers and windows in general. Now my question is, in the community's opinion, should I download 6.06 again, or try 6.10? I use the forums and Google for all my support questions, so I'm not sure what the "Long Term Support" that 6.06 has is, but I probably won't be using it. Which is better in your opinion?

Second question. I have a Pentium 4 2.8GHz with NO hyper-threading. Should I install the 386 kernel or 686? I had both of them installed before, but after I installed the 686 kernel, my linux starting becoming very unstable (could have just been because my old hard drive was committing suicide, but can't be sure.) It seems 386 is more popular, so just wondering if 686 offers a speed increase or any other benefits, or if it's just a less tested, possibly unstable release.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Paerez on 2007-02-16
Put 6.10 on it. They moved away from the 386 vs 686 and just made a kernel called "generic". Although for your own curiosity, a P4 is a 686.

6.06 is long term support, which means that patches will come out for a long time, but the software will not get much newer. For example, I think 6.06 will not ever have gaim 2.0 on it.

So if you like new software, get 6.10.

---

### Post by old_geekster on 2007-02-16
Ubuntu Edgy Eft 6.10 will be supported for 18 months.  So, that means that we will have to download another version or continue to use 6.10 as is.

This is not a problem for me, I like change.  This is FYI.

---

