---
title: "!386 vs AMD64"
date: 2006-12-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by tjk on 2006-12-14
I just discovered that I've been running the !386 version of Ubuntu and my processor is an AMD64.:oops:   Is there a big difference between the two versions?  Is it worth changing?  If so, is there an easy way to upgrade?

---

### Post by nite owl on 2006-12-14
Hi thanks for your question tjk you reminded me of a problem similar to what I have, sorry I can't answer your question...But I'm running an i686(well i686 comes up when i type 'arch' in the terminal) anyway what would happen if I installed i386 packages onto my computer as I've found that most of the packages are i386

---

### Post by IYY on 2006-12-14
There is a difference, but many choose to run the i386 version anyway for maximum stability and compatibility. The 64 bit version should be faster, though.

---

### Post by kinson on 2006-12-14
When I installed it, i didn't think that I would be able to install the i386 on my machine, :( so I installed the AMD64 version. I'm not sure *how much faster it is, cause I haven't installed the i386 version on my machine yet, but if I do format it or anything, I *might be tempted to install the i386 version, as this would solve of a lot of the irritance of reading up on a program  that seems interesting, only to see "AMD64 support coming soon" or "only available for i386" at the end.

Not to mention that I still haven't got flash working properly yet(no sound). I've been poking around the forums and reading up on the AMD64 forums, but its still quite confusing for me.

Like I said, I'm giving the i386 a try if and when I format. If nothing else, for the software support.

Cheers,
Kinson

---

### Post by Famicommie on 2006-12-14
I have an AMD 64 3200 myself, and ran the 64 bit version of Ubuntu for a few months. Lots of headaches. If you're totally new to Linux, I highly recommend using the 386 version as everything seems to "just work better/easier".

---

