---
title: "7.10 - What's using the network?"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Anztac on 2007-10-19
I just installed 7.10 today, am a somewhat experienced linux user more used to using it on the other side of an SSH terminal.

Anyways, it doesn't seem to be running as snappily as it could and I'm in the process of trying to strip off things I won't be using.  After watching the System Monitor I noticed that something seems to have some kind of network activity every 10 - 15 with great regularity.  

Is this perhaps Cups?  Or is it something else I could strip off?

So far I've stripped off trackerd, applet and all, the bluetooth applet, and a bunch of other stuff.  I've also turned off IPV6 as per someone's suggestion in another thread.  Any other good speed up suggestions?

---

### Post by Wynne G Oldman on 2007-10-19
> **Anztac said:**
> I just installed 7.10 today, am a somewhat experienced linux user more used to using it on the other side of an SSH terminal.

Anyways, it doesn't seem to be running as snappily as it could and I'm in the process of trying to strip off things I won't be using.  After watching the System Monitor I noticed that something seems to have some kind of network activity every 10 - 15 with great regularity.  

Is this perhaps Cups?  Or is it something else I could strip off?

So far I've stripped off trackerd, applet and all, the bluetooth applet, and a bunch of other stuff.  I've also turned off IPV6 as per someone's suggestion in another thread.  Any other good speed up suggestions?It's weird. I have installed Gutsy on 3 machines this week. 2 x IBM Thinkpads, and an IBM Intellistation. It runs really well on the Intellistation and on one of the Thinkpads. On the other Thinkpad. it takes ages to boot, runs like a dog, and keeps crashing. The strange thing is, is the Thinkpad that it doesn't like is higher spec than the one it runs really well on.

---

### Post by Anztac on 2007-10-19
Hrm, that is odd.  

Strangely for me it's mostly Firefox that is running way slower than I would like (it is my main application).  Mostly I wouldn't know any better for any other apps, because I've never used them, but FireFox is just SLOW.  Bah.  Maybe I should switch to XFCE until I get something better than this XP 3200+ and Radeon 8500+, although that seems rediculous.

Oh, and I'm still curious about my first query.

---

### Post by chuckyp on 2007-10-19
That hardware is plenty fast enough for running firefox.  You may have some under lying problems.

Also how much ram do you have?

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2007-10-19
I guess it's avahi-daemon. Use this command to check:
**sudo netstat -platu**

---

### Post by Anztac on 2007-10-19
Only 512, but I've trimmed stuff down so that eve running firefox with tabs, Amarok, and pidgin I'm only using around 300 some.  

Really, I might just completely have to turn Compiz off completely, but that would make me a sad panda =(  Even turning THAT off it still seems sluggish.

---

### Post by Wynne G Oldman on 2007-10-19
> **Anztac said:**
> Only 512, but I've trimmed stuff down so that eve running firefox with tabs, Amarok, and pidgin I'm only using around 300 some.  

Really, I might just completely have to turn Compiz off completely, but that would make me a sad panda =(  Even turning THAT off it still seems sluggish.The Thinkpad that runs great has 512 MB of RAM. The one that it runs really slowly on has a faster processor and 1 GB. It's got me baffled!

---

### Post by Anztac on 2007-10-19
Thanks Steve, good to know!

Now I've put in dnsmasq to cache DNS and that has made a HUGE difference with Firefox.  Does Windows do DNS cacheing natively?

Wynne, that is really bizzare... suppose it has something to do with CPU scaling?  I have been suspecting something in my own case...

---

### Post by Wynne G Oldman on 2007-10-21
> **Anztac said:**
> Thanks Steve, good to know!

Now I've put in dnsmasq to cache DNS and that has made a HUGE difference with Firefox.  Does Windows do DNS cacheing natively?

Wynne, that is really bizzare... suppose it has something to do with CPU scaling?  I have been suspecting something in my own case...I wonder if it's anything to do with the newer Thinkpad having a Centrino processor, and the older one having a Pentium M? There really is a huge difference in performance though. It takes about twice as long to boot, with an identical install of Gutsy!

---

### Post by Anztac on 2007-10-22
Hrm, is the newer one just a Centrino?  (not solo, or duo or anything?)  If so, it should be the same processor as the older one.  Although perhaps the motherboard chipsets are different.


Here's what I've done with mine so far:
   - Got SwiftFox, seems to help alot
   - Turned off Compiz completely.  SwiftFox was just lagging no matter what I tried as long as Compiz was enabled.  Now the rest of the desktop isn't so smooth, but at least all the apps are.  That and there isn't the conflicts that were happening between 3d applications (Like Google Earth) and Compiz.  I'm guessing this is all because I'm using the really general ATI driver for my 8500.
    - Turned off IPv6 in Linux as well as in SwiftFox
    - Installed local DNS caching, but even still DNS resolutions were WAY too slow for new addresses, so I switched to OpenDNS.  What's the deal with this one?  I never noticed this much lag on new DNS queries in Windows.
    - Turned off a lot of extra applets/daemons I didn't need.  

Now for the most part it is pretty usable.  I miss all the shinyness -- which, by itself, was working great -- and some things are still a bit slower than I would like...  Ahh well, c'est la vie.  I think I'll stick with it and see how I feel once I get settled in.

---

