---
title: "Can't write to NTFS disk anymore; Paste option is missing now....."
date: 2007-06-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Brightbelt on 2007-06-14
Hi,
I have an NTFS internal Data drive that I use to save my documents on (it's separate from C:\). I used Automatix2 to install whatever plugin it is that allows writing, copying and saving to an NTFS drive.

And it worked at first. Now, my paste option is gone again. I get errors when I try to save an XLS file from Open Office to my Excel folder on my Data drive. 

I'd really like to get this straightened out because being able to save Spreadsheets from Open Office that are compatible with Excel is the foundation upon which I may be able to wean off of Windows. Why install Microsoft Office on CrossOver if Open Office can do it just as well?

One thing that may have lead to this is that I fooled around last night with switching from Gnome to KDE desktop enviroment. I ended up back in Gnome, but I do see the disks names are back the way they were before I installed the plugin. 

I appreciate any help or assistance.

Many Thanks, Frank B.

---

### Post by josesanders on 2007-06-14
Can you post the contents of the file /etc/fstab?

---

### Post by Brightbelt on 2007-06-14
Thanks Jose,
Here is what I got:

brightbelt@brightbelt-desktop:~$ sudo /etc/fstab
sudo: /etc/fstab: command not found
brightbelt@brightbelt-desktop:~$ 

Thanks, Frank B.

---

### Post by Michaelt74 on 2007-06-14
Try booting into Windows and defragment your hard drive, then try this (look at the 'Mount Windows' section
[http://opensourceroolz.wordpress.com/2007/04/20/a-quick-customisation-setup-guide-for-ubuntu-feisty-704/:](http://opensourceroolz.wordpress.com/2007/04/20/a-quick-customisation-setup-guide-for-ubuntu-feisty-704/:)

---

### Post by josesanders on 2007-06-14
> $ sudo /etc/fstab

When you run that command, you are trying to run the file /etc/fstab as an executable.  It's not an executable, it's a configuration file that contains information about mounting your drives.

Do this instead:

$ gedit /etc/fstab

That should open a window with the contents of the file.  Copy the contents and paste them here.

---

### Post by Brightbelt on 2007-06-14
OK Jose, Here's what I got,...I think this drive is sdc5 ...
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=d98975fc-9953-4d71-848d-1f9c316d0f20 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=60b4aafb-c927-4f52-b03f-aadd7c455f8a none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda4 /media/sda4 vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
/dev/sdc5 /media/sdc5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
/dev/sdd1 /media/sdd1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0


```

Thanks, Frank B.

---

### Post by Brightbelt on 2007-06-14
Thanks, Michaelt74, but when I click your link, I get Error 404 File Not Found.

Frank B.

---

### Post by josesanders on 2007-06-14
It looks like you are using ntfs-3g, which is what you need to be able to write.  Try running this command, and see if there are any errors given:

$ sudo mount -a

What that does is mount all of your drives as specified in the file /etc/fstab.  Hopefully, that will give some errors that will indicate what is wrong.  Let me know what happens.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2007-06-14
You can also check the System, System Tools and make sure the NTFS Config Tool is still enabled.

---

### Post by Brightbelt on 2007-06-14
Ok, Jose, here's what I got....

```

brightbelt@brightbelt-desktop:~$ sudo mount -a
Password:
brightbelt@brightbelt-desktop:~$
 
```

Nada. But I did as you suggested, Drs305, and found that my EXTERNAL drive was not enabled for writing.  But it's been my internal drive that has been causing the problem, so that puzzles me a bit.

Having enabled the external drive for now (the internal was already enabled at least), I'll at least see if that changes anything. Meanwhile,......
I'm open to more ideas !!!

Many Thanks, Frank B.

---

### Post by Brightbelt on 2007-06-14
Hey, Drs305, it fixed it !!! I can write to the drive and my paste option works. 

I think I know what confused me: My Data drive is actually a "swappable bay" HP hard drive that plugs into the bay of the computer. I think of it as an internal drive because technically, it's INSIDE the computer or computer bay. But Ubuntu looks at it as an external drive apparently. 

Thanks, Jose and Drs305 and everyone for helping me out here.  I appreciate it very much,....Frank B.

---

