---
title: "8.04 beta or 7.10"
date: 2008-04-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by AlexCrafter on 2008-04-08
I have a dilemma, I really want Ubuntu on my acer Aspire laptop and I know how to fix all of the problems I foresee because of previous installations. I have Ubuntu 8.04 beta installed right now and I can see the benefits but I can see bugs too. Reformatting at this point isn't a problem for me. 
Should I continue using the beta or should I use 7.10 until 8.04 is out of beta?

---

### Post by Regel on 2008-04-08
My opinion: There are few bugs in Hardy beta, as far as I can tell. Firefox crashes occasionally, but that's it for me.

No point in installing 7.04, if you are going to do dist-upgrade in a few weeks anyway and if you are somewhat experienced user and the bugs are not too annoying.

Official opinion: Hardy beta is not for everyday use, it's for testing.

I've been using Hardy since alpha 4. Works like a charm for me.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-04-08
It would help the devs if you report the bugs. If it's working keep going. Hope you got backups of important stuff.

Post here to double check any you have.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305)

---

### Post by amazingtaters on 2008-04-08
Well, I'm using an Acer Aspire 5100 with Hardy, and things are going fine. I'd say if Hardy is working for you, and the bugs (they're there for sure, but not too bad) aren't keeping you from getting things done, then I wouldn't mess with it. Kinda goes with the old saying "If it aint broke, dont fix it."

---

### Post by cotcot on 2008-04-08
Keep 8.04. Accept the updates. In two weeks you will have the 8.04 as it will be officially released.

---

### Post by Hendrixski on 2008-04-08
we need all the beta testers we can get.  Keep with the Beta and report the bugs.  Read a quick tutorial on how to use launchpad and find the bugs that you are experiencing and add your information to it.  If you find one that hasn't been filed (very rare for a new bug-reporter to actually find undiscovered bugs, but whatever) then file a new bug report for it!

There's also a good amount of work to be done in triaging bugs, finding duplicates and things like that and getting the bug into the hands of the right developers!


So stick with the beta and help us out.  :-)

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-04-08
I haven't seen any show stopper bugs yet in Hardy beta.  The only big thing was that today 2 packages in the updates were broken.  They had it fixed within a couple of hours.  And that isn't even really that big of a deal.

I really wouldn't waste all of that time.  Keep what you have.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-04-08
There is no problem running the beta.

1. +1 with the suggestion of reporting bugs, how else do you expect them to get fixed ?

How to : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284595](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284595)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs](https://bugs.launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+bugs)

You should use the development forum if you are seeking information or assistance on the Betas :

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=305)

2. The "problem" with running a beta is the number and frequency of updates. Hundreds of packages may be updated from time to time, so those with limited bandwidth may want to wait to the release.

---

### Post by TechJuice on 2008-04-08
I would probably stick with the beta. The final version is being released in a couple weeks and I haven't noticed any bugs that really mess me up in any way.

The only thing I have noticed which is moderately annoying is the software updates seem to screw up occasionally.

---

### Post by ShodanjoDM on 2008-04-08
I would suggest not to use beta if you intended to use the laptop for serious work. That is, unless you know how to backup your files and fix the installation - should breakages occur - from command line.

While it's fairly stable, but IMO, it's still not stable enough for a LTS release, hence the beta status, and the release date can still change. Somebody please correct me if I'm wrong but wasn't it that happened to the Dapper (6.06)?

But if you're willing to help with reporting bugs, by all means, just do it :)

---

### Post by Delta5 on 2008-04-08
As a brand new Linux user who just wants a simple file & print server for their home network, is it worth it to go with 8.04 or should I just stick with 7.10?  

In other words, are the bugs in 8.04 too much for a newbie user such as myself to deal with?

---

### Post by ShodanjoDM on 2008-04-08
> **Delta5 said:**
> As a brand new Linux user who just wants a simple file & print server for their home network, is it worth it to go with 8.04 or should I just stick with 7.10?

Stick with 7.10. There are a lot more documentations for it and most - if not all - of the bugs are already fixed.

Oh, and when Hardy finally released, I suggest you to wait for another week or two before finally upgrading. It's far safer and more convenient that way IMO.

---

### Post by Delta5 on 2008-04-08
> **ShodanjoDM said:**
> Stick with 7.10. There are a lot more documentations for it and most - if not all - of the bugs are already fixed.

Oh, and when Hardy finally released, I suggest you to wait for another week or two before finally upgrading. It's far safer and more convenient that way IMO.

Thanks for the advice!  I'll stick with my mostly functional (due to newbie errors) 7.10 install for the time being. :)

---

### Post by AlexCrafter on 2008-04-08
Thanks too all of you for the feedback, I'll keep using the beta as I got my wireless working on it, something I was never able to do in 7.10. I'll just wait till the full release to delete my vista partition.

---

