---
title: "6.06 : firefox selecting whole address link in adr box when clicking once"
date: 2006-07-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-06
Something I find annoying in Firefox and which it could be changed.

You know when you are browing the internet and you want to go somewhere else but you either have to type the adress or copy/paste it because where you got it from, it  isn't made into a link ?

Whell when you click in the address bar to put it in, it doesn't select the whole address already there by default. So I have to manualy select the whole thing then put in the address I want. In IE 5, clicking on that address box, automaticaly select the whole adress so it is easier to put a new one in there without having to open a new IE5.

Can it be done ?

---

### Post by lordlollo on 2006-07-06
If I have well understood your question, just try to double-click on the old address...

Cheers.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-07-06
What I find annoying is when you press Control-L in Internet Explorer and a new dialogue box pops up instead of the cursor just going straight to the address bar.

So, see? It's all a matter of perspective.

As long as you're typing something in the address bar, just use your keyboard and press **Control-L**. That highlights everything in the address bar.

You don't even have to touch your mouse.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-06
Cool !


Thanks alot.

---

### Post by T700 on 2006-07-06
[quote=aysiu]
As long as you're typing something in the address bar, just use your keyboard and press **Control-L**. That highlights everything in the address bar.
[/quote]

aysiu, aysiu, asyiu...how quaintly 20th century.  Just press F6 and you get the same effect.  Fewer keys to press; think of all the work I save by doing it this way!

:-)

Paul

---

### Post by stevenash on 2006-07-06
Alt+D also highlights the entire address in Firefox.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-07-06
I'm going to stick with Control-L because I find it's a more comfortable combination for my hands to press. Alt-D makes me use only my left hand, and F6 I have to reach up for. Yes, I'm a lazy ***.

Why are there three keyboard shortcuts for the same thing...?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2006-07-06
But Browser Ice wanted a single click, not a keyboard shortcut. :wink: Just single-click on the little icon immediately to the left of the 'http' bit of the url. There. Easy isn't it.

---

### Post by Iarwain ben-adar on 2006-07-06
I find it incredible how you guys know that much short-cuts :D

3 different short-cuts for the same use :D


Iarwain

EDIT: 4 different short-cuts =)

---

### Post by stevenash on 2006-07-06
[QUOTE=coffeecat]But Browser Ice wanted a single click, not a keyboard shortcut. :wink: Just single-click on the little icon immediately to the left of the 'http' bit of the url. There. Easy isn't it.[/QUOTE]
Yeah, well using a mouse is for losers.  Keyboards rule!  :-P

---

### Post by Rackerz on 2006-07-06
Lol 3 keyboard shourtcuts I didn't even know about!

---

### Post by angkor on 2006-07-06
[QUOTE=coffeecat]But Browser Ice wanted a single click, not a keyboard shortcut. :wink: Just single-click on the little icon immediately to the left of the 'http' bit of the url. There. Easy isn't it.[/QUOTE]

Well besides having 3 different shortcuts for everything Firefox also has about:config. :)

type about:config in the adressbar.

search for *browser.urlbar.clickSelectsAll* and right click the line and select *toggle*. The entry is now set to True.  Tadaaaaa!

:)

---

### Post by T700 on 2006-07-06
[quote=aysiu]Why are there three keyboard shortcuts for the same thing...?[/quote]

Because we're in the open source world!  At this very moment, there are three people working on a new Linux distro based on these three shortcuts and two of the three are already discussing a fork because they don't like the way the project is heading.

Paul

---

### Post by dabear on 2006-07-06
firefox/flock:
Go to the address bar, write about:config and set browser.urlbar.clickSelectsAll to True, then restart your browser. I wish this could be the default thogh..

---

### Post by palintheus on 2006-07-10
I was wondering this same thing, looked at the about:config and mine was set to 'true' but it did not work...I switched it to 'false' and now it works.....strange

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2007-02-06
Just wanted to say thank God one can easily set this through about:config, it was annoying the hell out of me because it is such a common sense setting which should be on by default, and bragging about a keyboard shortcut to achieve this is something I would expect from Windows 3.1 enthusiasts :)

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-02-06
> **PartisanEntity said:**
> bragging about a keyboard shortcut to achieve this is something I would expect from Windows 3.1 enthusiasts :) You'd be surprised how handy keyboard shortcuts are in modern operating systems. It's how I get all my work done in XP at the office.

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2007-02-07
The only keyboard shortcuts I use are ctrl+v and ctrl+c and from time to time ctrl+a :)

---

