---
title: "problems mounting cdrom"
date: 2007-03-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by tomxyz on 2007-03-03
Hello All,

I’m having problems mounting my cdrom drive and floppy drive on my laptop. I’ve followed lots of advise given in other posts but with no result. (It seems a lot of people have same issues!)
I have ubuntu 6.06 LTS installed (Dapper Drake, I believe it's called).

anyway, yesterday evening I decided to give it another go, I logged in and surprisingly the cdrom drive was automounted as I saw it show up on my desktop. I double clicked it and the music started to play! But in the middle of the first track it stopped playing, the drive then ramped up to max speed and slowed down again to come to a complete stop. I rebooted but nothing anymore, just as before. ‘Not able to mount device’ (details, device not found)

The only cd that is automounted every single time when I try it, is the Ubuntu cd itself !!????????????????????????

to summarize,

1) I think I have the correct input in my fstab file, (I see similar things in fstab’s from other people) although In my fstab, I don't seem to have any input for my floppy drive which doesn't mount either. (I don't really care about the floppy)
2) My mtab file doesn't mention a cdrom drive (or floppy) being mounted, neither does sudo fdisk -l or df -h
3) I tried a 'million' different ways to sudo mount it, non succesfull.
4) In the output of dmesg | tail I see ‘I/O error, dev fd0, sector 0. This is the floppey drive isn’t it? I didn’t try to mount that one, nor is there a floppy inside. Could this error message be part of the problem?
5) I used chmod 777, chown and chgrp to change the permissions for /dev/hdc, /media/cdrom, /media/cdrom0 and /media/cdrw (the last two are mount points I added just to try if I could mount it there). I tried to mount again > nogo.
Next day after restarting, permissions are changed back to what they where!!??
6) Why is when I use the ls command my cdrom number 22 and with the id command my cdrom is number 24?
7) when I go and look under system>administration>users and groups, there is no cdrom group and no floppy group?

Below you can see my fstab, mtab, ...

any toughts? I’m really getting desperate, and I definitely don’t want to go back to windows (I still have faith!) Hope you have enough info.

regards Tom

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
/dev/hda1 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/hda5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
mtab:
/dev/hda1 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw 0 0
procbususb /proc/bus/usb usbfs rw 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.15-28-386/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
tom@tom-laptop:~$ sudo chmod 777 /dev/hdc
Password:
tom@tom-laptop:~$ ls -la /dev/hdc
brwxrwxrwx 1 root cdrom 22, 0 2007-03-03 10:09 /dev/hdc
tom@tom-laptop:~$ sudo chown tom /dev/hdc
tom@tom-laptop:~$ sudo chgrp tom /dev/hdc
tom@tom-laptop:~$ ls -la /dev/hdc
brwxrwxrwx 1 tom tom 22, 0 2007-03-03 10:09 /dev/hdc
tom@tom-laptop:~$ ls -la /dev/hdc
brw-rw---- 1 root cdrom 22, 0 2007-03-03 10:09 /dev/hdc
tom@tom-laptop:~$ id
uid=1000(tom) gid=1000(tom) groepen=4(adm),20(dialout),21(fax),24(cdrom),25(fl oppy),26(tape),29(audio),30(dip),44(video),46(plug dev),100(users),106(lpadmin),110(scanner),112(admi n),113(fuse),1000(tom)

---

### Post by Scorpuk on 2007-03-03
I have not heard of mtab before, but a copy of mine is as follows:

```
/dev/sda1 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
procbususb /proc/bus/usb usbfs rw 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 iso9660 ro,noexec,nosuid,nodev,user=mythtv 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ext3 rw 0 0
```

My cdrom (DVD drive) is listed and I presume it has a user as thats the currently logged in user.


A search on the internet on mtab:

> etc/mtab

This file handles the mounted devices and is automatically updated by the mount command.
And it looks a bit similar to fstab but not the 100% same ( notice rw and ro for read/write and read only ) And it does only lists the mounted devices !

from [http://www.brunolinux.com/02-The_Terminal/Fstab_and_Mtab.html]("http://www.brunolinux.com/02-The_Terminal/Fstab_and_Mtab.html")



If you reboot your computer and open a terminal and type

```
cat /etc/mtab
```

Is the cdrom drive mounted?

If not try this:

```
mount /dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
```


Not 100% sure about that command, but wont do no harm.

note down any error messages, but if you get none then try

```
cat /etc/mtab
```

again.

---

### Post by tomxyz on 2007-03-03
no, not working. but thanks! at least one dares to take a shot :) 
Tom

---

### Post by Scorpuk on 2007-03-04
Can you try the cd-rom drive in another computer to see if it works ok there. If you can please also use the same data cable that it is connected with.


Maybe something wrong with the drive or the data cable.


Anywho good luck.

---

### Post by r53s on 2007-03-04
I had a similar problem today and just tried on another drive in the same computer and it worked...

---

