---
title: ".thumbnails - Me and My girlfriend naked at waterfalls"
date: 2006-09-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-04
Yep was browsing thru file structure and bingo bango thier is me and my girl angelina at our Mt. Hood trip.

Now I know than nautilus creates and stores thumbs but is there a way to disable saving the thumbs?

Still want to be able to browse by thumbs but some graphic browsers have a  do not save or store thumbs.

Like using nautilus for browsing music and pics. But would like to have it not store the thumbs.

Any hidden feature to not store thumbs or autodelete them on nautilus close?

She is beatiful but I am ugly when naked and I want to save people from the shock.

---

### Post by Anduu on 2006-09-04
As far as I know it is all or nothing with thumbnails...

If you are really paranoid/modest you could always create a cron job to delete your thumbnails daily/hourly/minutely(...er is minutely a word...:p)

Maybe someone else knows...

BTW can I see...J/K ;)

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-09-05
Use gimp and remove yourself from the picture....

I would just store such things in a more restricted location.

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-05
Sorry bodhi.zazeb but we are not talking pics here but the thumbnails generated by nautilus. I have my pics in a safe partition from prying eyes but the thumbs are there for any to see.

---

### Post by grte on 2006-09-05
You can change permissions on the folder containing the images so that only you and root can access it.  Anyone else trying wont even be able to open the folder to look at thumbnails, let alone actually open the images.

---

### Post by pufuwozu on 2006-09-05
You can change it in nautilus. Just go to Preferences->Preview and change the "Other Previewable Files" option to never.

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-05
To grte thanks but that is not the issue the pics are secured. It is the thumbs generated to the .thumbnails folder by nautilus in home that are not. 

And yes no one can see them if there not using my account but if I let others test drive on my account then they can accidenatally browse there.

To pufuwozu that is not it either I want thumbnails when I browse thru  pics but not to have them saved or cached to the thubnails folder that nautilus uses to store thumbs.

In some graphic programs you have a setting which is basically generating thumbs for viewing but not saving or caching them anywhere. They have to  be regenerated everytime you browse that folder.

But really thanks for your input and suggestions. I got a feeling this is not possible in nautilus at this time.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2006-09-05
Here, i use a cron job in hourly to delete the .thumbnails. Just create a text file and put this in it than right click and make it executable in permissions tab.

```
#!/bin/sh
rm -r /home/(user_name)/.thumbnails 

```

I made this because i was looking at alot of icon sets, you can imagine how big the file got. :p

---

### Post by Klaidas on 2006-09-05
Heh, after reading the title, I thought this is gonna be SPAM :)

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-09-05
Here's an ugly hack:

Delete the tumbnails in ~/.thumbnails/normal that you don't want seen.
Change ~/.thumbnails/normal permissions to read only.
Browse to the folder that contained the original offending pictures. Nautilus will fail to generate thumbnails and make a note of that fact in ~/.thumbnails/fail/gnome-thumbnail-factory.

Set ~/.thumbnails/normal back to write-enabled. Nautilus will not attempt to create thumbnails for those files again.

---

### Post by toasterofirony on 2006-09-05
Just a thought, but if you're not looking at them all the time, why not just archive the folder they're in (assuming you have your photos nicely arranged into sub-folders) and bobs your mother's brother.

Simple, ne? ;)

---

### Post by nudnik on 2006-09-05
Darn...I was hoping you had posted the pics[-o<

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-09-05
Lol, I thought this was spam, too!!

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2006-09-05
You can always turn of thumbnails - Edit>Preferences>Preview

---

### Post by davebgimp on 2006-09-05
I just cron a script to clean them out once a week.

---

### Post by Paul133 on 2006-09-05
Everyone else has dealt with the technical problems, so I thought I'd try and solve the language ones. I believe that "minutely" is a word but it doesn't mean "every minute", it means "very small or insignificantly".

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-05
Well thanks for the input.

Looks like a cron job is on top of the list.

---

### Post by neptune39 on 2006-09-05
I really think you should be showing the Pics, Im not sure we can help you without all the information. \\:D/

Plus once youv'e done that you wont be bothered who sees them as they will be here for all to see...

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-05
Gee I was wondering why this post out of all my other posts has had 530  views in last 24 hrs.

---

### Post by Anduu on 2006-09-05
> **orb9220 said:**
> Gee I was wondering why this post out of all my other posts has had 530  views in last 24 hrs.

Hehe...

---

### Post by Mimsy on 2006-09-05
> **orb9220 said:**
> Gee I was wondering why this post out of all my other posts has had 530  views in last 24 hrs.

Because we thought you were a girl too. :mrgreen:

---

