---
title: "&quot;Phantom&quot; CDs in new kernel"
date: 2007-06-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Bohlio on 2007-06-04
Whats going on with this? Does anyone else have the problem where you have 1 or 2 Phantom CD drives showing up on your computer? They do absolutely nothing. And how many of you that have one or more of these phantom CD drives also have problems accessing a drive that worked just fine in an older kernel version?

Does anyone have any advice on this?
Under kernel 15 I have two functioning CD drives
Drive #1 - /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 (CD-ROM/DVD-ROM)
and
Drive #2 - /dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 (CD-RW/DVD+-RW)

When I boot up kernel 16, I only have access to Drive #1. #2 is unresponsive, All i can do is open and close it. I dont even think it spins. Also, along with kernel 16 I have two annoying phantom CD drives that show up on my computer, they are CD-ROM 1 and CD-ROM 2. I dont believe that they have a directory in /media and i dont think they recognized anywhere in /dev

Also, I dont know if this is related or not, but i have two links to Drive #1 that show up as /cdrom and /media/cdrom. I dont know if this is normal or not, but it seems a little odd to me. 

When there is a problem with a new kernel that many users experience, what usually happens about it? Does someone update that kernel or do we just have to wait until the next kernel. Please, Any input on this topic would be great. If you have the same or a similar problem, please feel free to post and try to work it out here.
I'll check back in the morning and hopefully someone will have some advice for everyone with this problem :-)

Thank you in advance :D

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2007-06-05
You could solve the "phantom" CD drive problem by editing extraneous lines from your /etc/fstab file.  This thread explains the solution:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=453699](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=453699)

---

### Post by Bohlio on 2007-06-05
I have all the lines i need In my Fstab file ...
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7fc6ab37-2bd8-4d27-8931-48ca247683e2 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=f78f41bf-a641-4da6-bb4d-90da6431e1d1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults 0 0
```

Sda5 Is ubuntu
sda6 is my swap
scd0 is my first (real) cd rom drive
scd1 is my second (real) cd rom drive
and sda2 is my windows partition. 

None of the phantom drives show up in here. And are the phantom drives in any way related to me not being able to use my second cd drive? or is that a completely unrelated and seperate problem with the new kernel?

Thank you

---

### Post by rfurman24 on 2007-06-05
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0


Delete these lines. They do not belong.

---

### Post by Bohlio on 2007-06-05
I thought those were my two real cd drives? Ok then, Well I'll be back in a sec after i reboot into the new kernel.

---

### Post by Bohlio on 2007-06-05
Ok that worked... I Kinda get how the cd drives work now, I thought those two entrys were my cd rom drives because i thought that their mountpoint was consistent no matter what cd is in. I now realize that the mountpoint is new every time, usually /media/(CD name) which would make those to entrys impossible to be correct. I like how once you learn a bit about ubuntu, it makes it obvious you have certain problems. :-P 
Ok so if /media/(CD name) is the mount point, How do i find the corresponding /dev/??? and what is that term called? Thank you very much.

Does anyone happen to know why my second cd drive is practically non-existant according to ubuntu kernel 16?

Edit: oh, and since now the weird cdrom0 and cdrom1 are gone, can i delete them from /media and can i also delete the _shortcuts_ that point to /media/cdrom0 which are located in / , and in /media?

---

### Post by gridsleep on 2007-06-23
removing or commenting out the cdrom0 line from fstab seems to have done the trick, but I'll have to wait to see if the phenomenon recurs or not.  One of the other benefits is that the power state icon has returned to the panel next to the wireless signal strength icon.  There must be some connection between that utility and the cdrom detection, something in the hardware bus.

---

