---
title: "NTFS external hard drive"
date: 2007-03-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by blackbird2150 on 2007-03-03
Hello,
I was following this thread about ntfs hard drives. [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009)
I have a external hard drive that is ntfs.
i have done the instructions that were stated on the first page with the automatic configuration.
when i go to places>computer
it shows up in the list.
however, when i double click it to open my file list.
it says "unable to mount selected volume"
after click more details i get this
$logfile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0)

failed to mount '/dev/sda1': operation not supported

mount is denied because ntfs logfile is unclean. choose one action:

boot windows and shutdown it cleanly, or if you have a removable

device then click the 'safely remove hardware' icon in the windows

taskbar notification area before disconnecting it.

or

run 'ntfsfix' on linux unless you have vista, then mount ntfs with

the 'force' option read-write, or with the 'ro' option read-only.

or

mount the ntfs volume with the 'ro' option in read-only mode.

error: could not execute pmount

I tried rebooting. and doing it again. didn't help.
thoughts? and my other question is how do 'safely remove it' so that this doesn't happen next time?
thanks.
Stephen.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-03
Open a terminal and type

```
sudo mkdir /media/windows
sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sda1 /media/windows -o nls=utf8,umask=0222
df -h
```

---

### Post by Amenemhet on 2007-03-03
Sigh Taurus beat me to it again...

---

### Post by blackbird2150 on 2007-03-03
wow, i dunno what that did exactly
but it worked...
is there a way to make it so i don't need to do this everytime? or did this fix the problem?
THANKS a lot for the quick response, i really appreciate it.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-03
If you decide to plug in your external drive to your machine all the time (or at least when the machine is running), then you can add an entry in /etc/fstab so it would mount automatically each time you boot Ubuntu.

From a terminal, do

```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
and add this line to the end of it.

```
/dev/sda1   /media/windows   ntfs   nls=utf8,umask=0222   0   0
```
Save the change.  Reboot.

---

### Post by Amenemhet on 2007-03-03
Hehe, tis why I love linux, there is always different ways to do things, i wouldn't have done it that way, but that will do it ;)

---

### Post by blackbird2150 on 2007-03-03
Once again, THANKS.
Stephen.

---

### Post by blackbird2150 on 2007-03-03
ok, i know that i said it worked.
i did the permanent fix taht you suggested above. 
now when i click it, it says only root can mount it...
seeing as i'm not very good with ubuntu i a) don't know how to change that
b) don't know how t o acess something as root, except for sudo in the terminal
thoughts?
thanks,
Stephen.
p.s. and yes i did reboot

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-03
Can you post your /etc/fstab here?

```
cat /etc/fstab
```
And the output of this command as well.

```
ls -la /media
```

---

### Post by blackbird2150 on 2007-03-03
~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=297c9265-e228-49b9-8961-5b1e407ce2f0 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=538b422e-a369-4408-b94a-e079a896cd66 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

#drive support external?
/dev/sda1   /media/windows   ntfs   nls=utf8,umask=0222   0   0


the other one:
:~$ ls -la /media
total 16
drwxr-xr-x  4 root root 4096 2007-03-03 22:10 .
drwxr-xr-x 22 root root 4096 2007-02-26 20:30 ..
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    6 2007-02-23 18:57 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 2007-02-23 18:57 cdrom0
dr-xr-xr-x  1 root root 4096 2006-12-21 09:17 windows

thanks!
p.s. after reading and trying to make sense of what the first printout says... i only have one internal hard drive,
 (this is a laptop), its  all partitioned onto one drive for ease of use to me, just thought i would point that out.
i mean i have the 1 gig of virtual memory allocation, if thats what the other is. so yeah.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-03
What about

```
df -h
```
I bet it's already mounted and you just have to use nautilus to navigate to it.  No need to mount it again.

```
ls -la /media/windows
```

---

### Post by dasunst3r on 2007-03-03
Also, don't forget that you should not just unplug your drive from the computer, even if you are in Windows.  Unmount 'n' Unplug (the opposite of Plug 'n' Play ;))

---

### Post by blackbird2150 on 2007-03-03
lol,
sorry to be such a pain in the ***, i'm just so used to windows, and just made the switch like a week ago...
when i try to 'eject' the thing it gives me the same bs that says, "must be root"
and df -h gives me
df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/hda1              54G  7.5G   44G  15% /
varrun                220M  104K  220M   1% /var/run
varlock               220M     0  220M   0% /var/lock
procbususb             10M  108K  9.9M   2% /proc/bus/usb
udev                   10M  108K  9.9M   2% /dev
devshm                220M     0  220M   0% /dev/shm
lrm                   220M   18M  203M   8% /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/volatile
/dev/sda1             150G  118G   32G  79% /media/windows

I just wanted to point out, that i can get it to work. i was jsut curious as to whether or not i would have to put a line into terminal each time.  not really used to that. esp since in windows 'safe removal' doesn't actually do anything and i've never messed anything up by not doing a 'safe removal'
but thanks for all the help so far!

btw, after unplugging and plugging back in, i tried the df -h command
all the same except for the fact that the last line (the external) is missing.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-03
If you don't want to use the command to navigate to /media/windows, then you can always use nautilus filemanager.

---

### Post by thpoul on 2007-03-07
Hello there, 

I'm new to linux (actually it's my first day :p) and i'm having the exact same problem.

Could you please point some directions ?

Thank you in advace.
```

thpoul@thpoul-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=7bef9207-d289-45e2-80d6-919e76aa1885 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda3 :
UUID=c54a5143-ab4d-4829-9da7-0696bca985be none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

```

thpoul@thpoul-laptop:~$ ls -la /media
total 24
drwxr-xr-x  6 root root 4096 2007-03-08 02:52 .
drwxr-xr-x 21 root root 4096 2007-03-07 19:16 ..
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root    6 2007-03-07 18:48 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 2007-03-07 18:48 cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 2007-03-07 18:48 cdrom1
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 2007-03-08 02:30 hdusb
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 2007-03-08 02:37 windows

```

```

thpoul@thpoul-laptop:~$ df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/hda2             9.7G  2.9G  6.3G  32% /
varrun                244M  148K  244M   1% /var/run
varlock               244M     0  244M   0% /var/lock
procbususb             10M  176K  9.9M   2% /proc/bus/usb
udev                   10M  176K  9.9M   2% /dev
devshm                244M     0  244M   0% /dev/shm
lrm                   244M   18M  227M   8% /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/volatile

```

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-07
> **thpoul said:**
> Hello there, 

I'm new to linux (actually it's my first day :p) and i'm having the exact same problem.

Could you please point some directions ?

Thank you in advace.

Here's one.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

---

### Post by thpoul on 2007-03-07
> **taurus said:**
> Here's one.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

1st of all Thank you VERY much for your unbelievable quick response!!! 

2nd i need to have write access to the disc and unfortunately i'm back to where i started :( i can read but i cannot right

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-07
Can you describe your problem a little more?  Is it ntfs or vfat filesystem and have you managed to mount it yet?  

What's the output of this command from a terminal?

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by thpoul on 2007-03-07
> **taurus said:**
> Can you describe your problem a little more?  Is it ntfs or vfat filesystem and have you managed to mount it yet?  

What's the output of this command from a terminal?

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

```

thpoul@thpoul-laptop:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/hda: 40.0 GB, 40007761920 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4864 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        3483    27977166    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/hda2            3484        4758    10241437+  83  Linux
/dev/hda3            4759        4864      851445   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sda: 300.0 GB, 300090728448 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 36483 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1       36483   293049666    7  HPFS/NTFS

```

The problem is that i can't transfer any files from Linux to my external disc :(

Thanks again for your amazing support!

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-07
From your previous outputs, looks like only root can write to it, /media/windows.  Have you tried to copy stuff to /media/windows as root?

```
gksudo nautilus
```

---

### Post by blockcipher on 2007-03-07
I have been following this thread, and have the same problem.  With using root I still am not able to say...create a folder.

---

### Post by thpoul on 2007-03-07
It has a lock image on it. I can access it but in read-only mode

---

### Post by blockcipher on 2007-03-07
> **thpoul said:**
> It has a lock image on it. I can access it but in read-only mode

I also have the lock image on mine.

---

### Post by thpoul on 2007-03-08
Still no luck :(

Any ideas?

---

### Post by blockcipher on 2007-03-08
I have tried to research it more, and I'm still coming up short.

---

### Post by spyrakos on 2007-03-08
Just wondering... why wouldn't you just plug it in and let udev do its tricks? 

It just works flawlessly here for the past months like that...:guitar:

---

### Post by blockcipher on 2007-03-08
udev?

---

### Post by thpoul on 2007-03-08
> **spyrakos said:**
> Just wondering... why wouldn't you just plug it in and let udev do its tricks? 

It just works flawlessly here for the past months like that...:guitar:

Unfortunately I had no luck with it :(

---

### Post by srt4play on 2007-03-08
I recently had to deal with an NTFS formatted external hard drive for a customer.  I used ntfs-3g (installed from synaptic) to mount it and it worked flawlessly for transferring 110GB of data to it. 

I didn't mess with entries in fstab or anything.  Just plugged it in, "ejected" it if Ubuntu automatically mounted it.  Then issued:```
sudo ntfs-3g /dev/sda1 /media/usbdisk
```

If there is a way to get Ubuntu to use ntfs-3g when automounting ntfs drives that would be sweet.

---

### Post by spyrakos on 2007-03-08
&#927;k, sorry, perhaps I should have been more detalied about this. So, here's what worked for me:

I didn't mess with fstab at all (I couldn't have anyway because I have 3 USB disks and the drive designation as sda/sdb etc changed every time accordingly to which one was ON at any given moment, it would have been too complicated for me to make udev rules at the time). All I did was let udev recognize and mount the disks. Then I gave

```
sudo nautilus
```

I navigated to my disks (in my case@ /media), right-clicked, properties, changed the owner and the permissions, closed, and that was it. Read-write access ever since.

---

### Post by Snyper64 on 2007-03-13
I'm having a similar problem with my external drive(also ntfs). I'm running the 64 bit Ubuntu Edgy and had no problems accessing the drive before I tried that upgrade. This is the error I am getting: "mount: unknown filesystem type 'ntfs-3g' error: could not execute pmount". Any ideas or suggestions on how to fix this, or atleast get my old files back so that I could atleast access the drive.

Thanks

---

