---
title: "[SOLVED] OK so who stole my drive?  :)"
date: 2007-08-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
Hi,
I have 2 drives, one 40 gig drive that has 7.04 installed, a second newly installed but pre used 200 gig drive. I want to us the second drive to store data mainly, but maybe not exclusively. Anyway I used Gnome Partition Manager to format the second drive to ext3, as I read here that's probably best. When I open "Places" the drive isn't there, am I looking in the wrong place? The partition editor can see the drive just fine. I ideally want to treat this drive as a "d" drive. I'm noob to Linux so please don't point and laugh :) Any help appreciated.

Thanks.

---

### Post by annda on 2007-08-07
hi,

if you installed the drive after installing ubuntu, you will have to tell the system to mount it at boot. check this guide and post back if you have any problems:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux)

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-07
> **Yuck said:**
> Hi,
I have 2 drives, one 40 gig drive that has 7.04 installed, a second newly installed but pre used 200 gig drive. I want to us the second drive to store data mainly, but maybe not exclusively. Anyway I used Gnome Partition Manager to format the second drive to ext3, as I read here that's probably best. When I open "Places" the drive isn't there, am I looking in the wrong place? The partition editor can see the drive just fine. I ideally want to treat this drive as a "d" drive. I'm noob to Linux so please don't point and laugh :) Any help appreciated.

Thanks.
There is no concept of "D drive" in Linux. Linux handles drives differently wherein all the drives are simply folders. 

you probably need to mount the new drive that you connected. is this an internal drive or external ?
post the output of the following two commands
```

cat /etc/fstab
```

```
sudo fdisk -l
```-l is lowercase L

---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
Hi again,

OK the output of cat /etc/fstab is

```
 # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=162c40dc-b778-4d9e-a57c-f07df4ae07b5 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=59bd5814-3fad-4784-a279-a0e46f6495db none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

# Generated by Automatix
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
  
```

and for sudo fdisk -l

```
  Disk /dev/hda: 40.0 GB, 40027029504 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4866 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        4661    37439451   83  Linux
/dev/hda2            4662        4866     1646662+   5  Extended
/dev/hda5            4662        4866     1646631   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/hdb: 203.9 GB, 203928109056 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24792 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdb1               1       24792   199141708+  83  Linux

```


I'm still reading the info on the link provided thanks. FYI both drives are internal. I just rebooted after putting the sides back on my PC and the drive is showing in file browser but only with 177gig of free space and the option to create folders is greyed out.

Thanks for the info provided so far.

---

### Post by guguma on 2007-08-07
If the above comments does not work, then there could be a problem with your drive being a SATA drive. Is that the case? 

I myself be considered a newbie but adding the boot parameter pci=nomsi worked for me. I had the problem of not being able to install ubuntu to my sata drive even GPARTED saw it. When I added this bot parameter it worked out fine. 

If you have ubuntu installed though I do not have any idea how to pass this boot parameter. I leave this issue to more advanced users

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-07
open up your fstab using ```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
``` add this line to it

```
/dev/sdb1 /mnt/My200GBDrive ext3 defaults,auto 0 2
``` You can choose any name you like instead of "My200GBDrive".  just make sure you create a folder with the same name under /mnt. Save the file and close it. Then create the folder

```
sudo mkdir /mnt/My200GBDrive
``` then do

```
sudo mount -a
```After that it should automatically mount on startup.

EDIT: Corrected an error !

---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
OK things have got traumatic  :/
I followed the instructions in post 6 to the letter, then rebooted. The Ubuntu load screen gets one third through loading and then drops out to a text screen. The main error is "file system check failed". There are lots of other errors about commands not being found which seem to relate to there being no file system.
I've had to boot of a live cd to post this.
Being a recent convert I have no clue how to revert the commands I issued or make any corrections that may be necessary. So basically "HELP!!" :)

Thanks.

---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
Anyone? I'm really up the creek here.
I've checked the edits to fstab, they look fine. I can't change them back because I don't have rights because I'm booting of cd. The folder I created is there too with the correct name.  I've got loads of work to do so any help in resolving this much appreciated.
Thanks.

---

### Post by OZTack on 2007-08-07
> **Yuck said:**
>  I can't change them back because I don't have rights because I'm booting of cd. 

Can't solve your major problem, BUT I managed to edit hard-drive-installed-Ubuntu-files booting from the Live cd by using 'sudo' to prefix the commands ... don't see why it won't work for you....

```
sudo gedit .....path to the relevant mount point............./etc/fstab


```

Just make sure you get the path correct to the  HARD DISK'S  fstab not the live cd's :)   ( you can highlight the file in the live cd fle browser window, look at it's properties - will give you the path with respect to the live cd....your live cd would normally mount your systems Hard drives  automagically)

Good luck :(

[edited for clarity]

---

### Post by jspangler on 2007-08-07
Hey Yuck!

Try this:

Boot into the live cd.

Open the terminal.

```
sudo mkdir /mnt/hda1
```

```
sudo mount /dev/hda1 /mnt/hda1
```

```
sudo gedit /mnt/hda1/etc/fstab
```

Try changing the line for your new drive in /etc/fstab to this:

```
/dev/hdb1 /mnt/My200GBDrive ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 2
```

(Note that the 1 at the end of the line has been changed to a 2. Also make sure that "My200GBDrive" matches the value of the folder you created while following the instructions in Post #6.)

Let's see if that fixes the problem!

Make sure you save the fstab file, and then boot up and see if it works.

---

### Post by jspangler on 2007-08-07
BTW, I noticed that you wrote that the drive is "greyed out". That's because by default the mount folder and it's subdirectories are owned by root. So, if you want to move files to root, you either need to open root nautilus with:

```
gksu nautilus
```

or use a sudo command such as:

```
sudo mv *
```.

Be careful when accessing files as root.

However, if you really want (and I don't necessarily recommend this) you can take ownership of the drive with this command:

```
sudo chown -R username:username /mnt/My200GBDrive
```

(where username is your login name and "My200GBDrive" is the name you chose in fstab.

---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
OK,
I followed the instructions in post #10 and I can now boot of my hard drive again! Thanks for the advice, I'm not sure what I did but it worked so who cares? :)

However that pesky 200 gig drive is still hiding somewhere.

It does exist, I know because I put it there, and partition editor can see it.

Any other suggestions for being able to access the drive?

Thanks.

---

### Post by jspangler on 2007-08-07
Open your file browser and go to "File System"

Open the folder "mnt".
You can create a shortcut to the drive by dragging the folder 200GBDrive over onto the places field.
Open the "200GBDrive" folder (or whatever you called it). Your drive should be in this folder.

See post 11 for instructions on how to access the files. If this doesn't work, please post the output from the following commands:

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
I've found it, it's in the /mnt folder. I was expecting to see it in the list of My Places in file browser. Is there any way for me to put a marker to it in file browser, like for "Desktop" for example. To make accessing it and copying files over easier?

The problem of not being able to create folders still exists though. The option is greyed out, I don't want to mess too deeply with the operating system. What is my best option?

I also just noticed the "share folder" option, is this important to what I am trying to achieve?

Thanks.

---

### Post by jspangler on 2007-08-07
Share folder isn't what you need here. That's for networking.

From the mount folder, you can drag the "My200GBDrive" folder into the area under the other places (like Desktop and File System). This will put it into your places.

Then, run the following command:

```
sudo chown -R username:username /mnt/My200GBDrive
```

(where username is your login name and "My200GBDrive" is the name of the folder).

See post #11 for comments on this.

This command is basically making this drive read/write for you (but not for other users, necessarily. The ownership feature of linux is somewhat complicated, you should take some time in the future to learn more :-)).

Hope that works for you.

---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
Hi,
You type faster than me :)

dragging the folder gives me an error
```
 Error while copying to "/" You do not have permissions to write to this folder.
```


The results of cat /etc/fstab are

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=162c40dc-b778-4d9e-a57c-f07df4ae07b5 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=59bd5814-3fad-4784-a279-a0e46f6495db none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
/dev/hdb1 /mnt/MotherLoad ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 2

# Generated by Automatix
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

```

MotherLoad being the name I choose for the drive.

and sudo fdisk -l gives me


```
Disk /dev/hda: 40.0 GB, 40027029504 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4866 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        4661    37439451   83  Linux
/dev/hda2            4662        4866     1646662+   5  Extended
/dev/hda5            4662        4866     1646631   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/hdb: 203.9 GB, 203928109056 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24792 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdb1               1       24792   199141708+  83  Linux

```

hope that helps.

thanks.

---

### Post by Yuck on 2007-08-07
It's working!
I was dragging to the top of the "My places" area, I needed to drag to the lower section. I also gave my self those root rights for the drive.

Thanks very much for all your help and some popcorn for jspangler :popcorn:

---

### Post by jspangler on 2007-08-07
OK, it thinks you are trying to copy this folder to "File System". Try dragging the folder to the area underneath the other places. I've included 2 screenshots to show you before and after. In the 2nd screenshot, I've dragged the folder "sda4" into the field underneath the other places.

[IMG]http://www.proofdoctor.com/Screenshot1.png[/IMG]

Now I drag the folder to the bottom of the places in my file browser, and voila!

[IMG]http://www.proofdoctor.com/Screenshot3.png[/IMG]

Hope that helps :-).

---

### Post by jspangler on 2007-08-07
Glad it's working! Thanks for the popcorn.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-07
I m sorry I did a major oops in the line i gave you to add in fstab. Like it was pointed out, the last digit should have been a 2 and not 1

1 is for the partition where you have your root and thats why it was getting confused because it found 2 partitions with 1 at the end :(

I apologize. 

Secondly, internal drives are normally mounted under /mnt and thats why I suggested /mnt to you.

If you want a places icon and an icon on the desktop, you would have to mount it under /media (which is normally reserved for mounting removable external drives)

Its just a convention i like...nothing too strict.

But considering that you have already created a shortcut by dragging it under the places menu...i think you are all set !!


Once again, I apologize for my mistake. I shall update that post of mine so no one else gets misled.

---

