---
title: "wireless connection--need help"
date: 2007-09-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by christinanilsen on 2007-09-09
hi -

i need some help connecting to the internet via wireless.  i'm running ubuntu on an ibm thinkpad t20.  

i've installed Wireless Assistant and it sees our wireless network (qwest) : i know this because it shows up under ESSID, Chanel 1 with 6 stars link quality.  Device is set to wifi0 (not eth).

i think the problem must be in the settings.  i've set the netkey in the security tab and it's correct ...

not sure whether the interface needs to be manual or automatic.  i've tried both - input the ip address for manual setting.  

nothing works.

what should i do?

thanks,
christina

---

### Post by andymushu on 2007-09-09
you most likely want automatic setting. that will enable the dhcp server so you can get an ip address. as for not being able to connect, the only thing i can think of is make sure you have the correct setting on the type of WEP key. there is acsii and hexadecimal, make sure you select the correct one.

---

### Post by christinanilsen on 2007-09-09
i have a typical n. american keyboard.  i guess this is hexidecimal?  or should i click ascii?

---

### Post by neoguy2012 on 2007-09-09
ascii passwords are those that are passwords that you enter (like secret words) whereas hexidecimal codes are something like a string of numbers with some letters from A to F (to represent numbers 10-15).  If your password is something like that, then it's hexidecimal.  If it's some password that you created, then you should try ascii.

---

### Post by christinanilsen on 2007-09-09
the netkey is 10 numeric digits.  i've tried both ascii and hexidecimal settings now and still no progress.

---

### Post by bwhitaker on 2007-09-09
Are you sure you're using the correct encryption and key type? 

I've had lots of issues over the years with open/shared wep key settings.  Also are you sure it's wep and not wpa?

---

### Post by momus12 on 2007-09-09
If you look at the config page on your wireless router, it should show you what type of encryption it's running. Provided it's WEP it should also show you the keys generated by your security password. Use one of the keys on the security tab rather than the password after you've made certain that the settings on the security tab match the router settings.

(Hope this makes sense, I just setup kubuntu on my laptop and this was the fix for my wireless connectuin.)

---

### Post by christinanilsen on 2007-09-10
Ok, so I downloaded WiFi Radar and it says I'm connected.  I can see my wireless network (and the neighbors etc.).  But when I open Firefox and try to connect to any website, nothing happens.  It's as if there's no connection.

Help?

---

