---
title: "6.06 Live CD boot hangs"
date: 2007-11-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Neil Purling on 2007-11-15
I have a spare PC I wish to be purely a Linux box.
However it doesn't want to boot from the Live CD. This CD is that which I used to install on my main PC. It is also the distrobution I got from Canonical.

The system has a Asus P5PE-VM
Proc is 3.2Ghz Celeron D
1024 Mb RAM
On board sound.
On-board graphics used.
AMIBIOS Ver 1203 of 22/01/07

I get the boot progress as usual: 
Loading Essential Drivers: OK
Mounting root file system

At this point it hangs and after a short period the CD drive spins down, so it isn't being accessed.

Is there anybody with the same motherboard who has had the same problem?

---

### Post by Shinbu-Otaku on 2007-11-15
when you put the cd in, choose the option 'check disc for errors' or something like that, and see if the disc has a problem, because my cd used to do that, and the disc was fryed, so i just burnt another one and it was fine.

---

### Post by Neil Purling on 2007-11-15
Like I said this disc is the official Ubuntu disc distributed by post. I used it to install Ubuntu in my other PC. So why doesn't this disc work in the other one as well. Is the on-board video of the spare PC  nicking vital memory space?

---

### Post by Neil Purling on 2007-11-21
I have tried using a video card other than that which is incorporated on the motherboard with no change in behaviour. I remembered to amend the BIOS setting.
Why should this combination of hardware give problems? this spare PC has more RAM than  my main one. It has the same speed of Celeron CPU, although the processor is of a different  socket mount.
I have to say that I have been able to put Win 2K and XP on the spare PC without problems.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-11-21
> **Neil Purling said:**
> I have tried using a video card other than that which is incorporated on the motherboard with no change in behaviour. I remembered to amend the BIOS setting.
Why should this combination of hardware give problems? this spare PC has more RAM than  my main one. It has the same speed of Celeron CPU, although the processor is of a different  socket mount.
I have to say that I have been able to put Win 2K and XP on the spare PC without problems.


Hi you can try, when you reach the screen to start/install ubuntu press F6 and edit the kernel line and remove quiet splash  -- then press enter. This way you can see any errors.

---

### Post by Neil Purling on 2007-11-21
I thought there was a memory conflict with the on motherboard gfx adapter taking up RAM. Even with a AGP card, as mentioned in post #4 I can't get action with the Live CD
Why on earth should I get any problems?
Is this a hardware issue on this motherboard version (details in post #1)?
At first this problem was a mystery, now it is an annoyance.

---

