---
title: "desktop effects could not be enabled"
date: 2008-03-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by stonecoldjha on 2008-03-10
i typed certain commands to find the video card on my desktop,the terminal read like:

[B][SIZE="4"]sonujha@sonujha-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
sonujha@sonujha-desktop:~$ compiz --replace &
[1] 5582
sonujha@sonujha-desktop:~$ Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

sonujha@sonujha-desktop:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

[/SIZE][/B]so i have the card mentioned above.but i cannot enable desktop effects on my computer.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-10
Just a couple of questions first:
Are your running Gutsy? If so, you should enable Desktop Effects via the Appearence menu item (System -> Preferences -> Appearance)
Could you post your xorg.conf? Judging by the error message, you don't have the correct ('intel') driver configured for your videocard. Compiz complains it can't find a driver running that is on its whitelist of working drivers.

---

### Post by stonecoldjha on 2008-03-10
no i am running fiesty.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-10
Well ok then, but could you still post the contents off your xorg.conf? It's located at /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by stonecoldjha on 2008-03-11
but what should i do to get the contents off xorg.conf,go to the terminal or what.what about installing some appropriate whitelisted driver for my card,if this can be done,please tell me how ...................i am  absolutely new to linux.

---

### Post by rockin_goliath on 2008-03-11
To get the contents of your xorg.conf file, type in the terminal
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and paste the contents here.

---

### Post by jan quark on 2008-03-11
post the result of 
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

to show the content of the xorg.conf file

you can also try to install this package and change the session during login to xclient
but no idea if this works with intel cards
```

sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl

```

---

### Post by stonecoldjha on 2008-03-11
sd

---

### Post by jan quark on 2008-03-11
first reduce the font size of your posts
we are not blind
use the code brackets ( the # sign) to make it more readable

---

### Post by stonecoldjha on 2008-03-11
sorry,i goofed.so below is the terminalk output giving contents off my xorg.conf.
[SIZE="2"][B]sonujha@sonujha-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Generic Video Card"
Driver "vesa"
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-73
VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Generic Video Card"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1472x1177" "1464x1464" "1024x768" "944x708" "856x684" "800x600" "640x480" "376x282" "312x312" "288x3328" "1x1"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
# InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
sonujha@sonujha-desktop:~$[/B][/SIZE]
my video card driver is blacklisted by compiz,i cant enable the desktop effects,please help.
[B]
what should i do to get the desktop effects on.[/B]

---

### Post by glennric on 2008-03-11
Open the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf in a text editor with root access, for instance
```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Now find the line
Section "Device"
and change the line under it that says
Driver "vesa"
to
Driver "i810"
(You may need to use Driver "intel" instead.  Experiment and see which works best for you.)
Also you will need to add the following to the end of the file
```
Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection
```

You may also have to add the option 
```
Option "AIGLX" true
```
under Section "ServerLayout"

This is what I had to do for a similar video card to get things to work well.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-11
Before you go through that, you could also try letting Ubuntu reconfigure the xorg.conf file for you.

As you can see in the xorg.conf file, it says: run the following command to automatically update.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Before you do that, it's a good idea (actually, do this always when you edit important system configuration files) to backup the existing file.

do

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

Then, if something goes wrong, you can always go back to your previous file by:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by glennric on 2008-03-11
Since you don't seem to have made any non-standard modifications to your xorg.conf file, MaximusTG is right.  I should have mentioned that myself.

---

### Post by stonecoldjha on 2008-03-11
i just made amendments to the file xorg.conf as you said,and also saved the changes,should i directly reboot

---

### Post by glennric on 2008-03-11
Rebooting is the easiest way, but you could also just restart the xserver.  This can be accomplished by hitting Ctrl-Alt-Backspace.

---

### Post by stonecoldjha on 2008-03-11
i just rebooted,but a window showed up saying that my screen and my graphics card could not be detected,and asked me to allow ubuntu to run in low graphics safe mode.i had changed the driver to i810,which was originally designated "intel".i had also made all the other changes.should i undo the changes...............or retrieve the backup ,that i made before making the changes.
this problem of low graphics mode had showed up when i had installed ubuntu 7.10 for the first time......i don't know how but by  reinstalling ubuntu i had got rid of this problem.

should i revert to the original changes.......or try something else to get desktop effects working.

---

### Post by glennric on 2008-03-11
Go back to the intel driver then.  The low graphics can be resolved by adding modelines to your xorg.conf.  You should probably try the dpkg-reconfigure step now that MaximusTG recommended.

---

### Post by MaximusTG on 2008-03-11
Hmm, I don't understand a couple of things, you said you changed "the driver to i810,which was originally designated "intel" "
However, in the xorg.conf file you posted, you were using the vesa driver. And you said you had installed Feisty, but then you speak of when you installed Ubuntu 7.10 for the first time (which is Gutsy Gibbon). 

So which is it? Because I was going to suggest booting the Gutsy Gibbon live-cd, and then try to see if the effects work on the live-cd. You could then simply copy the xorg.conf generated by the live-cd to your own installation.. But if you are already running Gutsy, there is no point in doing that..

---

