---
title: "100% Cpu"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by orduek on 2007-10-24
hi,
i'm pretty new in Ubuntu and loving every minute.
I have a HP500 laptop with 512mb RAM and 1gb swap. I have Intel M 1.7Mhz processor. 
BUT -  every few minutesqmore than a few the system stucks for a few seconds peaking to 100% CPU - i can't even move the mose or click ctrl-alt-backspace.
feels like it shouldn't happen and i'm doing something wrong.
any suggestions?

---

### Post by skompier on 2007-10-24
Load System>Administration>System Monitor and see what's using your CPU during those times. That will give you a clue as to where to go next.

---

### Post by lazyart on 2007-10-24
It might still be "tracking"-- the linux equivalent of Windows/Google Desktop search.  It's indexing the drive so you can find things later.  How long since you installed?

---

### Post by n3tfury on 2007-10-24
they should disable that by default or at least submit a warning to the user - (fyi, i'm indexing your hdd right now, blah blah).  this gives new users a bad first experience.

---

### Post by lazyart on 2007-10-24
I 100% agree.  We have a notification area...

---

### Post by Mud.Knee.Havoc on 2007-10-24
You wouldn't be running Firefox every time you get the 100% cpu utilization, are you?  That's been happening to me since I upgraded to Gutsy... I am at the forum right now hoping to see if it's happening to everybody. :)

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2007-10-24
Go to terminal and type the following command:
```
top
```
See what's using all the resources.

---

