---
title: "[SOLVED] Display Problem"
date: 2008-01-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-13
I have installed ubuntu on a partitioned section of my hard drive in hopes to compare ubuntu to vista and possibly get the best of both worlds. I had my hopes up to get the compiz fusion desktop cube going but i am unable to get my display setup. 
First I cannot get my resolution to stay at 1280x800 and my refresh rate at 60 hz, i set it and it says i have to  log of to get this action to take effect so i restart and it is back where it was at 1080x768 and only at 30 hz. 
I tried this after seeing it on another post

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
then when it stops
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
then i reconfigured and next
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

this did not seem to work for me.

My second problem is i cannot get the advanced desktop settings to work i cannot even choose normal effects.

 I have a gateway ml6720 notebook with a 15.4" Ultrabright wxga tft screen according to the gateway website i have an intel GL960 chipset although in vista it says i have a moble intel 965 express chipset vista also says i have a generic pnp monitor.

If anybody could please give me some advice on getting this stuff together because after what i have seen of the compiz fusion i cannot live without it so please help me out.

---

### Post by polmir on 2008-01-13
copy here out of it: 
```
cat  /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

please post the output of the command

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-14
huh? i dont understand.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-16
Is there anybody out there who can help me?  I have no idea what to do next. I know i am a complete newb but i am willing to learn if someone would at least give me a place to start.

---

### Post by little brad on 2008-01-16
> **tjwoosta said:**
> Is there anybody out there who can help me?  I have no idea what to do next. I know i am a complete newb but i am willing to learn if someone would at least give me a place to start.

open up your console (i believe its in the utilities menu- im at work and using windows at the moment)

and type this in the console:

cat  /etc/X11/xorg.conf

copy what it displays and post it.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-16
I tried but it says no such file exists. what does that mean?

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-16
tj@tj-laptop:~$ cat /etc/x11/xorg.conf
cat: /etc/x11/xorg.conf: No such file or directory
tj@tj-laptop:~$

---

### Post by eolson on 2008-01-16
Need to be a capital X11   case matters

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-16
ahhhh i see!

tj@tj-laptop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Boardname       "intel"
        Busid           "PCI:0:2:0"
        Driver          "intel"
        Screen  0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Vendorname      "Generic LCD Display"
        Modelname       "LCD Panel 1280x800"
        Horizsync       31.5-50.0
        Vertrefresh     56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
        Gamma   1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   24
                Virtual 1024    768
                Modes           "1024x768@60"   "800x600@60"    "800x600@56"   "640x480@60"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
        Load            "GLcore"
        Load            "dri"
        Load            "v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" #     
        Identifier      "device1"
        Boardname       "intel"
        Busid           "PCI:0:2:0"
        Driver          "intel"
        Screen  1
EndSection
Section "screen" #     
        Identifier      "screen1"
        Device          "device1"
        Defaultdepth    24
        Monitor         "monitor1"
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   24
                Modes           "640x480@60"
        EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #     
        Identifier      "monitor1"
        Vendorname      "Plug 'n' Play"
        Modelname       "Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
        Gamma   1.0
EndSection
Section "device" #     
        Identifier      "device2"
        Boardname       "Intel 965"
        Busid           "PCI:0:2:1"
        Driver          "i810"
        Screen  0
        Vendorname      "Intel"
EndSection
Section "screen" #     
        Identifier      "screen2"
        Device          "device2"
        Defaultdepth    24
        Monitor         "monitor2"
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth   24
                Modes           "640x480@60"
        EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #     
        Identifier      "monitor2"
        Vendorname      "Plug 'n' Play"
        Modelname       "Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
        Gamma   1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-22
so does anybody have any suggestions?

---

### Post by polmir on 2008-01-24
Your xorg.conf is bad.
You can do it new
Copy and archive this version of xorg.conf
Another step You must generate new xorg.conf
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

restart system

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-24
First let me say that I have reconfigured it before while reading someone elses thread and i screwed stuff up where i couldnt start the gdm so i had to run ubuntu on recovery mode there i reconfigured it again and started the gdm.

now I tried to back it up this is what happened

tj@tj-laptop:~$ sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
mv: cannot stat `/etc/X11/xorg.conf': No such file or directory
tj@tj-laptop:~$

so i tried to reconfigure xorg without backing it up but i cant do it in terminal ( it comes up with the blue reconfigure screen but i cannot do anything i hit enter and nothing happens) i dont remember how i did it before
 I think i stopped the gdm then i reconfigured it then i tried to restart the gdm but it would not work so i restarted my computer and it still would not work so i ran ubuntu on recovery mode and there i reconfigured again  i then started the gdm and it worked 

As you can probably tell i have no idea what the hell i am doing so any help at all would be appreciated

---

### Post by polmir on 2008-01-24
Restore old xorg.conf
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak  /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-25
i did this but i am assuming that the backup configuration is the same as the current config because nothing happened when i did this even after i restarted 

i have used
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
multiple times now
 i set the monitor to 1280 x 800  it askes me easy medium or advanced configuration i choose medium because i do not know the vert refresh rate or the horizontal sync after choosing medium it askes what is the best resolution my monitor will handle and 1280 x 800 at 60hz is not an option 

so i set it for the next one down which is like 1175 x 768 at 60hz or something like that
but still when i get back to my desktop i have to go to system , administration . screens and graphics and set my monitor to generic lcd 1280 x 800 at 60hz
 then i have to log out and log back in and it is back at 1024 x 768 @30 hz 
 what the hell is the problem? do i have to manually enter the horizontal sync and vert refreshrates? Please help!

---

### Post by polmir on 2008-01-26
Please post new xorg.conf. New, No copy old.

Connect pc to internet and type in terminal
```
sudo update-pciids
```

and after this operation type in terminal commend:

```
lspci
```

post out of this only.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-26
tj@tj-laptop:~$ sudo update-pciids
[sudo] password for tj:
--12:28:59--  [http://pciids.sourceforge.net/v2.2/pci.ids.bz2](http://pciids.sourceforge.net/v2.2/pci.ids.bz2)
           => `/usr/share/misc/pci.ids.gz.new'
Resolving pciids.sourceforge.net... 66.35.250.209
Connecting to pciids.sourceforge.net|66.35.250.209|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 129,845 (127K) [text/plain]

100%[====================================>] 129,845      158.04K/s             

12:29:01 (157.59 KB/s) - `/usr/share/misc/pci.ids.gz.new' saved [129845/129845]

Done.
tj@tj-laptop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Contoller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.5 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 6 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f3)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) IDE Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
06:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 01)
tj@tj-laptop:~$

is this what you were looking for?

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-26
other problems that i am having that i forgot to mention earlier but may have some relevance 
when i get to the desktop and i open windows they are always positioned on the left side of the screen if i maximize the windows they stay about 3 inches of the left side of the screen unless i click and drag them to the left side before i maximize them in which case they maximize regularly. also the welcome/login screen is positioned to the left as well.
i am sure this has something to do with what is going on with my display.

---

### Post by polmir on 2008-01-26
Please read this howto.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1288786&postcount=1]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1288786&postcount=1")

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-26
I wish i had read this earlier, but i have already figured out that much. my problem is that i have reconfigured things many times now and i know that i have everything set correctly but it still does not allow me to get the right resolution and refresh rate.  Is there some website that might tell me my monitors horizontal sync and vert refresh rate?  I have checked the gateway website but have come up with nothing.

---

### Post by polmir on 2008-01-26
This is new info for You

[http://blog.dotkam.com/2007/05/18/dual-monitor-on-ubuntu-704-feisty-fawn-nc2400-with-intel-945gm/]("http://blog.dotkam.com/2007/05/18/dual-monitor-on-ubuntu-704-feisty-fawn-nc2400-with-intel-945gm/")

[http://www.google.pl/search?hl=pl&q=dual+monitor+ubuntu&btnG=Szukaj&lr=]("http://www.google.pl/search?hl=pl&q=dual+monitor+ubuntu&btnG=Szukaj&lr=")

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=240150]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=240150")

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271045]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271045")

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2895086]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2895086")

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager")

---

### Post by TheDilettante on 2008-01-26
It's noteworthy that your Gateway comes with an Intel 965 video card.  This is a very problematic chip.  I know nothing about dual monitors, but regarding your problem with the screen resolution, you should review [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=610407](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=610407), specifically AbtZ's (who deserves much thanks) first post.  Try his xorg.conf edit, and see what happens.

I had a similar problem maintaining my screen resolution (Gateway M6something or other, with an Ultrabright); the problem was a lack of understanding on the program's part about the existence of a port for an external monitor and the native ultrabright.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-28
[SIZE="6"]THANK YOU DILETTANTE![/SIZE]

that link you posted saved the day! i was just about to give up on getting my resolution set right untill you posted that.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-28
ok i have spoken too soon.  i followed the above link exactly in editing the xorg. all seemed to be working fine i restarted it worked. when i got to my desktop the resolution was at like 800x600 but this time when i went to (system-administration-screens and graphics) i could change it to the desired 1280x800 and it seemed to work fine, it asked if i would like to keep the settings and i said yes, all was good

so i decided to go to (system-preferences-screen resolution) just to double check everything and i noticed the little check box that says **make this the default resolution for this computer**  or something like that so i checked it, which i think may be the cause of the problem

after all seemed fine so i went to change the welcome screen back the themed one( i had changed it to plain before because the resoultion was all messed up and it was the only one that looked sortof normal)

so after all of this i restarted my computer so that i could check out the welcome screen to see if things were working right, but they were not and when i logged in i heard the sound  that says it logged in but my screen is all black like it is off

i then pressed ctrl-alt-backspace to go back to the login screen there i pressed ctrl-alt-f1 on the text screen i typed 

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

it seemed to work but when i restarted my computer it did the same thing with the blank screen
after i went back and did

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

after reconfiguring to my original settings it still will not do anything after i log in
i have even started ubuntu in recovery mode and reconfigured it again and nothing
i am afraid i have finally screwed things up to the point where i cant fix them 
what do i do?
[SIZE="4"]please somebody  help![/SIZE]

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-28
anybody??

---

### Post by quill7111 on 2008-01-28
hi TJ. I'm having a similar problem with an Intel 965 chip in my new Toshiba u305. I managed to get the display problems fixed yesterday, but I hooked it up to a projector this afternoon and now I only get a black screen after I login. I'd love to hear an answer too.

*EDIT*

I just reopened my xorg.conf file in nano and reentered the section creating the TVOutput and ignoring it from AbtZ and things seem to be working fine. I'd still love to know exactly how the projector screwed up my xorg.conf, but I'm happy for now. 

@tj - I'm still pretty new to ubuntu myself, but if you like, I can try to detail the steps I just took.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-29
what is nano?

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-29
if i reinstall ubuntu on this partition will it get rid of everything so i can start from a clean slate?

---

### Post by quill7111 on 2008-01-29
Nano is a command line text editor. There are a bunch of others, but nano is pretty simple and easy to understand. I've heard some of the others are more complicated. Get to a command line (ctrl alt F1 or boot into recovery mode) and type:

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

then scroll to the video card section and make sure that it matches the section from AbtZ's post exactly. That worked for me. It sounds like your xorg.conf file might be pretty corrupt though, so you might want to consider booting from the liveCD and finding a clean copy of xorg.conf. A clean install would certainly also work, but you'd then need to make the changes in AbtZ's post again to fix the resolution. 

I'm off to work and probably won't be able to post for the rest of the day. Good luck tj.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-29
hey thanks  im just going to reinstall and start from scratch because there is definatly something not right with my xorg.

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-01-30
does anybody know how to reformat only the partition that ubuntu is on and reinstall it?

i thought i could just put in the disk and choose to reinstall it on this partition but it seems it is a little bit more complicated than that.  when i double click install it asks if i want to use the whole disk or auto ar manual  but i dont know what i should do auto or manual? i tried manual and it gave me a list of four different partitions how do i know which is which, am i even doing it right? i just dont want to mess up my windows partition which is the largest one.

---

### Post by TheDilettante on 2008-02-02
Sorry, I've been away from the computer for a little while.  In the format menu of the livecd, you need to select the "Manual" option, and then a list of partitions will come up.  Highlight your current Ubuntu partition, and then select "Edit", and then under "Mount As" select "/".  This will let you reinstall only to the existing partition.

As far as I could tell (I'm now on a completely different machine, as the one relevant to this post created too many Linux vs hardware issues) using the Screens and Graphics GUI for anything other than changing the resolution just made my life harder.  I noticed that when I rebooted without clicking Default anything that the good resolution came back.  **Trust your xorg.conf.  The Screen Mangler will kill your setup.**  

And, to be honest, little peripherals like the TVOut port are the reason I dual boot with Vista.  I don't know how to configure Linux to recognize the various ports, but I can trim down MS's fat enough that it's less of a loss than the pain of the 4th reinstall (and trust me, that s*it sucks - I just recompiled a kernel four times as the result of one of *my* little blunders.)

---

### Post by tjwoosta on 2008-02-02
yea thank you for the reply but by the time i could read it i had already reinstalled ubuntu

i did it by going to vista and using the computer management and i deleted the ubuntu partition . Then when i installed i just said select the largest available space and it worked fine.

I have also fixed the resolution problem for good now.
All i did was keep everything at default  but i added the parts about the "TVOut"

after this everything is working mint  i have restarted my computer this time to make sure and all seems good
so once again [SIZE="3"]thank you dilettante[/SIZE]

---

### Post by TheDilettante on 2008-02-02
Glad to help...

---

### Post by finger51 on 2008-02-03
Hi~

I've been struggling with this for a couple of weeks now. I've tried all the suggestions in this thread and although they've helped- I haven't licked it yet.

If I "sudo nvidia-settings" I am able to get my panel's native resolution of 1920x1200, but as soon as I reboot the settings are lost. I've saved the resulting xorg.conf file to the /etc/X11 directory and have confirmed the changes went in. At reboot, the settings are gone. 

Here's the xorg.conf:
```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Apr  4 23:39:44 PDT 2007

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Apr  4 23:40:17 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Dell"
    ModelName      "Dell 2407WFP (Digital)"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x768@60" 80.1 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x720@60" 74.5 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x800@75" 107.2 1280 1360 1496 1712 800 801 804 835 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x768@75" 103.0 1280 1360 1496 1712 768 769 772 802 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x800@60" 83.5 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1440x900@75" 136.5 1440 1536 1688 1936 900 901 904 940 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1440x900@60" 106.5 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1600x1024@60" 136.4 1600 1704 1872 2144 1024 1025 1028 1060 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1680x1050@60" 147.1 1680 1784 1968 2256 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1680x1050@75" 188.1 1680 1800 1984 2288 1050 1051 1054 1096 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1920x1200_60" 154.0 1920 1968 2000 2080 1200 1203 1209 1235 +hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "TVOutput"
    Option         "Ignore" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA"
    BoardName      "NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "ModeValidation" "NoMaxPClkCheck"
	#	Option		"DynamicTwinView"	"0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     1920 1200
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1200_60" "1680x1050@75" "1680x1050@60" "1600x1024@60" "1440x900@60" "1440x900@75" "1280x800@60" "1280x768@75" "1280x800@75" "1280x720@60" "1280x768@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@75" "800x600@72" "800x600@56"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```
and xorg.log
```

(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(**) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "ModeValidation" "NoMaxPClkCheck"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA GPU GeForce 6150 (C51) at PCI:0:5:0 (GPU-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Memory: 524288 kBytes
(--) NVIDIA(0): VideoBIOS: 05.51.22.26.07
(--) NVIDIA(0): Interlaced video modes are supported on this GPU
(--) NVIDIA(0): Connected display device(s) on GeForce 6150 at PCI:0:5:0:
(--) NVIDIA(0):     NVIDIA TV Encoder (TV-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0):     DELL2407WFPHC (DFP-0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA TV Encoder (TV-0): 400.0 MHz maximum pixel clock
(--) NVIDIA(0): TV encoder: NVIDIA
(II) NVIDIA(0): Mode Validation Overrides for DELL2407WFPHC (DFP-0):
(II) NVIDIA(0):     NoMaxPClkCheck
(II) NVIDIA(0): Assigned Display Device: DFP-0
(WW) NVIDIA(0): No valid modes for "1680x1050@75"; removing.
[B](II) NVIDIA(0): Validated modes:
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1920x1200_60"[/B]
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1680x1050@60"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1600x1024@60"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1440x900@60"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1440x900@75"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1280x800@60"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1280x768@75"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1280x800@75"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1280x720@60"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "1280x768@60"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "800x600@60"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "800x600@75"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "800x600@72"
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "800x600@56"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Virtual screen size configured to be 1920 x 1200
(--) NVIDIA(0): DPI set to (93, 92); computed from "UseEdidDpi" X config
(--) NVIDIA(0):     option
(==) NVIDIA(0): Enabling 32-bit ARGB GLX visuals.
(--) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
(II) do I need RAC?  No, I don't.
(II) resource ranges after preInit:
	[0] 0	0	0xfc000000 - 0xfcffffff (0x1000000) MX[B]
	[1] 0	0	0xd0000000 - 0xdfffffff (0x10000000) MX[B]
	[2] 0	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B]
	[3] -1	0	0x00100000 - 0x3fffffff (0x3ff00000) MX[B]E(B)
	[4] -1	0	0x000f0000 - 0x000fffff (0x10000) MX[B]
	[5] -1	0	0x000c0000 - 0x000effff (0x30000) MX[B]
	[6] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x0009ffff (0xa0000) MX[B]
	[7] -1	0	0xfaaff800 - 0xfaafffff (0x800) MX[B]
	[8] -1	0	0xfebd7000 - 0xfebd7fff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[9] -1	0	0xfebd8000 - 0xfebdbfff (0x4000) MX[B]
	[10] -1	0	0xfebdc000 - 0xfebdcfff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[11] -1	0	0xfebdd000 - 0xfebddfff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[12] -1	0	0xfebdfc00 - 0xfebdfcff (0x100) MX[B]
	[13] -1	0	0xfebde000 - 0xfebdefff (0x1000) MX[B]
	[14] -1	0	0xfebe0000 - 0xfebfffff (0x20000) MX[B](B)
	[15] -1	0	0xfc000000 - 0xfcffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[16] -1	0	0xd0000000 - 0xdfffffff (0x10000000) MX[B](B)
	[17] -1	0	0xfd000000 - 0xfdffffff (0x1000000) MX[B](B)
	[18] 0	0	0x000a0000 - 0x000affff (0x10000) MS[B](OprD)
	[19] 0	0	0x000b0000 - 0x000b7fff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
	[20] 0	0	0x000b8000 - 0x000bffff (0x8000) MS[B](OprD)
	[21] -1	0	0x0000ffff - 0x0000ffff (0x1) IX[B]
	[22] -1	0	0x00000000 - 0x000000ff (0x100) IX[B]
	[23] -1	0	0x0000cc00 - 0x0000cc7f (0x80) IX[B]
	[24] -1	0	0x0000d080 - 0x0000d087 (0x8) IX[B]
	[25] -1	0	0x0000d400 - 0x0000d40f (0x10) IX[B]
	[26] -1	0	0x0000d480 - 0x0000d483 (0x4) IX[B]
	[27] -1	0	0x0000d800 - 0x0000d807 (0x8) IX[B]
	[28] -1	0	0x0000d880 - 0x0000d883 (0x4) IX[B]
	[29] -1	0	0x0000dc00 - 0x0000dc07 (0x8) IX[B]
	[30] -1	0	0x0000e000 - 0x0000e00f (0x10) IX[B]
	[31] -1	0	0x0000e080 - 0x0000e083 (0x4) IX[B]
	[32] -1	0	0x0000e400 - 0x0000e407 (0x8) IX[B]
	[33] -1	0	0x0000e480 - 0x0000e483 (0x4) IX[B]
	[34] -1	0	0x0000e800 - 0x0000e807 (0x8) IX[B]
	[35] -1	0	0x0000ffa0 - 0x0000ffaf (0x10) IX[B]
	[36] -1	0	0x00000700 - 0x0000073f (0x40) IX[B]
	[37] -1	0	0x00000600 - 0x0000063f (0x40) IX[B]
	[38] 0	0	0x000003b0 - 0x000003bb (0xc) IS[B](OprU)
	[39] 0	0	0x000003c0 - 0x000003df (0x20) IS[B](OprU)
**(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "1920x1200_60"**
(II) Loading extension NV-GLX
(II) NVIDIA(0): NVIDIA 3D Acceleration Architecture Initialized
(II) NVIDIA(0): Using the NVIDIA 2D acceleration architecture
(==) NVIDIA(0): Backing store disabled
(==) NVIDIA(0): Silken mouse enabled
(II) Loading extension NV-CONTROL
(==) RandR enabled
(II) Initializing built-in extension MIT-SHM
(II) Initializing built-in extension XInputExtension
(II) Initializing built-in extension XTEST
(II) Initializing built-in extension XKEYBOARD
(II) Initializing built-in extension XC-APPGROUP
(II) Initializing built-in extension XAccessControlExtension
(II) Initializing built-in extension SECURITY
(II) Initializing built-in extension XINERAMA
(II) Initializing built-in extension XFIXES
(II) Initializing built-in extension XFree86-Bigfont
(II) Initializing built-in extension RENDER
(II) Initializing built-in extension RANDR
(II) Initializing built-in extension COMPOSITE
(II) Initializing built-in extension DAMAGE
(II) Initializing built-in extension XEVIE
(II) Initializing extension GLX
(**) Option "CoreKeyboard"
(**) Keyboard0: Core Keyboard
(**) Option "Protocol" "standard"
(**) Keyboard0: Protocol: standard
(**) Option "AutoRepeat" "500 30"
(**) Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
(**) Keyboard0: XkbRules: "xorg"
(**) Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
(**) Keyboard0: XkbModel: "pc105"
(**) Option "XkbLayout" "us"
(**) Keyboard0: XkbLayout: "us"
(**) Option "CustomKeycodes" "off"
(**) Keyboard0: CustomKeycodes disabled
(**) Option "Protocol" "auto"
(**) Mouse0: Device: "/dev/psaux"
(**) Mouse0: Protocol: "auto"
(**) Option "CorePointer"
(**) Mouse0: Core Pointer
(**) Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
(**) Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
(**) Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
(**) Mouse0: ZAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Mouse0: Buttons: 9
(**) Mouse0: Sensitivity: 1
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Mouse0" (type: MOUSE)
(II) XINPUT: Adding extended input device "Keyboard0" (type: KEYBOARD)
(--) Mouse0: PnP-detected protocol: "ExplorerPS/2"
(II) Mouse0: ps2EnableDataReporting: succeeded
[B](II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "1280x1024"
SetClientVersion: 0 9
(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode "1280x1024"
[/B]

```

The last bit in the log has me wondering where X is getting the last mode? It appears to select the correct native resolution earlier then goes to the 1280x1024. Man I'm stumped!
TIA

---

### Post by TheDilettante on 2008-02-08
finger, if you're still checking this post, um... I don't know much about Nvidia.  However, might I suggest **first** copying your xorg.conf, **and then** simply removing from the list of ModeLines and Modes all the settings save the desired 1290x1200?

**COPY FIRST, IF SO** because my wild guess may be wrong.

---

### Post by finger51 on 2008-02-08
> **TheDilettante said:**
> finger, if you're still checking this post, um... I don't know much about Nvidia.  However, might I suggest **first** copying your xorg.conf, **and then** simply removing from the list of ModeLines and Modes all the settings save the desired 1290x1200?

**COPY FIRST, IF SO** because my wild guess may be wrong.

Hi~

I finally got it to work. I had been so caught up in cat'ing logs and tweaking the xorg.conf and trying to brute force it with _admin_ screen resolution that I completely overlooked the fact that there is a resolution setting in my user preferences. I was so used to going 'System\Administration\Screens ' that I didn't even notice the 'System\PREFERENCES\Resolution' option. duh.
The dell 2407wfp-hc is looking pretty damn good right now at its native res. THanks for the response!!
~F

---

### Post by TheDilettante on 2008-02-08
Cool.

---

