---
title: "error on conexant...."
date: 2007-01-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by micro_xii on 2007-01-19
Greetings:

When I try to install the conexant, this is the error. Can anyone help and figure it out

:confused: 

root@geoffrey-desktop:/home/geoffrey/Desktop# dpkg -i  hcfpcimodem_1.10full_i386 .deb
(Reading database ... 73708 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace hcfpcimodem 1.10full (using hcfpcimodem_1.10full_i386.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement hcfpcimodem ...
Setting up hcfpcimodem (1.10full) ...
Conexant HCF controllerless PCI modem driver, version 1.10full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hcfpciconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Ubuntu-6.06 linux-2.6.15-23-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)
Please install the 'linux-headers-2.6.15-23-386' package. You can install
it with the 'apt-get install linux-headers-2.6.15-23-386' command.

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux]

WARNING: missing file /usr/src/linux/include/linux/autoconf.h
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hcfpciconfig".
dpkg: error processing hcfpcimodem (--install):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
 hcfpcimodem

---

### Post by Sandlst on 2007-01-19
Have you  tried to follow this:> Please install the 'linux-headers-2.6.15-23-386' package. You can install
it with the 'apt-get install linux-headers-2.6.15-23-386' command.

If not, copy and paste this command into the terminal:```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
```Also, have you checked out this post?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190728&highlight=Conexant+HSF]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=190728&highlight=Conexant+HSF")

---

