---
title: "questions about screen refresh rate"
date: 2006-09-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Cruz on 2006-09-18
Hello Ubuntus,

I'm wondering how and where the screen refresh rate is actually set and configured. Well I know I can specify the vertical and horizontal frequency of my screen in xorg.conf, but I don't understand the result that comes out. Say I configure my monitor like this:

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
        HorizSync    30.0 - 96.0
        VertRefresh  60.0 - 200.0
        Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

and reboot. Then I get to see the login screen with a lame 85Hz vertical. When I log in it's also 85Hz first. But there I can go into System -> Preferences -> Screen resolution and there I can set a refresh rate of 100Hz in the dropdown list, which is filled with fixed values coming from where? Why can't I choose 120 or anything up to 200 Hz like I configured in xorg.conf? And when I choose the 100Hz there, where is it saved? Can I edit that manually? Because when I boot the next time the login still comes up with only 85Hz, but after login it switches to the 100Hz I chose so it must be saved somewhere. I have an ATI X800 with flgrx driver.

Thanks
Cruz

---

### Post by mejy on 2006-09-18
What happens if you put the minimum vertical refresh at 100.0?  I find that the easiest way to get the refresh rate up is often to force it with the lower value, since the graphical configuration tools are a bit touch and go.  (you should back up xorg.conf first, obviously).

---

### Post by Cruz on 2006-09-18
Thank you that was very good advice. Exact 100 Hz for the lower vertical limit didn't work, but I tuned it to 99Hz and set the horizontal frequency to a matching 81 kHz and now it finally works just like I wanted. Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by Cruz on 2006-09-18
For all who are intrested, here is an xorg.conf that works for an ATI X800 dual head configuration with one desktop spread out on two screens. 

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
        Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[1]" LeftOf "Default Screen"
        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "i2c"
        Load  "bitmap"
        Load  "ddc"
        Load  "dri"
        Load  "extmod"
        Load  "freetype"
        Load  "glx"
        Load  "int10"
        Load  "type1"
        Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver      "kbd"
        Option      "CoreKeyboard"
        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"
        Option      "XkbModel" "pc105"
        Option      "XkbLayout" "de"
        Option      "XkbVariant" "nodeadkeys"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "mouse"
        Option      "CorePointer"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
        Option      "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
        HorizSync    81.0 - 96.0
        VertRefresh  99.0 - 120.0
        Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
        HorizSync    81.0 - 96.0
        VertRefresh  99.0 - 120.0
        Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. R420 JI [Radeon X800PRO]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
        Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
        Screen      0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. R420 JI [Radeon X800PRO]"
        Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     24
                Modes    "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
        Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     24
                Modes    "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option "Xinerama" "yes"
EndSection

---

