---
title: "Resolution file editing"
date: 2008-03-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mngt on 2008-03-20
When i try to edit 

xorg,conf. 

It says 

> Could not save the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
You do not have the permissions necessary to save the file. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again.

Where do i type my pw?
Sorry if this is not the right place.

---

### Post by badmedic on 2008-03-20
You need to open a terminal and type the following:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

It will then prompt you to enter your password.

Once you do it will open in Gedit and you will be able to make changes and save.

---

### Post by kesman on 2008-03-20
To edit it from terminal, use:
```

sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
it asks your password and when you type it, it's not shown. This is normal, just type the password and hit enter.

EDIT: damn slow :P

---

### Post by mngt on 2008-03-20
I though i'd be able to edit it but i need help.

I only got one option in references/resolution. Which sucks because everything is stretched. It looks weird. 

How do i fix it?

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-03-20
You need to give us more information:

1- Is your computer a laptop or a desktop computer?

2- What brand is your monitor? Its size (17", 19"), type (CRT, LCD), and its natural resolution?

3- What is your graphics card? What is the output of the following command from the terminal:
```
lspci | grep -i vga
```

3- What resolution do you prefer to work in (say, the one back in windows)?

4- Please post the contents of the xorg.conf file:
```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by mngt on 2008-03-20
It's a laptop

here is my conf

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

This showed up.
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility X1400
It's a wide screen. Everything is stretched. I need to have more options.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-03-20
Can you please inform us about the brand of the laptop, so I can look up its properties and natural resolution from Google?

First things first, take a backup of your current xorg.conf file from a terminal (Main menu -> Accessories):
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.mybackup
```
You will need this to restore your desktop settings back, should things go wrong.

Run the following command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
which will ask you a few questions to configure your graphics.

In the file above:
```

Section "Device"
Identifier "Generic Video Card"
Driver "vesa"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```
the driver "vesa" is indeed the fall back device, and in the following section:
```
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1280x1024"
EndSubSection
```
it has been configured to show the secreen at 1280x1024. The line:
```
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
```
is correct according to "01:00.0 VGA compatible controller..."

So, you should answer the questions accordingly but select "ati" instead of "vesa" and a wide screen resolution (such as 1440x900 or 1280x800)

Apply the changes and restart your X server with Ctrl+Alt+BackSpace. Hopefully, you will be greeted with a graphical screen, but if it fails to the terminal with a failure, then run this command to restore your previous settings back: 
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.mybackup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Once you get your system work, you may need to go venture for the 3D binary driver for your card:

There is a binary driver howto for ATI:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)
for you to have a look. But it is too complicate if you ask me.

I would rather suggest you to give a try to ENVY, which supposedly should install and configure the binary ATI drivers as well as NVIDIA drivers:
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-03-20
But first try this: There is a tool "restricted drivers manager" under Gnome main menu -> System -> Admin.

Does it show a driver for your ATI card? &#305;f it does, go for the install, because this is much simpler.

---

