---
title: "TeX Problem with texmf.cnf"
date: 2008-01-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by DragonDecade on 2008-01-10
Hello,

I'm running Ubuntu (Gutsy Gibbon), and not Kubuntu.  But, today  installed and tried Kile.  Mostly, it seems fine, but when I tried a "compile", I got an error message that included:

```
warning: Configuration file texmf.cnf not found! Searched these directories:
/usr/share/texmf/web2c:/usr/share/texmf-texlive/web2c:/usr/local/share/texmf/web2c
```

Okay, searching my file system turned up several files with texmf.cnf in their names, including:

```

texmf.cnf /usr/share/texmf/web2c 20 bytes link (broken)
```

The problem is not in Kile, as such, I get that message just using the command line and typing in:

```

    tex
```

with no parameters at all.

So, where the problem is, is obvious.  The question to which I have no answer is: how do I fix this?

I might be able to create the file, if I had any idea of what to put into it, but I don't.

Any advice would be deeply appreciated.

--DragonDecade

---

### Post by napzilla on 2008-01-10
How about /etc/texmf? Is texmf.cnf present in that directory?

Alternatively you may need to generate the file. Here's the first line of my texmf.cnf:
%%% This file is automatically generated by update-texmf

Have you tried running update-texmf?

---

### Post by DragonDecade on 2008-01-10
Thank you, napzilla!

I do have /etc/texmf/  and in it are several directories, but no files.

The /etc/texmf/ had a web2c/ subdirectory, so I looked there, but the
only file was mktex.cnf -- which I've seen in several other web2c/
directories.

So, I tried the update-texmf you suggested.  I got a new message,
namely:

```
dragondecade@dragondecade-desktop:~$ sudo update-texmf
[sudo] password for dragondecade:
update-texmf: Basic configuration file /etc/texmf/texmf.d/05TeXMF.cnf missing.
Exiting.

```

In searching my file system for texmf-related files, I'd already found
05TeXMF.cnf in /usr/share/tex-common/

So:

```
cd /etc/texmf/texmf.d/
sudo cp /usr/share/tex-common/05TeXMF.cnf .
sudo update-texmf
```

Certainly should do something!  About to try it.

Okay, that worked, and popped up a text, not Gnome, window saying
" . . .new version of configuration file /etc/texmf/texmf.cnf is 
available . . ."

So, I'm selecting:
```

install the package maintainer's version
```

That looked okay, so:

```
dragondecade@dragondecade-desktop:/etc/texmf/texmf.d$ tex
This is TeX, Version 3.141592 (Web2C 7.5.6)
**

```

Yeah! Thank you!

Ctrl-C out of TeX, close console, Applications --> Office --> Kile

Then Build --> QuickBuild

Arrgh!

```
[LaTeX] GG16Kile.tex => GG16Kile.dvi (latex)
[LaTeX] finished with exit status 1
Cannot open log file; did you run LaTeX?

```

Looking at Kile's command line output:

```
*****
*****     LaTeX output: 
*****     cd '/home/dragondecade/Documents/fun/1632Series/GrantvilleGazettes/GG16'
*****     latex -interaction=nonstopmode 'GG16Kile.tex'
*****
This is pdfTeX, Version 3.141592-1.40.3 (Web2C 7.5.6)
---! Must increase the hyph_size
(Fatal format file error; I'm stymied)

```

Hmm.  When I type latex at the command line, I get:

```
dragondecade@dragondecade-desktop:~$ latex
This is pdfTeX, Version 3.141592-1.40.3 (Web2C 7.5.6)
**

```

I'll bet Kile doesn't like that, it sounds like Kile is looking for 
"This is LaTeX, Version ...", finds the "This is pdfTeX, Version ..."
and is, as it says, stymied.

I'll investigate.  But, thank you again, Napzilla, I'm no longer stuck
without a clue as to how to proceed!

--DragonDecade

---

### Post by DragonDecade on 2008-01-18
Well, thank you for those that helped.

In the end, I had to completely reformat my disk and re-install Ubuntu.  I haven't done anything with TeX since then.  If I go back to trying, and again find a bug, I'll be back.

Again, thank you all for your help.

--DragonDecade

---

