---
title: "[SOLVED] super bad mistake ? mounted new drive to home"
date: 2007-12-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-03
ok i was thinking that i wanted to mount a drive that was in media/sda1 to my home folder andwhen i did it ???deleted my home didnt it?

i cant reboot with that drive unplugged it without getting an error

where is my old home folder and how do i get it back to where it was?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2007-12-03
How did you mount the drive to your home folder to begin with? Did you alter your fstab settings or manually mount it from the terminal?

Posting your etc/fstab settings will probably help.

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-03
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=60f74535-e82e-416a-baed-939a117ef4de / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=c29bcbc1-2102-4298-af29-2a934f9e8141 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sde1 /media/sde1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdd1 /home/movies ext3 defaults 0 2
/dev/sdc1 /home/movies2 ext3 defaults 0 2

---

### Post by drs305 on 2007-12-03
Unfortunately I have to leave my computer but take heart, I'm pretty sure your home folder wasn't deleted. Mounting shouldn't do that. If you can post the errors you are getting and tell us how you went about mounting the media/sda1 device in the first place it will probably help in restoring your /home. 

Someone will hopefully reply and help you out soon.  Good luck. I'll check back tomorrow.

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-03
ok what i did was  used fstab to mount a fresh formatted drive to my home folder thinking i was just going to add storage space not thinking that it would replace the home folder i already had

then i rebooted thinking i needed to, to see the changes 
other than that i haven't had any errors really other than the chdsk  before the boot up was telling me that something was wrong i pressed control d and it booted up

when i noticed it i was trying to reload my bookmarks in firefox obviously because they aren't there anymore
i went to my documents folder and it was empty then th file that firefox stores the backups in was empty also 

so there you have it dumbass extraordinar at your service

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-03
ok i am running on the live cd and i can see my files phewwwww!!!

now how to i get things back to normal?

---

### Post by macogw on 2007-12-04
Just change the line in fstab that lists your /home to point to the partition where your files *really* are

---

### Post by rexxxlo on 2007-12-04
tht was easier than i thought i just unmounted the new drive rebooted and back to normal thanks     i will mark solved

---

