---
title: "64 vs. x86, and partition question"
date: 2006-01-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Heretic Monkey on 2006-01-21
I recently installed the Ubuntu 64-bit distro (dual-boot config) on my box.  After playing around with it some, and experimenting w/ programs and configs, it seems that some programs aren't fully utilized by the 64-bit Architecture.  So, a few questions to go along w/ this problem....

[b]1. Is there a way to run programs in a sort of "compatibility mode" so that they can be run on a 64-bit architecture?  The 2 programs i've specifically tried are Macromedia Flash and Automatix, but i've heard there could be more problems with more programs.

2.  What are the advantages of using the 64-bit over x86 distro?[/b]

Also, i downloaded what i thought was Partition Magic, but it turned out to just be a "free trial" that does absolutely nothing besides show me what i COULD do if i bought it.  I tried a multitude of tasks using the program, but none of them would apply the changes without me buying the freakin program.  Is there a good, **FREE** partition manager for windows i could download?

---

### Post by dueY on 2006-01-21
[QUOTE=Heretic Monkey]I recently installed the Ubuntu 64-bit distro (dual-boot config) on my box.  After playing around with it some, and experimenting w/ programs and configs, it seems that some programs aren't fully utilized by the 64-bit Architecture.  So, a few questions to go along w/ this problem....

[b]1. Is there a way to run programs in a sort of "compatibility mode" so that they can be run on a 64-bit architecture?  The 2 programs i've specifically tried are Macromedia Flash and Automatix, but i've heard there could be more problems with more programs.

2.  What are the advantages of using the 64-bit over x86 distro?

lso, i downloaded what i thought was Partition Magic, but it turned out to just be a "free trial" that does absolutely nothing besides show me what i COULD do if i bought it. I tried a multitude of tasks using the program, but none of them would apply the changes without me buying the freakin program. Is there a good, FREE partition manager for windows i could download?[/quote]

It's true that not all programs are ready for 64-bit yet.  My computer is 64-bit compatible, but I haven't bothered to install a 64bit OS yet because I don't think they're ready yet.
As for the partitioning program does it need to be for Windows?  If you don't have Linux installed yet you could use a LIVE CD and use gparted. :p

---

### Post by Heretic Monkey on 2006-01-21
[QUOTE=dueY]As for the partitioning program does it need to be for Windows?  If you don't have Linux installed yet you could use a LIVE CD and use gparted. :p[/QUOTE]
Well, i tried to install Gparted on my Ubuntu account, but it couldn't download the files.  I tried going through "Add Applications" and "Synaptec", but it kept getting an error.  I want to enlarge my FAT32 partition to use it as a shared partition between XP and Ubuntu, and i have about 40 gigs of Unallocated space....

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-01-21
I highly recommend GParted on its own live CD. The latest version was gparted-livecd-0.1.iso the last time I looked, and it's absolutely brilliant! You'll be able to do everything you need,  =-with ease-=  . Follow my second 'sig link' to download the .iso and burn yourself a copy to a CD. The .iso file is 33.1 mb, so not too big. :D (Herman)

---

### Post by ap0ll0 on 2006-01-21
[QUOTE=Heretic Monkey]Well, i tried to install Gparted on my Ubuntu account, but it couldn't download the files.  I tried going through "Add Applications" and "Synaptec", but it kept getting an error.  I want to enlarge my FAT32 partition to use it as a shared partition between XP and Ubuntu, and i have about 40 gigs of Unallocated space....[/QUOTE]

 When I do any partition to the drives on my computers, decideds messing with NTFS partions, I just use Knoppix with the partition utility on it (I think its qt-parted). Its just another one of those handy features of having a Knoppix live-cd. Damn Small may have a partition utility as well, in which case it would be better since it takes less time to dl usually. Any liveCD with a decent partition tool like QT-Parted or Gparted should do the trick. 

 I don't know much about amd64 stuff (I'm still stuck several older 2400-2600+ Athlons), but if you can for now use a i386-i686 distro instead of the 64 bit one if you can. I would imagine, if you can run a 32-bit distro, you can probably run 32-bit apps correctly and probably run drivers, which is good since most mainstream apps and drivers are 32-bit. Just a guess.

---

