---
title: ".bin"
date: 2007-03-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by robeec on 2007-03-29
i love ubnuntu (dapper drake) but i'm stumped on how to install a .bin file. i want to install google-earth and all that is available is .bin. i dl-ed to the desktop, opened the root terminal and typed:
./GoogleEarthLinux.bin-installer
and i get
" no such file or directory"
any ideas on what i'm doing wrong?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-03-29
Open a normal terminal

```
cd ~Desktop
chmod a+x GoogleEarthLinux.bin
sh GoogleEarthLinux.bin
```

(Or you can ./GoogleEarthLinux.bin at that last step if you like)

---

### Post by robeec on 2007-03-29
thanks for repying! when i type: "cd ~Desktop", i get: "no such file or directory".

---

### Post by codypumper on 2007-03-29
Then try "cd Desktop" or "cd /home/*yourusername*/Desktop"

---

### Post by DoorGunner on 2007-03-29
just forgot  the slash after the tilde key 

cd ~/Desktop

not a biggy.....

---

### Post by codypumper on 2007-03-29
Haha, or that. I usually just type "cd Desktop", and all works out.

---

### Post by robeec on 2007-03-29
> **codypumper said:**
> Haha, or that. I usually just type "cd Desktop", and all works out.

thanks! worked like a charm!

---

### Post by DoorGunner on 2007-03-29
:lolflag: 

the things you learn by accident or by playing around .....

---

### Post by codypumper on 2007-03-29
> **DoorGunner said:**
> :lolflag: 

the things you learn by accident or by playing around .....

So true...

---

### Post by karaju on 2007-05-20
Hello,
Thanks for info on how to install a bin file.  I am new to linux.  I have installed GE following instructions on this page.  GE is loading well but I could not see the familiar GLOBE with stars background.  The window is blank (black).  If I type some address, nothing happens in the window.

Any Ideas what might be wrong and how to rectify.  Thanks in advance.

---

