---
title: "xorg.conf had a stroke"
date: 2007-07-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by drapaki on 2007-07-05
just installed Ubuntu a few hours ago.. was in love!  setting up dual monitors according to this

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/dual-monitors-with-nvidia.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/dual-monitors-with-nvidia.html)

which seems to be great instructions.. but i'm sure i did something wrong!  It can't seem to find the xorg.conf_backup... what the?

it says there is an error in line 108 but i can't get in there to edit it!!!  i really don't want to have to re-install everything! 

HEEEEEELLLLLPP!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by Trueno22 on 2007-07-05
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by frankross3 on 2007-07-05
ya, upon inspection of those instructions, assuming you followed them, you made a backup.  Just restore that from the command line.  Or you could post your xorg.conf file and the community could  check it out.

---

### Post by drapaki on 2007-07-05
1) how do i save the file once i make some changes?

2) how do i save it to a disk so i can bring it to this computer so i can post it in case my changes don't help?

---

### Post by drapaki on 2007-07-05
answered my own #1 with this
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Nano)
 if anyone ever reads this thread in the future.

still don't know how to write to a CD from the command prompt since i don't have a floppy!  do you know how?

> **drapaki said:**
> 1) how do i save the file once i make some changes?

2) how do i save it to a disk so i can bring it to this computer so i can post it in case my changes don't help?

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-07-05
Have you tried seeing what's listed in your /etc/X11 directory?:
```
cd /etc/X11
ls
```

this should list any xorg.conf backup, then:
```
sudo cp xorg.conf.backup xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by drapaki on 2007-07-06
the backup is not there... but i found a file which seems to be more similar to the original.. but when i try ```
cp xorg.conf~ xorg.conf
```
it says "cp: cannot create regular file 'xorg.conf'' Permission denied" :x

---

### Post by BillDozer on 2007-07-06
That is because you should have super user rights to overwrite the xorg.conf file. Use sudo to achieve this.

```
sudo cp xorg.conf~ xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2007-07-06
what does ls give you when you do this

```
cd /etc/X11
ls
```

---

### Post by drapaki on 2007-07-06
OH MAMA! :D  BACK IN BUSINESS.. sort of.. Ubuntu loads as normal.  Still don't have dual monitors and more concerning is that my 'desktop effects' cannot be activated!  (7.04)  Like i said, it seems to be a more original version.. but still not perfect... 

any clues?

btw... 'ls' in the ect/X11 directory listed everything just like it was supposed to... thank goodness!

(my computer --> [http://www.hardwarecentral.com/hardwarecentral/reviews/article.php/3069931](http://www.hardwarecentral.com/hardwarecentral/reviews/article.php/3069931) )
===============
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc RV350 [Mobility Radeon 9600 M10]"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc RV350 [Mobility Radeon 9600 M10]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by anewguy on 2007-07-06
;)Please follow BillDozer's response and put "sudo " before the copy command.  The xorg.conf file by default isn't going to be writable by your user id - you must use "sudo ".  In addition, if you do see the xorg.conf~ file, it is the backup prior to your last edit.   Just do the copy exactly as he has shown and it will copy the file back.  I also like to create my own backup by doing "sudo cp xorg.conf xorg.con f-works".  That way when I make changes that mess things up, I just use the command line (if you're really hosed you can get to a terminal session by (at least on my laptop) holding control and alt and pressing the F2 key. You can restart x from there, but I probably do overkill because I reboot when I have had to copy the "works" file back.  To do that at the command line just type "sudo shutdown -r now".  This tells Linux to shutdown and "-r"estart and to do it now.  

I don't know enough about any of the dual monitor stuff you want to do, so I can't help you there.  Hopefully I was able to help in some small way!;)

BTW - I'm new at LInux and Ubuntu so I've messed up xorg.conf many times.  I like to think I'm not alone in messing it up!:)

---

### Post by drapaki on 2007-07-06
thanks!  adding the 'sudo' worked already.. that's how i was able to copy and paste my file on here.  

now i'm mostly worried about why my desktop effects can not be enabled. i gotta have window wiggles!!!   i assume i can take care of the dual monitors myself if i just pay more attention to it.. but if someone w/ great knowledge wants to help me along.. i would be very happy w/ that too!

---

### Post by BillDozer on 2007-07-07
I also have an ATI card and my Device section looks like this:
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Ati"
	Driver		"ati"
	Option "DRI" "true"
	Option "ColorTiling" "on"
	Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Option "RenderAccel" "true"
	Option "AGPFastWrite" "on"  
	BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```
I am not complety sure what the settings mean, but I got my card to work with these settings.

---

