---
title: "Dual boot with Windows Bootloader, from External HD"
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Flagman on 2007-06-02
I have installed Ubuntu onto my USB external HD, and have also installed GRUB onto that drive because it will be moving around. On most comptuers, I have the startup option if I press F12 or whatever to boot from a USB drive, in which case GRUB starts and I can access Ubuntu.

On my laptop however, he bios groups all hard drives together and does not allow me to select a single one, and since the USB drive is reloaded by the bios every time I start, it will default to the bottom of the list no matter where I set it, thus booting windows every time.

The only option that I see here (since I can't install GRUB on the main HD of every computer I come across), is to add Ubuntu to the windows bootloader:

1) I used bootpart to create an image file and then directed the windows bootloader to it, but it does not seem to work. I think bootpart will only work with Lilo (I can install that instead, but not until I get home because I can't boot up Ubuntu.

2) I have read that some people will copy the boot partition of a Linux install to another drive as a .bin, put that file in windows, then point the bootloader to that. I am planning on trying this as soon as I get home, but am skeptical that it will work.


Anyone have some tips on what I can do? Or if you even think that one of these two might work.

Also: In windows and Ubuntu, the HD is recognized as after the other drives, but when booting it is loaded as hd0 in GRUB. So I set my grub config to boot to hd0 for Ubuntu and hd1 for windows.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-06-02
Your second option will work - I have used it before.

Although I now think Grub4DOS I think is a reasonable alternative - and probably a bit easier ([http://grub4dos.sourceforge.net/wiki...b4dos_tutorial](http://grub4dos.sourceforge.net/wiki...b4dos_tutorial), [http://sourceforge.net/projects/grub4dos/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/grub4dos/)). You want the "Booting GRUB for DOS via the Windows NT/2000/XP/2003 boot manager" section in the wiki. Probably easiest to do that, then simply copy the menu.lst auto-generated by Ubuntu (from /boot/grub/menu.lst) to C:\

---

### Post by Flagman on 2007-06-02
So if I understand correctly, I should be able to put Grub4Dos on my external HD (hd0,0) and use a dos boot disk to start the computer in dos. Then I can change to C:/ or whatever it shows up as and just use:

GRUB --config-file="(hd0,0)/menu.lst"

Sounds easy enough to me.

*EDIT*: By this I mean do what you said for my own personal computer but for any other one, I can boot dos and use the grub on my external HD to not change ANYTHING. I am going to make a DOS disk real quick and test that out

---

### Post by e_james on 2007-06-03
From what little experience I have, I believe that the SuperGrub CD will let you boot any OS it recognises on any of your drives. I used it once to boot ubuntu 6.10 on a secondary drive when the primary drive died and I lost the main grub menu.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-06-03
> **Flagman said:**
> So if I understand correctly, I should be able to put Grub4Dos on my external HD (hd0,0) and use a dos boot disk to start the computer in dos. Then I can change to C:/ or whatever it shows up as and just use:

GRUB --config-file="(hd0,0)/menu.lst"

Sounds easy enough to me.

*EDIT*: By this I mean do what you said for my own personal computer but for any other one, I can boot dos and use the grub on my external HD to not change ANYTHING. I am going to make a DOS disk real quick and test that out

Not what I'd intended, actually.  Nevertheless, it is possible to create a GRUB boot floppy/CD to access a USB drive if your BIOS won't allow USB booting.  I know it is recommended for PuppyLinux - you might want to have a search through their forum and wiki.  Of course, the benefit of this option is that you can use it anywhere that doesn't allow USB booting (as long as they allow CD/floppy booting).

My idea was just to put Grub4DOS on C:\ of your own laptop.

---

