---
title: ".tar.gz or .rpm"
date: 2007-01-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-01-28
I just clicked on a link that prompted me to download the latest version of Adobe Reader. Not that I plan to download it, but it did raise a question. The page asked which vrsion of Linux I am running (.tar.gz) or (.rpm). It seems that I have seen reference to tar around here so I guess that is the version Ubuntu is based on, but, is that right? What is the difference, and more importantly is there a command script that will give such info?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-01-28
Maybe this guide would show you how to install something.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware)

---

### Post by dbbolton on 2007-01-28
.rpm files were originally made for the red hat package manager, but now used by fedora, red hat derivatives, suse, and a few others.

.tar.gz is a tarball to be extracted by GNU Zip

obviously, .tar.gz is more generic, thus will work on a wide range of systems, but it youre using a distro that handles .rpm's, that would make things a little simpler. analogous to .deb's for ubuntu.

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-01-28
> **taurus said:**
> Maybe this guide would show you how to install something.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware)

unless I'm totally missing something, that does not answer my question.

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2007-01-28
Without using a converter program, you can't use .rpm files with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-01-28
Frome reading some of the other stuff I came across it sounds like CheckInstall would be a good utility to have. Thanks for the info. I think I now know what is the difference between .tar and .rpm.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-01-28
> **paydaydaddy said:**
> unless I'm totally missing something, that does not answer my question.
You're missing something.

I'll sum it up for you. Ideally, you use the package manager (Adept, Synaptic, Add/Remove, *aptitude*, *apt-get*) to install software.

If that's not possible, you use a .deb.

If that's not possible, you use an .rpm.

If that's not possible, you use a .tar.gz

I thought the link made it clear that was the preferred order > Here are the main ways to install software in order of ease (*easiest to hardest*): [Emphasis added]

By the way, if you're using Edgy Eft (Ubuntu 6.10) instead of Dapper Drake, the version in the repositories is already the latest version (7.0.9). Just out of curiosity, what features do you want in 7.0.9 that aren't in 7.0.1?

---

### Post by paydaydaddy on 2007-01-28
Like I said in my original post, I don't intend to update Acrobat Reader. It is just that I was prompted to choose .tar or .rpm and the way it was worded led me to believe that i had either one or the other of those systems. Through this discussion I came to realize that it was not a type of system at all that was being addressed, but more accurately a way of installing. I did get the preferred order of package types while reading the phsycocats page. I merely stated that in case of needing to install something other than a .deb package that CheckInstall sounded like a handy tool. I am not going to download it either. At least not at this time. I am still just trying to figure out how to keep Ubuntu running for more than a week at a time without doing a complete re-install. Thanks for helping the noob.

---

