---
title: "7.04 Beta to Final Release"
date: 2007-04-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by moonshinerat on 2007-04-09
Hi, I've installed Edgy and can't for the life of me get the screen resolution to 1440x900, even with 915resolution installed.

I know this is a problem with the Intel945 chipset and i810graphics adapter.

As a quick solution if I install 7.04 Beta (as I understand now supports this native resolution without 915res.) can I do a single command upgrade to the full release like you can with 6.10 or is it gonna tell me I already have 7.04 installed and cannot install again. I don't want to have to go through a full install when the full version is out.

Many thanks....

---

### Post by Medieval_Creations on 2007-04-09
You should be able to manually edit the xorg.conf by adding your resolution to the mode used.
Example, mine reads: Modes "1440x900" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600"

or

Download/Update the newest driver for you Vid-Card, if needed.

Then try this command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
This will allow you to reconfigure all the XServer settings, you can pick your Vid-Card driver and resolutions and you should be good to go from there.

---

### Post by moonshinerat on 2007-04-09
Sorry Medi, it's still dropping back down to 1024x768. It doesn't seem to matter what modes I tell xorg or 915res that I need, it just doesn't want to work. That's why I was wondering if 7.04 was a better idea but I don't want to install now and find I've got to go through the whole process again.

If 7.04 beta will upgrade to full release as Ubuntu advertise from 6.10 then I'm home and dry.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Obor on 2007-04-09
> **moonshinerat said:**
> can I do a single command upgrade to the full release like you can with 6.10 or is it gonna tell me I already have 7.04 installed and cannot install again. I don't want to have to go through a full install when the full version is out.

A regular update will take you from 7.04 beta to 7.04 full, once its out.
If you want to upgrade from 6.10 to 7.04 Beta
```
update-manager -d
```

---

