---
title: "startup - multiple kubuntu entries"
date: 2008-02-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by lupgop on 2008-02-09
i have 2 OS, kubuntu an Xp - when i start the computer a get the choice to choose. how do i clean up and change the order of this list. kubuntu has about 4 entries only 1 that i use ???

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-02-09
You can uninstall the old entries from Synaptic. Search for linux-image and mark for removal the ones you don't use, but make sure you leave the current one. Not sure which version of Kubuntu you use, but the latest kernel version on Ubuntu 7.10 is 2.6.22-14-generic (2.6.22-14.51) Grub menu should get update once the redundant kernels are removed.

---

### Post by lupgop on 2008-02-09
sorry i mean when i power up the machine - before kubuntu or xp load...  all text at that point no images. must be somewhere in bios no ?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-09
Nope, that's the grub config it lives in /boot/grub/menu.lst, and is autogenerated when ever you install or uninstall a linux-image package.

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-02-09
do this:
in terminal enter:
```

gksudo kate /boot/grub/menu.lst

```
scroll down until you see this section
```

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=2

```
change the "howmany" number to 1 or 2 (or whatever) and save the file

then in terminal do:
```

sudo update-grub

```
Note: there's excellent information on configuring GRUB at hermanzone's site [Hermanzone's GRUB page](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm)

---

### Post by lupgop on 2008-02-09
thanks - what if i wanted to put windows first ??? my wife uses pc and gets annoyed it boots into kubuntu...

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-09
Well, if you're going to go digging around in grub config by hand, one of the options in there is named default, and looks something like this:
```

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		saved

```
Once you've gotten the extra entries shaken out and can get a more final count, of the boot entires you can change the default to the number of the windows entry. It will probably be 4, 0 being standard ubuntu, 1 being ubuntu recovery, 2 being memtest, 3 being the spacer between ubuntu and windows.

---

