---
title: "DNS Settings"
date: 2008-02-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by carrizz on 2008-02-21
How do i manually assign my DNS settings in ubuntu?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-21
Take a look at:
System> Administration > Network >DNS

---

### Post by Rossross on 2008-02-21
Whats the point in assigning different settings exactly? .

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-21
Even if you add a new DNS when you reboot the system sets it up from the router it sees.

---

### Post by carrizz on 2008-02-21
> **philinux said:**
> Even if you add a new DNS when you reboot the system sets it up from the router it sees.

Exactly, I need to manually assign the settings supplied by my isp.

---

### Post by Rossross on 2008-02-21
I see. hehe

---

### Post by ruy_lopez on 2008-02-21
You can manually edit /etc/resolv.conf. Even though the file says not to edit manually, I haven't experienced any problems.

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-21
> **carrizz said:**
> Exactly, I need to manually assign the settings supplied by my isp.

That seems contradictory... Either your ISP is assigning them with DHCP, or you're manually setting them to something else (presumably because you don't want to use the ones that we're assigned to you). You shouldn't have to set them to your ISP's DNS servers, what servers are you using right now anyway?

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-21
Tried that and it resets itself at reboot

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-21
> **carrizz said:**
> Exactly, I need to manually assign the settings supplied by my isp.

If you have a router then you do it from your routers set up page.

---

### Post by carrizz on 2008-02-22
> **ruy_lopez said:**
> You can manually edit /etc/resolv.conf. Even though the file says not to edit manually, I haven't experienced any problems.

Thanks, you're right. that worked great. :KS

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-22
I found when I rebooted that resolv.conf had been regenerated by the system back to its original state.

---

### Post by Gigili on 2008-02-22
I have this problem too.
I can Get my IP from network automatically, but i should give a DNS server name manually
but every time i change the file /etc/network/resolv.config after restarting the system of restarting the network, system will change it to its default again.
please help me:(

---

### Post by carrizz on 2008-02-22
Works fine for me, 
I uncommented the following line then replaced 127.0.01 with my DNS settings.

```
#prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
```

Next  I removed "domain-name-servers" from the following:

```
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, [COLOR="Red"]domain-name-servers,[/COLOR] host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope;
#require subnet-mask, domain-name-servers;
```

saved the changes then after a reboot everything worked fine.

---

