---
title: "7.1 screen resolution problem/freakout"
date: 2008-02-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by medusa-09 on 2008-02-06
hello all,

i have a fresh install of gutsy on a core 2 duo/Biostar GF7050V-M7 chipset. all is well except maximum screen resolution is stuck at 1024x768. when i boot into XP64, I get all the way up to 1920x1200. 

does anybody have a patch for this? i tried running an unrestricted driver and wound up in lo res hell. i'm afraid of my own sudo, i mean shadow, you know what i mean. a little knowledge is a dangerous thing.

please enlighten...

thanks,
medusa-09

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-06
Try running the reconfiguration for X (the GUI)
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
```
then save and close anything you have open and restart X with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE.  You should now be able to select the correct resolution.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-02-06
take a look at /etc/X11/xorg.conf   see if other modes for your screen are supported, if so edit the resolution to suit.

---

### Post by medusa-09 on 2008-02-06
thanks for the suggestions:

selected 1920x1600 etc, i'm back to 800x600 and don't have the option of 1024. argh...

is this a driver issue? 

got pixels the size of poker chips.

medusa-09

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-06
you can reconfigure manually by running the command without phigh
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
You will be asked a bunch of questions about your hardware, do your best to answer, defaults work for most.  When asked about video drivers, select "ati" if you have an ati card, or "nv" if you have an nvidia card.  At the resolutions screen, use TAB to move and SPACEBAR to select your monitor's max resolution and everything less.  Then restart X with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE when you're finished with the questions.

If you still can't get the correct resolutions, you may need to install the restricted drivers for your video card.

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-02-06
what is your display adapter ??
lshw -short -class display

---

### Post by medusa-09 on 2008-02-06
ok, went home at lunch and took a whack at this.

resolution now looks fine at login prompt but when i get into gutsy - total overlapping screen images and ugly hash lines - computer is totally unusable. it looks like 4 overlapping screens. i can ctrl-alt-bkspc to turn the machine off, but that's it.

so, part of ubuntu understands the video card, but my X windows session  doesn't. 

any ideas? how do i fix this problem if i can't get a usable session? i did notice there is an emergency kernel available as the bios boots.

thanks to all of you for helping,

medusa-09

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-06
At your messed up screen do CTRL+ALT+F1 and login to a tty terminal.  When you ran the dpkg script it made an autobackup of your original xorg.conf file and it stored in /etc/X11/  in the format xorg.conf.YearMonthDayTime which is based on when you ran the script.  You can restore it with
```
ls /etc/X11   (so you can see your backup file name)
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf.[YearMonthDayTime] /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Then get back to your screwed up X with something like CTRL+ALT+F7 and do the CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE  [note, F7 is usually where the GUI is, F1-F6 are generally text login TTYs].  Alternatively, you can just restart the computer.
You now have your original xorg.conf restored so at least the computer is usable.  Can you please tell us the make/model of your video card?

---

### Post by medusa-09 on 2008-02-06
the sudo executed but my display did not change. also rebooted. am considering some kind of  ritual act with a salamander and lighter fluid.

the graphics card is an NVIDIA GeForce 7050 integrated into the mobo. 

this is all so confusing. 

luckily i am patient and masochistic.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-07
Can you post your xorg.conf file for us
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Run the reconfiguration again selecting "nvidia" as your driver.  Again, at the resolutions screen, use TAB to move and SPACEBAR to select your monitor's max resolution and everything less. Then restart X with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE when you're finished with the questions.  Then post the new xorg.conf as well.

---

