---
title: "386 or K7 ??"
date: 2006-05-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mancman on 2006-05-29
I upgraded to Dapper a couple of days ago, two weeks after installing Breezy on a dual-boot with XP, and hope to migrate from MS for good.
My processor is an AMD Athlon 1800, yet when I  'uname -r' in terminal....... I get  '2.6.15-23-386'.   I guess I should be getting a 'K7' in there, not 386, I've obviously installed wrongly at the outset.  
My question is: Does it really matter, and if so how do I correct this ? I'm guessing I can use Synaptic to update, but a search for  'kernel' shows numerous entries for K7.  Can anybody enlighten me ?

Many thanks in advance.

---

### Post by joshrobinson on 2006-05-29
[QUOTE=Mancman]I upgraded to Dapper a couple of days ago, two weeks after installing Breezy on a dual-boot with XP, and hope to migrate from MS for good.
My processor is an AMD Athlon 1800, yet when I  'uname -r' in terminal....... I get  '2.6.15-23-386'.   I guess I should be getting a 'K7' in there, not 386, I've obviously installed wrongly at the outset.  
My question is: Does it really matter, and if so how do I correct this ? I'm guessing I can use Synaptic to update, but a search for  'kernel' shows numerous entries for K7.  Can anybody enlighten me ?

Many thanks in advance.[/QUOTE]

if you want to run the 64bit version of dapper you have to install from a dapper amd64 cd.. upgrading kernels might cause problems with other installed packages

just remeber if you want to switch to the 64bit version, there is problems with getting flash, and java to work on webpages.. and not all programs have a 64bit version.. but you can compile from source

---

### Post by kingmonkey on 2006-05-29
Doesnt make a *real* difference (unless you have AMD64)

---

### Post by Noelinho on 2006-05-29
Unless I am very much mistaken, K7 is the previous CPU to the Athlon. As far as I know, you should have the 386 installed.

---

### Post by joshrobinson on 2006-05-29
[QUOTE=Noelinho]Unless I am very much mistaken, K7 is the previous CPU to the Athlon. As far as I know, you should have the 386 installed.[/QUOTE]

what ones the 64bit then? k8?

---

### Post by az on 2006-05-29
[QUOTE=Mancman]I upgraded to Dapper a couple of days ago, two weeks after installing Breezy on a dual-boot with XP, and hope to migrate from MS for good.
My processor is an AMD Athlon 1800, yet when I  'uname -r' in terminal....... I get  '2.6.15-23-386'.   I guess I should be getting a 'K7' in there, not 386, I've obviously installed wrongly at the outset. [/QUOTE]


No.  Everybody gets the 386 kernel by default.  You will see some performance improvement by installing the "linux-k7" package.  that will bring in everything you need (kernel, modules, everything)

On really old systems, like less than 900 MHz, you can see a nice improvement, but on modern systems, the difference seems to be marginal.

---

### Post by djsroknrol on 2006-05-29
I'm running the 2.6.15-23-K& on my Sempron 2400+, and I saw a marked improvment from the 386 kernel...

---

### Post by Mancman on 2006-05-30
Thanks for the replies, everybody.  

If I did decide to upgrade to K7, what would be my plan of action ? ie: what would I need to download and install, and how?
As a newbie to Linux I've just had 2 days of head-scratching getting my wireless card working with ndiswrapper, would I have to go through all that again ?

---

### Post by meborc on 2006-05-30
like azz said, you only need to install the 'linux-k7' package, which is a meta-package... that means it depends on all packaged required to run a k7 kernel and stuff... (hope i don't confuse you mutch)

there are 2 ways of installing the package, the 1. one is to open the terminal (applications - accessories - terminal) and typing:```
sudo apt-get install linux-k7
```

you will see then a lot of packages which will be installed and you will need to type 'Y' and hit enter... and that's it

the other way of doing it is through the synaptic package manager... just search for NAME 'linux-k7'... tick the box and hit apply... 

both ways do the same thing as the synaptic package manager is just a gui frontend of apt...

NOW when you restart your computer you will see new lines in your grub menu... the line ending with -k7 is the new one (surprise-surprise)... the old kernel will still be there, so if something gets messed up you can always chose the old one (ending with -386)

hope that helps...

---

### Post by GazzaK on 2006-06-02
once you have done this, can you remove the old 386 kernel? or is that NOT a good idea?

---

### Post by byen on 2006-06-02
Once the new Kernel has been installed and tested to work without any stability issues...Yes you can remove the old kernels :P

---

### Post by KeithO on 2006-06-02
do you mean just delete their entries from grub or from the hard drive?  i can do the grub edit but not sure how to remove it from the hd.

---

### Post by djsroknrol on 2006-06-02
If you have little teminal experience, do like I did...go to Synaptic, search for "K7", and get it that way...

what I did, after I found it stable, I edited my Menu.lst in /boot/grub/ and removed the older kernel lines I wasn't going to use and removed them via Synaptic....

---

### Post by az on 2006-06-02
Once you remove the linux-image packages for that kernel, the grub lines are removed.  So you don't need to edit it by hand.

---

