---
title: "7.10, RTL8185, No working wirelesss"
date: 2008-03-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-24
Hey all I'm new to Ubuntu.  

I've tried and tried and tried but I am not smart enough to get my network card to work (RTL-8185 wireless card built into a gateway W340UI laptop) this much i've managed to figure out.

it says *-Network disabled (can't figure out how to enable it)

I've tried looking at the websites but all they seem to answer is in cryptic sources, install this extract that but no meat and potatoes to let me learn how to do this, now I know you all are a smart bunch and will probably tell me to RTFM or something like that but it is all greek to me, yes I should be a windows user or a mac enthusiast then right?

basically, it won't connect to the internet, not showing any drivers (I can't even figure out which drivers i'm supposed to install let alone how to install them)

If you can help that would be great

I hate windows vista, but with ubuntu not allowing me to get on the internet I think I won't be able to transfer from windows to ubuntu like I want

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-24
HOW DO YOU USE UNSHIELD, i've read the damn manpage but what is the f'n syntax?

---

### Post by adult swim on 2008-03-24
what kind of wireless card do you have?

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-24
going through the forums i've gotten this far:

my network card is a realtek RTL-8185

I'm really new to a unix environment but really want to learn to use something other than windows.

When I first tried it, my computer hard locked up, then I looked and noticed that the wireless card in the list says *-Disabled.  I've tried to look on the web for answers but am lost at this point

any help you could give would be great, please be gentle i'm a noob.

---

### Post by handydan918 on 2008-03-24
> **jjgauthi said:**
> Okay two weeks in, and I can't get my network card to work, its a wireless card built into my laptop.  Jumping jesus on a pogo stick with the google results:

first you need to download drivers, then cabextract, then installshield then this then that then the kitchen sink.  I mean could you please make it less complicated for newbies, I understand you are all superior to me in your knowledge of computers and I thougth this would be a great thing to do learn something new but all i've gotten is frustration and pissed off.

is there anyway a friggin new guy to this world can learn anything without some cryptic post or assinine comment?

Well, before we go too far here, you DO know this is not  a Windows forum, right? Because the section above with jesus and his pogo stick all sounds like Windows procedures, i.e., "download drivers, then cabextract, then installshield".

Those things  are all unique to Windows, AFAIK...

---

### Post by Wobedraggled on 2008-03-24
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210958&page=5]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210958&page=5")

---

### Post by adult swim on 2008-03-24
there seems to be a driver for linux available from the realtek website
[http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=1&PFid=1&Level=6&Conn=5&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true](http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=1&PFid=1&Level=6&Conn=5&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true)

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-28
Greetings All....

I am completely new to unix, I have tried to resolve this issue but there is no real help from any of the forms or internet seraches.  Alot of very smart people out there I am hoping that someone can help me without posting a link to  a previous post that does not really help me.

I am trying to configure the RTL8185 card that is embedded in my laptop.

First off, I have tried multiple answers to no avail I keep hitting roadblocks that mainly are due to my own limited knowledge about unix in general.

1) using the network manager my wireless card does not have drivers installed
2) using the lshw (I think that is what i used) it says for wireless network *-disabled
3) I have downloaded the drivers from Realtek for the 8185 card.
   
    a) 1st problem the readme that is included in the download assumes a far greater knowledge of a unix environment than I currently posses, I hope to fix this problem.
    b) how the heck do you build source drivers from code?

4) a whole host of issues, generally all responses out there assume that someone has a great knowledge of linux and is comfortable with all the commands and tools that are required to get this working

Thank you for reading this, I hope someone can point me to the fishing pole, I am not looking for the fish, just the way to catch them.

---

### Post by StOoZ on 2008-03-28
tell us what is your exact problem, where did you "stuck" and we'll try to help you.
im myself a total newbie , started with linux only a month ago , and im IN-LOVE!
dumped windows , only has it in a virtualized environment (vmware).

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-03-28
Well what exactly is your problem? We'll try and help as best we can, and if we need more details we'll tell you how to give them to us :)

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-28
issue:

RTL8185 wireless card, hard locking my computer - various forum topics on it but they all require some higher form of intuitive knowledge about a *nix environment than I have.

Tried the dual boot, no success 
Installed the windows 98 driver no success
installed the Xp driver no success
Downloaded the linux drivers - Holy crap how the hell and what the hell are build a driver from source?

Basically if it takes more than  two weeks to get a network card to not to work on a cheap laptop then I think my time is better spent elsewhere.

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2008-03-28
I'll use my time to help you, supposing you haven't left yet..

Post the output of:

```
lspci
```

I also suppose you have looked in System>Administration>Restricted Driver Manager?

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-28
02.00.0 Ethernet controller:  Marvell Technology Group Ltd.  88E8038 PCI-E Ethernet Controller (rev 14)
08.09.0 Ethernet controller:  Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.  RTL-8185 IEEE 802.11a/b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 20)

Thank you for your help

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2008-03-28
[B]Did you look in System>Administration>Restricted Driver Manager?
[/B]
Alternative you can try Hardy Heron, which is currently in beta stage (will be released in April), but it surely has much better wireless support. 

Otherwise, [here's]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210958") a thread regarding that wireless card. [Here's a wiki]("http://rtl-wifi.sourceforge.net/wiki/Installing").

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-28
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> I have checked your other posts, and you have been given the answer, or provided with a solution that works for others:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210958&page=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210958&page=5)

Yes, in some circumstances, you need to wrap up a windows drivers to work in Ubuntu, this is not uncommon as the hardware manufacturers do not always write drivers for linux, and the community has not yet been able to write a native driver for it. This is often the nature of open source/free/developed by the community for the community software.

Enjoy the challenge and the learning process. These first steps of making hardware work are perhaps the most frustrating but also the most rewarding!

Search the forums for ndiswrapper usage if you need more help in how this works.

ndiswrapper - l

net8185 : invalid driver

so much for that try, 

Solution 1, try the windows 98 driver no such luck
Solution 2, use the linux drivers, okay ummm what is build a driver from source code?  readme.txt says ./makedrv tried that it just tells me its an invalid command an internet search reveals only the posts here not the syntax to use the damn thing.

Like I say two weeks seems to be a really steep learning curve just to get a wireless card to work.

---

### Post by K-Soul on 2008-03-28
> **jjgauthi said:**
> ndiswrapper - l

net8185 : invalid driver

so much for that try, 

Solution 1, try the windows 98 driver no such luck
Solution 2, use the linux drivers, okay ummm what is build a driver from source code?  readme.txt says ./makedrv tried that it just tells me its an invalid command an internet search reveals only the posts here not the syntax to use the damn thing.

Like I say two weeks seems to be a really steep learning curve just to get a wireless card to work.

Are you using the net8185.inf?

```
$ sudo ndiswrapper -i net8185.inf
```

You need to understand something right now and I say this with all due respect.  

This isn't Windows and its backbone is nothing like windows, period.

Ubuntu is in a constant state of development and yes, does have a bit of a learning curve.  However, it's very small with Ubuntu.  If you don't believe me, try installing Gentoo from the sources.

I started using Ubuntu back in 2005 and can tell you that it's not today what it was back then.  It's grown by leaps and bounds.  More hardware is supported out of the box today and more is added with every new kernel.  I personally can't wait for 2.6.25 to be offically supported.

If you can't handle a few bumps, Ubuntu isn't for you period.  You'll be missing out though.

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-28
Okay here is a stupid question?

I downloaded the iso for version 6.06, ripped it to a cd and booted it up, at least it recognizes the Network card.  I cant figure out how to use the network manager yet, its only giving me ascii or hexadecimal password type, which is odd but i'll see what I can figure out there.

But my question being how can an older version recognize a network card while the new one does not?

is it just me or is this weird?

---

### Post by Moop on 2008-03-28
> **jjgauthi said:**
> Okay here is a stupid question?

I downloaded the iso for version 6.06, ripped it to a cd and booted it up, at least it recognizes the Network card.  I cant figure out how to use the network manager yet, its only giving me ascii or hexadecimal password type, which is odd but i'll see what I can figure out there.

But my question being how can an older version recognize a network card while the new one does not?

is it just me or is this weird?

I can't answer that question but maybe you can upgrade from 6.06 and it will keep your wireless card recognized. 

I've read all of this and the other linked threads but I've forgotten what version you started with. If you haven't tried 8.04 beta, I would suggest burning a live cd and trying that. It's the newest and may just work. 

If you get stuck somewhere and need help, just ask a specific question and someone will be happy to help. No one expects you to have intuitive linux knowledge. This is the beginners forum! We learn from mistakes. 
:guitar:

---

### Post by Zyphrexi on 2008-03-28
uh yeah hey, i'm completely self taught, been using linux for probably like 8 years now, and I didn't even have the internet to help me... 

jjgauthi: for the ascii and hex password type, the ascii thing would be your password on the router or whatever, the hex would simply be that same password converted into hex.

do you know what your security type on your router is?

---

### Post by jjgauthi on 2008-03-28
I think its WAP.

I got another question,  when it says to mount or unmount something does that mean what I think it means?  If so you guys are a pretty sick bunch if so.

---

### Post by K-Soul on 2008-03-28
> **jjgauthi said:**
> Okay here is a stupid question?

I downloaded the iso for version 6.06, ripped it to a cd and booted it up, at least it recognizes the Network card.  I cant figure out how to use the network manager yet, its only giving me ascii or hexadecimal password type, which is odd but i'll see what I can figure out there.

But my question being how can an older version recognize a network card while the new one does not?

is it just me or is this weird?

It would be worth your while to upgrade to 7.10 (Gutsy)

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-03-28
./mkdrv means there's a file in the directory that is called mkdrv and you are executing it.  It probably has to be done as root (admin), so ```
sudo ./mkdrv
``` from wherever you're doing it.  You'll need to install build-essential first, though.  Put your CD in the drive and it'll likely ask you to add the CD as a repository (place to get software from), and then if you use Synaptic (System -> Administration -> Synaptic Package Manager) you can install build-essential to get all of the necessities for compiling the driver.

---

### Post by macogw on 2008-03-28
> **jjgauthi said:**
> I think its WAP.

I got another question,  when it says to mount or unmount something does that mean what I think it means?  If so you guys are a pretty sick bunch if so.

WAP = Wireless Accesss Point

Encryption options would be WEP or WPA.  6.06's network thingy doesn't do WPA.

Umm...what?  Get your head out of the gutter.  Mount means umm...er...make the device active for usage, I guess.  Well, unmount means the same as that "safely remove drive" or whatever thing for flash drives on Windows.  Mount is the opposite...take it from plugged-in-but-not-usable and make it so that it has a mount point (which is like picking if it's name D:\ or E:\ or Q:\) and can be referenced by that mount point.

---

### Post by alexforcefive on 2008-03-28
My my, we are a forgiving bunch on this forum, aren't we? If you used that attitude on the windows support forums, you'd get told precisely where to go. But lucky for you, we're all nice people and we try to help everyone. 

> **jjgauthi said:**
> readme.txt says ./makedrv tried that it just tells me its an invalid command

you might want to try typing **sudo -s**, hitting enter and then trying ./makedrv. *edit* macogw beat me to it. I'll get you next time, macogw!

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2008-03-29
Actually to expand on the post above, you should use ```
sudo -s
``` you should instead use ```
sudo -i
``` I won't go into the details here, but it could save you some serious brain ache later on if you do something wrong :)

---

### Post by holbieone on 2008-03-29
Sudo Manual

[http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/man/sudo.html#name](http://www.sudo.ws/sudo/man/sudo.html#name)

---

### Post by heartburnkid on 2008-03-29
> **jjgauthi said:**
> Okay i've taken some valium to calm down.  Its not linux's problem to support all hardware out there, this I understand.

What I am trying to find out which is baffling the **** out of me is:

My card won't work under linux our of the box, that I can accept.

From what I can gather out there on the forums and the internet there are steps to fix this problem.  Great, lets get started.

Okay I'm an idiot, I can't seem to add 2+2 and follow the steps due to some of the responses not geared to me having an advanced degree in Computer Science.

  ie)  when it says on the linux drives readme to ./makedrv and I tried man makedrv it did nothing, I looked on the iternet no significant ideas as to how to do this?

Unlike the majority of people that will respond, I do not have an intuitive knowledge of linux, I need to learn how to fish.  Remember someday you were once a noob like me, I have bigger boobs than you do though.

Thanks for all the help

Jeez, you only have two modes, don't you?  "Insulting" and "Patronizing".

Now, you did mention something about ./mkdrv.  This tells me that you did, at some point, actually download the drivers.  This is a good thing.

./makedrv is a terminal command.  The terminal is the Linux equivalent to the Windows command prompt.  You should have an icon for it in your panel (on the top bar).  The icon looks like a screen with >_ on it.  Click that.

The first thing you want to do is untar the file that you downloaded.  Untarring is like Unzipping, but for a different format of file.  You can do this with a console command:

```
 tar -xf rtl8185_linux_26[1].1027.0823.2007.tar.gz
```

If your typing fingers get tired, blame the guy who named the file; that's the really complex part of the command. :)

Now that you've done this, you'll have a directory named rtl8185_linux_26.1027.0823.2007.  You want to change to this directory.  To do this, use the following command (still in the terminal):

```
cd rtl8185_linux_26.1027.0823.2007
```

OK, now we are still in the terminal, but the terminal is looking in our new directory.  If you get a directory listing by typing:

```
ls
```

You should see the makedrv file that the readme referred to.  You can execute this file by typing:

```
./makedrv
```

The ./ (dot slash) tells Linux to look in the current directory for the file.

OK, your driver should be all compiled now.  Final step is to load it.  According to the readme, this can be done by, still in the same terminal, typing:

```
./wlan0up
```

This will run another script, that, if all goes well, will actually load the driver.

Do this, then come back here and tell us what happens.  And this time, skip the histrionics!

---

### Post by Zyphrexi on 2008-03-30
no such thing as WAP, there's WEP or WPA but not WAP.


> I got another question, when it says to mount or unmount something does that mean what I think it means? If so you guys are a pretty sick bunch if so.


honestly I never even thought of it that way, but was that really a serious question? If you really want to ask a question ask it, don't use innuendo as a cover.

---

