---
title: ".par .par2 .nzb  Newzbins how to"
date: 2007-05-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by gth835x on 2007-05-08
As may be obvious from previous posts I am in transition from windows to Ubuntu.  I have a few things I am trying to setup that I had on the old computer.  However I would like to avoid having to use something like wine or dosbox.  

I use usenetserver.com, and v3.newzbin.com to get my nzbs.  I have not been able to find something that is like NewsBin Pro  to download the nzbs.  Can anyone help me get setup?

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-05-08
Well, I use Agent via crossover office (works great by the way) and you say you don't want to use wine so I can't offer you my direct experience help....

But, there's a good usenet binaries tutorial here: [http://linux-is-sexy.blogspot.com/2005/12/usenet-binaries-with-linux-tutorial.html]("http://linux-is-sexy.blogspot.com/2005/12/usenet-binaries-with-linux-tutorial.html")

It's a good writeup - it covers par, rar, and it has a section on binary grabbers for linux.

If you decide eventually using wine is acceptable, then I found a newsbin-on-linux forum here:
[http://forums.newsbin.com/viewforum.php?f=31]("http://forums.newsbin.com/viewforum.php?f=31")

Apparently newsbin works just fine under wine.

---

### Post by teknosexual on 2007-06-01
> **gth835x said:**
> I use usenetserver.com, and v3.newzbin.com to get my nzbs.  I have not been able to find something that is like NewsBin Pro  to download the nzbs.  Can anyone help me get setup?

Personally, I use klibido. It's available via Synaptic. It's pretty straightforward, but if you need some help I'd be glad to try.

---

### Post by kickinazz on 2007-07-31
I just installed ubuntu tonight and checked out pan. it has header and nzb support so you can direct the nzb file to auto open pan from firefox(if you use it). works pretty well in my opinion.

---

### Post by simonbcn on 2008-03-02
Hi,
It is quite old this thread, but I just start in the downloads by usenet. 
 I am using the program hellanzb with hellahella (web).
But I have two problems: 
 1) I don't find a free server for downloads nzb. 
 2) Someone could send me an invitation to newzbin.com?
Thanks.

---

### Post by kellemes on 2008-03-02
You can use [http://binsearch.info/]("http://binsearch.info/") for free..

---

### Post by kenbaldwin on 2008-04-21
I'm also getting started with usenet. Can anyone help me out with an invitation to newzbin.com? TIA

Ken

---

