---
title: "Graphics Slow on Gutsy"
date: 2008-03-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by weisdaclick on 2008-03-14
I have seen many posts regarding this subject and a lot of conflicting advice, I have followed many posts but at some point they all fail for some reason or the other.

My problem is my video card has 256 mb of RAM but is as fast as a 16mb card, I was trying to upgrade / change the driver.

Its the Radeon 9250 graphics card with 256 mb RAM. Its a clone card, ie the ATI chip on a non ATI card.


Rest of the system:

Rioworks PDVIA-LS board

2 x 1003 MHz pentium III coppermines

630 Mb RAM

Seagate Cheetah 15k rpm U320 SCSI 18Gb HD



I have freshly installed Ubuntu 7,10 - my hard drive was brand new.

I have a 20.1 inch LCD monitor so run at 1600 x 1200 resolution.

My graphics are pretty slow and jerky, I can't smooth scroll on the net etc.

I switched to fglrx which speeded things up but then the compiz visual effects would not work - just the basic mode.

Then I got kicked off the system and it would not boot giving me the message:

hdd : timeout waiting for DMA
hdd : drive not ready for command

I had to do a re-install.


Here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc M9+ 5C63 [Radeon Mobility 9200 (AGP)]"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "formac TFT"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-80
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc M9+ 5C63 [Radeon Mobility 9200 (AGP)]"
        Monitor         "formac TFT"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1600x1200"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection



When I go into Restricted Drivers I receive "Your system does not need any restricted drivers"


Help appreciated.

---

### Post by hhhhhx on 2008-03-14
maybe you should try installing through envy, i dont know exactly if it will work, but it's worth a shot

---

### Post by weisdaclick on 2008-03-15
I have seen posts warning not to use Envy, maybe I'll give it a go.

Hopefully you can sort this out for 8.04.  :(

---

### Post by Furiattl on 2008-03-18
I'm using Ubuntu 8.04, open source ati drivers, installed compiz and emerald and all seems ok.
Vizual effects on, the cube is rolling \\:D/\\:D/

Do not recomend the fglrx drivers. They've messed up my previous Ubuntu 7.10.

Good luck.

---

### Post by amazingtaters on 2008-03-18
For a while I was having the same problem, except that I have an ATI Radeon XPress 1100. I ended up using envy (yes there are all sorts different outcomes that people had, but a lot of other stuff I tried hadn't worked) and reinstalled the fglrx driver from there. That was two days ago, and I've not had a hiccup since then, and everything graphically runs smoothly.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-03-18
Just for my own curiosity, could you run the following command from the terminal:
```

glxgears

```
Let it run for five outputs, and then hit escape.  It's a benchmark (but not a great one) for what kind of Frames Per Second you're getting.

---

### Post by Furiattl on 2008-03-19
5751 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1150.119 FPS
5791 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1158.083 FPS
5776 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1155.121 FPS
5777 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1155.319 FPS
5792 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1158.232 FPS
5806 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1161.163 FPS
5739 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1147.661 FPS
5779 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1155.656 FPS
5787 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1157.346 FPS

Music playing in the background and few other applications running (compis as well)

---

### Post by weisdaclick on 2008-03-27
I started watching a video on Totem the other day  :popcorn:

Both processors were running at around 30% and memory used was 280mb out of 630mb.

After 2-5 minutes the system will freeze and only hitting the reset button will do anything.

I installed VLC - same result.

Even without playing a video I usually have a freeze every couple of hours - much more often if I am viewing pictures.

Here is the result you requested:

4149 frames in 5.0 seconds = 829.234 FPS
4297 frames in 5.0 seconds = 859.275 FPS
4289 frames in 5.0 seconds = 857.798 FPS
4276 frames in 5.0 seconds = 855.192 FPS
4293 frames in 5.0 seconds = 858.496 FPS


I have seen the Beta release of 8.04 has the same issue, I am really hoping that it can be resolved.

---

