---
title: "7.10 alternate install hangs @ 82%"
date: 2007-11-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by microwiz on 2007-11-11
EDIT: NEVER MIND THE BELOW - I should have known that as soon as I posted about it, the hang would resolve.  I'm at 95% now.  So those of you with a low-spec system like mine, just wait patiently!

-----

I'm trying to put 7.10 on an old, lower-spec laptop (650MHz P3, 192MB memory, 6.5GB HD) using the alternate installer CD.  I had some trouble previously with bad burns, so I made sure to burn the one I'm using now with data verification, both from the burning software itself, and from running the 'Check CD' option from the allternate installer.

Everything goes swimmingly until after it actually comes time to write the system to the disk.  Twice now it's hung at 82% - "Installing the kernel - retrieving and installing linux-generic..."

Initial googles seemed to suggest it had something to do with the install trying to reach out to the network and update some stuff, but I think that was with an earlier version than 7.10.  Just to be safe, I disconnected the laptop's Ethernet network connection and told the system not to bother configuring the network at all.

It's hung again now at that same spot - not even the slightest sound of disk activity, either from the CD-ROM or the HD.  

Searching didn't bring up any old threads that seemed directly related to this... does anyone have any ideas or suggestions?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-11-11
can you please mark this post as "solved" then, if indeed it is!

---

### Post by carloslosgrande on 2007-11-11
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"]Actually I had the same problem last install - connecting to the net fixed it immediately, install proceeded successfully[/FONT]

---

### Post by microwiz on 2007-11-11
> **carloslosgrande said:**
> [FONT="Comic Sans MS"]Actually I had the same problem last install - connecting to the net fixed it immediately, install proceeded successfully[/FONT]

If anything in this situation, it seemed to be the opposite - when I proceeded to that point in the install with network connected, the hang was at least as bad, if not worse.  When I did the install and explicitly didn't configure network, there was a long hang, but it did continue afterwards.

It could have something to do with my network configuration or router/gateway.

Unfortunately I'm getting desperately poor performance out of the P3-650 192MB RAM 6.5GB HD system with 7.10, so I'm likely to try to move to another distro which loads the system a bit more lightly... :(

---

