---
title: "Stuck at 1600x1200"
date: 2006-06-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by 20belowZero on 2006-06-24
06-24-06
I have installed the current version of Ubuntu and it defaults to 1600x1200 screen resolution.  I have a 17" Samsung syncMaster 700p Plus monitor that will handle it but I hate this...  I want 1024 x 768.  When I try to change resolution X restarts and I have to log in again.  I have tried to manually edit xorg.conf but don't have the superuser password (was never asked to provide one at install)  I am stuck at 1600x1200.  I am using an HP Pavilion a300y with a 2400mhz Celeron.  I have no idea what video chip is on it. 
I'm not a complete novice with Linux but Ubuntu is different than Mandrake....

Any suggestions?

-20

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2006-06-24
Ubuntu grants the initial user "admin" status and adds admin to the sudoers file. So, in your case, to edit the xorg.conf file you might type:

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Then enter your password at the prompt.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-06-24
The superuser password is your password. So to edit your xorg from a terminal: **sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf** and when asked type *your* password.

Or you could run: **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg** and make sure to choose the right video driver, resolutions you want and refresh rates.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-06-24
You'll need to:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

At the first screen, it'll ask you if you want to autodetect your monitor, choose "no"...you can probably just choose the defaults for everything else...until you get to the screen resolutions sections.  Just remove the asterisk(press space) for the resolutions you don't want your monitor to display.

You're probably going to have to find out what your video card is, I had the same problem when Ubuntu automatically chose the "vesa" driver...I would try to change the resolution, but nothing changed and I was returned to the login screen...changed the driver to "sis", which is what my integrated video adaptor was & haven't had any problems since.

Edit: MetalMusicAddict beat me to it...I'm a slow typer.

---

