---
title: ".exe"
date: 2007-05-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by wil313 on 2007-05-18
Ok, I'm a complete noob with Linux... I've searched through all the help and everything, but I can not figure out how to run a .exe program.... Does anyone have any advice?

---

### Post by Mithrilhall on 2007-05-18
First..what's the program you're trying to get running?

Linux doesn't normally run '.exe' files. You can 'possibly' get it to run via Wine but it's no guarantee. Instead I would look for an equivalent under Linux.

I'm sure if you post what the program is someone can recommend a replacement.

---

### Post by wil313 on 2007-05-18
Its a driver for a dell wireless card...

---

### Post by Mithrilhall on 2007-05-18
I take it this is a notebook we're talking about? If so, what model?

There should be tons of 'how-tos' if you do a search. I have a Dell Latitude D505 for work and got it working easy by following direction I found here.

---

### Post by wil313 on 2007-05-18
I have an inspiron 1200.... How long do the walk throughs take?

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2007-05-19
Thread moved to "Absolute Beginner Talk".

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-05-19
Go to Applications> Accessories> Terminal and put the following command in.

```
lspci
```

Post the results.  Your wireless card model will be listed there and we will be able to help you better.

---

### Post by Tethtibis on 2007-06-27
try using "wine" to extract the .exe, but nativeley, linux doesn't run .exe files, that's a windows thing.

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-06-27
Don't bother using Wine for hardware drivers, it won't work. You need to use a native Linux driver instead. Follow wormser's suggestion, that will get us started on pointing you in the right direction.

---

### Post by speaker219 on 2007-06-27
Try this: (it says its for a e1505 but i have done it on my dell b130, and my friends 1200, so it might work on yours)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297092)

---

