---
title: "GTS router doesn't allow internet under linux?"
date: 2007-11-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Limitlesschannels on 2007-11-23
I recently came to stay in Brazil for a little while and originally at the house i have been staying at, we had a fully functioning wireless network, with working internet.  The router was a rented one as the old one broke before I arrived and was being fixed.
   Last week, the "new" router finally finished being repaired (actually they just replaced it with a brand new one, but it still took a month to "fix" that...) and we replaced our rented router with the new one.

   This new one, however, refuses to grant me access to the internet on my linux machine.  I dual-boot, so I booted to windows and tried out the internet there and, voila, it worked (I am using it now, same computer, only under Windows XP).  But, when I am under Linux, it says I connected successfully to the network, but the internet will not work for me.  I cannot successfully ping any outside addresses or get any connection whatesoever over my browser.

ROUTER: GTS Super Access Point ([www.gtstelecom.com.br](www.gtstelecom.com.br))

The website and the manual both have the familiar little Tux symbol on the bottom, but I can't seem to do anything with it.  Are there any Brazilians (or maybe GTS is international?), who can help me out?

---

### Post by dips_xe on 2007-11-23
i don't think the router knows or really cares what os you're running. it's probably something on your end.

---

### Post by Limitlesschannels on 2007-11-23
I don't think so because it works under windows (which I think rules out hardware), and I can still connect to other wireless networks and get the internet through it successfully.  When i need to use the internet on linux I just go to a nearby mall that has free wireless and use it there.

---

### Post by Seq on 2007-11-23
Do you get an IP address when connecting via Linux?

If so, try the following:

```
ping 64.233.187.99
cat /etc/resolv.conf

```

The first is pinging google.com by ip address, the second is the list of name servers you are using. If the first works, then your name servers may not be set correctly..

---

### Post by Limitlesschannels on 2007-11-25
alright, I was finally able to try this and I got a "connect: Network is unreachable" error when i tried to ping the Google IP.  And the output for the second command:
```

limitlesschannels@Compy:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!



nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

Maybe I am not actually connecting to the network, but it only says I do.  How can I check that I am even maintaining a network connection?  I looked at smb:\\ (samba?)  through one of the nautilus "virtual folders" and it displayed "Windows Network" but it was empty.  I was the only computer on this network at the moment so I couldn't expect any other machines to show up, but it still recognized the Windows network, so I can assume it sees it; therefore, it is connected.

---

### Post by perce on 2007-11-25
The same things happens to me in, say, 10% of networks. Sometimes I can make it work by switching NetworkManager off and configuring the connection by hands, but more often there is nothing I can do. 

One of the networks where I have this problem is at my father's place, however I could solve the problem there going to the router configuration page and giving a static address to my laptop.

---

### Post by Limitlesschannels on 2007-11-27
Thank for the suggestion, I just tried autoconfiguring the connection, too, but to no avail.
   Hopefully someone knows what is wrong so we can both get a more reliable connection to available networks

---

