---
title: "Requesting suggestions for hardware upgrade to make ubuntu faster."
date: 2008-02-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by SSBal on 2008-02-26
Hi Friends,

I am facing problem while working with Ubuntu as it is too slow:(.  My PC specs are as follow:
Processor type: Intel Celeron
Processor speed: 2.4 Ghz
System bus speed: 400 Mhz
System Memory Speed: 266 Mhz

L2 Cache RAM: 128 KB
Total Memory: 255 MB

Memory Bank 0 256 MB (DDR266)
Memory Bank 1 Not Installed

I have installed ubuntu 7.1 and its really slow. Will increasing the RAM solve my purpose? Also will it be better if I add another RAM of 256 MB in other alot or add 1 GB or may be 2 GB RAM in 1 slot. I am not sure if the videocard has any effect on the speed, I am mentioning this as earlier I had windows XP on this desktop and the graphics were horrible at that time. Now the graphics are fine but speed is too slow.

(I am new to Ubuntu as well as this forum. So if there is an existing thread and I am creating duplicates, kindly bear with me ..)
Thanks in advance.

regards,

Bal

---

### Post by az on 2008-02-26
You will easily double your performance by increasing your ram to 512.  If you can increase your ram more, you will notice a slightly greater improvement, too.

256 megs is the minimum ram you need, but more is recommended.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-26
That processor should be just fine, as long as you aren't trying to make a 3D model of the universe  :)

In answer to your two questions, yes.  More RAM is the easiest and usually cheapest way to make a computer "faster".  Just make sure the type and size you buy is supported by your motherboard.  And if you have a poor video card, or one that isn't configured correctly, it can make your system slow.  That's because it forces the processor to do rendering.

Could you post your video card and the output of:
```

gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
That will allow you to view the plain-text human-readable configuration file for Xorg, but not to edit it.  That way you won't have to worry about hurting anything.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-02-27
Extra RAM is probably the cheapest way to improve that hardware specification.

A more cost-effective way would to obtain a current motherboard/processor package with 2GB RAM, as the performance of an old Celeron will never be much chop, and if you compared the usability of new hardware with that old stuff you'd never (NEVER!) go back.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2008-02-27
Add a 1 gig stick or replace your 256 with two 512 sticks. There's no need to match up RAM capacities.

Also, if you could find out what graphics card or integrated graphics chip is in the computer, and then give us the output of the command:

```
glxinfo | grep "Direct"
```

It might be a case of Ubuntu using unaccelerated video and you needing to install some proper drivers; on any operating system if you use unaccelerated video you will find that things feel sluggish.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-02-27
I got a  1.6 Mhz processor but I use one gig of ram and ubuntu is really fast. So, upgrade your ram... at least with another 512mb stick - you should notice a huge performance increase.

---

### Post by SSBal on 2008-02-27
Thanks a ton for all of you for such a great support.

Here is the output of gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"NEC LCD1712"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"NEC LCD1712"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

When i run  glxinfo | grep "Direct", there is no output.

I am actually a novice to computers so can u please tell me how can I get the details of my graphics/video card. (Sorry if this is a dumb question.)

Once again thanks a lots.

regards,

---

### Post by az on 2008-02-27
> **SSBal said:**
> Thanks a ton for all of you for such a great support.

Here is the output of gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection


I am actually a novice to computers so can u please tell me how can I get the details of my graphics/video card. (Sorry if this is a dumb question.)


Your graphics hardware will be set up properly by default.  Don't worry about it.  Anyway, if you own a performance graphics card, switching to a different (restricted, non-open source) drive will improve its performance, but that will not have any significant effect on desktop performance.  You won't boot faster or start firefox any faster because of your graphics card driver.  Increasing your ram from the minimum amount of 256 megs, will.

---

### Post by SSBal on 2008-02-27
Thanks az. That was really helpful !!:)

---

