---
title: "7.10 or 8.04 Beta or wait for 8.04 release"
date: 2008-03-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Olof on 2008-03-28
I currently have a very out of date Gentoo Linux installed on my computer together with Windows XP. I plan on doing fresh installs of both XP and Linux, but I plan to switch to Ubuntu instead of Gentoo.

I have a hard time deciding what version to chose, however.
Is it best to wait for the release of 8.04 (27 days to go), or should I take 7.10 or 8.04 Beta and eventually upgrade to 8.04?
Will the upbrade differ in any way betwenn the two?

/Olof

---

### Post by Trail on 2008-03-28
I'd go for 7.10, see if it fits me, then upgrade to 8.04 once it's out. (or not, everything works perfectly for me atm, so I might stay 7.10 and wait for a workable version of KDE4 instead)

I'd avoid the beta for the moment, unless I would be sure I'd want to stick with ubuntu.

---

### Post by cisforcojo on 2008-03-28
Usually it's not recommended to upgrade. The process hasn't been perfected yet.
I'd recommend installing 7.10 now and keep your /home on a separate partition. This way, when you install 8.04, you'll still have all of your own personal files. I'd also recommend backing up /etc (or even putting it on it's own partition as well)

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-03-28
I personally prefer a clean install rather than an upgrade when going to a new release - I'd rather backup /home and do a fresh install.

I would deem it quite annoying to setup my system now and upgrade right away in 20 days. Hardy has been surprisingly stable on a classmates laptop since Alpha5. I'd say it highly depends on your Linux experience - do you think you can handle a Beta for a few weeks? It's still gonna receive a load more updates and be way more rapidly changing than Gutsy or any stable release for that matter. 

It boils down to this:
Are you planning on doing important work on the system, that by no means can get screwed? --> Gutsy.
Have you been using Linux for a number of years and this is not your work machine? --> Hardy.

[EDIT]Obviously there is no need to got to Hardy right away at the end of April anyways...[/EDIT]

---

### Post by NikS on 2008-03-28
7.10 sure, or u can wait for 8.04, but dnt go for beta, some say its stable, but anyways, if stable version is about to be released in a few days, y go for beta??

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-03-28
> **NikS said:**
> 7.10 sure, or u can wait for 8.04, but dnt go for beta, some say its stable, but anyways, if stable version is about to be released in a few days, y go for beta??
To avoid installing a system for three weeks and then overwriting with Hardy. I'd generally never advertise betas, in this case it's an option though, as Olof has some Gentoo experience (which isn't as easy to handle as Ubuntu). You could also keep Gutsy for a while and not switch over right away. I simply wouldn't have the time to setup my box now and then do it again in less than a month...

---

### Post by rolnics on 2008-03-28
> **northern lights said:**
> I personally prefer a clean install rather than an upgrade when going to a new release - I'd rather backup /home and do a fresh install.

I prefer this method myself, but this time I might just do the upgrade!! After backing up of course!

> **northern lights said:**
> It boils down to this:
Are you planning on doing important work on the system, that by no means can get screwed? --> Gutsy.
Have you been using Linux for a number of years and this is not your work machine? --> Hardy.

I've been playing around with Hardy, and checking the forums before applying updates, and generally speaking I've had no major problems. So it really is the you choice, it really is the two choices above.

---

### Post by Trail on 2008-03-28
> **cisforcojo said:**
> Usually it's not recommended to upgrade. The process hasn't been perfected yet.
I'd recommend installing 7.10 now and keep your /home on a separate partition. This way, when you install 8.04, you'll still have all of your own personal files. I'd also recommend backing up /etc (or even putting it on it's own partition as well)
Haven't had problems upgrading myself, so far...

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-03-28
get the DesktopCD of hardy and if you don't experience any hardware incompabilities go for Hardy...

---

### Post by Frenske on 2008-03-28
I would wait a couple of weeks until the Ubuntu 8 (non-Beta) comes out. Unless your OS is unstable/unworkable, there is no direct need for Ubuntu at this moment.
Scenario: Probably if you install 7.10, after a couple a weeks you want to have the newer version (grass is always greener on the other side of the fence). You could save the hassle of upgrading, backing up home drive by just waiting.

---

### Post by Wobedraggled on 2008-03-28
I usually jump in early and deal with all the quirks, thing about 8.04 there hasn't been many quirks, I say jump in :)

---

### Post by regomodo on 2008-03-28
personally, if you need a reason why to upgrade early, you shouldn't. Otherwise, if you don't mind the fact that something could go wrong, crack on.

---

### Post by Frenske on 2008-04-09
Actually I am thinking about trying out the new openSUSE 11 when it comes out in June and leave Ubuntu for what it is. Too much problems with getting a stable Wireless connection left me with a soure taste in my mounth. Shame because I quiet liked the Ubuntu. I have to admit it is the only distro I ever installed at home.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-04-09
> **Frenske said:**
> Actually I am thinking about trying out the new openSUSE 11 when it comes out in June and leave Ubuntu for what it is. Too much problems with getting a stable Wireless connection left me with a soure taste in my mounth. Shame because I quiet liked the Ubuntu. I have to admit it is the only distro I ever installed at home.

If you haven't tried Hardy yet, I'd try it when it comes out this month before just switching.  The new kernel adds support for more wireless cards.  A lot of people have been getting their wireless to work with it where they never could before.

Also, hardware issues like that are often at the kernel level.  Since every distro uses the same Linux kernel, they'll all have similar problems.

---

### Post by SlappyPappy on 2008-04-09
I had to make this very same decision and decided to use 7.10 to get my feet wet. So far so grand.

I'll wait for about a month AFTER the new release is out, save all my docs and stuff and then do a clean install. 

I had asked much the same question earlier and from the responses I got this seemed like a good way to go.

Whatever you decide the sooner you get started probably the better. Even knowing Gentoo there are some growing pains in the first few weeks. Once you're past that, it's clear sailing.  :)

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-04-09
I wouldn't normally suggest installing a beta version, but Hardy is (even in beta) proving so superior to Gutsy, and in so many ways, that the tiny little things I've put up with that seem very much like "beta issues" are totally ignorable.  Updates are still pouring in (as in by the hour) so if you don't like updating rather frequently you might want to go the Gutsy route.  I guess it all depends on your tolerance level, but for me Hardy rocks!  Hugely.

If you do decide to try Hardy (maybe a LiveCD?) do yourself a favor and get the [Daily Build](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/) CD; otherwise you're looking at *hundreds* of updates.

---

### Post by DexterLB on 2008-04-09
My opinion: wait for 8.04 stable. That's just 2 weeks!

---

