---
title: "./configure will not install programs"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by scottym on 2007-10-20
I can't install any programs using the "configure and  make" commands. I have gcc installed and have finally traced my problem to broken links but do not know how to fix them.

When I type:
$ find . -type l -print0 | xargs -0 file | grep 'broken sym'

it gives:
./install-sh:    broken symbolic link to `/usr/share/automake/install-sh'
./mkinstalldirs: broken symbolic link to `/usr/share/automake/mkinstalldirs'
./missing:       broken symbolic link to `/usr/share/automake/missing'


 When I install 'automake' it says I have the latest version. 
 gcc version 4.1.2 (Ubuntu 4.1.2-0ubuntu4)

Can anyone shed some light on this? Thanks.

---

### Post by Paul820 on 2007-10-20
Did you install build-essential and not just gcc? build-essential installs ALL the packages that you need to compile programs.

---

### Post by scottym on 2007-10-20
yes, the latest build-essential is installed

---

### Post by scottym on 2007-10-24
Seems like this may be too tough to solve. Is it a bug with Feisty? I was able to install programs using the configure make commands with 6.10. Can't get it to work with 7.04 though.

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-10-24
Hi,
i don't know but that look more a problem with the package that you are compile then Ubuntu version of automake. Did that happen with several apps or just the one you are trying to compile?

You can try :
```
sudo ln -s /usr/share/automake-1.9 /usr/share/automake 
```
and see if that hack solves the issues.

good luck

---

### Post by scottym on 2007-10-24
It has happened with several packages. I tried your hack and herei s what I got after ./configure

configure: error: can not find install-sh or install.sh in . ./.. ./../..

I have tried apt-get install install.sh but that won't work either.

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-10-24
:( too bad it didn't work out.
It's better then remove the symlink:
```
sudo rm /usr/share/automake
```

If it fails with more then one app, should be an installation issue... install-sh should be inside automake directory, at /usr/share/automake-1.9/

Do you mind to try, clean and reinstall:```

sudo aptitude purge build-essential
sudo apt-get install build-essential
``` ?

good luck

---

### Post by scottym on 2007-10-25
Thanks for the help. I tried your suggestion but it stil does not work. Gives the same error message

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-10-25
> **scottym said:**
> Thanks for the help. I tried your suggestion but it stil does not work. Gives the same error message

sorry it didn't help, thats really weird... 


whats the output of:
```
ls /usr/share/automake*
```
and
```
ls -ls /usr/share/automake-1.9/install-sh
```
?

i don't have any symlinks to install-sh or any of the others you mention. Just plain files... seems something is bad configured and trying to follow wrong symlinks on incorrect paths :(

---

### Post by scottym on 2007-10-25
Here is the output of ls -ls /usr/share/automake-1.9/install-sh

ls: /usr/share/automake-1.9/install-sh: No such file or directory

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-10-25
> **scottym said:**
> Here is the output of ls -ls /usr/share/automake-1.9/install-sh

ls: /usr/share/automake-1.9/install-sh: No such file or directory

For some wild reason you don't seems to have automake installed (or at least correctly installed).
Try:
```
sudo aptitude purge automake1.9
```
to make sure you remove any broken version (don't worry if it uninstall autoconf too).
Then:
```
sudo apt-get  install automake1.9
```


hth

---

