---
title: "6.10 Doesn't Detect Sound Card"
date: 2007-01-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jdziedzic on 2007-01-20
Hello, everyone. I just installed Ubuntu 6.10 on my computer after my hard drive blew up, I lost my XP installation disc, and I was unwilling to pay $200+ for a new one (not uncommon, I know). Everything is running well so far, save for one problem: no sound. Every time Ubuntu tries to access my sound card (to play CDs, system sounds, etc.), I'm greeted by this happy little message:

audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink: Could not open resource for writing.

After poking around on the forums, I see that this has happened to other people and that they were able to get sound working by changing the permissions on the files /dev/dsp and /dev/audio devices, but I was unable to find those files even after using the Search tool. On another forum, a person with the same problem was told to disable ESD, but when I tried to follow their directions to do the same thing, ESD told me that it couldn't detect a soundcard in the first place.

I know I have a soundcard (a SoundBlaster or SoundBlaster Gold, I believe) and that it's installed properly, so I doubt it's a hardware issue. All advice on the forums seems to point me in one direction: install Ubuntu 6.06, but I wonder if there's another way to go about solving this problem. Can someone please give me a hand troubleshooting this?

---

### Post by Shatrat on 2007-01-20
I'm not a sound guru but have you tried typing ```
sudo chmod 666 /dev/dsp
sudo chmod 666 /dev/audio
```

Also, wrt the windows thing: if you have your CD-Key I believe you can reinstall from any disk of the same type as your original, probably OEM if it came from Dell or HP or somebody, or Home or Pro or Upgrade etc if you know somebody who has a disc of the same type.

---

### Post by jdziedzic on 2007-01-20
Thanks for the advice, Shatrat. Unfortunately, if I remember correctly, my XP CD-key is printed on the sleeve that the disc itself is in, and both are MIA. And I was vague about the "hard drive blowing up" thing--what I mean is that my old hard drive died and I had to install a new one, so all my old data is gone for good. I've heard about the technique you're describing, that you can copy a config file from your old /system32 directory to reuse your old installation, but you need the old data to do that as far as I know.

Besides, I like what I see of Ubuntu so far, so I think I'll stick with it. My Linux guru friend recommends downgrading to 6.06, so I'm going to try that, and if my sound is still not working, I'll give your sudo advice a try. Thanks again! I'll post a new reply to this thread if I'm still having problems after the d/g.

---

### Post by Buck2348 on 2007-01-20
You can look in Places -> File System -> dev  and you'll find "dsp" and "audio".  Those two files in my system already have permissions of 660, but then my sound is working.  It's probably worth a shot to run those two commands Shatrat mentioned before you reinstall/downgrade your system. It will take only 30 seconds.

Buck

---

### Post by jdziedzic on 2007-01-21
I tried to look for those two files, but I couldn't find them. When I went into terminal and ran the command:

sudo chmod 666 /dev/dsp

I got this message:

chmod: cannot access `/dev/dsp': No such file or directory

What should I do now?

---

### Post by Buck2348 on 2007-01-21
I'm afraid I don't know.  It's hard for me to understand why those files aren't there--I'd assumed they were standard equipment for Edgy 6.10.  Maybe my bumping the thread will get you some better advice.

Buck

---

### Post by jdziedzic on 2007-01-21
UPDATE: I went ahead and installed Dapper 6.06 instead, but I seem to be having the same problem--no /dev/dsp or /dev/audio files to speak of. Am I missing something fundamental here?

---

### Post by zerhacke on 2007-01-21
If your soundcard is not being detected by Ubuntu there won't be a /dev/dsp or /dev/audio device.  This device node is constructed by udev... is it udev?  I think it's udev... anyways, it's automatically constructed on boot when the soundcard is detected and the kernel module installed.

We need to know what make and model sound card you have so we can suggest what to do.

---

### Post by jdziedzic on 2007-01-21
It looks like I'm running a Sound Blaster Awe 64 Gold.

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2007-01-21
**jdziedzic**
some things to check:
a) go to main menu -> system -> preferences -> sound. click on the sound tab. you should have 'enable software sound mixing' clicked on. that will solve on of your problems in your 1st post in this thread.
b) do you have the volume applet on your panel? if not, add it by right clicking on the panel, then select 'add to panel'. now that yo have the applet on your panel, right click on it and select 'open volume control'. go to 'File' in the menu and select 'change device'. what does it say as your default sound device?
c) install alsamixer.
d) [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449") could be  useful.

---

### Post by jdziedzic on 2007-01-22
A-ha! After poking through LordRaiden's guide and going with the flow of message board links, I found this little gem that got things rolling:

sudo modprobe snd-sbawe

After I typed that in, I later noticed that Gaim started making that wonderful "bleeedeeep!" noise we all know and love. Intrigued, I looked back in my /dev/ folder and saw that /dev/dsp and /dev/audio were there. That still left the problem of media files not playing properly, but (again, going with the flow of message board links), I found a program named Automatix that had an option for me to "Install Essential Media Codecs", and that seems to have solved the problem.

Thanks to ComplexNumber, zerhacke, Buck, and shatrat for pointing me in the right direction on this. Between getting sound to work and getting DOSBox up and running to play my old copy of Master of Orion 2, it looks like, after a long weekend of tinkering, this Linux box is finally good to go! :D

---

### Post by frisket on 2007-01-24
> **Shatrat said:**
> I'm not a sound guru but have you tried typing ```
sudo chmod 666 /dev/dsp
sudo chmod 666 /dev/audio
```


I have the identical problem (no sound detected at install), so these commands don't work because there is no such thing as /dev/dsp or /dev/audio

Is there a command I can run to [re-]perform the soundcard-detection routine that's used at install time, so I can see *why* it didn't detect a sound card? The card was detected fine with all previous installations, from the Windows 2000 I inherited on the machine, through RH6/7/8/9 and FC 3/4.

Maybe someone just pruned the list of recognised soundcards too harshly in Edgy?

---

### Post by abben on 2007-01-25
> **jdziedzic said:**
> A-ha! After poking through LordRaiden's guide and going with the flow of message board links, I found this little gem that got things rolling:

sudo modprobe snd-sbawe

After I typed that in, I later noticed that Gaim started making that wonderful "bleeedeeep!" noise we all know and love. Intrigued, I looked back in my /dev/ folder and saw that /dev/dsp and /dev/audio were there. That still left the problem of media files not playing properly, but (again, going with the flow of message board links), I found a program named Automatix that had an option for me to "Install Essential Media Codecs", and that seems to have solved the problem.

Thanks to ComplexNumber, zerhacke, Buck, and shatrat for pointing me in the right direction on this. Between getting sound to work and getting DOSBox up and running to play my old copy of Master of Orion 2, it looks like, after a long weekend of tinkering, this Linux box is finally good to go! :D

Yes!!!! You rule. This is awesome. You see, I was having this exact problem (except my sound card is a Soundblaster 16 Plug and Play). So I just mimicked your "sudo modprobe snd-sbawe" terminal command except using my driver instead of yours: sb16! And all is (seemingly) well! Yes! It actually pays off to search in the forums before posting your own thread.

Yes!!! Thanks, this is awesome. Ubuntu rules.

---

### Post by frisket on 2007-01-29
> **abben said:**
> Yes! It actually pays off to search in the forums before posting your own thread.

Yes!!! Thanks, this is awesome. Ubuntu rules.

Absolutely. Except that sometimes it's hidden because the key words (name of the card, perhaps, or name of the system manufacturer) are not the same as yours, or are in a different parent post :-)

But I just found my solution elsewhere in these forums too :-) -- see in Ubuntu Release Assistance  > Main Support Categories  > Hardware & Laptops > Compaq Deskpro Dpend sound not working

---

### Post by MrWally on 2007-02-13
I've have been having the same issue of not getting any sound and I tried the "sudo chmod 666 /dev/audio" and "sudo chmod 666 /dev/audio" and nothing happened.

Then I tried what jdziedzic said and tried "sudo modprobe snd-sbawe" but still nothing.

I have a Creative Soundblaster Audigy SE, and I use Edgy. When I was using Ubuntu Live the sound was working great, so it can't be a hardware problem.

EDIT: I got my sound working, but only out of 2 channels + bass. Is there a way I could get surround sound, plus possibly EAX 3.0 running?

---

### Post by MrWally on 2007-02-13
Sorry for the double post.

In addition, I can't get audio working with Wine, meaning any programs or games I run through wine.

---

