---
title: "7.10 upgrade manager goes round and around!"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by howiehowie93 on 2007-10-23
Hi,
i've very easliy upgraded from Fiesty to Gutsy last week and all's well except that the update manager has a problem: the orange Icon shows up and when i click it - it opens up the upgrade maanger ok. this checks then shows me the list of upgrades availiable - all as normal there then. untill i click upgrade when it asks me for the root password - as it should, then just goes through the process checks the upgrade availibity again and again and again! (I have to click upgrage each time of course )

any ideas  what i can do to sort this?

regards and thanks in advance

Howie

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-10-23
> **howiehowie93 said:**
> Hi,
i've very easliy upgraded from Fiesty to Gutsy last week and all's well except that the update manager has a problem: the orange Icon shows up and when i click it - it opens up the upgrade maanger ok. this checks then shows me the list of upgrades availiable - all as normal there then. untill i click upgrade when it asks me for the root password - as it should, then just goes through the process checks the upgrade availibity again and again and again! (I have to click upgrage each time of course )

any ideas  what i can do to sort this?

regards and thanks in advance

Howie

Hi have you tried upgrading through the terminal with these commands
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
You may choose aptitude instead of apt-get if that is your preference. If any errors show you can post here.

---

### Post by oooooops on 2007-10-23
I actually am seeing the same behaviour.  I did a "clean" install.  I had feisty, and did a gutsy install from CD.  The only thing I didn't wipe out was my home directory.

I tried the

sudo aptitude update 
sudo aptitude upgrade

just now and nothing updated.  

It should be noted every time this happens to me it does some "stuff" then gets to a point and says oh you don't really need to update reverting.

---

### Post by howiehowie93 on 2007-10-23
Good evening,
thanks for the lines of code - it updated perfectly and Update Manager says I'm up to date now.

I dont suppose that fixes the origional problem though. but at least theres a work around. I did try UM imediatly before the Termail working and it had the same problem BTY.

Thanks very much for you help.

regards
Howie

---

### Post by howiehowie93 on 2007-10-24
Hi again guys,

Ok  so I can update my system using the terminal as shown above but how do I repair Update Manager?

regards
Howie

---

