---
title: ".tar.gz"
date: 2007-06-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by S15_88 on 2007-06-14
total noob question but i'm just learning linux and i'm a little confused with this.  Let's say i have a file:  file.tar.gz, and i wish to install watever it is.  how do i go about doing so?  there's all these popups that say "run in terminal", "display contents".  i read the install instructions file and sometimes it's easy i extract the files let's say to the desktop, then just double click the install file and it goes and installs itself.  Other times it's not so straight forward, there's the make, make install.  

So my question is when u have a .tar.gz file is there an ideal directory to extract it to, and how do u install it, from terminal with make, make install... how does it know wat u want to make and install? 

i've read several tutorials and i may jus be thinking to hard about it haha but i'm just a little unsure on how to go about installing things.

---

### Post by bashologist on 2007-06-14
Anywhere is fine. Then when it's done installing you can delete it if you'd like. Just incase you don't know how to extract it, here's how you do it:
```
tar -xvvzf filename.tar.gz
```
Then you should find a file called "readme", which might be in capital letters or with an extension.

---

### Post by S15_88 on 2007-06-14
when u do that do u need to specify the location or just the filename is alright?

---

### Post by Cypher on 2007-06-14
Just the filename..the file usually contains the directrory structure within itself and you can see the contents of the file by replace the "x" in the command above with "t"..

---

### Post by S15_88 on 2007-06-14
when u extract it using that command, where does it end up?  where the zipped file is?  and also now that it's extracted how do i install it?? make, make install?  when using make do u need to specify a filename?

Thanks, Alain

---

### Post by bashologist on 2007-06-14
If the filename is "filename.tar.gz", then when you extract it there should be a directory named "filename". Go into that directory and search for a file named "readme". Read that file.

---

### Post by ncappel1 on 2007-06-14
Hello, even after having used ubuntu for a while, I still need a little help. I have found the following site very helpful: [http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)

---

### Post by reclusivemonkey on 2007-06-14
> **S15_88 said:**
> total noob question but i'm just learning linux and i'm a little confused with this.  Let's say i have a file:  file.tar.gz, and i wish to install watever it is.  how do i go about doing so?

If you are new to Linux, the first thing I would do is make sure that the program you want to install is not

already in the repos
available in a deb

Personally I find it a lot easier to install this way. Its not that I can't install from source, but if I wanted to do that I would be better off with a distro like Slackware or Gentoo. 

Add all the repos you can and then use synaptic to search for the package. If its not there, try google the "package name"+deb. I think you'll find this method much easier.

---

