---
title: "5.1 Sound Stopped Working"
date: 2006-11-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Daergeth on 2006-11-18
So I had to take my computer apart (because Im stupid, but anyways), I put it all back together, all works great, but now only 3 of my 5 speakers work! Were can I configre my sound in ubuntu? I went to Sys-pref-sounds, but didnt see anything that seems to work. ](*,)

---

### Post by lukon on 2006-11-18
From what I remember reading in several other threads, the alsamixer settings may have reverted to muting several of your speaker channels.

You can try messing with it my accessing the alsamixer in the terminal.

First, open the terminal window with the Applications>Accessories>Terminal menu.

At the command prompt there, type: alsamixer

...and the return button.

Up pops a funky looking array of volume controls.

Look for volume controls that might have to do with some of your missing speaker channels. Scroll back and forth among these controls using the left and right arrow keys on your keyboard. The volume controls get highlited as you scroll this way. Don't forget to keep scrolling over to the right, beyond the controls you can see, to reveal more controls hidden beyond the display screen. If a volume control has a little box with "MM" in it, that control is muted. You un-mute it by typing on the "M" button on your keyboard. After un-muting, you'll probably need to turn the sound up on the control usning the up arrow button on your keyboard.

If this works, it may only work until you reboot. Sometimes the alsamixer resets to some default setting where things get muted again. This, I understand, can be fixed. But I don't as yet know how.

---

