---
title: "connecting through ssh w/out being in the same network"
date: 2005-12-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by shutupchuck on 2005-12-18
I recently got ssh working and am very glad because it works like a dream. I use  putty to connect from my windows desktop machine to my ubuntu server. The only problem is that I would like to be able to connect from anywhere, not just in my house. The ip I use for the ubuntu box is 192.168.1.103 which I know is an internal address generated by the router or something. I was wondering if anyone knows how to connect using my 66.**.**.*** address.

---

### Post by pete on 2005-12-18
ssh runs over port 22, so you would need to tell your router to forward port 22 to the private IP assigned to your computer (192.168.1.103).  Then you can ssh to your public IP address (which, btw, you probably ought not to go posting on public forums such as this one), and the router will send the request to your computer.

On Linksys routers port-forwarding is done in the "Applications & Gaming" section of the router config, although this varies from brand to brand.

Also, your router probably assigns IP addresses dynamically, so unless you set your Ubuntu machine to have a static address, you'll probably have to change the port-forwarding settings at some point.

---

### Post by shutupchuck on 2005-12-18
thanks a bunch; I had my router forwarding port 80 to my apache server and i forgot that i had to use a different port for ssh. it works fine now. Also thanks for the heads up about my ip.

---

### Post by shutupchuck on 2005-12-18
i had another question also, if anyone can help:
can I use the scp command to send a file to a windows machine? if so, do i need to have an sshd running on my windows computer or can it just accept files? also, where does the directory start? as in, when I am specifying the destination directory, do I start with C:\...?
conversely, how would I send files from my windows machine to my ubuntu box? Currently I'm using putty on my windows to log in to my linux.
thanks
-Chuck

---

### Post by harisund on 2005-12-18
To use scp you need a SSH Server running on your Windows machine as well. From what I have read, you will need Cygwin for that. Then you can use scp, and C:\ etc will be how cygwin handles it. I used to do that till I got a dedicated server machine at home.

---

