---
title: "7.10 Full install vs 7.04 upgrade?"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by RichTJ99 on 2007-10-18
Hi,

I currently am using 7.04 Fiesty.  I have not really done much with it as I was having some issues with my Nvidia video card.  Basically play on the internet, & attempt to get Evolution to work with exchange (not too well).  

Anyway, I see that 7.10 is out & I was wondering about the difference between upgrading from 7.04 to 7.10 vs formatting & reinstalling from scratch.

I have no data worth saving & my question is based from my Windows past.  Upgrading from WinMe to WinXP would likely be horrendous & end up not working as well as a fresh install plus tons of extra files sitting around wasting space.
 
So, is that the same way in the Linux world?

Thanks,
Rich

---

### Post by Billy_McBong on 2007-10-18
[COLOR="Blue"]a fresh install is always better[/COLOR]

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-10-18
If you haven't messed around with outside repositories much, then a simple upgrade should be pretty smooth sailing.

---

### Post by mrvertigo on 2007-10-18
Fresh install all the way! upgrades can go horibly wrong on some systems.... or should I say on some users if your still baisically running default a fresh from cd install is best. Plus having the latest disc around is nice

---

### Post by 001100 on 2007-10-18
i agree with the others a fresh install is always good. Besides then you know all of your files have been upgraded. There no risk taken.

---

### Post by mrvertigo on 2007-10-18
that AND as long as you get a sane download you are guarenteed all packages are intact!

---

### Post by -grubby on 2007-10-18
a full install would be better...many users have reported borked systems after an upgrade

---

### Post by h2gofast on 2007-10-19
I have two laptops and a desktop that have been running ubuntu since dapper.  never did a fresh install on any of them.  Once I had to manually update my nvidia driver, but that was from running a dual screen.   for a simpler setup you should be fine with an upgrade.

---

### Post by tcort on 2007-10-19
As many other say, a fresh install will, in general, be less painful than an upgrade. I have one tip to offer to make your next upgrade easier... Put your home directories (/home) on a separate partition. That way you can do a re-install when the next release comes out without having to worry about losing your personal files and settings.

Remember to always backup any important files before doing an upgrade, install or re-install.

---

