---
title: "Grub"
date: 2006-08-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-01
Edit: Rather than make a new thread I decided to use this one again.
I deleted my Fedora Core partition, but now Grub won't load. All it does is being me to a shell, with minimal commands, no errors. When I try to load a kernel I get an Error 22, partition not found. It is pointing at hd0,2 when I specified hd0,0. I only have Ubuntu installed now. My /boot/grub/menu.lst is attatched because Knoppix won't let me copy and paste.

-Ryan H

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-02
Bump.

---

### Post by mithras86 on 2006-08-02
It seems you can only load the FC5 kernel via Grub. It is placed in /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5, so look at /boot for another kernel to load.
Also, have you got a seperate partition for /boot, or is the Ubuntu installed on just one partition?

---

### Post by mithras86 on 2006-08-02
whoops

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-02
Right, I can only load Fedora. Ubuntu and Fedora are both installed on seperate partitions, each with there own /boot. And Fedora's /boot only has it's own kernel.

-Ryan H

---

### Post by patrick295767 on 2006-08-02
Play with the (hd0,x) numbers in the grub config
then,
```
sudo grub-install  
```
  x=0 correspond to /dev/hda1 eg.

If you have no grub in your MBR, you can recover it via eg knoppix cd
you mount your linux partition, grub-install --root-directory sthg ... 

Cheers

---

### Post by tehnad on 2006-08-02
I would say that you are correct with your thinking in just modifying the menu.lst  When you are in Fedora you should be able to see or mount the other partition to give you an idea of where it is.  Then just edit you list like you are thinking accordingly with the partition and Kernel location of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by nixclusive on 2006-08-02
when grub shows up, press 'c' to enter the command line mode. set 'root' as the partition where ubuntu is installed; type at the grub prompt:
```

root (hd0,x)
```

where 'x' is the partition enumerated from 0.
eg. hd0,0 = /dev/hd?1

now load a kernel,
```

kernel (hd0,x)/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.xx-x-xxx root=/dev/hd?y ro
```
where '?y' is the partition where the ubuntu root filesystem resides (eg. /dev/hda3).
2.6.xx-x-xxx is the kernel installed in ubuntu, press tab to autocomplete like bash.

load the initrd,
```

initrd (hd0,x)/boot/initrd.img-2.6.xx-x-xxx
```

boot the kernel,
```

boot
```

Ubuntu should start loading. If you're still confised, better return here.. ;)

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-02
How do I know what kernel Ubuntu has?

-Ryan

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-02
Bump.

-Ryan H

---

### Post by mithras86 on 2006-08-03
Search for your Ubuntu partition. You can see them in the Disks utility. Look for your partition where Ubuntu is installed on. For example, it's called hda2. Then you have to add (hd0,1) to your grub list. hdb1 means for grub (hd2,0). So look for the place where Ubuntu is installed on, and add the place to your menu.lst.

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-03
How do I access my Ubuntu partition? I can't find the Disks utility, I only used the first two installation CDs.

-Ryan H

---

### Post by netstv on 2006-08-03
before I answer ... I am lost here.. do you have ubuntu running yet? If not, does FC still load up?

If that's the case (FC loads)... then from a console type:

mount

and see what partitions are mounted.  If your ubuntu partion is not mounted, mount it.  You'll be able to see all the files etc... 

Just get the system started, that way you don't need any disk utilities.  I think for newbies, disk utilities are generally dangerous.

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-03
I had Ubuntu installed one one partition then I installed Fedora Core 5 on another partition.

I used mount and my Ubuntu partition isn't mounted so I used mount /dev/sda1, but it says:
> mount: can't find /dev/sda1 in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab

What do I do now?

-Ryan H

---

### Post by netstv on 2006-08-03
ok.. so do this...

as root...

cd /
mkdir tmpdir
mount /dev/sda1 /tmpdir

that should get you mounting the file system.

Then cd into tmpdir.

let me know.

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-03
Thanks! All I need to know now is what to put as my partition. I only have one hard drive, but I don't know what to put as the second number. I'm sure Ubuntu is the very first partition. This is my menu.lst file:
> # grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd0,2)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/sda3
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/sda
default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd0,2)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora Core (2.6.15-1.2054_FC5)
	root (hd0,2)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5 ro root=LABEL=/ rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5.img
title Ubuntu (6.06)
	root (hd0,0)
	kernel /boot/vmlinux-2.6.15-26-amd64-generic
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.15-26-amd64-generic


When I put hd0,0 I get:
> root (hd0,0)

filesystem type ex2..., partition type 0x...

kernel /boot/vmlinux-2.6.15-26-amd64-generic


And with hd0,1 I get:
> root (hd0,1)

filesystem type unknown, partition type 0x5

kernel /boot/vmlinux-2.6.15-26-amd64-generic


What am I doing wrong?

-Ryan H

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-08-03
I had a similar problem installing SimplyMepis as a dualboot with Ubuntu, which did not show up in the Mepis grub menu...I had to manually add the Dapper entry to enable booting Ubuntu.  Here's what I had to add(your kernel version will be different):
```

title           Ubuntu, Kernel 2.6.15-26-386
root           (hd0,0)
kernel         /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-26-386 root=/dev/hda1 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-26-386
savedefault
boot
```


Worth a try...spacing will be different than what's shown, it doesn't appear in my reply the way I typed it(if that makes any sense).

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-03
Thank you everyone! I got Ubuntu back and now I can kick Fedora out!

-Ryan H

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-05
New question; see first post for details.

-Ryan H

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-05
Bump.

I can't get on my computer so I'm stuch on Windows! Please help me. :(

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-05
Anyone?

-Ryan H

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-06
I'm not going to lie to you; this is depressing.

-Ryan H

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-08-06
Your default kernel lines don't have version numbers and your hiddenmenu option has been uncommented and that's why you can't see your GRUB menu.  Comment in the hiddenmenu line (#hiddenmenu) to get your GRUB menu back up and running...alternatively, you can hit the ESC key when you GRUB menu is attempting to load.  My two cents.

---

### Post by Ryan H on 2006-08-06
I commented it out, but it still doesn't show anything, no error, or anything. It just goes to the Grub shell, where I have about 30 or so commands.

-Ryan H

---

### Post by ciscosurfer on 2006-08-06
A few quick points: you should use your Ubuntu install CD to bootup and execute the instruction below (knoppix has some issues with sudo sometimes).  First create a directory to mount your boot drive/partition (where grub is located), then mount your boot drive/paritition to the new mount directory.  From there, you can modify your drive (your /boot/grub/* files.  Also, I noticed your default kernel and initrd files don't have version numbers...did you do this (delete them on purporse? Also, check your /boot directory to make sure the files you are trying to call are even there (your kernel [vmlinuz] and initrd [initrd.img]))

Read my entire post before attemping anything!  Additionally, you can read the post that I modified as well.  Also, [here is a post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1319395&postcount=1") which you might find helpful.

Below is a modification I made from [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1307510&postcount=121"):

```
sudo grub
``` 
grub> find /boot/grub/stage1
 (hdx,y) # this will be the output
grub> root (hdx,y)
grub> setup (hdx,y)

=======

[U]Directions

[/U] 1. Uninstall grub```
sudo aptitude remove grub
```2. Reinstall grub```
sudo aptitude install grub
```3. Enter the grub commands ```
sudo grub
``` 
grub> find /boot/grub/stage1
 (hdx,y)  # this will be the output
grub> root (hdx,y)
grub> setup (hdx,y)
3. Reboot

Still get the text grub page on reboot.

To get the thing to finally work I did the following at step 3:

sudo grub-install /dev/hdx #put your drive values in, literally drive and partition.  For me this is ```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda1
```but your setup may differ.

Then do```
sudo grub
``` 
grub> setup (hdx,y) #put your values in here

grub> root (hdx,y) #put your values in

grub> quit

reboot

When I rebooted I got the grub prompt instead of the nice graphical log in screen. At the grub prompt I did the following again:

grub> setup (hdx,y) #put your values in here

grub> root (hdx,y) #put your values in here

*The following did not happen for me, but maybe it does for you:*
Grub would not allow me to quit so I did a Ctrl-Alt-Del to reboot.

On reboot the nice graphical interface was there.

I have performed the above on two computers to get the program to work.

---

