---
title: "Issues with Beryl + Twinview?"
date: 2007-01-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by LycoLoco on 2007-01-25
I've successfully gotten both Beryl and TwinView installed (nVidia graphics card with the newest official drivers), but I have a few issues with how some things perform, all relating to how my monitors are positioned. I have a desk that has a main area and then an upper shelf (supposedly where the monitor is supposed to go). I have one monitor on each, which means that I have to offset one monitor by about 300 pixels so that the mouse and windows move smoothly across. To give you an idea, here's what I see when I take a screenshot with the windows in Expose mode:

[http://lycoloco.thephlogiston.com/files/images/linux/expose.png](http://lycoloco.thephlogiston.com/files/images/linux/expose.png)

As you can see, a good number of the windows go above and below my viewing threshold. Is there any way to make all of the windows expose just on the left or right screen? Obviously Beryl understands that there is a split between the two monitors because it can stick to them as it would the edge of a window, so there should be some way to force this. 

Secondly, when Beryl creates a new window, it tends to put it at the top of the left monitor where I have my upper panel. This wouldn't be a problem if I could move the windows from their current location, but since I have no title bar to grab onto, the only way I can move them is right clicking on the taskbar and telling it to move. While this is a solution, it's less than ideal. If anyone could help me with either these issues, that would be great. Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-01-25
I'm not quite sure what you are talking about when you say you had to "offset one monitor by about 300 pixels".  You intentionally did this?

In the interim, to move a window in linux, all you have to do is position your mouse cursor anywhere on the window you want to move, press alt and left click to move the window.  Very handy feature that I miss when I am using Windows.

---

### Post by LycoLoco on 2007-01-25
> I'm not quite sure what you are talking about when you say you had to "offset one monitor by about 300 pixels". You intentionally did this?
Absolutely. Here's what my desk looks like (excuse the mess):

[http://lycoloco.thephlogiston.com/files/images/desk.jpg](http://lycoloco.thephlogiston.com/files/images/desk.jpg)

As you can see, there is no way for me to use two monitors and not have one up on that platform, so this is the only way that I can have the monitors set up such that windows and cursors transition nicely from one monitor to the other. Anyway, the alt-key is a great fix for now, but it would be great if I could figure out what's up with this as well as the expose feature. Thanks!

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-01-26
Wow,  I have never seen this before.  How did you manage to do this?

---

### Post by LycoLoco on 2007-01-26
I installed the newest NVIDIA drivers (from December 2006) and it adds in a settings manager called NVIDIA X Server Settings that allows you to do all of your monitor configurations from there:

[IMG]http://lycoloco.thephlogiston.com/files/images/linux/nvidia.png[/IMG]

It's really quite handy, makes all the gruntwork of setting up TwinView go away.

---

### Post by crumbum on 2007-01-26
Where did you get this driver

---

### Post by LycoLoco on 2007-01-26
[http://nvidia.com](http://nvidia.com)

---

### Post by LycoLoco on 2007-01-28
*Bump*

Anyone have any ideas? I know it's a bit of a specialized case, but it really would be awesome to be able to use the expose feature in Beryl instead of just having to leave it untouched because of this problem. Thanks!

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-01-28
Can you post the ouput of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?  It might help us to see what the nvidia plugin is actually doing.

---

### Post by LycoLoco on 2007-01-28
Here ya go (all needed info is under the nvidia-auto-select section of metamodes)



```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Fri Dec 15 10:13:06 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "hp f1703"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GT/GTO"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
**    Option         "TwinView" "1"**
    **Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1280x1024 +1280+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+301;** CRT-0: 1024x768 +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0; CRT-0: 832x624 +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +832+0; CRT-0: 800x600 +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +800+0; CRT-0: 640x480 +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +640+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by LycoLoco on 2007-01-28
Actually, it looks like they've done some work on multiple monitor support over here:

[http://bugs.beryl-project.org/changeset/3149](http://bugs.beryl-project.org/changeset/3149)

Now if only I could figure out how to compile those and add them in, that'd be great!

---

### Post by Barleyman on 2007-04-24
> **LycoLoco said:**
> Secondly, when Beryl creates a new window, it tends to put it at the top of the left monitor where I have my upper panel. This wouldn't be a problem if I could move the windows from their current location, but since I have no title bar to grab onto, the only way I can move them is right clicking on the taskbar and telling it to move. While this is a solution, it's less than ideal. If anyone could help me with either these issues, that would be great. Thanks in advance!

Did you ever figure this out?  I am having the same issue with twinview and beryl?

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-04-24
> **Barleyman said:**
> Did you ever figure this out?  I am having the same issue with twinview and beryl?

Hold down the Alt key and then press the left mouse button with the cursor over the window you want to move.  You can then move the window you want and then let go of the buttons.

---

### Post by Barleyman on 2007-04-24
> **rsambuca said:**
> Hold down the Alt key and then press the left mouse button with the cursor over the window you want to move.  You can then move the window you want and then let go of the buttons.

Sorry, I guess I should have pointed out the fact that I was aware of the way to move the window down.

But the problem still remains and is very annoying.  I don't want to have to ctl-alt drag a window every single time I open it.  Also, my girlfriend uses my computer and this is one more reason for her to "miss windows".   

I have since turned off beryl until I can resolve this.

I am pretty certain it is a conflict between beryl and twinview, but don't know what.

---

