---
title: ".bin files..."
date: 2007-04-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Cowen on 2007-04-19
I just switched from Windows, and while I felt reasonably knowledgable about computers on there, Linux has shown me that I know *nothing.*

Proof of concept: I *cannot* figure out what to do with .bin files! I can't figure out how to install them or run them, and as far as I know, I've tried everything. 

A little help, please?

---

### Post by Zuuswa on 2007-04-19
what are you trying to run?  If you want to install software, I suggest using Synaptic Package Manager ro Add/Remove. . ., they allow you to peruse online software repositories, and download and install applications for you with a few simple clicks.

---

### Post by Cowen on 2007-04-19
Among other things, at this point I'm trying to install things like Google Earth and the Java Runtime Evnironment, so (hopefully) I should get the pattern from there.

---

### Post by Nikron on 2007-04-19
> **Cowen said:**
> Among other things, at this point I'm trying to install things like Google Earth and the Java Runtime Evnironment, so (hopefully) I should get the pattern from there.

.bin means binary so modifying their permissions to executable and then executing they would uh, execute they.  IE sudo chmod +x (whatever).bin && (whatever).bin

---

### Post by eyelessfade on 2007-04-19
sun java jre is in repo. apt-get install sun-java-jre or something :)

for other .bin files do them executable as last post said and run them as ./mybinaryfile.bin
often the .bin file contains a shellscript on top so you can run them like "sh mybinaryfile.bin

---

### Post by hamiltdm on 2007-04-19
Cowen, I'm with you, man. I just switched to Ubuntu from WinXP about 3 weeks ago and BOY am I lost. I thought I was pretty good with computers--Linux has proved me to be a 2-year old!!! I am try to figure out how to open Port 80 for my SMTP service. NO WAY! It takes me 3 seconds in windows. When I installed Google Earth (just this morning), I did this in two steps:
1. From the terminal -Applications>Accessories>Terminal- change directories to where you have the Google Earth .bin file stored.  Then run the command 'chmod +x GoogleEarthLinux.bin'  This make the file executable.
2. I then went into the GUI to the file explorer and navigated to the GoogleEarthLinux.bin file and double-clicked on it. Just follow the prompts and it installed from there.

Hope this helps.

Dave

---

### Post by eyelessfade on 2007-04-19
> **hamiltdm said:**
> Cowen, I'm with you, man. I just switched to Ubuntu from WinXP about 3 weeks ago and BOY am I lost. I thought I was pretty good with computers--Linux has proved me to be a 2-year old!!! I am try to figure out how to open Port 80 for my SMTP service. NO WAY! It takes me 3 seconds in windows.
Dave

Uhm why would you use smtp with port 80? And smtp shouldn't be open for anyone other then you. If you donæt know what you are doing. Or else you would have a thousand spammers using you as their personal spamsite within 10 minutes.

smtp use port 25 just for the record. And I didn't think ubuntu had any closed ports on default. you just have to start the service. exim, sendmail etc.

---

### Post by hamiltdm on 2007-04-19
GoDaddy uses port 80 or 3535 on the local email client to send email.

---

