---
title: "3D Desktop Effects dont work."
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Rippie on 2007-10-23
Hello ppl,

Installed Ubuntu 7.10 on my HP laptop NX9420 without any bigger problems, but i do have one problem. i cant get 3D desktop effects to work, i keep getting a message saying "Desktop Effects could not be enabled" I followed the link below to install my ATI Radeon Mobility X1600 graphics card,

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide)

After using that guide (using method 1) i've got a error saying that "Composite extentions was disabled" or something. then i just changed it from disable to enable in /etc/X11/xorg.conf which resulted in the error i have now.

Im still VERY noob when it comes to linux, just so that you know.

I will copy my xorg.conf file for you people,

--------------------------
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "dk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Generic Video Card"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Generic Video Card"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes    "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
--------------------------

Hope that someone can help me out ...... Rippie

---

### Post by buntunub on 2007-10-23
Section "ServerFlags"
Option "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Seems to me that you have AIGLX off, yet you have composite enabled. Additionally, I dont see the other aargb options in there. Hmm, seems like Gutsy jacked up your xorg pretty good. Do some searches on these forums here and in the docs section for a how to setup Compiz. Its pretty well documented for those willing to put 5 minutes of time into reading. If not, well, enjoy no 3D in Gutsy!!

---

### Post by llamakc on 2007-10-23
I have an ATI card and I do not have the ATI fglrx module loaded. I'm using the radeon one:

```


Section "Device"
        Identifier        "ATI Technologies Inc Radeon rv370"
        Driver                "radeon"
        BusID                "PCI:5:0:0"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
#        Option "AGPMode" "4"
#        Option "AGPFastWrite" "true"
        Option "DisableGLXRootClipping" "true"
        Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "true"
        Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
        Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
EndSection

```

and I have this at the end of my file:

```

Section "ServerLayout"
        Option  "AIGLX" "true"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"
        Inputdevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection
#Section "Extensions"
#Option         "Composite"     "Enable"
#EndSection


```

See what happens If you enable AIGLX and disable compositing (and restart X).

---

### Post by Rippie on 2007-10-24
Ive tried this morning to reinstall ubuntu. then straight after i followed this guide here..

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Feisty_Installation_Guide)

After the first method 1 i enabled ATI card in system > administration > Restricted drivers manager and then i went back to the guide above and completed the things you can see after method 2.

it then comes up telling me that composite extensions is disabled, so i went into /etc/X11/xorg.conf to enable composite extentions and then i tried again to enable desktop effects.

After i click on the normal one it stands and this for like 30 seconds, then i give me an error saying that desktop effects cant be enabled.

Any idea here ?

---

### Post by drinkpepsi on 2007-10-24
Try running in the terminal,

```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl
```

Double check to make sure composite is enabled or set to 1. Reboot the pc. I have an ati card, and that's all I did and it works.

---

### Post by buntunub on 2007-10-24
> **drinkpepsi said:**
> Try running in the terminal,

```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl
```

Double check to make sure composite is enabled or set to 1. Reboot the pc. I have an ati card, and that's all I did and it works.

I had to do the same thing with Nvidia and Xubuntu. Also, dont forget to do the alt+f2 thing, compiz --replace, and then emerald --replace

---

### Post by Rippie on 2007-10-24
Thank you very much all of you for your help, i will try to install the lastest driver that came out today or yesterday and then give it a go...

Will let you all know how it goes :)

---

