---
title: "Beginner: 82865g Intel Card basic questions.."
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Towerblock on 2007-06-02
Hi...

I'm completely new to Ubuntu/Linux and have installed Feisty now on a few machines just to try it out. I am having a problem though on an eMachines box which has a Celeron 340, 512m, 80g and onboard 82865g video. I followed a bunch of different threads typing lots of things in the terminal and of course have suceeded in confusing myself. I have a cpl of problems:

1. the highest resolution it allows is 1280x1024, this should be much higher than this
2. Screen performance is pretty sluggish...I mean worse than the Dell P3 laptop with 256k ram and the same video chipset that I also installed on.

So, I have a cpl of beginner questions...

1. How can I actually SEE which driver is being used on my system?
2. If its indeed wrong, how do I load the correct one?
3. How can I get higher screen resolution choices?

thanks for any help!

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-06-02
I believe you need to use i810 driver for your graphic card.  Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Towerblock on 2007-06-02
> **taurus said:**
> I believe you need to use i810 driver for your graphic card.  Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Hi....here it is:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Driver          "i810"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "DELL E173FP"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
        Monitor         "DELL E173FP"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by cantormath on 2007-06-02
I am on dapper with the same card and I have had similar problems.
I have read that if you are on feisty you need to install 
xorg-xserver-video-intel

```
:~$ sudo apt-get install xorg-xserver-video-intel
```I have also read that after you install this package all is well, ......or, you need to open terminal and run this command to reconfigure you xorg.conf file
```
:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```the setup is pretty straight forward, it does alot of autodetecting but will still ask you if you would like to change settings.  In most cases you can just hit next.  Regarding the resolution,  There is question that will come up asking you to select the resolutions supported by the card.  This is where you want to check the resolutions, check what the card supports on the net, and move forward.  I keeped it to 1280x800 and down since that is all I will need.  You can select more.

You then need to reboot, and it should be working.  The different resolutions should appear in the menu and you can change them an will.

The only thing that I have notice about the two xorg.conf files, the orignal and the new one, is that load "i2c" is enabled in the old xorg.conf file. 
```
Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"

```I have yet to see the difference since I am in a different state then that of the box I am working on and cannot see the monitor from here :-).

If anyone knows about the i2c, please let me know and if this works for you please let me know.

Hope this helps...

---

### Post by Towerblock on 2007-06-02
Hi...

When I run that command I get this result:

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package xorg-xserver-video-intel

How can I make sure the system can find the package?

thanks...!

---

### Post by cantormath on 2007-06-03
Are you running dapper or fiesty.

I believe that package is in the feisty repository, you probably need to go into your /etc/apt/sources.list file and uncomment the universe and/or multiverse repositories.  Its common and easy to do, just get rid of the # infront of the universe repos.  Rememeber, stuff in the etc folder is protected from non-root users so to open it you need to sudo, ie:
```
:/$ sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
```In the source.list file, you'll see these.....get rid of the # to uncomment them.
```
# deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper universe
# deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ dapper universe

```same with the multiverse, Im not entirely sure which repo the intel drivers are in, but it wont hurt to uncomment the both universe and multiverse.  

after that you need to save the source.list and update the package list, that is, inform your computer of the new packages: ie)
```
:/$ sudo apt-get update
```. If you want to search for the package, or any other package:to install ```
:/$ sudo apt-cache search xorg-xserver-video-intel
```To install ```
:/$ sudo apt-get install xorg-xserver-video-intel
```.  If you are unfamilar with the apt command and the above, you can use synaptic to update your sources.list, but its always good to learn something new.  If you know all of this, then I appologize for the speech.

for dapper, the only thing in the repos for that card is:
**xserver-xorg-driver-i810** : - X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display driver
there is also
**xserver-xorg-driver-i740** : - X.Org X server -- i740 display driver
but i dont think that package is for your card.

When you are done,  go back and comment the universe and multiverse repos again.  You dont have to do that, I just do it because the software from those repository are not supported by the Ubuntu.  That does not mean they arent good, just use em when you need them.

Hope that helps

---

