---
title: ".run files?"
date: 2007-07-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ~~Tito~~ on 2007-07-09
I downloaded wolfET and It wont run the .run file?

Will a .run file work on ubuntu?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-07-09
Hi. Yes, it should work; try making the file executable: open a terminal and navigate to where you have the file and enter:
```
sudo chmod +x NAME_OF_FILE.run
```
then
```
./NAME_OF_FILE.run
```

---

### Post by Campingman on 2007-07-09
Open the location of the file in a terminal and run the command:
sudo sh (nameof file).run

In my case this was
sudo sh et-linux-2.60.x86.run
This starts the installer.

---

### Post by ~~Tito~~ on 2007-07-09
The guy above me: I trye that but gtedit thing runs it and it gives me an error

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-07-09
> **~~Tito~~ said:**
> The guy above me: I trye that but gtedit thing runs it and it gives me an error

I'm not sure what you mean; do you mean **gedit** opens it and gives you an error? if so, then you're **double-clicking** the file. What you must do is run the commands in the terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal). Once the terminal opens, change to the directory where you have the file; let's say your home folder is called **tito**, and you have that file in your desktop:
```
cd /home/tito/Desktop
```
or you can also do it like this:
```
cd ~Desktop
```
then run the commands listed.

---

### Post by ~~Tito~~ on 2007-07-09
Ok, i figured it out ,but this comes up (in bold)

tito@TITOS-LAPTOP:~$ cd '/home/tito/My Documents/Mozilla Downloads/'tito@TITOS-LAPTOP:~/My Documents/Mozilla Downloads$ sudo sh ati-driver-installer-8.28.8.run 
Password:
Creating directory fglrx-install
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing ATI Proprietary Linux Driver-8.28.8.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
-e ==================================================
-e  ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
-e ==================================================
[B]./ati-installer.sh: 165: Syntax error: Bad substitution
Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install[/B]

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-07-09
It seems you have an ATi video card; is direct rendering enabled? if you are unsure, or don't know, try this from the terminal:
```
glxinfo | grep rendering
```
It should say **Yes**. If it doesn't, you need to install the correct drivers for it. However, I have no experience with ATi cards, sorry. Try searching the [Multimedia & Video]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=138") section for **ATI direct rendering**. There should be many threads explaining how to solve your problem.

---

### Post by ~~Tito~~ on 2007-07-09
It says yes.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-07-09
Then I think you don't need to install that driver. The game should run correctly.

---

### Post by Vague on 2007-07-09
Just out of curiosity, have you tried installing fglrx from the repos?

---

