---
title: ".tar.gz and uninstalling"
date: 2005-12-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by equal on 2005-12-18
I have two questions. I know I've seen the answer on these forums before but I've spent an hour looking for them, so here goes:

1- I want to install programs that I can't find on the repositories. I find the .tar.gz files. What do I do now? Walk me through it, step by step.

2- If I install something using sudo apt-get install, what do I do if I want to uninstall this same program?

Thanks guys. One of these days I'll stop feelign like a n00b.

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2005-12-18
[QUOTE=equal]
1- I want to install programs that I can't find on the repositories. I find the .tar.gz files. What do I do now? Walk me through it, step by step.
[/quote]
If you wnt to install it, it is very probable that someone else wanted the same program as well. Look at the end of my post on how to search repos for a program (using synaptic)

Install some prerequisites for building from source files ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```
Now, first, check whether you've got all the dependencies for that program. If you have them all ```
tar -zxvf programname.tar.gz
cd programname
./configure
make
make install
```
Before doing that, try searching the forums for a howto for that program or something similar...
To uninstall ```
cd programname
make uninstall
``` which sometimes work...
[quote=equal]
2- If I install something using sudo apt-get install, what do I do if I want to uninstall this same program?
[/QUOTE]
For the beginner, it would be easier to use synaptic (System>Administration>Synaptic Package Manager). Hit reload and search the list to install and uninstall. Use checkboxes to install, uninstall, uninstall completely (means getting rid of configuration files as well).

---

### Post by Gustav on 2005-12-18
2- sudo apt-get remove

---

### Post by equal on 2005-12-20
```

$ -zxvf snes9x-1.43-linux-x86.tar.gz
$ cd snes9x-1.43
$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: No such file or directory
```

So what did I do wrong? I'm serious when I say I REALLY don't get how to install things without Synaptic. But I want to understand how to do it.

---

### Post by monchichi on 2005-12-20
Did you download the snes9x binary or source code? The above instructions are for compiling source code. If you downloaded the binary, it's just a matter of running ```
./snes9x
``` in that directory. It's always a good idea to read any "readme" or "install" files in the directory also.

---

### Post by cwaldbieser on 2005-12-20
[QUOTE=equal]```

$ -zxvf snes9x-1.43-linux-x86.tar.gz
$ cd snes9x-1.43
$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: No such file or directory
```

So what did I do wrong? I'm serious when I say I REALLY don't get how to install things without Synaptic. But I want to understand how to do it.[/QUOTE]
This link has a good overview:
[http://www.psychocats.net/linux/installingsoftware.php]("http://www.psychocats.net/linux/installingsoftware.php")

With source code, the way you install it is entirely up to the discretion of the author.  There may not even be any install scripts.  However, there are traditions that are generally followed to make it a little easier on the end user.

In a source tarball, there will usually be a README file and an INSTALL file.  Between them, they will usually explain what the program does and how you are supposed to install it.

Lots of source programs are packaged with GNU tools like autoconfig and automake, which help make scripts to do the install, so that is why you normally just do:
```

$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install

```
The first command runs a script called "configure".  Not every source tarball has a configure script.  Basically, it tries to figure out where libraries are on your system and it creates a Makefile from the knowledge gleaned.

The "make" program is pretty versital.  It reads a Makefile that tells it how to build targets.  Normally, the Makefile has instructions for how the source files must be used to create the binary on your system.

The last step, "make install", is a special target that tells the "make" program to install the binary files on your system.  Sometimes there is an "uninstall" target that will remove the installed files.

Generally, it is better to replace the last step with:
```

$ sudo checkinstall -D

``` 
whenever possible.  The checkinstall program performs the "make install" command on your behalf in a kind of sandbox.  It figures out the files that would be installed, and it creates a .deb package that synaptic or apt-get can use.  That way, you can uninstall the program using apt-get, even if you no longer have the original source files.

---

### Post by cwaldbieser on 2005-12-20
I double posted due to lag-- if a moderator could remove this one, that would be nice.

---

### Post by harisund on 2005-12-20
[http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/edu/os-dw-linuxcompiling-i.html](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/edu/os-dw-linuxcompiling-i.html)

---

### Post by ecto on 2005-12-20
Well I will assume that you simply have the source tarball and not the binary package. 
First you should sudo apt-get install gcc
sudo apt-get install g++
sudo apt-get install build-essential
Alright, so you dont have a configure script apperently however i notice you simply cd into your snes9x directory, are there any subdirectories? Sometimes (for some reason) the configure script may be in a directory entitled source. Try and look around the snes9x directory for the word "Configure" and it should be highlighted in green (or highlighted in some way none the less) given that your xterminal has color support. Otherwise, try looking for an autogen script.
Even after you compile this you may have problems using the command make and may leave you with many sleepless nights of what many refer to as "compilation hell". Make sure you have all the dependencies required to compile this program. Usually they are stated on the website or in any of the readme/install docs.
Sometimes, in fact many, you dont even need to make install, but as a precaution please use sudo when using the make install command

---

### Post by monchichi on 2005-12-20
Actually, I'm pretty sure he has the binary. The snes9x source tarball ends in -src.tar.gz

But it's always good to learn how to compile anyway. :p

---

### Post by equal on 2005-12-20
HA! I figured out the fault. I downloaded the source files finally, cuz the instructions seemed to make more sense, but it still wasn't installing properly. The ./configure command would do a bunch of stuff, and then say it couldn't create the makefile. I couldn't figure out why, but it was because the compiler wasn't understanding the space in the directory name. So instead of going to My Documents (yeah I'm still clinging to old Windows habits, sigh), it'd try and find the folder Documents. 

Alright, round three. So I've gotten through almost everything now, I typed in the sudo make install command, and now it says this:

```
~/Desktop/Emulators/snes9x-1.43-src/snes9x$ sudo make install
install -D snes9x "/usr/local/bin/snes9x"
```

I think I'm right around the corner now, but I still can't figure out how to run the program. I tried typing snes9x into the Alt_F2 program launcher, but it did nothing.

---

### Post by monchichi on 2005-12-20
You need to install a gui, like gsnes9x.

Or you can open up a terminal and run ```
snes9x <foogame.rom>
``` or whatever.

---

### Post by equal on 2005-12-20
aha. Much thanks :) it works. 
Now, this is probably not a noob question so much, but seeing as everyone here's been so helpful here, and this question was ignored in the ubuntu gaming section, one last question: Why is it that snes9x doesn't detect the *.src files I have in the game directory? Those are the files that the program itself creates as save files for the games. Obviously, I'm not going to get very far in an RPG style game if I can't save my progress.

---

### Post by monchichi on 2005-12-20
hmm... I have no idea.. try running:```
snes9x --help
``` and see if it tells you how to save/load files.

Alternatively you could use a frontend like I mentioned before, they have built-in save functions. Snes9express is great:

[http://www.linuxgames.com/snes9express/]("http://www.linuxgames.com/snes9express/")
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsnes9x/]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsnes9x/")

---

### Post by equal on 2005-12-20
Yeah those progs can all use save state features, but I'm talking about... well let's say you're playing Final Fantasy V. If you use the games save feature, the program creates a file called Final Fantasy V.srm, and usually, snes9x can read the files just fine, but for some reason, the linux version doesn't read them, even though it creates them. sigh. I'll use the save state feature, which is at least something.

---

