---
title: ".exe problem"
date: 2007-08-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by arun_007523 on 2007-08-22
i need to install a .exe provided by my internet provider to access my internet account, i tried the wine method but it says wine is not installed......so please help me to over come this problem......thanx....

---

### Post by splintercellguy on 2007-08-22
What's your provider and what does the EXE do? To install Wine do:

sudo apt-get install wine

If you want the latest binaries follow the instructions at:

[http://winehq.org/site/download-deb](http://winehq.org/site/download-deb)

---

### Post by Gimpy_Rob on 2007-08-22
But I doubt that wine will help that much... the EXE probably sets up some settings specific to windows, and won't make a difference in ubuntu.

You might need to find out what the program changes and make those changes manually in ubuntu.

Like splintercellguy said.  What is the EXE supposed to do?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-22
Since he can't access the internet, I don't think he'd be able to download Wine.

But most times, the .exes are nothing but proprietary software that the ISPs provide with a whole lot of junk apps with them. 

I am sure you can access the internet without that exe. Tell us what wireless card you have, or whether you are using the LAN

---

### Post by WebSiteGuru on 2007-08-22
Call your ISP and see if they can walk you through the manual process for Linux.

---

### Post by arun_007523 on 2007-08-22
my isp dont provide s/w for linux they only provide for windows.....so i need to either convert this .exe so that it installs in linux or i should install that .exe in some way....

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-08-22
> **arun_007523 said:**
> my isp dont provide s/w for linux they only provide for windows.....so i need to either convert this .exe so that it installs in linux or i should install that .exe in some way....

What is the ISP?  Is it dial-up?  If you need special windows based software to connect you may not be able to do this.

When I first tried linux I was using Juno and they did not deal with Linux.  I had to drop them and go with someone else who did not use propietary software to connect.

---

