---
title: "External Monitor Blanks on Bootup"
date: 2006-03-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by cedricktattoo on 2006-03-24
Hello--

I'm really loving Ubuntu on my laptop and it's making me consider switching completely away from Windows. I've only had one problem with Ubuntu after installing it as a dual boot on a Dell Latitude D505 laptop. 

I am using Ubuntu Breezy Badger 5.10.  When I attach the laptop to the port replicator (a Dell D/Advanced Port Replicator) and boot, I see the progress bar telling me everything is starting, but when X actually starts the monitor goes blank and goes into sleep mode. 

I've tried <ctrl><alt><backspace> and get nothing.  I've tried adding the line Load “i810” to the Module section of /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, but still no results. I've fiddled with screen settings, turned off hibernation mode on Ubuntu.  None of these tactics worked.  

What am I missing that will get my external monitor to work when I attach my laptop to the port replicator?  Thank you in advance for your help!

Specs:
Dell Latitude D505
Intel Pentium M processor, 1.70 GHz
1.0 GB RAM
Intel 82852/82855 GM Graphics Controller
Dell D/Advanced Port Replicator 
Dell 1704FPV (external monitor)

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2006-03-24
Does the keyboard work?  When you press CAPS LOCK does the caps lock led light?

Please show us your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by cedricktattoo on 2006-03-24
[QUOTE=Pragmatist]Does the keyboard work?  When you press CAPS LOCK does the caps lock led light?

Please show us your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```[/QUOTE]

It looks like the keyboard does, indeed, work.  I get the Caps Lock light to go on and off when I hit the Caps Lock key during bootup *and* after the screen goes blank.  I still can't pull up a visible prompt or text, though.  So it looks like the keyboard and maybe the mouse are communicating with the shell after boot.  I didn't think to test the keyboard, so, hopefully, knowing that it still works even after the blank-out will be helpful.  Thanks for having me check that, Pragmatist.   

Here's a look at my xorg.conf file.  Are there any clues to what might be wrong here?  Thanks!:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
	
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2006-03-24
In researching your problem, using google linux ([www.google.com/linux](www.google.com/linux)) I found somebody who has a Dell Latitude D505.  He has some good instructions regarding Xorg/display issues. 

[http://home.kivu.nl/ubuntuondell/UbuntuLinuxonDellLatitudeD505.html](http://home.kivu.nl/ubuntuondell/UbuntuLinuxonDellLatitudeD505.html)

Let us know if this helps.

---

### Post by cedricktattoo on 2006-03-24
[QUOTE=Pragmatist]In researching your problem, using google linux ([www.google.com/linux](www.google.com/linux)) I found somebody who has a Dell Latitude D505.  He has some good instructions regarding Xorg/display issues. 

[http://home.kivu.nl/ubuntuondell/UbuntuLinuxonDellLatitudeD505.html](http://home.kivu.nl/ubuntuondell/UbuntuLinuxonDellLatitudeD505.html)

Let us know if this helps.[/QUOTE]

Thanks!  I'll give it a try when I get home and let you all know what happens.  --CM

---

### Post by cedricktattoo on 2006-04-06
[QUOTE=cedricktattoo]Thanks!  I'll give it a try when I get home and let you all know what happens.  --CM[/QUOTE]

Okay, I finally got a chance to look over the instructions that were suggested above by Pragmatists, but there's nothing there that would deal with the issue of how to make an external monitor that is part of a port replicator system work when the laptop is plugged into it.  Great instructions for fixing screen resolution problems, though.

Are there any other possible fixes for making a Dell laptop with Breezy work when plugged into its port replicator?  Again, the specs are:

Specs:
Dell Latitude D505
Intel Pentium M processor, 1.70 GHz
1.0 GB RAM
Intel 82852/82855 GM Graphics Controller
Dell D/Advanced Port Replicator
Dell 1704FPV (external monitor)

I've looked all over the current forum to no end, bought a copy of "Beginning Ubuntu Linux" (which I highly [recommend]("http://www.apress.com/book/bookDisplay.html?bID=10086")) but there was no help there either.  Scoured several linux tomes at the local bookstore, but, again, I found nothing that worked.  Is this a problem that other people are having?  Other ideas, anyone?  Thanks Progmatist, and thanks to anyone else ahead of time who might know something about this.

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2006-04-06
Check out this thread:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=111782&highlight=replicator](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=111782&highlight=replicator)

The key quote is here, I think:
> I upgraded my laptop's BIOS from A21 to A23 using the upgrade on Dell's website. However, Ubuntu 5.10 Live CD still didn't display anything after starting X. So I tried Knoppix 3.9 again to see if it worked. At first, it didn't but then I found that I could use the "fb800x600" kernel parameter which made Knoppix use a driver named "fbdev" which I assume uses frame buffer graphics without using hardware-acceleration specific to my graphics card. And, viola, X showed up fine on my laptop display and the monitor which I have connected via the port replicator.

From this I see three ideas to explore (not in any special order):

1.) BIOS upgrade
2.) Using a framebuffer driver
3.) Use the Knoppix LiveCD or the Ubuntu LiveCD for troubleshooting.

---

### Post by cedricktattoo on 2006-04-07
Okay, after updating the bios and booting to my Breezy partition, I finally got to my Gnome desktop at a *really* fuzzy and bad resolution.  By squinting my eyes and using the force, i was able to find my way to **system-->Preferences-->Screen Resolution** to reset the resolution to 1024x768.  A beautiful screen on my Dell Ultrasharp 1704FPV at a resolution of 1024x768 @ 75Hz refresh rate.  Thanks Pragmatist!

I'm pretty sure at this point, getting a better resolution won't be too hard to figure out.

To recap:  for a Dell Latitude D505 with an Intel 82852/82855 GM Graphics Controller, Dell D/Advanced Port Replicator, and Dell 1704FPV (external monitor), you need to upgrade the bios on the laptop to the "A10" upgrade (I had the "A8" bios that came with the laptop).  I loaded the upgrade in my Windows partition, rebooted to Breezy, logged in and then reset my resolution to 1024x768 for a clear screen.   The Screen Resolutions Settings GUI gives the option of a resolution as high as 1280x1024, but this resolution on my screen looked like crap, so I set to the next lower one.  I'll be looking around for the fix for that one.

Thanks again for pointing me in the right direction, Pragmatist!

--Cedricktattoo

[QUOTE=Pragmatist]Check out this thread:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=111782&highlight=replicator](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=111782&highlight=replicator)

The key quote is here, I think:


From this I see three ideas to explore (not in any special order):

1.) BIOS upgrade
2.) Using a framebuffer driver
3.) Use the Knoppix LiveCD or the Ubuntu LiveCD for troubleshooting.[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by cedricktattoo on 2006-04-08
Oops!  I spoke too soon in my last post.  It seems that my problem is not completely solved, after all!  

My external monitor worked just fine the first time I did all of the things mentioned above, but on subsequent boots, I got the blank-monitor-at-login-screen again.  After a few seconds the monitor will then go into sleep mode, just like before.  A minute ago, in my frustration, I went ahead and typed in my username and password, even though I had no screen.  Strangely, I got my "sucessfu login" music, and I was looking at my Gnome desktop.  

So the problem seems to be, as far as I can tell, that the login screen is where the bootup goes bad and I get a blank monitor that will eventually go to sleep.  However, if I type my login information anyway, I will be logged into a perfectly fine Gnome session.  ](*,) 

So, it looks like everythign I did before may have been for nought, and all I had to do was go ahead and type in my login to get a desktop on my external monitor trough my port replicator.  Still, if I can still type commands and see the desktop after login, why can't Breezy show my login screen on the external monitor? 

In some ways, this seems like a simpler problem than before, but a login screen would be nice to have.  Any more thoughts?  Thanks!

--CM

[QUOTE=cedricktattoo]Okay, after updating the bios and booting to my Breezy partition, I finally got to my Gnome desktop at a *really* fuzzy and bad resolution.  By squinting my eyes and using the force, i was able to find my way to **system-->Preferences-->Screen Resolution** to reset the resolution to 1024x768.  A beautiful screen on my Dell Ultrasharp 1704FPV at a resolution of 1024x768 @ 75Hz refresh rate.  Thanks Pragmatist!

I'm pretty sure at this point, getting a better resolution won't be too hard to figure out.

To recap:  for a Dell Latitude D505 with an Intel 82852/82855 GM Graphics Controller, Dell D/Advanced Port Replicator, and Dell 1704FPV (external monitor), you need to upgrade the bios on the laptop to the "A10" upgrade (I had the "A8" bios that came with the laptop).  I loaded the upgrade in my Windows partition, rebooted to Breezy, logged in and then reset my resolution to 1024x768 for a clear screen.   The Screen Resolutions Settings GUI gives the option of a resolution as high as 1280x1024, but this resolution on my screen looked like crap, so I set to the next lower one.  I'll be looking around for the fix for that one.

Thanks again for pointing me in the right direction, Pragmatist!

--Cedricktattoo[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2006-04-08
Take a look at your /etc/gdm/gdm.conf file. It is a big file, so use the "find" feature of your editor to look for keywords like: suspend, sleep, hibernate

When you find those lines, comment them out by putting a hash mark (#) at the beginning of those lines. The hash mark is for comments (it says, "ignore this line" to the code interpreter). If it were me, I would comment out those lines that enable power saving features and add a comment line to remind myself that I did that. I'm not using GDM now, so here is just an example:

suspend blah blah blah
sleep blah blah blah
hibernate blah blah blah

Becomes:

# I commented-out these power-saving features which were on by default
#suspend blah blah blah
 #sleep blah blah blah
 #hibernate blah blah blah

The other thing you could do is just backup the /etc/gdm/gdm.conf file like this:
```
sudo cp /etc/gdm/gdm.conf /etc/gdm/BACKUP_gdm.conf
``` 
Of course name it whatever is most memorable for you. This way, if you want to roll back to the default file, you just rename it to /etc/gdm/gdm.conf

---

