---
title: "7.1 Server installed. Need help setting it up"
date: 2008-01-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ProfitByProphet on 2008-01-27
Okay, I've been searching for quite a while and have run out of patience trying to find answers. Hopefully I can get all the help I need here. I'm completely new to Linux so hopefully instructions can be as detailed as possible. Currently the server lives behind my Tomato router, but in about a week will be have a static IP address from Comcast. I've installed 7.1 server and want to set it up to do several things:

1) Mount my three firewire drives. The system recognized them during installation, but I unplugged them so they wouldn't accidentally be written over. After installation I don't see them in /mnt or when I type mount. How do I get these drives recognized?

2) Setup the drives so I can drag and drop files from my Mac on the network. (Files are mostly music and videos. I've seen that I can install an iTunes server. Can you tell me why I'd want to do that instead of just having the drives shared and point my iTunes library to that mount point?

3) Setup a video player on the server so I can launch a movie from my Mac and have it use the servers s-video out to display the movie on my tv

4) I'll be getting a static IP address from Comcast business and I want to serve about three small websites. How do I setup the server to run off the static IP instead of DHCP? 

4a) How do I install everything needed to run multiple websites on one server and over one static IP address? NOTE: I'd like to run Postgres instead of MySQL.

4b) How do I set it up so when someone types in AAA.COM or BBB.com, they are directed to that site on my server?

---

### Post by emarkd on 2008-01-27
Those are some big questions and I think you'll have better luck splitting them up and spreading them around a bit.  But here's my quick-n-dirty input:

1.  They should mount automatically when you plug them in, but Ubuntu will mount them under /media, not /mnt

2.  Search for info on Samba file sharing.  No idea on the itunes thing, though

3.  Again, the Samba file sharing will come into play here

4.  The server doesn't care what it's IP is, it just serves when it's queried.

5.  Check out Apache virtual sites.

6.  You'll have to register your domain name with a registrar.  I've had good experience with [www.ipower.com](www.ipower.com) but there are many companies that do this.  Try google.

---

### Post by ProfitByProphet on 2008-01-27
All I see in /media is "cdrom  cdrom0"

---

