---
title: "screen has changed to 640x480 and cant change it!"
date: 2007-11-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by MikeSz on 2007-11-22
I know this seems to be a question that is asked a lot but from looking at other threads, peoples circumstances seem different and they are running different versions so hope nobody minds me asking again!

Im running version 7.10 on a fujitsu siemens amilo pa 1510 laptop which has a built in ATi radeon.  

I was playing a game in wine when it crashed out and dumped me back to the login screen.  Although the login screen had changed to a really large resolution.  Ive logged into all the accounts on the system and they are all now stuck in 640x480!!  I cant change them in the screen settings as its the only option there.  I dont even know where to start in fixing this so can anyone please walk me through how to fix it??

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-22
Have you tried to reboot?  Otherwise, reconfigure your X server again with

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by MikeSz on 2007-11-22
Ive tried rebooting and ive tried logging into the different accounts.  They're all the same.  Ive just run what you suggested, here's what I got...

zer0cool@zer0cool:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
[sudo] password for zer0cool:
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20071122203621
zer0cool@zer0cool:~$ 

Unfortunately, the screen went blank for a second or two and then came back exactly the same.  Still no option to go higher than 640x480

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-22
Can you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by MikeSz on 2007-11-22
not a problem pal, here you go...

zer0cool@zer0cool:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Does that help any?

---

### Post by MikeSz on 2007-11-22
by the way, that setting of 1280 x 800 is what my screen *should* be...

---

### Post by MikeSz on 2007-11-27
well, in an interesting development to al this, I have managed to get my screen back to a normal resolution (1280 x 800 if I remember correctly) however in the process of faffing about with it all, I have somehow managed to change the text size in the login screen.  Everything looks normal, I have the ubuntu login screen and everything is in a normal size except when you try to type your user name or password in.  The fonts size is so large that you can only see the bottom of the letters you are typing.  I cant actually see what's being typed into the boxes as its so large - its about point 72 size from what I can tell.  Any ideas on how to change it back down?

---

### Post by gustasonfrever on 2007-11-28
I'm trying to change my native resolution and but for some reason I'm unable to

gustason@gustason-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Password:
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20071128171233
gustason@gustason-laptop:~$ 

How do I get past this?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-11-28
> **gustasonfrever said:**
> I'm trying to change my native resolution and but for some reason I'm unable to

gustason@gustason-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Password:
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20071128171233
gustason@gustason-laptop:~$ 

How do I get past this?

There is nothing to "get past".

It is a "wanring" and is just informing you your old xorg.conf was backed up to "/etc/X11/xorg.conf.20071128171233"

This is helpful if the new configuration does not work.

---

