---
title: "Ubuntu + KUbuntu-desktop + compiz"
date: 2007-11-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by IgnoranceIsBliss on 2007-11-07
Hello,

I've just installed:
[list]
[*]ubuntu 7.10 (+update and upgrade)
[*]restricted nvidia drivers
[*]kubuntu-desktop
[*]compiz-kde
[*]emerald
[*]
[/list]
Now, compiz works fine with gnome, but i can't find a clue on google about how to correctly start compiz with kde. I tried 'compiz --replace', but i end up with windows without decoration, and no compiz function seems available...

I'd like to get the same functionalities with kde than those available for gnome. Perhaps it is not possible? or perhaps i am doing something wrong? can someone help me or give me a link to some related documents?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-07
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=127090](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=127090)

---

### Post by IgnoranceIsBliss on 2007-11-07
Thanks for the link, but sadly, it doesn't help a lot... it's perhaps out dated, and most of the configuration there was autogenerated in ubuntu Feisty and now in Gutsy it seems to be autodetected (not sure about that, though). So anyway i tried loading the various X configurations as described: it didn't work, and in fact i wasn't even able to start X or even GDM, so i restored the orignal files.

Please, note that compiz fusion is working fine for me in gnome. I just need to get it working with kde...

---

### Post by snwbeast on 2007-11-07
Following on a few other guides I did this:

1) Stock install of Ubuntu 7.10
2) Updated with "apt-get install kubuntu-desktop"
3) Did a 
  sudo apt-get install compiz-bcop compiz-core compiz-fusion-plugins-extra compiz-fusion-plugins-main compiz-kde compiz-plugins compizconfig-settings-manager emerald libcompizconfig-backend-kconfig libcompizconfig0 libdecoration0 libemeraldengine0 python-compizconfig librsvg2-common

4) Created a new file in ~/Desktop/ called "Compiz" and put this inside (with a text editor)

[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Exec=compiz --replace decoration wobbly fade minimize cube rotate zoom scale move resize place switcher & gnome-window-decorator &

GenericName[en_US]=
StartupNotify=false
Terminal=false
TerminalOptions=
Type=Application
X-KDE-autostart-after=kdesktop

5) Double-clicked the Compiz icon on my desktop.

All is well but I don't know how to control this thing (I know how to go from one desktop to the next with the ctl-alt-<arrow> keys and wobbly windows just work, but how do I get to the cube effect?)

HTH,

-- Curtis

---

### Post by diesel1 on 2007-11-08
Try Menu>Settings>Advanced Desktop Effects Settings.

Diesel1.

---

### Post by snwbeast on 2007-11-11
Diesel, thanks for the reply, but that option isn't available in KDE, only the Gnome-standard Ubuntu as far as I know.

Anyone have a guide on how Compiz actually works, like standard keybindings and what most of the pretty modules actually do?

Thanks,

-- C

---

### Post by diesel1 on 2007-11-11
It is in my menu and I am running kubuntu64 Gutsy.

Did you install compiz-kde?


Diesel1.

---

### Post by snwbeast on 2007-11-14
Huh, you are right, it did show up in my menu under Settings | Advanced Desktop Effects.

My question still stands though, anyone have a guide on actually using this?

-- C

---

