---
title: "32 or 64?"
date: 2007-03-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mr.Kuchinawa on 2007-03-06
I'm getting a new PC, witch is 64-bit. My questions are:

Can I install the 32-bit version on my 64-bit computer, if so, will it function perfectly?

I know there are some programs that don't run on linux64, so what are the advantages of running the 64bit-OS? Any point at all?

And: I guess as when time goes by, more programs will support 64-bit, eventually all. Will it be possible to upgrade from 32 to 64bit without losing any data?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2007-03-06
Most programs run perfectly fine on 64bit. I run it w/out any issues. With the exception of Javascript and Flash plugins. If you want full support for everything, simply install the 32bit version as you'll barely notice a difference in performance.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Mr.Kuchinawa on 2007-03-06
Thanks, but: 

excately what is not working 100%?

Will it be possible to upgrade from 32 to 64bit without losing any data?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2007-03-06
Yes, you can install 32-bit Ubuntu on a 64-bit machine - I even did it without realising that my computer was 64-bit!

I would recommend using 32-bit; proprietry software is almost never made for 64-bit Linux, and therefore is a pain to get working on Ubuntu 64-bit.

The one advantage of running 64-bit Linux is that you can use more than 4 gigabytes of RAM, if your machine has it. That's it.

Upgrading from 32-bit to 64-bit requires a reinstall. If you put /home onto a seperate partition to the rest of the system when you install 32-bit, then you can install the 64-bit system later and not lose the contents of your home directory.

If you put /home onto the same partition as the rest of the system (as I did, for simplicity and flexibility), you can just back up everything on it to DVDs, install the 64-bit system, and then put everything back.

Unfortunately, with both methods, you need to reinstall all your software.

---

### Post by Mr.Kuchinawa on 2007-03-06
Let me see if I've got this straight: 

Since I have 2GB of RAM, there are no advantages for me to chose the 64bit version? Only disadvantages?

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-03-06
No offense, but the last few posters aren't giving you entirely accurate information.  The performance increase will depend greatly on the application(s) that you want to run on your system.  If you are running high cpu load tasks, you can notice anywhere from 5% to over 30% performance gain with the 64bit OS.  Such tasks are video editing/transcoding, 3d Rendering, or large photo manipulations.  If you are just going to be surfing the net, word-processing, watching videos and listening to music, then you will not really notice any appreciable difference.

---

### Post by siouxes on 2007-03-15
I agree with last post, i have an Amd64 with Edgy 64bit that i use for video editing, video encoding and 3d rendering (with blender and so on) and i notice a valuable speed increment. On other point of view i didn't notice any difference from "32bit speed", for example in system startup, disk access and so on...

---

