---
title: "Intel 845 On-Board GPU?"
date: 2007-06-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by OhioYJ on 2007-06-02
Hopefully someone can help, I've searched and searched, reconfigured xorg with every possible combination I can think of to no avail. This PC is still stuck with 640x480 resolution, no other options, even though I have other  options "enabled" in the xorg.conf? 

Its driving me nuts. The pre-installed Ubuntu drivers don't seem to work, I've tried Intels drivers, still with no luck? I'm sure I"m overlooking something simple.

---

### Post by tcrroadie on 2007-06-02
Could you please post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

The driver used for your Intel gpu should be i810 under your "Device" section.

```
Driver "i810"
```

See the i810 manual for more information on available driver configuration options.

```
man i810
```

---

### Post by zostra on 2007-06-03
i had the same problem

this is how it was resolved

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=434175](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=434175)

:) zostra :)

---

### Post by OhioYJ on 2007-06-03
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel 845"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	8000
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-71
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel 845"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


I tried using the refresh rates from my other linux machine on a similar monitor, but no luck.

---

### Post by OhioYJ on 2007-06-03
It also appears I'm working with an Intel 845GV card, I'm finding nothing about the 845G with the V tacked to the end of it?

---

### Post by tcrroadie on 2007-06-03
Thanks for posting your xorg.conf file.

Lets try changing a couple settings to see what happens.  First lets increase the amount of ram allocated to the video GPU from 8MB to 64MB.  To do this we need to change the VideoRam entry. 

Under Section "Device", change your VideoRam setting from 8MB to 64mb.

Lets also disable the Frame Buffer "UseFBDev".  Change the value to "false"

Your "Device" section should now look like this. 

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel 845"
Driver "i810"
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
VideoRam 64000
Option "UseFBDev" "false"
EndSection 
```

Now lets change your default color depth to 24 and force your screen refresh rate to 75hz.

Make your "Screen" section look like this.  You can just copy and past. 

```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Intel 845"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768_75" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Now restart your xserver, ctl+alt+backspace.  

You can also view your xserver log for more information on what is happening when the xserver (xorg) starts up.  

```
less /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

You can also view specific items in your xorg log such as the changes we made to your VideoRam setting to see if your VideoRam is being configured properly.  
```

less /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep VideoRam
```

Please post back with your results.  Hope this helps. :D

---

### Post by OhioYJ on 2007-06-04
Thanks for you help so far. I tired that your example above but it won't boot like that.

Seems that I can play with the settings this way and that way, but as soon as I try to go 24-bit color it fails to boot with the i810 driver.

---

### Post by OhioYJ on 2007-06-04
[b]YES[b]!!! Ok finally got it. I tried so many different things though, I'm going to try and remember what I did to fix it just in case anyone else runs into this:

I installed the Intel driver, then marked if for upgrade in Synaptic. This removes the Ubuntu Intel driver. 

Then back into the dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, and chose the Intel driver. 

Still stuck in 16-bit color, and since its working in all resolutions I'm not going to touch it.

---

### Post by tcrroadie on 2007-06-04
Great to hear you fixed your resolution problem.  

As for your bit depth issue, you may want to take a look at your Xorg.log when you try starting xorg with 24 bit depth as your default to see what the problem may be.  May be a simple fix.  

You can search for keywords using the grep command.  For example.

```
grep Depth /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

Or to simply view the Xorg.log in its entirety 

```
less /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

You may also want to read the manual for the Intel i810 driver for more information. 
```

man i810
```

Thanks for posting what you found.  :D

---

### Post by OhioYJ on 2007-06-04
To clarify on that, I actually un-installed the i810 driver, when I installed the Intel driver.

---

