---
title: "problems with cd-rw/dvd-rw optical drives......"
date: 2007-06-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-06-26
ok, this never used to be an issue when i was running edgy, but since i installed fiesty ive had a few problems with this.
basically my dvd-rw drive doesnt auto-mount, i can still play films and such like, it will auto-mount some things, like blank dvds for example, and it also auto-mounts the fear game disc (dvd) but it comes up as cd-rom 1, i cant seem to change the mount point to /media/dvd for example, so there are a couple of things i would appreciate some help with.
1 - is to change the mount point to dvd, i know it doesnt really matter, but it bugs me.
2 - ive been messing about this morning and taken out both my optical drives, but if i go to --> places --> computer i can see 2 optical drives listed - cd-rom 1 and cd-rom 2, i find this odd because as im typing this there are no optical drives attached to my pc, ive completely removed them from the main board, ide leads aswell.
now i dont understand enough of how linux (ubuntu fiesty) manages such things as optical drives etc etc, but im fairly sure that it should recognise that there are no disc drives attached, so i need some help removing the 2 " phantom drives" i have gone through some threads that deal with this type of problem but none of them have helped, i still have the phantom drives.
3 - is there a fix to cure the auto-mounting of dvd films yet ? and if so could some one point me in the right direction please.
the other thing is that i used to run edgy, but because of some hardware issues i had to give up on ubuntu for a few months while i waited for new hard drives and such like, so when i came back to it i installed fiesty, mainly because i could never get networking to work, we have 3 pc's and 2 of them run xp, and i needed the file sharing between pc's to work, but i could never get it to run in edgy, so is it easier to set up the networking between pc's in edgy now ? and if so would it be worth using edgy for a while, as edgy doesnt have the problems with optical drives im having, or does it now ?
i have tried going back to the previous kernel but the problem is still there.
4 - a how to on how to give programs such as cedega read/write access to a disc drive, the guide on the cedega website didnt work.

below is the contents of my fstab.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=cda3d256-16ca-4c4a-8eb1-de77d8417ea4 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=6c197812-ed40-419e-a9dd-b831b14452c2 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
_/dev/hda /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0_  ---- _this is meant to be the dvd-rw drive_
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/internal ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
usbfs         /proc/bus/usb usbfs   devgid=14,devmode=0660 0 0

i dont have the means to post screen shots at the moment, but as i mentioned above when i go to --> places --> computer i can see the following - floppy drive - cd-rom 1 (phantom) - cd-rom 2 (phantom) - compact flash drive - memory stick drive - sd/mmc drive - smart media drive - small external - file system.

i have a card reader attached to the pc, this why there are drives like the comapct flash drive etc, the small external is a usb hard drive (storage) and the file system is the other hard drive i have (currently with windows on it)
cheers in advance for any help.

just as a side note, here is what happens when i insert different types of medi into the dvd-rw drive.

1 - inserting blank dvds/cds = an icon on the desktop saying blank cd-r disc or blank dvd disc.
2 - inserting a dvd (film) = nothing, no dialogue asking what to do with, no icon on the desk top, and no way of playing the film apart from using vlc.
3 - inserting a dvd game disc (fear, x3 reunion) sometimes it will open up as cd-rom 1 (surely this should be dvd) and display the contents of the disc, but most of the time it does nothing.

---

