---
title: "6.10: Upgrade or Install over 6.06"
date: 2006-11-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by think13 on 2006-11-01
I currently Dual-boot with windows on my Thinkpad R52.

I have heard about horrible upgrade problems to Edgy, but I would like to try.  So my question is: would it be less risky to do a clean install over my current ubuntu with the liveCD or try to upgrade from my current system?  I am not adverse to losing my files and such, as this is just kind of a plaything and all of my important files are on the windows partition.

Thanks

---

### Post by raqball on 2006-11-01
I would suggest a clean install because as you can see from reading here a bunch of people have had major issues with the upgrade, but that's just my .02 :)

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-11-01
It's 50-50 when you upgrade from Dapper to Edgy!  Some people get it to work but some people just completely trash their machine...  So if you don't have any important data to save (or back up first), do a clean install to save you some headaches later in case you are one of those can't get it to boot or X trashes after upgrading!

---

### Post by sas on 2006-11-01
If you haven't enabled any 3rd party repositories (for compiz/beryl and others) and have never used automatix, easy ubuntu or the like. You should be able to upgrade by running "gksudo update-manager -c" from the terminal

---

### Post by Klaidas on 2006-11-01
I'd suggest to install a new, clean, shining system. There are just waaaay too many UNsuccess stories about upgrading

---

### Post by machoo02 on 2006-11-01
Here's my $0.02: I have a Thinkpad R52, and dist-upgraded to Edgy with no problems, even with having used Automatix and a non-standard repository (just for fuse and ntfs-3g).  But hey, I guess I was a lucky one.

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2006-11-01
clean install of any linux distro is always the best way to go, as i have found trying to go from hoary to dapper to edgy!

---

### Post by Beaucephus on 2006-11-01
I tried upgrading and was able to muscle through it.  Major issues though.  I vote for clean install.

---

### Post by pbaehr on 2006-11-01
If you make a disc before you start you can always attempt an upgrade. If it works, great! If it doesn't, don't even bother fussing with it, just pop in the disc and do a fresh install.

Seems to me you may as well take a chance with the upgrade. You have nothing to lose but a little bit of time.

---

