---
title: "K800"
date: 2006-08-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by niteblind on 2006-08-09
Hi

Can anyone help here at all? I have a new sony ericsson k800i it is a really popular phone so i am hoping that this is something that can be answered. I want to be able to sync up my calendar on my email client currently it is Kontact (part of KDE but i am more than willing to swap to something else it that will work.)

A friend at work who is far more linux clued-up than i am suggested using multisync and evolution but when i install multisync and all the plugins there is no obvious plugin to use with the phone. The closest i can see is the IrMC one which is for older sony ericsson phones and it does not detect my phone through bluetooth. I cannot use infrared as it does not work yet on my kubuntu (i really dont caee about it so no tangents here please). I saw there was an option to use a cable but it then asks for a file to use like /dev/ttyS0 for serial and so on none of the pre-defined ones work and i have no idea which one is correct for my usb lead!

So in short i am stuck and have no idea where to go. does anyone know if this can work with such a new phone? has anyone managed it themselves?

PLEASE HELP!
cheers
niteblind

---

### Post by niteblind on 2006-08-10
does this mean no one has any ideas??
niteblind

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2006-08-10
probably.  Bluetooth was goign to be my best bet, but I only know about moving files from one bluetooth device to another...

---

### Post by STemplar on 2006-08-10
I've been testing this a bit now. What I did was to install multisync with all the plugin libs. After that you can select the IrMC Mobile Device plugin and under options have it search for the bluetooth device. 

You said you couldn't find your phone with bluetooth, is that specific to multisync or have you never connected it to ubuntu that way?

Anyway, After that at least my setup was able to connect to the phone and sync one time. The second time it fails and complains about not  being authorized. I believe i saw somewhere that this might be fixed by removing some temporary files that are created during the first sync. I'll check if I find some more about that.
I've also tried the SyncML plugin and tried to sync it with a SyncML server that I'm subscribing to. No luck there. Well, it connects but then multisync crashes..
So I'm not sure what the best way to solve this problem is. It'd sure be nice  to get it up and running.

Also I'm using Evolution so I don't know about what support there is for Kontakt.. :?:

---

### Post by niteblind on 2006-08-10
Bluetooth is a but wierd on my machine. I can send and receive files between the pc and phone but i cant get it to pair.

I will try running the multisync amd try to scan for the phone again. * will try using evolution and see how rthat runs on kde.

cheers for the replies
niteblind

---

### Post by niteblind on 2006-08-11
okay i have now installed evolution and the multisync tool can see the phone but it cannot connect through bluetooth. (i have had issues with BT before!).

I noticed something though and would like someone to let me know if i am missing something or not. If i go into the configuration for kbluetoothd and click the button on the paired devices screen for file settings i see threee boxes

bluetooth start, stop and link key.
the link key file is set to /etc/bluetooth/link_key/

this file/folder does not exist on the file system though even if i use locate to find it. Now currently i have NO paired devices so is this the reason the file does not exist or am i missing the dile and this is why i cannot pair ANYTHING to the pc.

I even cannot pair my bluetooth headset even though i can use it fine through skype and i cannot pair my phone even though i can use the bluetooth obex push program to send and receive files to the phone from the pc it is frankly doing my nut so any help on the above would be really appreciated.

---

### Post by niteblind on 2006-08-11
hmmm anyone fancy taking a stab at the last bit?

niteblind

---

### Post by drarmi on 2006-08-11
My advice to you is to use Multisync for syncing. I do not use KDE and Kontact but Gnome and evolution and there are problems with the syncing there aswell but I have found a ugly workaround to get syncing to work.

Find out what I have done and queastions I have here 
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=230301](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=230301)


Another option would be for you to take a look at the rewrite of Multisync that has been named Opensync. There are packages available for KDE and Ubuntu so you sould really try them out. Of course getting packages that are "new" for ubuntu seems to be REALLY hard (compared with my former distro Suse) but so I cannot get the opensync gui package for gnome. But you should be fine in KDE. Search around and you should find the packages.

---

### Post by niteblind on 2006-08-11
O have now installed evolution but it dowsnt really matter cos the multisync cannot connect to the phone. O get an error on the bluetooth connection saying that the host could not connect due to security setting. It does not seem to be asking me to enter a pin number on the PC when i try to connect to it.

niteblind

---

### Post by dvo on 2007-06-23
This is how I got the PIN popup working for feisty: call (even as a normal user)
```
passkey-agent --default /usr/bin/bluez-pin
```
before initiating the connection. This will register bluez-pin as the pin helper,
as you may check with ```
tail -f /var/log/syslog
```

N.B. Including in /etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf a line like
```
pin_helper /usr/bin/bluez-pin;
```
does not help - for some reason, this option is not recognized any more :(

BTW, in order to make your machine visible for other BT devices, call (even as a normal user)
```
dbus-send --system --dest=org.bluez /org/bluez/hci0 org.bluez.Adapter.SetMode string:discoverable
```

---

### Post by paradoxni on 2007-06-29
ive just got my k800i working with the cable , if you want to try that instead??

connected k800 in "phone" mode
installed kmobiletools
used /dev/ttyACM0

and everything just works

---

### Post by girard on 2007-09-24
my k800i just worked straight out of the box in fiesty. i'm not really concerned with having it to work with bluetooth or anything else. just want to be able to sync with evolution for my personal data - this is where multisync/opensync will work?

---

