---
title: "5.10 Installation &quot;failure&quot;"
date: 2005-11-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by red_Marvin on 2005-11-12
After having a failure with a seemingly corrupt installation cd I tried installing 5.10
from a cd of another brand, all went well until the phase "copying remaining files to
hard disk" or whatevever it's called.
At 100%, copying nvidia something it fails, but I'm able to continue with setting 
time-zone etc.
What I wonder is:
1) Is the Nvidia stuff crucial? I have an ATI card.
2) Is there anything that is copied after the nvidia stuff?

The system seems to run normally but I don't lik errors, they might not affect the
computer, but they still itches in my brain...

---

### Post by grim918 on 2005-11-12
i know what you mean i tried installing ubuntu from some copy that a friend gave me and and i kept getting errors with the installation. i just went to ubuntu and downloaded the real copy and the installation went perfect.
if you want to get rid of that itch you should consider re-doing the installation with a legit copy. i have to say from personal experience that it really does feel good when you do an installation and everything goes flawless.

---

### Post by vruum on 2005-11-12
try opening up synaptic and do a search for nvidia, and see if any packages comes up as broken (the little checkbox next to the package name is red) I think it's also possible to search the whole system for broken packages. If anything comes up, just right click, and reinstall it.

---

### Post by red_Marvin on 2005-11-13
@grim918: Yeah that would of course be the best, but I'm also a lazy guy and don't
like to set up four mail accounts, and download this and that program etc... ;) 

@vroom: Already did that, any nvidia stuff that is installed seems to be A-ok...

---

### Post by vruum on 2005-11-13
have you updated since the install, if so maybe the problem fixed itself, If not there are logs in /var/log/dpkg.log and dpkg.log.1 maybe something shows up in one of them. You need sudo access to read them, so something like
```

sudo cat /var/log/dpkg.log /var/log/dpkg.log.1 | grep nvidia

```
might give you a hint.

---

