---
title: "Question on repartitioning NTFS drive during 7.04 installation"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by SimonFitz on 2007-05-31
I wish to install Feisty Fawn so that I can dual boot with Windows XP, and in order to do that I understand that I will need to repartition my internal NTFS-formatted hard drive. There are currently two partitions, one a 'recovery' hidden to Windows and the main a normal drive (70Gb free with 40Gb used and fully backed up to an external, currently unplugged usb drive). I have installed "ntfs-config 0.5.5" and can successfully read/write to the drive.

So far so good. However, when I get to Step 4 of the installer, my options don't seem to tally with any of the (un)official guides, other forum posts or websites such as [www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing](www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing). Under "Prepare disk space", I only have two options "Guided - use entire disk" and "Manual":
  [[IMG]http://img264.imageshack.us/img264/8841/1preparediskspaceru0.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img264.imageshack.us/my.php?image=1preparediskspaceru0.jpg)

If I go for the manual option, this is what I see:
[[IMG]http://img239.imageshack.us/img239/6685/2preparepartitionsap2.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img239.imageshack.us/my.php?image=2preparepartitionsap2.jpg)

with these options:
[[IMG]http://img386.imageshack.us/img386/4900/3editpartitionbw6.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img386.imageshack.us/my.php?image=3editpartitionbw6.jpg)

[[IMG]http://img386.imageshack.us/img386/2008/4useasws8.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img386.imageshack.us/my.php?image=4useasws8.jpg)

[[IMG]http://img386.imageshack.us/img386/926/5mountpointmw1.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img386.imageshack.us/my.php?image=5mountpointmw1.jpg)

In case it is of relevance, sudo fdisk -l returns ```
Disk /dev/hda: 122.9 GB, 122942324736 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14946 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1               1         319     2562336   1c  Hidden W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/hda2   *         320       14946   117491377+   7  HPFS/NTFS
``` and etc/fstab contains ```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

unionfs / unionfs rw 0 0
tmpfs /tmp tmpfs nosuid,nodev 0 0
/dev/hda2 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

Selecting "Guided - use entire disk" does not give any further options, and implies to me that the entire disk will be wiped - something I do not want. I do not understand the manual options.

I was under the impression that the Ubuntu installer was able to deal with any repartitioning needed for dual booting, and so I would appreciate any help available in resolving this.

Thanks

Simon

---

### Post by jamesjtucker on 2007-05-31
Its been a while since i did a fresh *buntu install, but i seem to remember the ability to resize a partition by right clicking or something like that. 
Better yet, if you have a partitioning tool in windows you could resize the partitions from there, and then just tell the installer to use the newly created partition. If you dont have something like that (partition magic, acronis,  etc), then i recommend the following:
1) first, defrag your windows disk, this will help prevent data loss.
2) download gparted live cd from here: [http://gparted.sourceforge.net/news.php](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/news.php)
3) Burn the iso, boot from it and resize the partitions as you wish. 
4) reboot from *buntu CD and install. 

 The above method is typically what i use, because of problems in the past with repartitioning drives, and it always has worked for me.

---

### Post by dstew on 2007-05-31
The above post by jamesjtucker gives good advice. I can add that it is a good idea to do **chkdsk /f** from the Windows Recovery console to make sure your NTFS partition does not have any bad sectors, because this will stop the repartitioning process. Also, turn off the Windows Page File before defragmenting.

Once the NTFS partition is error-free and defragmented, you just shrink it using GParted. Then, make a new partition out of the resulting unallocated space.

---

### Post by jamesjtucker on 2007-05-31
Thanks for the compliment dstew... i try :)

---

### Post by SimonFitz on 2007-06-05
Thank you jamesjtucker and dstew for your quick replies. After a brief diversion caused by real life, I've had another chance at resolving this problem.

I ran GParted from the LiveCD and discovered that I do indeed have bad sectors on my hard drive. I rebooted into the Windows Recovery console, ran CHKDSK /R - errors detected but repaired - and rebooted twice as suggested by the GParted error message. Reran GParted but still there were at least 12 bad sectors. Redid the whole CHKDSK thing, and this time went into the Ubuntu terminal and used the --bad-sectors option of ntfsresize (which the command line program that GParted calls, in case anyone reading this wasn't aware). The command ```
sudo ntfsresize -bv -s63536M /dev/hda2
``` previously worked when I included the --no-action option, but stopped with an input/output error after relocating five records. Whether or not I should replace this hard drive is a question for a different forum, but at least I know why I couldn't get the installer to work the way I expected! 

It would have been helpful though for the Ubuntu documentation to include some mention of stopping when bad sectors are found, even just in the part about dual booting. I'm glad it did as I'm now aware of the danger, but it was very frustrating at the time. Still, that's computers - easy when you know how.

Thanks again

Simon

---

