---
title: "Evolution / Thunderbird / Ubuntu 6.10 Email Problem"
date: 2007-05-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Stunt Double on 2007-05-01
Whenever I receive an email generated by a vendor on Ebay which has gone through their software, it comes through as an attachment which I can't read with Evolution or with Thunderbird.
I can read them with Thunderbird / XP.
Ebay says it is rcn.com, my internet provider's, fault. They say it is an Ebay problem.
Has anyone had a similar problem and found a solution?
I'm trying to completely reduce my usage of XP to zero.
Thanks.

---

### Post by finer recliner on 2007-05-01
what file extension is the format? if no .xyz is in the filename do:

```

$ file filename

```

sounds like ebay problem, not ISP

---

### Post by Stunt Double on 2007-05-01
A little more detail:
When I check my inbox in Evolution, it shows the usual sender, etc. information.
   Then   > 1 Attachment    [SAVE].  If I left-click on SAVE, it does save it to my /Home folder but when I try to open it, I get  "No application suitable for automatic installation is available for handling this type of file". There is no writing on the icon.
    Beneath the  >1 Attachment  [SAVE] is  > Content-transfer-encoding attachment. If I left-click on it, [SAVE] appears. If I click on it, the same blank icon appears. Clicking on it produces the same "No application..." message.
    If I right-click on the "content-transfer-encoding..." text, I am given an option of [SAVE AS]. Left-clicking on [SAVE AS] does produce an icon in  /home with writing on it that when left-clicked does finally open the attachment. 
    Is there a way to simplify this entire process and make the first 2 SAVE options work?
Is there a way to receive the attachments as a directly readable part of the email?

---

### Post by Stunt Double on 2007-05-01
WIth the icons I can't open  "file filename" produces - "ERROR: cannot open". Right ckicking it  then Properties produces - "TYPE: Unknown".
   With the icons I CAN open  "file filename" produces - "ASCII mail text" and Properties produces "Plain text document".
   When Ebay changed their software about 18 months ago, I started receiving messages from vendors as attachments that I couldn't read with Wamcom Mozilla on Mac OS 9.1. I had to use my XP computer to read the messages. 
   Since with Ubuntu 6.10, it occurs in both Evolution and Thunderbird, it has to be Ebay. Of course, they assured me that it wasn't their software. They said that they had not received a single complaint on the problem. Not likely, since I had complained to them when Wamcom stopped working.
   Any assistance in simplifying reading the Ebay emails would be appreciated.

---

### Post by finer recliner on 2007-05-01
if the file is in ASCII, that means its plain text and you can view it using any text editor

try this on the file(s) that didnt give an "unknown" type:

```

$pico filename

```

see if theres anything of personal use in that file.

---

