---
title: "Installing nVidia drivers from nvidia.com"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by chunkylover21 on 2007-10-30
Hey  guys I need help installing the drivers from nvidia.com so i can use the control panel etc. Its an 8400gs. I downloaded the .run file but when i double click to open it I get these messages.

When double clicked on
[http://i7.tinypic.com/520pvyx.png](http://i7.tinypic.com/520pvyx.png)

When i click display
[http://i3.tinypic.com/6fyo0f8.png](http://i3.tinypic.com/6fyo0f8.png)

When i click run in terminal
[http://i7.tinypic.com/63akgec.png](http://i7.tinypic.com/63akgec.png)

When i click Run nothing happens.

From the Restricted Drivers settings I enable the device and it installed drivers but my monitor is 1440x900 and when I have that selected make the desktop run off the screen and wont let me select a refresh rate above 50. And my monitor says the input is 1400x1050.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-10-30
Put the sudo in front of the file.

```
**sudo** ./NVIDIA-blah-blah-blah.run
```

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-30
If you have installed the restricted drivers already you do not need to install anything else. They are the latest drivers available AFAIK.
In a terminal type in```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```That will pull up the control panel and you can modify it the way you want.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-30
Infact the driver that you are trying to install 100.14.19 is what the restricted driver manager installs.

---

### Post by chunkylover21 on 2007-10-30
oh sweet. thats so cool how linux just has it already ready for you and stuff. i love the add/remove programs thing, its amazing.

thanks for the terminal code to get to settings. is there any other way to get to it without entering the code?

and im still havent the resolution problem. Its not giving me 1440x900 in my nvidia settings as an option and that is the monitors native res. You can tell its not at it as things are a tad blurry.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-30
> **chunkylover21 said:**
> oh sweet. thats so cool how linux just has it already ready for you and stuff. i love the add/remove programs thing, its amazing.

thanks for the terminal code to get to settings. is there any other way to get to it without entering the code?

and im still havent the resolution problem. Its not giving me 1440x900 in my nvidia settings as an option and that is the monitors native res. You can tell its not at it as things are a tad blurry.
Its hidden from the regular joe user, because it can mess up the system so bad that you might not be able to log back in. So NO, I don't think there is a way to get to it without the terminal command. (I think this is good actually)

Please post your xorg.conf file and we can have a look at it and see why you are not getting your resolution.
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by chunkylover21 on 2007-10-30
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 8 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1440x900"
	Horizsync	31.5-56.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0	-	65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1440	900
		Modes		"1440x900@60"	"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-30
So your xorg does have the modes in there.

Have you tried System --> Preferences --> Screen Resolution and tried to change the resolution to 1440x900 ?

Also I do not see you have an additional monitor, then why do you have the twin view setup ?
Ok Off to a meeting, be back later. (Gotta earn some money :))

---

### Post by chunkylover21 on 2007-10-30
in the system prefs to change the res i can select 1440x900 but the refresh rate is stuck at 50. And when i have that selected it goes off the screen like its bigger.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-30
> **chunkylover21 said:**
> in the system prefs to change the res i can select 1440x900 but the refresh rate is stuck at 50. And when i have that selected it goes off the screen like its bigger.
Are you sure your monitor can handle 1440x900 ?

What is the size of the monitor? Is it a wide screen ? 

1440x900 looks like a 17 inch widescreen monitor.

---

### Post by chunkylover21 on 2007-10-30
Yup its a 17" widescreen LCD. Yes it can handle it, that it its native. It says so right on the box and thats what it run in windows.

---

### Post by kindofabuzz on 2007-10-30
[Envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

---

### Post by alwiap on 2007-10-30
i rencently got a new (used) envision 17'' widescreen and i had initial problems with the plug n' play option in 'Screens and Graphics' but I just put for the Model 'LCD panel 1440x900 widescreen' and since then everything has been fine, have you tried that?

---

### Post by marlinnhag on 2007-10-31
So when I boot up the computer the Error States, "Nvidia Kernel Module Does not Match"

I I reboot straight to runlevel 1. I type sh Nvidia-Linux-x86-100.14.19-pkg1.run

It starts a program to install the Nvidia Drivers. The first thing it tells me is " No precompiled kernel interface was found to match your kernel; Would you like the installer to attempt to download a kernel interface for your kernel from the Nvidia FTP site?"

I select Yes

"No Matching Kernel was found on the Nvidia ftp site this mean that the installer  will need to compiile a kernel interface for your kernel"

I select OK

It then loads a ton of stuff then says:

"would you like to run nvidia-xconfig utility to auto update youor x config file so that the nvidia x driver will be used when you restart x? 

I select Yes

And  the installer finishes.

Then I start gdm


And once again I get the same errors.... This is driving me nuts!! Does anyone know of a simple step by step walkthrought that will tell me how to fix this. I found some that tell me to delete files or copy this. I dont know what the commands are to delete or copy from the terminal. I need my hand held...

---

### Post by chunkylover21 on 2007-11-01
> **kindofabuzz said:**
> [Envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

yes ive tried that, it says its outputting at 1440x900 but my monitor says its only 1400x800. and the dekstop goes off teh screen.

---

### Post by chunkylover21 on 2007-11-01
well now ive returned to using the ati card. and still have the problem that when the OS loads i have no picture. the drivers must have wrecked it for me. do i have to reinstall linux or is there something i can do. i still have the nvidia card so i can get back to the system if i need to.

---

