---
title: ".run?"
date: 2007-06-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BenLi on 2007-06-07
Hi all,

I'm fairly new to ubuntu and am still marveling about this awesome operating system. I do however, have one question. I have downloaded a game and it is in the .run format. What am I supposed to do with this? The game is AA 2.5 if anyone's wondering...

---

### Post by myoungf1 on 2007-06-07
Try sudo sh ./(name of file) in a terminal

---

### Post by BenLi on 2007-06-07
What does that do. Sorry for being nooby but I'm trying to learn these terminal commands

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2007-06-07
**sudo** says the following command should be run with root priviledge, which gives full machine access.

**sh** is the command interpteter. 

**./filename** means the file called filename in the current directory.

So it says to that the command interpreter sh is to execute the file fiiename in the current directory with root priviledge. The file is very likely an installer for the AA program.

---

### Post by BenLi on 2007-06-08
Um that doesn't work... The file is on my desktop:

ben@BenLi:~$ sudo sh./armyops250linux.run
sudo: sh./armyops250linux.run: command not found
ben@BenLi:~$

ben@BenLi:~$ sudo sh armyops250linux.run
sh: Can't open armyops250linux.run
ben@BenLi:~$

---

### Post by Outrunner on 2007-06-08
There's supposed to be a space between sh and ./...

---

### Post by viciouslime on 2007-06-08
> **BenLi said:**
> Um that doesn't work... The file is on my desktop:

ben@BenLi:~$ sudo sh./armyops250linux.run
sudo: sh./armyops250linux.run: command not found
ben@BenLi:~$

ben@BenLi:~$ sudo sh armyops250linux.run
sh: Can't open armyops250linux.run
ben@BenLi:~$

More importantly, you're not in the Desktop folder.

Type "cd Desktop" note the capital D, then run the command.

---

### Post by rfurman24 on 2007-06-08
First you will have to right click the file and check the box that says something like allow file to be executed. Then you need to cd to the directory it is in and do sh ./filename replacing filename with the exact name of the file.

---

### Post by crispy_420 on 2007-06-08
Did you make sure the is executable?

If you are looking to play this game online, don't expect many servers to play on. They are at version 2.8.1 now so many windows users have moved on. So expect few servers that are unpopulated. They dropped linux and mac support some time ago. If you have never played this before, it is online only and has no single player missions. Sorry to be the bearer of bad news.

But there is some good news. I have read this game run well in wine. So get the newest version and run in wine.

---

### Post by TomMK on 2007-06-08
> **steve.horsley said:**
> **sh** is the command interpteter. 

Proper noob question probably; what's a command interpreter?

---

### Post by jfinkels on 2007-06-08
> **TomMK said:**
> Proper noob question probably; what's a command interpreter?

The command interpreter is the 'shell' (that's where we get 'sh'), the program with which you are interacting inside the terminal emulator window. A shell is a program that allows you to interact with your system, and in our case, the shell program is called 'bash' (Bourne Again SHell).

You can run a program by typing the name of a program at the shell prompt:```
ls
```Some programs take 'arguments' or 'parameters', which follow the name of the program:```
cd Desktop
```Many programs offer options (denoted by a dash and then a letter or phrase):```
alien -d package.rpm
```Some programs require that you run them as the root user (the equivalent of "Administrator" in Windows) by prefacing the program name with "sudo":```
sudo aptitude update
```
You can filter the output of some programs into the input of other programs by using a pipe (the symbol "|"):```
lspci | grep Ethernet
```
You can insert the output of programs into a file like this:```
echo "Hello, world!" > myfile
```
You can append to a file like this:```
echo "Goodbye, world!" >> myfile
```

---

