---
title: "XWindows displays only partial screen after upgrade"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BlackGuySpy on 2007-10-20
I'd greatly appreciate any help.  I haven't been able to find a solution in the forums.

The upgrade from Feisty Faun to Gutsy Gibbon messed up XWindows display.  I use a laptop, but always with an external monitor.  After the upgrade, the external monitor only shows the top left 75% of the display.  (Main laptop display works properly.)  The "Ubuntu" graphic that appears while loading looks fine.  The problem starts at the login prompt.

First, I tried simply moving the monitor image, or using the monitor's "auto-adjust".  Didn't work.  My resolution is at 1024 x 768.  The monitor's max. resolution of 1280 x 1024 no longer appears as an option after the upgrade.

If it's relevant, the distro version upgrade froze near the end.  However, it still installed.

Initially, the exernal monitor showed no image.  After answering questions from "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg", I get the partial display.  Also, "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" freezes.

The monitor is a cheap but good AG neovo F-419.  H: 24kHz - 80kHz, V: 50 Hz-75 Hz

graphics driver: ati - ATI Mach8, Mach32, Mach64, and Rage...

xorg.conf is included below

Much obliged for the assistance.

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon IGP 330M/340M/350M"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"neovo F-419 generic"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon IGP 330M/340M/350M"
	Monitor		"neovo F-419 generic"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x800" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by BlackGuySpy on 2007-11-07
I'd like to extend my appreciation to the legendarily helpful Ubuntu community for the generous display of support.  It's certainly great for a Linux beginner to know there's help out there if needed.

For those having similar troubles with bad laptop display on external monitors, I found a 100% effective, quick solution: buy Windows.  If time is money, I saved hundreds if not thousands spending a couple of hundred dollars on Windows instead of tinkering endlessly to get essential functionality working in Ubuntu 7.10.  Besides just actually working with an external monitor (and everything else), there is an actual phone number to call and get help when an issue comes up.  Excellent.

The lesson I've learned trying out Ubuntu:  it's for people who have a massive amount of time invested and to invest tinkering instead of getting actual work done.  It is not close to ready for the general market.

With newfound appreciation for Windows and a "farewell" to this Ubuntu fad,

BlackGuySpy

---

### Post by dwhitney67 on 2007-11-07
I'm happy that you have decided to return to using Windoze.



If you still wish to fix the display on your monitor, then try doing a little research on "xvidtune".  Maybe it can help you.  Otherwise, consider spending money on a Red Hat distro where you will get customer support.

Don't blame Ubuntu for your woes; blame ATI for not (fully) supporting Linux.

---

