---
title: "[SOLVED] partition in use not allocated"
date: 2007-12-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-29
Hi all,

In order to move my /HOME directory to a seperate partition I was making preparations with the live CD of Mint. I am running Gutsy,  upgraded from Feisty alternate.

To my surprise I found my 230 Gig, second harddisk and formatted in NTFS, to be unallocated. I have this drive mounted and work on it from Linux as well as Windows and never experienced any trouble , untill today. 

Obviously I do not want to loose the data, but more importantly, because this is my backup drive, I have no way of backing up the data before doing an operation on the drive and it's partition.  

I'll post the contents of fstab below

######################################################
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=2ec31d40-e3a3-4fd4-ae4e-7c54dffd7856 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=54E8C6B3E8C69322 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=50eac72a-1b35-47a2-b661-ad4c103b3990 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb7 /media/nogmeeropslag ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb6 /media/NieuwVolume ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb5 /media/WESTDIG300 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0






and the output of fdisk -l as well

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40020664320 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4865 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x1c641c63

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2472    19856308+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            2473        3792    10602900   83  Linux
/dev/sda3            4712        4865     1237005    5  Extended
/dev/sda4            3793        4711     7381867+  83  Linux
/dev/sda5            4760        4865      851413+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6            4712        4759      385497   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order

Disk /dev/sdb: 300.0 GB, 300069052416 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 36481 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xbbd94990

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           2       36423   292559715    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sdb2           36424       36482      473601    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdb5               2       28716   230653206    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdb6           28717       29620     7261348+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdb7           29621       36423    54645066    7  HPFS/NTFS

Advise on steps to be taken greatly appreciated.

Anthonie

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-29
What is missing, exactly? It appears that you have a 230 GB NTFS partition listed as /dev/sdb7. Is it not mounted correctly or something?

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-29
It seems to be mounted correctly, I use it every day, but partitions that are on the harddrive are actually missing when I use Gparted. The whole disk says to be unallocated, while in truth there should be at least two partitions there. One of those I wanted to use as a seperate HOME partition. But because the whole disk is now said to be unallocated, I am afraid to do something wrong and wipe the whole disk or so. Gparted says there are no partition so the only action I can take is to create a new one. While all I want to do is to reallocate a 7 Gig NTFS partition to be my new EXT3 HOME partition. So that is what is wrong.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-29
Hmm. Any chance you could take a screenshot of the Gparted info?

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-29
I have a screenshot attached to this message. Also, a 50 Gig Vista partition is not showing up in Gparted.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-29
Hmm. The Live CD doesn't usually have a custom background and icons. ;) Are you using that? If you're running Gparted from the hard drive, you'll have to unmount any secondary drives that you want to partition.

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-29
No, sorry, it's not the live CD :) But since the same program is on the live CD and it gives the same results I thought it would not matter. Also an other install, on my harddrive of Linux Mint shows the same result. 

The partitions are unmounted, Because I had to be root it was done by terminal with sudo umount /dev/hda5.

When that did not work I unmounted the entire drive; - nothing shows up in Gparted. However, when I remount the drive, everything works fine and smooth. I must be missing something obvious but I can't think of it.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-29
Yeah, if you got the same thing on the Live disk that's not the problem. 

You said you ran:
```
sud umount /dev/hda5
```
but aren't the Windows partitions on hdb? Typo?

In any case, I find this just as puzzling as you do, so I don't know how much help I can be. My only suggestion would be to give the Gparted Live Disk a try:
[http://gparted-livecd.tuxfamily.org/](http://gparted-livecd.tuxfamily.org/)

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-29
Indeed, typo. Sloppy! Will you excuse me for that ;) ?

I am downloading the live CD right now, and give it a try straight away.

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-29
Strange but true, no other result. 
Somehow I expect a non allocated drive not to be able to be used or even mounted. But also the Vista partition is not showing up somehow, yet accessible.

How would I have to use the command line in order to get the same job done? 

PS Nice little LiveCD of Gparted. It'll be in my backpack with some other CD's I have there as an instant repair kit.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-29
Well, all I can say is that it's really bizarre. I've never had Gparted refuse to read NTFS partitions before. Maybe try a Windows-based partition editor?

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-29
> **p_quarles said:**
> Well, all I can say is that it's really bizarre. I've never had Gparted refuse to read NTFS partitions before. Maybe try a Windows-based partition editor?

Me neither.  Just tried Partition Magic and it showed the partition as bad. So I am doing a checkdisk first now (sloooowwwww) and see what that does (if anything). I think somehow the first sectors of the drive have been overwritten or so, but that does not explain why the drive actually still functions.

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-30
SOLVED

I kept getting a BAD partition error, while trying to use Partition Magic under Windows. Rebooted in Linux and tried sudo fdisk /dev/sdb and than that returned an error concerning the amount of cylinders being used on the drive. 

Googled around a bit, more and more sure that somehow my ntfs table was overwritten or in some way obscured. Than I found a link somewhere on a forum, given by someone who had seen similar problems to a program called Testdisk. 

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk)

I ran it under Windows (also available for Linux), it returned there was indeed an error with the ntfs table and when it offered to correct it I thankfully accepted. Problem solved. 

The only thing that worries me, though, is how this could have happened in the first place.

PS: There is no way of editing the thread title to add SOLVED?

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-30
> **anthonie said:**
> The only thing that worries me, though, is how this could have happened in the first place.
I had an NTFS partition get corrupted awhile back, after reading from it extensively with my Linux installation. I don't know if that applies to what happened to you, but I do think ntfs-3g is a bit sketchy at times.

> PS: There is no way of editing the thread title to add SOLVED?
Sure there is. Go to the top of the page, click on "thread tools," and you'll see an option to mark the thread as solved.

---

### Post by anthonie on 2007-12-30
> **p_quarles said:**
> I don't know if that applies to what happened to you, but I do think ntfs-3g is a bit sketchy at times.
First time I've had a problem with it but I tend to suspect ntfs-3g as well. Apart from this it works fine.


> Sure there is. Go to the top of the page, click on "thread tools," and you'll see an option to mark the thread as solved.

Thanks :D

---

