---
title: "Samba Printer Sharing... again"
date: 2005-11-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ubuntufella on 2005-11-25
Hello! I am configuring my smb.conf file in order to enable printing for my windows laptop, and I read that I have to det the printer's path to whatever it is in "/etc/printcap". How do I find out the contents of this mystery file that has no existence? I just want to know the "path" to my printer, so if somebody could tell me another way to find that out I would be equally happy. Thanks folks.

---

### Post by UphillSkier on 2005-11-25
in a command window try doing 

cat /etc/printcap

if you get too much output for the screen, try
cat /etc/printcap | more

that should give you output a screen at a time

---

### Post by ubuntufella on 2005-11-25
Thanks for replying, but unfortunately I only got the following:
```
cat: /etc/printcap: No such file or directory
```

Any ideas?

---

### Post by deNoobius on 2005-11-25
How about "$ locate -r printcap" (no quotes)--does that work?

---

### Post by schdefan on 2005-11-28
Hi!
Is the cups daemon running?
You can check this with 
> $ps -A|grep cupsd
and should get something like
> 15058 ?        00:00:01 cupsd

if it is not running you can start it with 
> sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys restart

OK. The way in gnome is starting gnome-cups-manager.
Is your printer listed there? If so there has to be an entry in the file /etc/cups/printer.conf

On my machine it looks like this.
> $cat /etc/printcap 
# This file was automatically generated by cupsd(8) from the
# /etc/cups/printers.conf file.  All changes to this file
# will be lost.
LW16600|LW16600:rm=stefan:rp=LW16600:


schdefan

---

