---
title: "5.10 live cd"
date: 2006-05-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by sotonin on 2006-05-22
well i gave the live cd a shot finally. It loads all through the initial configuration. It gets to the ubuntu screen with the progress meter that scrolls up all those things.... then after something about linux printing support (i dont have a printer btw) the screen goes black and it's got a single white cursor in the top left of the screen and doesn't progress any further... :(

any ideas?

oh on another note. im trying the i386 version of the live disk... even though i have a amd64 3000+ cpu.. from my experiences 64 support just isnt there yet.... maybe it's not true with ubuntu but windows 64 sucks balls....

---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-05-22
[quote=sotonin]well i gave the live cd a shot finally. It loads all through the initial configuration. It gets to the ubuntu screen with the progress meter that scrolls up all those things.... then after something about linux printing support (i dont have a printer btw) the screen goes black and it's got a single white cursor in the top left of the screen and doesn't progress any further... :(

any ideas?

oh on another note. im trying the i386 version of the live disk... even though i have a amd64 3000+ cpu.. from my experiences 64 support just isnt there yet.... maybe it's not true with ubuntu but windows 64 sucks balls....[/quote]
that's why it won't work: for the livecd to function properly, you *must* use the amd64 version, or else it simply won't work

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-05-22
> from my experiences 64 support just isnt there yet.... maybe it's not true with ubuntu but windows 64 sucks balls....

Support for 64 bit is better than on Windows.  What the biggest problem is 3rd party applications (codecs, flash, etc.)

---

### Post by sotonin on 2006-05-22
I see.... so for livecd i HAVE to use 64 bit... is the same true for the actual OS install? or can i put the 32bit os on the 64 chip to avoid 3rd party packages / software limitations?

thanks

---

