---
title: "Dial up modem problems on syntax mb"
date: 2007-04-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by linuxjerk on 2007-04-20
I am trying to get my dial up modem working with sl-modem. Please don't suggest I get broadband. I wish I could. It's just not available in my location.

I ran scanmodem on my system and it came up with kind of vague results. I know it's a winmodem/linmodem.

The mother board is made by Sybtax and it's a model S845GE. It uses Intel's 845G/845GE (GMCH) and 82801DB (ICH4) chipsets. I'm not sure if this is good or bad? Suppose to be AC'97 compliant.
I have 600mb ddr ram. 2.4ghz P4 processor and 160g hard drive.

I tried loading a PCTEL driver that worked on my older mother board. I got the message that this was the
wrong driver and that I Should install SL-MODEM. So I installed the version of sl-modem listed below.

sl-modem-daemon_2.9.10+2.9.9d+e-pre2-5build1_i386.deb

This installed without error and it does find and initialize the modem. When I use WVDIAL to try and connect
the sequence stops at USERNAME. It's like it doesn't enter the username.
I tried entering the username manualy but it does not work. I have set up the wvdial.conf file just like
I did for the other computer with the PCTEL modem. It finds the phone number and dials out. I lifted the
phone handset once while it was negutiating and it was trying to connect with the remote computer but
just doesn't send the username or something.
Is there a delay or something that I'm not using? I'm clueless at this point as to what to do.
Any help would be appreciated.
Thanks

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-04-20
Please paste the ModemData.txt file generated by scanModem.

---

### Post by linuxjerk on 2007-04-20
Here is the modemdata.txt file

 Only plain text email is forwarded by the  [email]DISCUSS@linmodems.org[/email] List Server.
 Do use the following as the email Subject Line:
           SomeName, YourCountry Ubuntu 6.10  kernel 2.6.17-10-generic 
 This will alert cogent experts, and  distinguish cases in the Archives.
 YourCountry will enable Country Code guidance.
 Occassionally responses are blocked by an Internet Provider mail filters.
 So in a day, also check the Archived responses at [http://www.linmodems.org](http://www.linmodems.org) .
 Local Linux experts can be found through: [http://www.linux.org/groups/index.html](http://www.linux.org/groups/index.html)
--------------------------  System information ----------------------------
CPU=i686,  Ubuntu 6.10 
Linux version 2.6.17-10-generic (root@vernadsky) (gcc version 4.1.2 20060928 (prerelease) (Ubuntu 4.1.1-13ubuntu5)) #2 SMP Fri Oct 13 18:45:35 UTC 2006 (Ubuntu 2.6.17-10.33-generic)
 scanModem update of:  2007_March_15


USB modem not detected by lsusb

Modem or host audio card candidates have firmware information:

 PCI slot	PCI ID		SubsystemID	Name
 ----------	---------	---------	--------------
 00:1f.6	8086:24c6	1019:0c04	Modem: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM 

 Modem interrupt assignment and sharing: 
169:        609   IO-APIC-level  Intel 82801DB-ICH4

 --- Bootup diagnositcs for card in PCI slot 00:1f.6 ----
[17179570.880000] ACPI: PCI Interrupt 0000:00:1f.6[B] -> GSI 17 (level, low) -> IRQ 169
[17179570.880000] ACPI: PCI interrupt for device 0000:00:1f.6 disabled

 The PCI slot 00:1f.6 of the modem card may be disabled early in 
 a bootup process,  but then enabled later. If modem drivers load 
 but the  modem is not responsive, read Bootup.txt about possible fixes.
 Send dmesg.txt along with ModemData.txt to [email]discuss@linmodems.org[/email]
 if help is needed.
 

 === Finished modem firmware and bootup diagnostics section. ===
 === Next deducing cogent software ===

ALSAversion 1.0.11
The audio card is not a modem hosting type.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-04-20
Sorry, that says nothing to me. Try sending it to the linmodems.org mailing-list.

---

### Post by linuxjerk on 2007-04-20
Yea, that doesn't mean much to me either. When I ran scanmodem on the last computer it gave me a website to download the driver from. This time, nothing.
But when I tried to install the pctel driver I got an error message and it told me to install sl-modem.
There are so many different versions of sl-modem maybe I got the wrong one.

---

### Post by linuxjerk on 2007-04-22
No one has seen this problem when using wvdial with sl-modem? Did I install the wrong version?
Any help would be appreciated. thanks

---

### Post by linuxjerk on 2007-04-27
Does anyone have experience with the sl-modem drivers? I am about ready to give up on this modem.

---

### Post by linuxjerk on 2007-04-27
I really need some help with this one. Looking for sl-modem users

---

