---
title: "KDE was great!"
date: 2006-03-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by qwazert on 2006-03-03
Until I went "somewhere" and changed "something"...now the fonts are all screwed up!
Huge fonts on the Desktop...tiny, unreadable font in Konsole...blurred fonts in Menus...What did I do and how do I UNDO it?

Maybe Gnome wasn't so bad!



KDE sure looks slick though!

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-03-03
It would help people help you if you mentioned the "something" that you changed and what you changed it to.

In the meantime, try logging in as another user (if you don't have another user, create one: KMenu > System KUser). If that user has the same problem, you messed up your whole installation. If that user doesn't have the same problem, you just messed up a preferences file. If you delete the preferences file, you should be fine.

---

### Post by qwazert on 2006-03-03
If I knew what I had changed, I would go back in and UNDO it! :confused:  I think maybe the "preference file" you mentioned might be the ticket...where would I find it?

Sorry, I'm having trouble finding my way around!

---

### Post by IYY on 2006-03-03
Run "kcontrol", go to appearance > fonts.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-03-03
[QUOTE=qwazert]If I knew what I had changed, I would go back in and UNDO it! :confused:  I think maybe the "preference file" you mentioned might be the ticket...where would I find it?

Sorry, I'm having trouble finding my way around![/QUOTE] Can you see first, though, whether it's a system-wide thing or a user thing? Just create a dummy user and log in as that user. If the problem persists, it's system-wide. If it doesn't, then we'll worry about the configuration file.

---

### Post by qwazert on 2006-03-03
Logged in as a new user and everything looks like it's back to normal...so which "preference" file do I need to delete?

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-03-03
Usually when you delete preference files, they get autogenerated, but this is for applications you're not using. If you're *in* KDE, you probably can't delete those preference files (I'm just guessing).

I don't know exactly which config file to edit, but try this:

1. Press Control-Alt-F1. This brings you to a console prompt.

2. Log in as yourself. Then type ```
sudo /etc/init.d/kdm stop
``` This stops the entire display manager.

3. Then type ```
mv ~/.kde/share/config ~/.kde/share/config_backup
``` This renames your KDE config folder to a backup name. Presumably, when you start KDE, it will regenerate a fresh config file. If not, we can always move the backup folder back.

4. Then type ```
sudo /etc/init.d/kdm restart
``` This restarts the display manager

5. Press Control-Alt-F7. This brings you back to the graphical login.

---

### Post by incubus on 2006-03-03
EDIT: aysiu answered it.

---

### Post by qwazert on 2006-03-03
Well....that didn't work!
Logged into GNOME now and even there the fonts are completely screwed up!

Sometimes I just want to throw this thing out the door....Windoze, Linux and all!

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-03-03
Gnome's screwed up, too?

Is it just the fonts...?

---

### Post by qwazert on 2006-03-03
Yes...HUGE fonts in the upper toolbar, Firefox has HUGE fonts in toolbars, yet menu items (in KDE) are so small they can barely be read.
I'm back in KDE now...how do I get rid of it? Will my Gnome settings return to normal?


Edit: OK...I _think_ I fixed it! Went back into KDE to KControl and set all fonts back to DEFAULT. Logged back into Gnome and everything "looks" normal-sized again! Whew!
If I keep the fonts at this size, I can barely see them in KDE.

I think I'll stick to Gnome....a lot safer!

---

