---
title: ":-( 17"
date: 2008-03-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kjhud on 2008-03-23
Well I decided to pick up Ubuntu again, I had left off with a success installation onto my 320gb WesternDigital Passport (external HDD). I used that with my laptop in order not to disturb my laptop HDD. 

I plugged in my HDD in my desktop and I try to boot from the USB and it gives me error 17. Could this be that Ubuntu is used to my laptop settings and doesn't work right with my desktop?

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-03-23
Where was GRUB installed?  On the MBR of your laptop or on the external HD?

---

### Post by kjhud on 2008-03-23
i am not sure, I want to say my laptop.

On my desktop I have two internal HDDs, on has XP and the slave has Ubuntu also.

 I just want to work on my external so everything is saved onto it.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-03-23
Okay, it sounds like you have GRUB installed to the HD on the laptop.  The simpliest thing would be to install GRUB to the desktop too so that it could read the external HD as a valid OS.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-03-23
> **kjhud said:**
> i am not sure, I want to say my laptop.

When you boot from the laptop using the USB HD, do you have to set the BIOS to boot from USB or HD?

If the former, then GRUB is on the USB device.  If the latter, then it is on the laptop HD.

I don't think you can use one HD (USB) installation to swap between computers unless they have the same graphics card (unless you reconfigure X each time you swap).

I think you would have to install to the USB HD like a bootable USB (search for pendrive linux for examples) to work the way you want.

---

### Post by kjhud on 2008-03-23
Ok well I just tried to load from my laptop but I get the same error. I used to have it to where if my external hdd was plugged in to my laptop, it would boot from there but now it doesn't work. I am just going to do a fresh install but how can I format/erase the partition if windows doesn't read .ext2. The only way I know that my HDD is partitioned is because it shows 10gb missing, which is what I made the .ext2 partition to be.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-03-23
Hang on 1 minute.

You are better off trying to find out what happened to prevent it happening again.

From 1st principles.... GRUB error 17.

Which means GRUB loads.  What are the GRUB options when plugged into laptop & desktop?  Do you use GRUB on the internal HDs on these computers?

It may be something as simple as GRUB pointing to the wrong partition.  You can edit GRUB by selecting entries and pressing "e"

---

### Post by kjhud on 2008-03-23
No clue what grub is....

All that happens when I turn my laptop on or try and boot from my desktop it says error 17. I see no sign of ubuntu, just a "DOS type screen" I have to press Ctrl+Alt+Del to exit out and restart.

---

### Post by kjhud on 2008-03-23
Ok well I am going to do a fresh install if I can clear out the partition and remember how to go through the setup. So I am off since I am going to use this computer to install ubuntu.... wish me luck

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-03-24
GRUB is the bootloader for Ubuntu.

Be careful installing Ubuntu to an external HD, because unless you select the correct settings, it can install grub on the internal HD, but the grub menu on the USB HD, which would leave your computer unable to boot without the USB HD plugged in.

I hope everything works out OK, but I am concerned that you are not entirely certain how to do what you want.

If you want some more advice, I will need more specific information (as previously requested).

Those details again:

1. Do you need to be able to use the HD to boot Ubuntu on the laptop and desktop?

2. What happens when you boot without the USB HD plugged in (on both comouters)?

3. What OS (e.g. Windows / Linux) is on the internal HDs (of both computers)?

4. Exactly what happened when booting with the error 17?  Did you get options to select an OS?

---

