---
title: "...No username!!! HELP!"
date: 2006-12-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by uberzorz on 2006-12-10
Hi, I installed Ubuntu and It never asked me for a user name! how weird!. It only asked me for a password (which I can't actually use :confused: ) Is there some default it gives you or is there a way to change it in recovery mode?? ](*,) 

Thank you!

---

### Post by slimer on 2006-12-10
Boot in single mode, add user.

---

### Post by uberzorz on 2006-12-10
single mode? how do I do that?

---

### Post by slimer on 2006-12-10
Then GRUB menu appear push "e" button on keyboard, chose kernel line, push "e" an add to the end: init=/bin/sh or init=/bin/bash single. It will boot you OS in single mode without asking root password.
[http://www.destr0yr.com/article.php/Linux-Single-Password-Required](http://www.destr0yr.com/article.php/Linux-Single-Password-Required)

---

### Post by uberzorz on 2006-12-10
YAY, I'm running linux!, but 1 thing, I had to add "single" to the end of the kernel line in grub but it dose not let me have system access!!! (no adding users) PLEASE HELP!!!

---

### Post by mcduck on 2006-12-10
I suppose you used the Alternate Install CD and did the OEM install?

Then you need to do some extra steps to get the install finished and your own user created.

First, the username you have now is 'oem' and password is whatever you selected during the install.
 Use those to log in, and then run 'sudo oem-config-prepare'. This will finish the installantion, remove all temporary files and the next time you boot your machine Ubuntu will ask for your user name, password and all personal info needed to create the actual user.

(OEM install is made for companies who want to sell computers with Ubuntu preinstalled. There is no reason for normal users to do OEM install.)

---

