---
title: "dvd drive missing......"
date: 2007-06-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-06-12
hello.
ive noticed that one of my optical drives is missing.
i have 2 disc drives on my system , drive 1 is a cd/cd-rw the second is a dvd/dvd-rw now the problem is that only the cd/cd-rw shows up when i look in places--computer all the other stuff is there, but not the dvd drive, i have also noticed that according to the devices listed under --places--computer i have a drive called cd-rom 1 now before any body says that this is the dvd drive just with a different name, its not, because if i re-boot the dvd drive shows up and so does the phantom drive, im presuming its not a virtual drive ?
but if i use the dvd drive it then disappears from places--computer, i can still use burning programs but i cant play anything thats in the drive as when i click open the device isnt listed, cant play what it says isnt there.
now before the last lot of updates all was peachy, but since then ive lost part of the functionality of that particular drive.
is there a way to solve this issue ? its a pain in the backside, it would be ok if when i put a disc in the drive it auto mounted and was played by vlc or totem or what ever, but because the drive isnt seen no program tries to open whats there, i did get vlc to load when a disc is inserted, but because it then doesnt auto mount the disc vlc wouldnt play it, i tried it with various programs and all have the same problem.
why is it that lately updates seem to break stuff ? or is it me ?
cheers

---

### Post by Bohlio on 2007-06-12
I have the same problem with the new kernel. I had 2 phantom drives that i got rid of by deleting there entrys in my /etc/fstab file, and i still havent got the DVD problem worked out, So I'm just using kernel 15 for now.

---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-06-12
interestingly enough if i put a blank dvd in the drive it auto mounts ? although this doesnt really help it may point to the problem being more to do with the way the drive and system read the data on dvd discs, ive looked about and some people have said data discs auto mount fine, it just seems to be dvd films from what i can gather.
its not a big problem because i can still rip and burn on the drive, be it cd's or dvd's but its one of those little niggles, kind of like the kernel updates breaking stuff.
when the kernel was updated from -15 to -16 it screwed my networking, so i had to un-install samb and set it all up again, maybe ill go back to -15 for a while, it may well be in my case that the drive is on its way out, ive had it for nearly 5 years and its done alot of work.
cheers

ok, do i eneter the command - sudo gedit /etc/fstab in terminal to open that ?
cheers

---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-06-12
ok, so i was looking through /etc/fstab to see if i could see the phantom drive, and i noticed that the dvd drive isnt listed, could this be way it doesnt work properly ? and if so what would you need to put in the file in order to and it to the list ? for example my cd/cd-rw drive is listed (see below for fstab file)

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=7a8e6df7-350b-458e-80b7-f21d6602d1a4 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=6c197812-ed40-419e-a9dd-b831b14452c2 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0  -- ( This is the cd/cd-rw drive )
/dev/hda /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0 -- ( This is the phantom drive )
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
usbfs /proc/bus/usb usbfs devgid=14,devmode=0660 0 0

so could i put -- /dev/hdb /media/dvd udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0 ? and would this work ?
cheers

---

### Post by Bohlio on 2007-06-12
You dont need your CD drives in the fstab file, are you sure you dont have two phantom drives? I had those too exact cdrom0 and 1 entrys in mine and I had two phantoms. Open up Places>Computer just to be sure its not listing 2 phantom drives.

---

### Post by techno-mole on 2007-06-12
well im presuming that - /dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0 is the cd/cd-rw drive.
if i open up computer (under --places -- computer)
i can see 3 drives - number one is named - cd-rom 1 number 2 is named - cd-rw drive and number 3 is named -  cd-rw/dvd rw drive.
as i know for sure that i have drive number 2 (the cd-rw drive) and drive number 3 (the cd-rw/dvd rw drive) and as i said before the cd-rom 1 i have never noticed before, so im presuming this one is the phantom, although ive tried to get rid of it by editing fstab which didnt work, i also tried to delete it and i got an error saying - Error "Operation not permitted" while deleting "computer://...5201.drive". and when i mount a disc nothing ever comes up under that drive.
do you know if programs like k3b / gnome baker and such like, mainly the ones that can create and burn iso's create a virtual drive ? kind of like nero does, and other programs. 
cheers

---

