---
title: "Ubuntu install- blank dark green screen"
date: 2007-10-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Jinouchi on 2007-10-03
When I try to install Ubuntu from the Live CD, all I get is a blank, dark green screen after I boot up. The computer is completely non-reponsive after that. Can someone tell me what's going on?

---

### Post by defrex on 2007-10-03
Are you getting this when the liveCD boots, or after the install?

---

### Post by dwblas on 2007-10-03
Please post your /boot/grub/menu.lst file

---

### Post by Jinouchi on 2007-10-04
I get the blank screen right after I boot up with the disc in the CD drive before install. I can't get far enough to install. 


Here's the file you requested:

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.
#          root (hd0,0)
#          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/hdb2
#          initrd /initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/hdb
default=0
timeout=10
splashimage=(hd0,0)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
title Red Hat Linux (2.4.20-8)
	root (hd0,0)
	kernel /vmlinuz-2.4.20-8 ro root=LABEL=/12 hdc=ide-scsi
	initrd /initrd-2.4.20-8.img

---

### Post by Jinouchi on 2007-10-04
bump, help plz

---

### Post by Jinouchi on 2007-10-05
bump

---

### Post by om1 on 2007-10-05
you could download the alternative cd and install from that....

---

### Post by ztripez on 2007-10-05
Have you got it to work?
I think its your graphic card drivers that messes up the system (i have that kind of errors when i try to use the liveCD on one of my computers with 2 geForce 6600GTX SLI).

Best way to avoid it is to use the alternative cd and after you have installed the system, boot up in recovery mode and type

nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and scrolldown to the device section for you graphic card,mine look like this:

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:5:0:0"
        Option          "AddARGBVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

```
now change
```
       Driver          "nvidia"
```
 to 
```
       Driver          "vesa"
```

save and extit with CTRL+O and  CTRL+X and reboot. With some luck you should now be able to get into gnome, but with a crappy resolution and such.

In gnome you can do some research what driver is needed for you card.

Good luck.

---

