---
title: "network configuration problems"
date: 2007-08-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jon.reeve on 2007-08-22
I'm having difficulty connecting to the internet, and I don't know what could be the problem. Recently lightning struck our house and fried our DSL modem and router. We've since replaced all the cables, the DSL modem and the router, and now my roommates who run windows have no difficulty connecting to the internet just as before. I, however, though I haven't changed any of my network settings, can't access web pages on either of my laptops, both of which run Ubuntu (the slower one runs Xubuntu).  What's strange is that I choose "wired network" from the Network Manager applet, and it takes a while saying "connecting to wired network," and then finally rests with a "connected" icon. When I go to look up a webpage, however, the status bar in Firefox sticks on "Looking up google.com". 

Here's our setup, as far as I know it to be: DSL line hooked up to DSL modem seems to be working fine (it's a static IP), connected to router and everything seems to be good there, the lights are all working, my roommates are all online. My network settings use DHCP as I had it set up before. I don't get it. 

Here's what I've tried: replacing my ethernet cable, restarting, trying to ping the router's IP (didn't respond), trying different network settings (ie zeroconf) but all is a no-go. 

My windows-using roommates are starting to say bad things about Ubuntu! What should I do?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2007-08-23
Here are some debugging tips:

Is there a router between you and the DSL modem?

What does 'ifconfig' tell you - do you have an IP address?
What does '/etc/resolv.conf' tell you - do you have name servers?

If resolv.conf is OK, can you ping [www.yahoo.com?](www.yahoo.com?)
If not, what error do you get? unreachable (no IP address, no route), or a DNS problem?

Can you do: 'telnet [www.yahoo.com](www.yahoo.com) 80' ?  What kind of error do you get?

Cheers,

Herman

---

### Post by jon.reeve on 2007-08-23
*>>>Is there a router between you and the DSL modem?*

Yes, and both Ubuntu and all the lights on both the computer and router seem to be convinced that the computer and the router are connected. 
[I]
>>What does 'ifconfig' tell you - do you have an IP address?[/I]

No IP address. 

Here's what ifconfig says (what I'm assuming is the relevant part): 

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:02:3F:32:3B:C2  
          inet6 addr: fe80::202:3fff:fe32:3bc2/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:957 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1526 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:107795 (105.2 KiB)  TX bytes:143608 (140.2 KiB)

eth0:avah Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:02:3F:32:3B:C2  
          inet addr:169.254.5.205  Bcast:169.254.255.255  Mask:255.255.0.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
[I]
>>>What does '/etc/resolv.conf' tell you - do you have name servers?[/I]

# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search Belkin


nameserver 24.29.103.10
nameserver 24.29.103.11


The problem might have something to do with this--I'm not sure where these servers come from, or where I can get DNS servers. I could copy them from the router's setup page if I could log into the router, but I can't seem to do that. 
[I]
>>>If resolv.conf is OK, can you ping [www.yahoo.com?](www.yahoo.com?)[/I]

The ping doesn't come back. 
[I]
>>>If not, what error do you get? unreachable (no IP address, no route), or a DNS problem?[/I]

What's strange is that there's a little network activity, sending from the computer and receiving from the router, but I can't seem to get an IP address. I've tried manually configuring it too based on what I know about the router's IP, but nothing seems to work. 

[I]>>>Can you do: 'telnet [www.yahoo.com](www.yahoo.com) 80' ?  What kind of error do you get?
[/I]
"telnet: could not resolve yahoo.com/80: Name or service not known"

Thanks for the help. How would I go about getting a DNS address?

---

### Post by jon.reeve on 2007-08-23
Apparently this problem can be solved by turning the router off and on again.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2007-08-23
OK, the router gets its IP address from your ISP.  Some ISPs allow you onto their net based on the MAC address of the router.  You have to verify that the router is working and that it can get an address from the ISP.  In order to verify that, you have to connect to the management interface of the router.  The router is supposed to give your PC an IP address via DHCP.

First turn the zeroconf crap off in the applications, system, services pointyclickythingy.  Then see what kind of DHCP client you got - one of these two usually:
$ whereis dhclient
$ whereis dhcpcd

Do something like:
$ sudo killall dhclient
$ sudo dhclient eth0

If it looks happy, check with ifconfig if you got a proper address, probably 192.168.1.100 or some such.

Now try to connect to anything, eg. google and see what happens.  You should either get to google or to the registration page of your ISP.

H.

---

