---
title: "Game textures issues"
date: 2008-02-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by aslam92 on 2008-02-17
When I'm playing Nexuiz or OpenArena the textures are really screwed up. Especially in OpenArena I can barely exit. I can play the games but the messed up textures really ruin the experience.

Also when I try to run Boson it says direct rendering is NOT enabled.3D acceleration is DISABLED.

---

### Post by MasterJS on 2008-02-17
Are you using XGL?

---

### Post by aslam92 on 2008-02-17
I'm still a newb and I'm not sure what XGL is..but if it was needed to run compiz fusion then yes.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-17
Three things
1).  What kind of graphics card do you have?
2).  What is the output of:
```

glxinfo | grep direct

```
3).  What is the output of:
```

gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

---

### Post by aslam92 on 2008-02-17
1) I use a ati X1300 mobility
2) Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":1.0".
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
3) # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-17
Okay, looks like the ATI proprietary drivers aren't recognising your card for what it is.  But if you have Compiz already running, I probably wouldn't mess with it.

When you want to play a game try disabling Compiz first.  That should run a lot better.

---

### Post by aslam92 on 2008-02-17
Well I've turned off compiz...I think
(I went to system<preferences<appearance<Visual Effects<none)
But it's still not working properly.everything is still the same...

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-17
Alright, well that didn't work then.  What happens when you try to run them from the terminal?  What errors pop up?

---

### Post by aslam92 on 2008-02-17
How to I run them from terminal?

---

### Post by KoolPenguin on 2008-02-17
I have the same issue with Nexuiz and other games.  Try logging in using the Gnome Failsafe session and see if they work.  This is what I have to do to use these games and Google Earth.  - I hope this works for you.

If anyone knows how to create a session with these settings, could you please pass it on.  I don't think I should use the failsafe session.  Thanks

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-17
Go into Applications->Accessories->Terminal.  You should see something like:
```

yourusername@yourcomputername$

```
And it should have a curser after it.  You would just put in the name of the application you want to run, and it should show any errors or outputs there.  

If you don't know what the package name of the game is, then go into System->Administration->Synaptic and search for the name.  In the description it should tell you which is the real game, and not just a secondary package needed to run it.  

The name of that package is what you would put into the terminal.

---

