---
title: "7.10 grrrrrr"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by g33knik on 2007-10-20
I have an Acer 5100 w. Ubuntu 7.10. It's a dual-boot w/ win vista. I upgraded from Ubuntu 7.04. In my boot screen there are 3 choices for Ubuntu, each ending w/ .14, .15 and .16 as choices, Since the wonderful, (sarcasm) gibbon upgrade the only one of those 3 Ubuntu boots that is ok is the .14 and by ok I mean the the scroll function in firefox is smooth and not jumpy. Everything else in all 3 seems ok. But for all of them I cannot get beryl to work. I got Beryl Settings Manager installed but no matter what I cant get that awesome cube to come up. Ive seen videos of how great that is but I have yet to experience it and Im loosing hope. I hate Vista and it loads slower than Ubuntu. I ant this beryl thing to work and Ive have tried most forums but nothing works for me. I have an ATI Radeon Xpress 1100 w/ an AMD64 bit proc. Come on. My gear aint the latest/greatest but I know beryl should be all that it can be on this rig. I need help or Im gonna give up and I really don't wanna. I like Ubuntu but I'm just fed up w/ trying to tweak my way thru everything. Aww heck. I'm not gonna give up but I'm tired of my Ubuntu looking like a cartoon when compared to Vista. Vista is a joke and I want my Ubuntu to prove it. Please help.

---

### Post by Arthur Archnix on 2007-10-20
You've got to stop trying to get beryl working. It's discontinued. No longer under development. Finito. All the great people behind it have teamed up with the compiz guys to develop compiz fusion. A simplified version of it is already installed by default. You can gain access to more settings by installing the compiz settings manager.

Not sure how to do that yet on Gutsy, head over to the compiz fusion site and see if they've got anything up yet. Or look for an updated how-to around the forums.

---

### Post by ravenus on 2007-10-20
Yep, Beryl is outdated and obsolete. Compiz-Fusion does everything Beryl does and more.
And in general, it is better to have a clean install rather than an upgrade, saves you a lot of heartburn. I did it this way and did not have any problems: Totally clean GRUB with only the relevant OS's and flawless Compiz-Fusion.

---

### Post by g33knik on 2007-10-20
Thanx. Thats how well I keep up on things. I had no idea beryl was gone be-bye. I will download 7.10 and do a fresh install and make sure to have Compiz-fusion. Appreciate your guys help. :popcorn::KS:guitar::grin:

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-10-20
If you were wondering about compiz-fusion in 7.10, it is already there, built-in, just start the fireworks up by right-clicking on the desktop, Change Desktop Background and go to the Visual Effects tab. There you go:).

---

