---
title: "7.10 white screen on boot"
date: 2008-03-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by danman on 2008-03-25
I just installed 7.10 and got it to start up. I installed the sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop. After that I restarted then tried to login. I got the prompts to login once I hit enter after entering the password the screen goes white. I also notice since I have installes the sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop I do not get a command line any more at boot or after boot. it goes right to the login. I am very new to all this Linux stuff, so even working on the command line is very foreign to me. help

---

### Post by renfrew on 2008-03-25
In my experience that white screen suggests that your XServer settings are off, or that the driver for your video card is not set correctly.  You should be able to get a virtual terminal by pressing Alt and F1, F2, F3, up to F6.  so type ALT-F1, etc.

From there you can at least start the xserver manually by typing startx or you can check the system logs in /var.  I'm at work right now (Msoft env) so I can't be much more help than that I'm afraid.....


You don't mention what kind of hardware you have or what settings you have.. maybe post the contents of your xorg.conf (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) and what kind of hardware you are running.

---

### Post by danman on 2008-03-25
When should I hit the one of the F keys? During boot or start up or at the white screen?

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-03-25
> **danman said:**
> When should I hit the one of the F keys? During boot or start up or at the white screen?

You have to press Ctrl+Alt+F1 when you are at the white screen. That will dump you at the virtual console. 

Looks like you have Compiz issues. After logging in in your virtual console, ```
sudo metacity --replace
``` then switch back to Ctrl+Alt+F7 and you should have a working, visible desktop. If you don't, try restarting the X server (white screen) with Ctrl+Alt+Bkspace.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-03-25
how did you install ubuntu?

did you install the server edition?

Regular ubuntu already has ubuntu-desktop installed natively.

Seems to me that you need to reconfigure Xorg
 do so from safe mode start up
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by renfrew on 2008-03-25
peshah and lowsky beat me to the corrections I needed to make to my original post.  

Having messed around with my own xerserver settings a lot in the recent past I can't stress enough that you'll need to run that dpkg-reconfigure command eventually.  

You might want to try 'startx' from a virtual  console first, the output can tell you where the problem exists and it might be a simple case of editing your xorg.conf.  Try to post any further errors you get to this forum, it can help someone to remotely diagnose whatever the exact problem is.

---

### Post by danman on 2008-03-26
Good stuff so far guys.  My hardwarwe config is 1.2GHz processor(I think it is the 423 socket)
/ 128 mem(i know, belive me I know) \ motherboard is a D815EEA2  if you cant tell it has the 815e chipset. 

Some how the machine is doing what it is supposed to so far. I am actually writing this post from it:guitar:
 The version I installed is the server  7.1 Then I found out it had no desktop installed.I installe the desktop then started to get the white screen on login. I first thought since I left the desktop install alone for a day it had some error or just hanged on the install. I reinstalled it again and now I am rolling.  My screen does not look quite right though. It does look like I need the video driver. 
Right now I do get an error on boot about the Gnome power manager. I thought was odd since this is a desktop. Another question is what is the prefix supposed to be when entering commands?   Right now I am going to try to configure the power for full power.

---

