---
title: "./configure does not work"
date: 2007-04-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dzqm on 2007-04-14
Ok, another noob here with a noob problem, I guess. I am trying to learn the nuances of UNIX, and am following [ [COLOR="Blue"]_this real elementary tutorial_[/COLOR]]("http://www.ee.surrey.ac.uk/Teaching/Unix/unix7.html"). When I come to the part where I have to run the ./configure command (Sec. 7.4 on the page linked above), I get errors involving cc and gcc. Here's what I get:

[FONT="Courier New"]loading cache ./config.cache
checking for gcc... no
checking for cc... no
configure: error: no acceptable cc found in $PATH
[/FONT]

I searched for solutions in these forums and others, and one of the common things everyone said is take a look at the Config.log file. So I did that, and this is what is in there:

[FONT="Courier New"]This file contains any messages produced by compilers while
running configure, to aid debugging if configure makes a mistake.

configure:549: checking for gcc
configure:578: checking for cc
[/FONT]

One other thing that I came across is to check the file permissions on the Configure files in the source directory. Here's what I get when I run [FONT="Courier New"]ls -la[/FONT]:

[FONT="Courier New"]-rw-r--r-- 1 ravi ravi      0 2007-04-12 01:59 config.cache
-rw-r--r-- 1 ravi ravi    190 2007-04-14 10:19 config.log
-rwxr-xr-x 1 ravi ravi  55018 1999-08-02 16:36 configure
-rw-r--r-- 1 ravi ravi   1134 1999-08-02 16:36 configure.in
[/FONT]

Can anybody help me figure out how to make the ./configure run?

Please don't tell me I can run the "-apt" or the "Synaptic Package Manager", etc. I know I can do that. I am trying to learn how to configure and build installations myself.

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2007-04-14
install a package called 'build-essential'.

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2007-04-14
The "build-essential" package contains gcc (among other things) which you need to compile things.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-04-14
It's complaining because it thinks you do not have gcc and cc. I would...ahem...*sudo apt-get install gcc gcc-4.1 gcc-4.1-base*. I am not sure, but I think gcc is Gnu C Compiler and will take care of cc for you. Accept any dependencies and try ./configure again.

---

### Post by energiya on 2007-04-14
> **chili555 said:**
> It's complaining because it thinks you do not have gcc and cc. I would...ahem...*sudo apt-get install gcc gcc-4.1 gcc-4.1-base*. I am not sure, but I think gcc is Gnu C Compiler and will take care of cc for you. Accept any dependencies and try ./configure again.

Wouldn't it be better to install the "build-essential" metapackage ?

---

### Post by dzqm on 2007-04-14
It worked!!!
All I can say in retrospect is "Duh!!!"
Thanks for your replies, guys!

---

