---
title: "Problem after moving partition. Need Help"
date: 2007-05-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Michelpt on 2007-05-28
Hi everyone,

I had this map of HDD before using Gparted: 

/dev/hda1 --> Windows NTFS partition (45GiB) , 
/dev/hda2 --> Linux Swap 1GiB, 
/dev/hda3 --> Ext3  45Gib ( with 5Gib of free space)

After made some changes to HDD partitions I have some problem. First, I shrinked Windows partition from 45 to 25 Gib  in order to free some space for Kubuntu,  then moved swap partition to the left. Then I did move to the left  and graw ext3 partition and unfortunately I have this:

/dev/hda1--> Windows NTFS (26 Gib)
/dev/hda2 --> Linux Swap 1Gib
/dev/hda3 --> Ext3 65 Gib (but with only 6 Gib of free space(!) ) 

I dont know will it be useful, I give outputs of cat /etc/fstab and sudo fdisk -l:
 cat /etc/fstab
> $ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda3 :
UUID=e83c8663-4912-427f-a5c4-263ab61a0607 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro,usrquota,grpquota 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=D65464D65464BABF /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=pt_PT.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=119a40d7-a8cb-4ce8-9599-c4202e4089d8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0


sudo fdisk -l:
> Dispositivo Boot Início Fim Blocos Id Sistema
/dev/hda1   *           1        3280    26346568+   7  HPFS ou NTFS
/dev/hda2            3281        3408     1028160   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda3            3409       12161    70308472+  83  Linux


Can someone help where is another part of free space? I am new to Linux and appreciate any help.
Thanx in advance.

---

### Post by b_martinez on 2007-05-28
> **Michelpt said:**
> Hi everyone,

I had this map of HDD before using Gparted: 

/dev/hda1 --> Windows NTFS partition (45GiB) , 
/dev/hda2 --> Linux Swap 1GiB, 
/dev/hda3 --> Ext3  45Gib ( with 5Gib of free space)

After made some changes to HDD partitions I have some problem. First, I shrinked Windows partition from 45 to 25 Gib  in order to free some space for Kubuntu,  then moved swap partition to the left. Then I did move to the left  and graw ext3 partition and unfortunately I have this:

/dev/hda1--> Windows NTFS (26 Gib)
/dev/hda2 --> Linux Swap 1Gib
/dev/hda3 --> Ext3 65 Gib (but with only 6 Gib of free space(!) ) 

I dont know will it be useful, I give outputs of cat /etc/fstab and sudo fdisk -l:
 cat /etc/fstab



sudo fdisk -l:



Can someone help where is another part of free space? I am new to Linux and appreciate any help.
Thanx in advance.



The 'fdisk -l' command only shows mounted partitions.
Try  'fdisk -h /dev/hda' and then read the directions on how to use it. The 'p' command 'prints' the partitions [shows them]. I haven't used it in a while, but if memory serves, 'm' will show a list of commands to use.
[ The '-h'switch show the info in 'human readable' format.]
```
[root@the-asylum ~]# fdisk /dev/hda

The number of cylinders for this disk is set to 19457.
There is nothing wrong with that, but this is larger than 1024,
and could in certain setups cause problems with:
1) software that runs at boot time (e.g., old versions of LILO)
2) booting and partitioning software from other OSs
   (e.g., DOS FDISK, OS/2 FDISK)

Command (m for help):

```

```
Command (m for help): m
Command action
   a   toggle a bootable flag
   b   edit bsd disklabel
   c   toggle the dos compatibility flag
   d   delete a partition
   l   list known partition types
   m   print this menu
   n   add a new partition
   o   create a new empty DOS partition table
   p   print the partition table
   q   quit without saving changes
   s   create a new empty Sun disklabel
   t   change a partition's system id
   u   change display/entry units
   v   verify the partition table
   w   write table to disk and exit
   x   extra functionality (experts only)

Command (m for help)
```:

[This is what mine looks like]

```
Command (m for help): p

Disk /dev/hda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1               1        1825    14659281   83  Linux
/dev/hda2   *        1826        3650    14659312+  83  Linux
/dev/hda3            3651        5475    14659312+  83  Linux
/dev/hda4            5476       19457   112310415    5  Extended
/dev/hda5            5476        6692     9775521   83  Linux
/dev/hda6            7910        9126     9775521   83  Linux
/dev/hda7            9127       12166    24418768+  83  Linux
/dev/hda8           17031       19457    19494846   83  Linux
/dev/hda9            6693        7909     9775521   83  Linux
/dev/hda10          12167       17030    39070048+  83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order

Command (m for help):
```


Hope this info helps.
Bill

p.s. this is shown using the Fedora Core 6 OS computer. You do not need this many partitions, unless , like me, you havemore than 3 OSes installed on one hard drive.;)

p.p.s I didn't use the '-h' switch, so the "Blocks" section you see with yours will look different.

---

### Post by Michelpt on 2007-05-28
To b_martinez 

Thanx a lot for info. I will use it and find it useful. but before I read your post I did fsck of /dev/hda3 and could not boot because of fsck died with exit status 3 after reboot of pc. now I mounted /dev/hda3 from Live CD and did fsck again from Live CD and output is here
> ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fsck
fsck 1.39 (29-May-2006)
e2fsck 1.39 (29-May-2006)
/dev/hda3 is mounted.

WARNING!!!  Running e2fsck on a mounted filesystem may cause
SEVERE filesystem damage.

Do you really want to continue (y/n)? yes

/dev/hda3: recovering journal
/dev/hda3 contains a file system with errors, check forced.
Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes
Pass 2: Checking directory structure
Pass 3: Checking directory connectivity
Pass 4: Checking reference counts
Pass 5: Checking group summary information
/dev/hda3: 435589/5947392 files (4.5% non-contiguous), 10056677/11876051 blocks
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$                 

Thanx again for your help;)

---

### Post by Michelpt on 2007-05-28
Well done, the problem is persist. Even after I did fsck from Live CD I can not boot, because during the boot I have this message > /dev/hda3 contains a file system errors, checked forced. [failed]. fsck died with exit status 3
Then pc was rebooted automatically and do fsck again during the boot and fails with the same status 3. I can not even boot from hard disk.
However, when I boot Live CD I can mount and read and write to /dev/hda3 . 
Anybody knows how to fix this problem?

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-05-28
The last time I had fsck errors so sever that fsck died:  I used tar to copy the content off the partition, reformatted the partition and tared the data back.

---

### Post by Michelpt on 2007-05-28
Thanx :) The same I am doing now, copying content of /dev/hda3 to external hdd and going to format partition and back data into it.

---

