---
title: "7.04 Wont Install"
date: 2007-04-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by djrb01 on 2007-04-22
Ok,

I have tried several times with several different CD's. The install hangs after you have entered the language at the beginning. Next I try to select time zne and country and wont do that. CD is error free. MD5Checksum checks out, so does the hash. Any suggestions? Laptop is Acer Travelmate 230 Celeron, 512MB, 20GB HDD. OS=Windows XP Pro. Hard drive has an empty partition sitting there waiting for Feisty.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-04-22
> **djrb01 said:**
> Ok,

I have tried several times with several different CD's. The install hangs after you have entered the language at the beginning. Next I try to select time zne and country and wont do that. CD is error free. MD5Checksum checks out, so does the hash. Any suggestions? Laptop is Acer Travelmate 230 Celeron, 512MB, 20GB HDD. OS=Windows XP Pro. Hard drive has an empty partition sitting there waiting for Feisty.

Hi what type of graphics card is in the laptop? you might try the safe graphics install. Good luck!

---

### Post by djrb01 on 2007-04-22
Mmmm will give that a go. Here is a little quirk. On my laptop when I go to check the CD for errors, it goes onto install Ubuntu. Bypasses error check? Anyone?

---

### Post by bobplano on 2007-04-22
it should restart after checking for errors. check the cd hashes or md5sum so you don't have to check for errors.

---

### Post by djrb01 on 2007-04-22
> **paul capps said:**
> Hi what type of graphics card is in the laptop? you might try the safe graphics install. Good luck!

Well tried the Safe Graphical Mode. X Term wont load as it is not setup correctly? I have no idea what I am doing wrong. Maybe I should try the alternate install instead? First time trying another Linux other than Red Hat and wow.

---

### Post by jiminycricket on 2007-04-22
Do you have an ATI X**** gfx card?  Look at the sticky at the top of this thread.

---

### Post by G4HZA on 2007-04-22
One issue I have noticed is that the windows scaling problem can cause the install to hang when it contacts Ubuntu if your ISP has a dodgy router.  I have to intall with the network disconnected then follow the procedure found http:// articles.techrepublic.com.com/5100-1035_11-6174075.html

Roger

---

