---
title: "7.04. nVidia Configuration problems"
date: 2007-05-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by john.ie on 2007-05-19
 Hi, I'm having ongoing nVidia driver and resolution issues. Having read through many postings on these issues I saw one suggestion which said try.......

Open a terminal and type..
nvidia-settings

the terminal throws up the following  errors:
ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension not found on this Display.
ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA GPUs on ':0.0'.
ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA Frame Lock Devices on ':0.0'.
ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA VCSCs on ':0.0'.

Then a  nVidia GUI opens (about 7X15cm) with 5 checkboxes in a panel on the right:
tooltips, status bar, slider text and really quit ?
On the left is a panel with "nvidia-settings configuration" ...clicking on this does nothing.

At the bottom I have 2 options ...Quit or help (help just gives an expanded description of check-box options)

How do I get the settings & configuration options ?  Any ideas most welcome.

I have a nvidia 6100
Kernal is 2.6.20-15-generic

Thanks...as you can tell I'm a stuck newbi !
j.

---

### Post by freakboysystem on 2007-05-19
Try and download easyubuntu and once installed tick the appropriate boxes press ok, enter password wait to download and reboot computer.
please post back.

---

### Post by freakboysystem on 2007-05-19
also search add/remove programs for nvidia drivers just type in nvidia and install whatever you think is appropriate.

---

### Post by freakboysystem on 2007-05-19
another thing what g/c do you have?

---

### Post by john.ie on 2007-05-21
My graphics card is a 

nvidia geforce 6100 I believe.

Been down the road of installing glx-legacy and glx etc ....it all looks fine till reboot...boom! blue screen...x gone nuts. Went in, copied back my backup copy of xorg.conf ...all OK but back to square one again.

When I logged in today, I now only have one desktop space, the open windows cannot be dragged/minimised/removed (the buttons top right are missing for each window. A restart did not fix it. 

If I go for a completely fresh install I will lose a weeks worth of fiddling and hacking. If I don't it's goodbye ubuntu for ever. Hello Mr Gates. 

Very depressed now.:(

Thanks for suggestions though ......much appreciated.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-21
How did you install the drivers for your nvidia card?  Did you use synaptic?

Could you post your xorg.conf file?  Just in case here is the command, run this and then copy and paste the output here:

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Don't be depressed, and we should be able to sort this out without reinstalling Ubuntu :)

---

### Post by justleen on 2007-05-21
can you also post the output of ```
glxinfo |grep version 
```

Did you install any drivers yet for your Nvidia card?

---

### Post by ske1fr on 2007-05-21
I wasted ages on this, running Envy and reverting to the old driver, then running Envy and installing the new driver,  because I believed the System Settings for Display when they seemed to show I was still using the nv server.  Hint:  they're wrong...or I've been hallucinating that installation of Beryl, that can't possibly work in an nv xserver...? :)

Wait for terl and justleen to help you out.  Do not go back to the other side.  Do you want to be the driver, or ride the bus?

---

### Post by john.ie2 on 2007-05-21
Yes, this is really john.ie .....due to almost complete unusability of Fiesty because of no desktops or min/max/X out of a window I could'nt move a window, cut or paste etc... Now over on Windows......but could'nt access ubuntuforums unless I re-registered....AAAArrrrrgggg.

Anyway output from...glxinfo | grep version  gives...
xlib extension "glx" mising on display ":0.0".    - -----many times
Could'nt find RGB GLX visual

Could'nt put in  output of xorg.conf due to wndow/browser/terminal windows stuck.

skelfr.....at the moment the bus looks a lot more inviting than walking..:(

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-21
Did you select both the nvidia glx and the nvidia settings in synaptic?  If you did it happily goes along and never winds up installing the drivers.  This is easy to fix; as Douglas Adams said "Don't panic."  :).  

Does it still boot into text mode?  If so, lets get it set back up with generic stuff to get you graphical again.

Do:

```
sudo dpkg-reconconfigure xorg-server
```

Answer the questions as you go along, easy to follow.  For graphics card just select nv for now.  Enter your monitor info and restart X server.  Then we can go from there.  When you have graphics back we can get your nvidia up and running.  I will post more for you later.

---

### Post by john.ie2 on 2007-05-21
Thanks Terl, I'm assumng you meant "dpkg-reconfigure...." above...a typo I think.Anyway will soon find out when I go back over to 'not so Feisty'.
j.

---

### Post by john.ie on 2007-05-21
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg-server     gives.....

xorg-server is not installed and no info available

it then goes on to list other xorg-suffixes

I really think I should blow away the ubuntu partitions and start all over again with a freshly downloaded copy of "easyubuntu". It feels like I'm tinkering with an almost dead horse.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-21
Sometimes it is faster to do it that way.  You don't need easy ubuntu though.  I can install 7.04 and on first boot, after the updates I just open synaptic download nvidia-glx.  Just that...no other nvidia things.  Then I open a terminal, use "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf".  After that opens I comment out DRI move down and change nv to nvidia, enter my montior specs, set the resolutions.  Save it.  Hit ctrl-alt-backspace and all done.

Sorry about the typo.  You were correct.  I was typing too fast at work.

---

### Post by john.ie on 2007-05-21
OK tried...

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg-server........got
xorg-server not installed and no info available

tried this instead.......

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg.........got the blue screens etc and answered all the questions

nv for g/c
generic monitor (cant find name in either manual or manufacturers website)
resolution 1440x900 (I have a 17in LCD on a Packard Bell Sw51-201 Notebook)
etc,etc...
Reboot.......boom ! xserver went nuts.
copied back my backup xorg.conf to xorg.conf.......back to square one.

can't handle much more of this non-sense....heading back to Windows like a whipped dog.

Thanks guys for all your help and suggestions but Feisty is not for me......Bye ! :(

---

### Post by john.ie on 2007-05-21
Tried....
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg-server       got......
xorg-server is not installsed and no info available

So tried.......
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg    got....
blue windows etc. Filled in appropriate fields:
nv for g/c
resolution 1440X900 (A 17in Packard Bell SW51-201 Easynote Notebook)
Generic Monitor (no name in manual or on website)

Reboot....boom ! Xserver crash. Copied over backup xorg.conf - xorg.conf.......back to square one.

Thanks guys for all your help and advice, but I've had enough now. Bye bye Fiesty and Ubuntu.

rgds,
j

---

### Post by veugelenw on 2007-05-23
> **john.ie said:**
> Hi, I'm having ongoing nVidia driver and resolution issues. Having read through many postings on these issues I saw one suggestion which said try.......

Open a terminal and type..
nvidia-settings

the terminal throws up the following  errors:
ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension not found on this Display.
ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA GPUs on ':0.0'.
ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA Frame Lock Devices on ':0.0'.
ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA VCSCs on ':0.0'.

Then a  nVidia GUI opens (about 7X15cm) with 5 checkboxes in a panel on the right:
tooltips, status bar, slider text and really quit ?
On the left is a panel with "nvidia-settings configuration" ...clicking on this does nothing.

At the bottom I have 2 options ...Quit or help (help just gives an expanded description of check-box options)

How do I get the settings & configuration options ?  Any ideas most welcome.

I have a nvidia 6100
Kernal is 2.6.20-15-generic

Thanks...as you can tell I'm a stuck newbi !
j.

I have a Geforce Ti 4200, and also experienced these issues.  I removed the nvidia driver, ran the "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg-server" command, rebooted, reinstalled the nvidia driver with "sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx", I always got back to the problem above.
Also glxinfo kept saying "direct rendering: no".
I've been trying to fix it for 2 days, but the only sollution for me was a reinstall.

---

### Post by boogachamp on 2007-05-24
I am also having problems with my nvidia driver.


Whenever I switch from "nv" to "nvidia" in xorg.conf and reboot, I am left with a black screen and a flashing cursor.  I would love to get this fixed and not re-install.

---

### Post by rgx on 2007-05-29
I'm having the same problems as the original post. I had nvidia drivers installed correctly with dual monitor setup and after some configuring in the fstab to get some network drives to automount my video settings fell apart. When I run nvidia x server settings I only get this simple screen (see attached). I used to get the entire app. 

I have tried removing/reinstalling the drivers with envy then x wouldn't boot up at start and I had to revert back to a backup x file. I have also tried uninstalling with envy and re-installing with the download from nvidia and I still don't get the App working.

---

### Post by blueyelabs on 2007-06-03
i have a nvidia geforce ti 4200 as well... I got the nVidia drivers installed and stuff, but I can't get higher resolution than 800*600 in display settings and the nVidia settings doesn't really do much except give me a box asking me to enable tooltips etc.
(the monitor does support higher eg 1024*768 which the windows parition uses)

it's an old machine and I'm just trying to get it working for the hell of it and give xubuntu a chance.
running Xubuntu 7.04 Feisty Fawn.

---

