---
title: "Is this the right approach to a better view?"
date: 2007-03-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by donamai on 2007-03-25
Hey again!!

Here is the situation:

I installed Ubuntu two days ago.
I have already messed up with the xorg file.
I have to fix the xorg file

and for what? I want to be able to use my two monitors. I would like to be try again but so far I am afraid of messing up.

I ran the command sudo lspci | grep VGA to see what card I have
and this is what I got:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Matrox Graphics, Inc. G400/G450 (rev 82)

I followed the instructions on this threads and I have read some others here.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=374611](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=374611)

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773624](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773624)

**Ok, so should I temp with it again or should I leave it alone?**

my card has exactly the same settings as the one of the thread above. Matrox.

but for some reason I can't get it right.


I decided to add the code here so you can see what is going on. Perhaps you could recommend I try something or just forget about it.

What do you say? I have copied and pasted according to some threads but I can't seem to get the trick right.

```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Matrox Graphics, Inc. MGA G400 AGP"
	Driver		"mga"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"hwp"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Matrox Graphics, Inc. MGA G400 AGP"
	Monitor		"hwp"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```


Hey thanx for coming back again!

---

### Post by machoo02 on 2007-03-25
By two monitors, do you mean that you have a laptop and want to use the LCD and an additional monitor at the same time, or do you have a desktop and want to use two monitors at the same time (and the card has two VGA-out ports)?

---

### Post by pneaveill on 2007-03-25
I, too, have the matrox 400/450 card on my desktop computer as this shows:

```

root@dualboot:/usr/local/bin# lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Matrox Graphics, Inc. G400/G450 (rev 82)

```Have been working on this thing for several weeks now trying to dual-boot/dual-monitor. 

Thanks in advance

Paul

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-03-25
I had similar problems getting dual screen to work.  Couldn't figure it out.  Tried moving the 2nd video card to a different slot.  Now it works.

Sometimes there's a strange interplay of interrupts that won't allow the second display to initalize.  It's hard to pin down.

Some things to try:

Turn off primary video display (in BIOS) and boot off of secondary display.  Make sure you can address the full resolution and refresh rates that you desire.  Make a copy of the xorg.conf file and also print out the relevant pages of xorg.conf.  You will need these settings later.

Turn off Plug-n-Play OS in BIOS.  Let Linux handle assignment of the interrupts.
Post lspci and /proc/interrupts to this thread so we can see what else you have going on.

Turn off serial ports, USB ports and parallel port.  This will free up interrupts to maximize your chance of getting video to work.  Once you have a configurationing working, then turn things back on--one at a time.

Getting Dual monitor to work under Linux can be a pain.  This is definitely one area where Windows gets a thumbs up.  The upside is you only have to configure it once and then you are good to go.  Your patience is key to getting it to work.

Good luck.

---

### Post by pneaveill on 2007-03-26
> **tgalati4 said:**
> I had similar problems getting dual screen to work.  Couldn't figure it out.  Tried moving the 2nd video card to a different slot.  Now it works.

Sometimes there's a strange interplay of interrupts that won't allow the second display to initalize.  It's hard to pin down.

FIrst, thanks for the help with this. 
Second, not sure if you are aware, but the Matrox card is a dual-head (ie, single card, dual head unit)

> **tgalati4 said:**
> 
Some things to try:

Turn off primary video display (in BIOS) and boot off of secondary display.  Make sure you can address the full resolution and refresh rates that you desire.  Make a copy of the xorg.conf file and also print out the relevant pages of xorg.conf.  You will need these settings later.

Turn off Plug-n-Play OS in BIOS.  Let Linux handle assignment of the interrupts.
Post lspci and /proc/interrupts to this thread so we can see what else you have going on.

```
root@dualboot:~# lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8363/8365 [KT133/KM133] (rev 03)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8363/8365 [KT133/KM133 AGP]
00:07.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C686 [Apollo Super South] (rev 40)
00:07.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:07.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 1a)
00:07.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 1a)
00:07.4 SMBus: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C686 [Apollo Super ACPI] (rev 40)
00:07.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C686 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 50)
00:0a.0 Mass storage controller: Promise Technology, Inc. PDC20262 (FastTrak66/Ultra66) (rev 01)
00:0d.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Matrox Graphics, Inc. G400/G450 (rev 82)

```

Additionally, /proc/interrupts, was totally blank -- is this normal or something odd

> **tgalati4 said:**
> 
Turn off serial ports, USB ports and parallel port.  This will free up interrupts to maximize your chance of getting video to work.  Once you have a configuration working, then turn things back on--one at a time.

Getting Dual monitor to work under Linux can be a pain.  This is definitely one area where Windows gets a thumbs up.  The upside is you only have to configure it once and then you are good to go.  Your patience is key to getting it to work.

Good luck.

Some have suggested beryl, twinview and some others, but beryl claims it is not compatible with this card.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-03-26
You make a good point.  I assumed that you wanted a triple display.

A quick google search on Matrox g400 linux took me to the Matrox corporate site.  Digging a little I found the following release notes:

Notes
=====

The included display drivers are based on the Matrox driver source 
included with XFree86. Modifications made by Matrox include the 
addition of the Matrox HAL library, which can be optionally 
installed to enable Matrox specific features.

This display driver supports the option of using your main and 
secondary displays as if they were a single display ("merged" 
displays) divided between your two monitors. If your system is 
configured for 3D acceleration, this feature allows for 3D 
acceleration on both your displays at the same time. 

The DualHead Multi-Display - Merged feature is available on G450- 
and G550- based products only. Please take note that this feature 
does not support DVI monitors in XFree86 4.3.0, and X.org versions  
6.7.0, 6.8.0, 6.8.1, 6.8.2, 6.9.0, 7.0.0. 

The Matrox HAL ("Hardware Abstraction Layer") is a special library 
to enable features not supported by the standard XFree86 driver. 
It's required for DualHead, TV output, and DVI support with G400- 
based graphics hardware, for multi-display support with G200/G450 MMS 
products, and for DVI support. The HAL library is not required for 
basic DualHead support (without a DVI monitor) with G450- and G550-based 
graphics hardware. Also please take not that TV output is not supported 
with G450- and G550- based graphics hardware in Linux.

If I understand correctly, you have have a G400.  The G400, G450, and G500 all use the same basic driver under X11, but the Matrox driver for linux only supports dual monitor on the G450 and G550 cards.

So now the question is:

Can you get dual-monitor capability under Windows?  If so, then the Windows driver can activate this capability, but the Linux driver (provided by Matrox directly, will not support dual monitor on the G400 card.)

My dual monitor setup was between an on-board (crappy) Intel video chipset and an ATI pci card.  It works.  Performance is not stellar, but I use it for mixing music so I only need to see audio tracks--no 3D rendering.

Let us know if you find a working solution.

---

### Post by pneaveill on 2007-03-27
Not sure if I mentioned it previously, but I can do the "twin view" or two copies of the same stuff on the Ubuntu as is. Yet, on the w2k side of the dual-boot, I can see the wide screen look of things quite nicely. Yes, I discovered that matrox drivers aren't worth the bytes they take up. Thus, hoping someone had found a legitimate workaround or something.

So, should I go with 2 nvidia cards (AGP and a PCI) instead of the matrox card? Or is there a better combo?

Again, thanks in advance,

Paul

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-03-27
Yes, two copies of the same stuff is not useful.  Matrox refers to "merged" view as what I call "super desktop"  You want a panorama of two screens where you can drag the mouse across from one screen to the other and move windows so that they can span both screens.

Again, the release notes from the Matrox driver says that "merged" view is not supported on the G400.  Don't know why.  Obviously the hardware can handle it as Windows can display super desktop.  There may be an agreement with Microsoft not to provide such capability--who knows?

I got it to work with a second card an integrated video, but only because I was hacking.  If you have a spare video card, you can try it.  PCI performance is mediocre.  AGP is better.  Xorg.conf is fiddly, so expect to have some xserver crashes and black screens.  Keep a live CD handy to fix things.  Keep backups of working xorg.conf files.

Video drivers a tough to write--especially when dealing with blackbox chips. 

Have you done an extensive google search on the G400 and linux to see if others have found a work around?

Finally, send an email to Matrox requesting such support.  More voices in the community can only help to get manufacturers to better support Linux.  

Good luck.

---

### Post by pneaveill on 2007-03-28
Alas, I have done a lot of research on this card and some claim to have done it, but somehow I must be missing something. Yesterday I obtained a P-3 Dell and will use that as a test box with a variety of video cards and will place the results in a different section of this forum.

---

