---
title: "6.10 hangs during use at various times"
date: 2007-03-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Hishgraphics on 2007-03-10
I've just wiped out my 6.06 and reinstalled 6.10 into my computer which is a Pentium 3, 933 MHz, 128 + 256MB RAM, 20GB + 80GB internal hard disk drives.

Earlier [I thought it might be an NVIDIA driver problem]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=380804"), but after installing Legacy drivers the computer still hangs. Af first I thought it was because of excessive processing with low RAM, but it also hangs when I leave it for a while as well.

Any ideas how to solve this? Thanks.

---

### Post by dhughes on 2007-03-10
There is an odd bug, I guess it is, that will happen, I've had it happen to me once after a new install of 6.10 but everything has been fine after.

  Does this happen: your desktop is there and everything looks normal, the mouse pointer moves but if you try to click Applications, Places, System or anything else - nothing happens?

 I had to press ALT+F1 and then reboot using the command line using the command "shutdown -r now".

 I never followed up on it but I know I read about others having the problem, if that's the   problem you're having.

---

### Post by Hishgraphics on 2007-03-10
> **dhughes said:**
> There is an odd bug, I guess it is, that will happen, I've had it happen to me once after a new install of 6.10 but everything has been fine after.

  Does this happen: your desktop is there and everything looks normal, the mouse pointer moves but if you try to click Applications, Places, System or anything else - nothing happens?

 I had to press ALT+F1 and then reboot using the command line using the command "shutdown -r now".

 I never followed up on it but I know I read about others having the problem, if that's the   problem you're having.
I've had occasions where both the mouse pointer either moves as usual but is click-unresponsive and where everything just freezes. But mostly the latter.

I'm still wondering if my computer is not up to speed.

Or maybe there's a gremlin about somewhere in the CPU.

---

### Post by Hishgraphics on 2007-03-11
Ubuntu Edgy's still hanging here and there. I've had to reboot the computer at least 10 times yesterday and this morning. And even ALT+F1 doesn't work. It definitely hangs when Gmail and Yahoo Mail Beta is onscreen.

Any ideas to what's causing it?

---

### Post by dhughes on 2007-03-11
No I never looked into it since it only happened the once, I figured it was some freak event. 

 Although just a few moments ago I had what seemed like the same thing only it just took a really long time for what I did to happen; I clicked the home icon on my desktop and it took a long time to open.

 Search the forum, it may be more common than I think, I'll look if I find anything I'll post back here.

---

### Post by Hishgraphics on 2007-03-12
GIMP freezes after 30 seconds of creating a new file. Usually when the cursor is supposed to be moving...

Anyway, I also did a memory test using Ubuntu Live CD and it hung on me at 27% during Walltime: 0:14:55.

Anything here that means anything to anyone?:

```
Pentium III 933.4MHz
L1 Cache 32K   9150 MB/s
L2 Cache 256K 3809 MB/s
Memory   240M  152 MB/s
```

Zero errors when it freezes, by the way. CTRL+ALT+F1 to get to the command line did not work.

I keep telling everyone Ubuntu works great on older computer models but now I don't have the hardware to back up my claims. *gulp*

---

### Post by Hishgraphics on 2007-03-13
Update:
I was clutching at straws when I decided to check my screen resolution. Dimensions were 1024x728 and the refresh rate was 85Hz. Then I thought, I don't remember it being at 85Hz before I thought it was 60Hz when I used Dapper Drake. I checked the Dapper on my laptop and yes it was on 60 Hz.

So I clicked on the dropdown menu and selected 60Hz here too. Poof - the screen now looked much better and crisper.

That was 6 hours ago and the computer still hasn't frozen up yet.

Does anyone know if this is connected to this desktop PC's freezing problems I've been experiencing or is it just a coincidence that the computer hasn't frozen just yet?

---

### Post by Hishgraphics on 2007-03-21
Just to update this thread in case I need to refer to it in the future. 

Somehow or other it appears to be hanging up *because* of the monitor refresh rate. Why? I have no idea.

After the previous post, it went well for 24 hours, then after I shut down and restarted later I got the same symptoms. So I thought changing the refresh rate didn't work.

After about twenty million times having to hit the reboot button, I checked the refresh rate again and it's back up to 85 MHz. When I changed it back to 60 MHz, it didn't hang again.

Same thing happened after I restarted the computer. Checking the Screen Resolution again, indeed it has gone back up to 85. Now it's back at 60 and I checked the "default for this user" box.

So far it's been smooth sailing. Will update if there are new development.

P.S. Anyone know why the refresh rate is causing the computer to freeze?

---

### Post by cowlip on 2007-03-21
You're going to get horrible eyestrain and headaches very quickly from 60mhz refresh rate though (85mhz should be the minimum)!  I would really advise against setting it so low even with the crashes.  Maybe you should file a launchpad bug with your xorg.conf because that is really strange.

---

### Post by Hishgraphics on 2007-03-21
> **cowlip said:**
> You're going to get horrible eyestrain and headaches very quickly from 60mhz refresh rate though (85mhz should be the minimum)!  I would really advise against setting it so low even with the crashes.  Maybe you should file a launchpad bug with your xorg.conf because that is really strange.
.... whiiiich finally explains the headche this morning. LOL.

How do I file a launchpad bug with my xorg.conf?

Sorry, still a newbie here.

---

### Post by cowlip on 2007-03-21
You poor thing lol.  I wouldn't inflict 60mhz on my worst enemy (on a CRT monitor at least, LCDs are different and you CAN use 60mhz)!  Lots of office and library computers are set to make your eyes bleed because Windows sets it to 60mhz by default..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284595](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=284595)  How to File a Bug

Just attach the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf to your bug report.

---

