---
title: "6.06 on Pentium233mHz, 197 RAM?"
date: 2006-08-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dizmayed on 2006-08-30
Hi: I tried Ubuntu live on my modern computer and liked what I saw. I'd like to install it on an old box now successfully running Windows2000: as above with on-board graphics, 24xCD, 6G HD. I know this setup is marginal but since it runs Windows OK, why not?

With the old box, Ubuntu live (running from the CD) shows horrribly distorted grapics. I tried to install, intending to do a clean install erasing Windows, thinking it might run properly from the HD. But "prepare disk space" repeatedly stops at ~65%.

Is this a symptom of my ancient computer or something else? Thanks -Diz

---

### Post by &#12465;&#12452;&#12488; on 2006-08-30
You should probably use the alternate install CD, the one without the live CD installer, because booting GNOME from the CD is a quite heavy task. Also, you might want to look into [Xubuntu](http://xubuntu.org/), as it's designed to be a light-weight system.

There's also [url=http://www.damnsmalllinux.org/]Damn Small Linux[/url, which runs neatly on my really old boxes, but (X)Ubuntu should be able to run good on your specs anyway.

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-08-30
Have you tried using the alternate-cd? also you may be better off using xubuntu on that spec'ed machine.

---

### Post by fragman204 on 2006-08-30
You cut try Puppy linux. There is one call puppy 2.02CE, comes with evething you can think. Is 180mb and you can install it to a flash drive, to bootup from it.

---

### Post by az on 2006-08-30
> **dizmayed said:**
> 
Is this a symptom of my ancient computer or something else? Thanks -Diz

You need 256 megs of ram to install using the live cd.  You can use the alternate cd if you have less memory, as mentioned.

Windows 2000 is the least ressource-intensive OS around because it is the most barebones.  Ubuntu is often faster than windows XP, but not windows 2000.

---

### Post by Anduu on 2006-08-30
Not to mention Ubuntu will eat a good chunk of that 6 gig drive...

---

### Post by dizmayed on 2006-08-31
Thanks for all the ideas. I succeeded in installing xubuntu as suggested. It works, connects, etc., but is still plagued by the shimmering/double vision crummy display problem described elsewhere in the threads.

Maybe I'll spend a little more time on the display issue and if no success I'll add this little HD to my good computer.

Thx again,  Diz

---

### Post by IYY on 2006-08-31
Could be a video driver issue. Try changing it to 'vesa'.

---

