---
title: "7.1 booting problem"
date: 2007-12-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by calmabiding on 2007-12-21
My friend loaded Ubu 7.1 into this LG computer a couple of weeks ago. It worked O.K. except that a gmail icon in the control bar kept loading gmail in a loop that would crash the computer. Another friend somehow removed the icon so I would access gmail via the browser and this problem was solved. Lately when I boot I get the following:FSCK died exit status 4  Logical block 851970   Error reading block851970  (attempt to read block from file system resulted in short read) while getting next inode from scan. Run fsck manually (without -a or -p option)          In the last session before these problems I downloaded Google's legal agreement.  The last time I got to My desktop I saw two new files one of which was labeled  TA4096 .  I'm now operating on UBU 7.04 from a disc. Since I'm pretty new to computers, I'm curious to know what's going on as much as to fix it. Any suggestions ?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-12-21
> **calmabiding said:**
> My friend loaded Ubu 7.1 into this LG computer a couple of weeks ago. It worked O.K. except that a gmail icon in the control bar kept loading gmail in a loop that would crash the computer. Another friend somehow removed the icon so I would access gmail via the browser and this problem was solved. Lately when I boot I get the following:FSCK died exit status 4  Logical block 851970   Error reading block851970  (attempt to read block from file system resulted in short read) while getting next inode from scan. Run fsck manually (without -a or -p option)          In the last session before these problems I downloaded Google's legal agreement.  The last time I got to My desktop I saw two new files one of which was labeled  TA4096 .  I'm now operating on UBU 7.04 from a disc. Since I'm pretty new to computers, I'm curious to know what's going on as much as to fix it. Any suggestions ?

Hi and I had a issue with fsck the other day and I use the live cd to boot and in the terminal I used this command ```
sudo fdisk -l

``` to find the partition that was giving the issue and then ran fsck on that partition **example** of the command ```
sudo fsck /dev/sda5 
``` SO you may try this from the live cd and just manually run fsck on that partition and hope this helps. Good luck!

---

