---
title: "6.10 instal"
date: 2007-02-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by vqmaxima95 on 2007-02-01
Hello all,
      
     So I just downloaded the new ubuntu and burned it to a CD, but my old laptop wont read read the CD. Im pretty sure I need to get some kind of CD emulater program. Can anyone Help:confused: ](*,) ](*,)

---

### Post by deadgobby on 2007-02-01
Did you burn the CD as a ISO file. And if so, did you burn it really slow like. Like 10x 
Gobby

---

### Post by linux_kid on 2007-02-01
Did you just copy the .iso onto a cd?
You have to use one of those programs from sonic that come with your pc to burn an .iso
sorry about the confusion

---

### Post by vqmaxima95 on 2007-02-01
I used the recomended software from Ubuntu InfrRecorder and just wrote the contents to the cd.

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-02-01
> So I just downloaded the new ubuntu and burned it to a CD, but my old laptop wont read read the CD. Im pretty sure I need to get some kind of CD emulater program. Can anyone Help


Can it read a cd if you put it in to read it or listen to music?

---

### Post by skyhopper88 on 2007-02-01
You may have burned it as a data file, not an image. I did that on accident.

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-02-01
> **vqmaxima95 said:**
> Hello all,
      
     So I just downloaded the new ubuntu and burned it to a CD, but my old laptop wont read read the CD. Im pretty sure I need to get some kind of CD emulater program. Can anyone Help:confused: ](*,) ](*,)

Is it a brand of media that you have used before in that drive? Can it read/listen to any other CDs?

---

