---
title: "v7.10 Live Disc: Effects require reboot!"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by popie on 2007-10-24
I'm trying to test the desktop effects using the Live disc. My friend enabled  the squiggly windows without a problem when he booted up the live disc.

When I boot the live disc and try to select desktop effects, I'm told I need to install nVidia drivers, which I do, but the system wants to REBOOT before it will let me enable effects. Of course rebooting wipes everything out... How can I do this without a full install? Why was my friend able to enable effects using the live disc?

I've got an nVidia 6200 video card.

---

### Post by ezak on 2007-10-24
The "Normal" Visual Effects are enabled by default on Ubuntu Gutsy.

if you were looking for any other fancy custom compiz/compiz-fusion graphics effects, then you need a full install with the drivers of course;)

So to check, navigate to System > Preferences > Appearance > Visual Effects tab and try to enable 
the "Normal" setting just in case it is disabled:)

---

### Post by popie on 2007-10-24
> **ezak said:**
> The "Normal" Visual Effects are enabled by default on Ubuntu Gutsy.

if you were looking for any other fancy custom compiz/compiz-fusion graphics effects, then you need a full install with the drivers of course;)

So to check, navigate to System > Preferences > Appearance > Visual Effects tab and try to enable 
the "Normal" setting just in case it is disabled:)

That's exactly what failed. The "normal" effects were disabled, and enabling them required installing the nvidia drivers, which required a reboot. So.... no effects are possible. 

As soon as I clicked "normal" a window came up offering to install the nvidia drivers, and it said they were necessary before enabling the effects (normal or advanced).

Oh... and my friend enabled advanced with the live disc. Not sure why that worked, but all he got were squiggly windows.

---

### Post by multifaceted on 2007-10-24
You're probably going to need to do an install in order to configure your video card to perform like you want. Remember, the LiveCD is only running off of your computer's **RAM**... your Nvidia drivers are only accessible via the Hard Disk (**C:/**) and not **R**andom **A**ccess **M**emory

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2007-10-24
I has this same problem on 7.04, so this might be worth a try.

Run your Live CD as normal and download the nividia drivers as usual. Enable the desktop effects and when you're asked to reboot, do a soft reset (Ctl-Alt-BkSp). This should make the LiveCD reset but keep the nividia settings. You should now be able to run the desktop effects.

Sometimes it takes two soft resets to make this work, but I never found a problem with it.

Hope that helps.

BTW, I also run on an nvidia 6200

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2007-10-24
> **popie said:**
> When I boot the live disc and try to select desktop effects, I'm told I need to install nVidia drivers, which I do, but the system wants to REBOOT before it will let me enable effects. 
Install the nvidia-drivers and press **CTRL + ALT + BACKSPACE**.

---

