---
title: ".deb"
date: 2006-02-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by lzfy on 2006-02-13
Forgive me if this is a stupid question :)  I just want to know if it is possible to build Deb's that contains all the dependencies. So you just install an app without installing other packages first.

---

### Post by Klaidas on 2006-02-13
If you install with apt-get, or Synaptic, it will take care of those dependencies

---

### Post by byen on 2006-02-13
Well.. im not sure about that but if you are trying to install a .deb and want to take care of dependencies you can easily do it by typing these commands at the terminal:

sudo dpkg -i packagename.deb
sudo apt-get -f install

The first installs the programs and informs abt missing packages
The second command installs the missing packages and completes the installation.

I think doing the above is more beneficial compared to buiding a deb with all the dependent packages because:
1. Package size would be smaller (most may not need all the packages...as they may have some already installed)
2. Its better to let synaptic/ubuntu take care of any dependency issues that may arise
3. All users may not have the same verison of the release and this may cause compatibilty issues and for a developer/user...its a pain they/you dont need. Esp. when the distribution can take care of it.

Hmm... I hope my answer helps in some way ...

---

### Post by lzfy on 2006-02-13
Thanks byen, I didn't knew about the second command :)

Anyway the reason why i ask this is because i have some friends who wants to install Linux but are affraid of the dependencie issues. So i thought if I could build Deb's that contains all the dependencies it would help them  a lot.

> I think doing the above is more beneficial compared to buiding a deb with all the dependent packages because:
1. Package size would be smaller (most may not need all the packages...as they may have some already installed)
2. Its better to let synaptic/ubuntu take care of any dependency issues that may arise
3. All users may not have the same verison of the release and this may cause compatibilty issues and for a developer...its a pain they dont need. Esp. when the distribution can take care of it.

1. Hmm i don't think the package size would matter in this case because we have fast internet. I don't know how Ubuntu takes care of the installed packages but i thought it would be something like this: When you build an Deb with all the dependencies and want to install that on a system, Ubuntu will look at the installed packages and if there are some missing it will install them from the Deb. If the required packages are installed then they will not be installed from the deb.

Correct me if i'm wrong :P this is my theory

2. You're right here.

3. So my theory is not correct after all :D

---

### Post by byen on 2006-02-13
Hey Izfy,
Actually I really understand what you mean. I have wondered many times about deb's coming with all the necessary packaged. But again... Ive seen that most packages are shared by various programs...So it seemed only logical to let synaptic take care of it.
> When you build an Deb with all the dependencies and want to install that on a system, Ubuntu will look at the installed packages and if there are some missing it will install them from the Deb. If the required packages are installed then they will not be installed from the deb.
Ok. Now... this idea I actually like.. but what if there is a conflict between versions? or if any compatability issues arise?  Say,
1. You have made a deb with a dependent program version abc.2 and there are other programs which use abc.1 (where abc is shared by other programs too) What if the other applications are not compatible with abc.2? ..as installing the deb upgrades the abc package from 1 to 2)
(now in synaptic when such a problem arises.. it usually downgrades/installs/upgrades the necessary versions by itself) taking the best route to get all dependent software running.
2. What if, the version abc.2 is incompatible with Ubuntu and Ubuntu instead uses abx.2? Is it easier to let synaptic take care of it...or is it easier to check for each and every file for such issues?
> I don't know how Ubuntu takes care of the installed packages
Simple, Ubuntu checks for Dependencies and installs it. If there is a conflict.. It gives you a message saying 
File abc has version 012
You need version 013 to use this program. 

usually if there is an upgrade availabe ..it does that too! If not you can find the files and would have to upgrade manually!

Bottom line.. by doing 
sudo dpkg -i packagename.deb
sudo apt-get -f install

All dependecies would be taken care of, That too by a single command. Now do not get me wrong... I love the idea... but what you have suggested takes a lot of effort. 
Well.. thats my 2cents

---

### Post by lzfy on 2006-02-13
Thanks byen, your answers really helped me understanding how things works :) 

> Ok. Now... this idea I actually like.. but what if there is a conflict between versions? or if any compatability issues arise? Say,
1. You have made a deb with a dependent program version abc.2 and there are other programs which use abc.1 (where abc is shared by other programs too) What if the other applications are not compatible with abc.2? ..as installing the deb upgrades the abc package from 1 to 2)

Well I thought about installing both packages, so if you have abc.1 already installed the deb will leave that alone and install the required package, in this case abc.2. 
> as installing the deb upgrades the abc package from 1 to 2
But from what I read from your post this is not possible.

> (now in synaptic when such a problem arises.. it usually downgrades/installs/upgrades the necessary versions by itself) taking the best route to get all dependent software running.

You're right, let synaptic take care of it because i never had problems with it. My way makes it easier for the end user but a hell for the coder :mrgreen:

---

### Post by byen on 2006-02-13
> But from what I read from your post this is not possible.
To be frank.. Im not sure this is entirely not possible. Surely there must be a way (something in the lines of installing version.x only if a certain criteria is met..else fallback to the current stable version)... but in anycase... you never know.. Your Idea might payoff in someway... esp while installing a custom program which needs custom configured (unshared) dependent software. Well.. now you got me all worked up and I wanna look into this too.. :-) oh well...

---

### Post by lzfy on 2006-02-13
> Well.. now you got me all worked up and I wanna look into this too..  oh well...

hehe good luck with that and let me know if is possible ;)

---

### Post by dvarsam on 2006-02-14
"lzfy" said this:

" ...I just want to know if it is possible to build/get a .deb that contains all the 
     dependencies..." &
"... I don't think the package size would matter in this case because we have fast 
     internet..."

My Comment:
Dear "lzfy", I agree with you totally!!!
We do NOT care about a ".deb's" Package size, as long as it includes ALL the **dependency** packages in it.

Then "byen" says the following:

"... but what if there is a conflict between versions?..."
"... you have a .deb with a dependent program version abc.2 & some other 
     programs which use abc.1..."
"... Now, Synaptic when such a problem arises, it usually
     downgrades/installs/upgrades the necessary versions by itself, taking the best 
     route to get ALL dependent software running..."
"... Synaptic checks for each & every file for such issues & solves them..."

Then "lzfy" suggested the following:

"... I thought about installing BOTH packages..."
"... So if you have abc.1 already installed, the .deb will leave that alone & install 
      the required package, abc.2..."

My Comment:
Let me first start with "byen".
Dear "byen", please let me DOUBT the fact that "Synaptic" or "Automatix" or whatever Package you want CAN solve **EVERY** conflict between programs.

Now, dear "lzfy":
What you are suggesting is a very BAD idea!
So, what if there were 10 different versions of 1 program & some of your other programs needed version1 & others version 3 & others version 5, you would install THE SAME Package 10 times in your Computer?
What about your Hard Drive Space?
Your Hard Drive would FILL up with the SAME program 10 times & SAME dependencies probably _another_ 10 times (but different versions)?

Dear "byen", I do NOT think it is even worth searching the possibility to have diff versions of the SAME program so half of your OTHER programs use version 1 to work with & the rest use version 2.

So, in ANY case, I believe that a .deb package MUST include _ALL_ dependency programs & the computer when installing a Package MUST install ONLY the newest Package version AND the newest dependency program versions.

Conficts will always be solved as time goes by.... & as long as people are looking for a way to solve them.

For Me ( & hopefully for everybody else) to Rely COMPLETELY on Synaptic Or Automatix or whatever else, is considered ridiculous!!!

I posted an article (# 129303), on this too!

And basically I was TOLD (if not FORCED), to either use Synaptic OR Automatix.

And in any case, if I want to save ".deb" files & its dependencies, I was told to create a CD which backs up all installed packages & AGAIN use the Synaptic to install later.

This is ridiculous!!!
As if the Synaptic is some kind of Devil that I can not get rid off...

And do NOT tell me to try to install ".tar.gz" or ".deb" files myself, because with YOUR article & the co-dependecies - I can NEVER go INDEPENDENT & INSTALL or BACKUP a damn Package myself!!!

And you know what:
I REALLY thought that the **WHOLE** LINUX idea OR concept, was to let us INSTALL or do things to our computer the WAY we want...!!! 

I will always HAVE to Rely on a "st*p*d" Synaptic or Automatix or "Fast_Install_atix" software & _always_ MUST rely on an Internet Connection to Download Packages...
...if I want to install on more than 1 computer.

...Because to have to create a CD, _EVERY_ time I download NEW software & dependencies & go through this AGAIN & AGAIN is ridiculous...:mad: 

Let me say JUST end with this:

Dear Linux Programmers,

1. if you whole effort is to make our lives MISERABLE, then keep it on the way you 
    are doing...

2. If your whole effort is to make us HAPPY, please create your ".deb" files (or 
    whatever other installable files) with the dependencies included, so we are 
    finally ABLE to INSTALL & Backup a SINGLE program file (INDEPENDENTLY of 
    Synaptic or Automatix) & NOT to wonder around about having BACKED UP the 
    co-dependencies & other paraphernalia...

Wasn't the LINUX goal to design a BETTER working OS than Windows?

Why do I NEED to wonder on how to solve NEW problems?

... Problems I did NOT have in Windows?

Read my other article (#129449), & probably you will understand why - AT LEAST - programs should be easy to INSTALL...

...Unless ... the WHOLE world is up against LINUX & try to make README files SO difficult/complex (on purpose), so NOBODY can install software INDEPENDENTLY...

Thanks,

Dimitris.

P.S. > I hope LINUX Creators/Programmers consider & take seriously our Views, 
           Comments & suggestions for Improvements.

P.S.2> Also, programs created for LINUX should have an Uninstall option. 
           Because you force us again to NEED/RELY (or install) from Synaptic just to 
           be able to Uninstall a Software.

---

### Post by David Corrales on 2006-02-14
You could always recompile everything statically and end up with really big packages... lots of redundancy though.

---

### Post by nekr0z on 2006-03-10
Well, dear dvarsam, I don't think you're right.

Let us assume all the packages are distributed with all the dependencies included. And let's say I want to install Gaim, for example.

Gaim needs GTK to run, so the developer includes GTK in the package. GTK is something 10 times bigger than Gaim, and GTK needs X-server to run, so they include x.org, which is even bigger. And they all need a kernel to run on, so the developer includes a kernel, too. Which makes Gaim's .deb to have nearly all Linux inside. something 300 megs. I download it.

Then I want Rhythmbox. It needs GTK too, which needs X-server and kernel. So I once again have to download another 300 megs of .deb package.

Normally, if I have Ubuntu installed, I already have GTK, x.org and kernel, too. And I don't see any point in downloading them again and again when I want any new program (or even an upgrade).

What Synaptic (or apt-get) does is look at what is already installed, and then download something, that is not installed. If another program needs the same things, they are reused, and not downloaded again. *This* is logical. Your way is not.

---

