---
title: "7.04 not connecting to the internet"
date: 2007-05-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rath3r on 2007-05-11
hey,

My 7.04 has stopped connecting to the internet in recent days and I've no clue as to why. It says it is connected when my DSL modem is inserted but still won't connect using Firefox. I can't remember the command or commands that will divulge all of my laptops inter secrets otherwise I would have included that straight off.

Please Help!

ps. Not sure if a little note on how much I like using ubuntu is appropriate but I would like to include one anyway. Ubuntu is great.

---

### Post by Acksys on 2007-05-11
Output from ```
ifconfig
``` or ```
dmesg | grep eth
``` could be helpful.

Have you tried looking at System -> Administration -> Network and making sure the interface is set up correctly?

---

### Post by rath3r on 2007-05-11
> **Acksys said:**
> Output from ```
ifconfig
``` 

eth0           Link encap:Ethernet   HWaddr 00:16:D4:33:20:D7
                  UP BROADCAST MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
                  RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
                  TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
                  collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
                  RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 b)

eth0:avah Link encap:Ethernet HWaddr  00:16:D4:33:20:D7
                  inet addr:169.254.7.11 Bcast:169.254.255.255   Mask:255.255.0.0
                  UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1

lo               Link encap:Local Loopback
                  inet addr:127.0.0.1   Mask:255.0.0.0
                  UP LOOPBACK RUNNING   MTU:16436    Metric:1
                  RX packets:34 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
                  TX packets:34 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
                  collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
                  RX bytes:2564  (2.5 KiB)     TX bytes:2564  (2.5 KiB)




> **Acksys said:**
> or ```
dmesg | grep eth
``` could be helpful.

[      15.204000] e100: eth0: e100_probe:  addr 0xd0100000,irq 21, MAC addr 00:16:D4:33:20:D7
[      64.128000] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready


> **Acksys said:**
> Have you tried looking at System -> Administration -> Network and making sure the interface is set up correctly?

I've tried System->Administration->Network and everything looks good and the 'help' is not helpful either. I did everything it said without any joy. 

I hope this helps as I've just transcribed these outputs across onto my friends laptop and it was not fun.

---

### Post by saphil on 2007-05-11
can you ping an outside address? 
```
ping ubuntuforums.org
```if it says this is unknown, you probably have a dns issue.
Where are you getting your DNS?
DHCP from your router, or cable modem?
Your DNS could be bad
That would have the effect of being online but not in the internet

[http://www.root-servers.org/](http://www.root-servers.org/) 
is the list of the main DNS Servers for the internet..  try one of those??

---

### Post by Acksys on 2007-05-12
```
inet addr:169.254.7.11 Bcast:169.254.255.255 Mask:255.255.0.0
```

The 169.254.* address indicates that DHCP isn't working correctly.

What is the output if you do ```
sudo ifdown eth0
``` and then ```
sudo ifup eth0
```?

Are you sure your DSL modem isn't on standby, all cables are securely connected, etc?

---

