---
title: "6.10 Live CD Problems! Help!"
date: 2007-01-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-05
I downloaded 6.10 and I want to get familliar with Gnome. So I pop in my Live CD and i get a pretty boot screen, I press enter and the bar scrolling left and right... keeps scrolling left and right. And my HD light is on but the CD isn't doing any thing. Out the HD's go and i restart.

I restart and choose normal boot up mode. The bar stops scrolling and loads nicely. (nice logo u guys got for the boot screen by the way, none of winblow's installers are as nice as ubuntu) But after the bar loads, screen goes black with the blinker... then I get the linux BSOD with russian characters bordering a blue and red mess. With "I could not start X window thingy, want some details bout whats wrong with me?". :rolleyes: Once again this PC has graphical issues with Linux... 5 diffrent distros so far and live cd's only 1 has worked fully worked!! (knoppix) :-# 

The discritpion says alot of gibberish like a key, then it gets to the main part.

```
Fatal server error:
no screens found
```

No screen found? lol i just watched the pretty orange bar move around and the nice ubuntu logo a moment ago... and i can read the message.... how is there no monitor found? :-k 

System Spec:

AMD 64 3000+ socket 754
600 somthing Mb ram
ATI x300 PCIe
ViewSonic G70f CRT monitor

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2007-01-05
ati driver issue search forums and you will find various threads

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-05
:/ Why does knoppix work ok with x300 but ubuntu doesn't want to play with him?

How do I install a driver when I can't get the desktop open and theres like no where to install the files... I just want to play with gnome and ubby.

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-05
Hey, these 2 pictures are EXACTLY what screen i'm getting!!

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332332](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332332)

---

### Post by finer recliner on 2007-01-05
i have the ATI mobility X300 card, and i run ubuntu 6.06 just fine. (including the live cd)

i havent tried 6.10

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-06
](*,)  Then maybe its my monitor? Help is greatly appreceated please!

---

### Post by Rotodyne on 2007-01-06
> **kavon89 said:**
> ](*,)  Then maybe its my monitor? Help is greatly appreceated please!

I have that same video card, I have a spare monitor that I will try in a few minutes to see if we can rule something out.

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-06
Funny, same card same problem. Seems to be our ATI x300's then because we both have one, and we both have the exact same issue. Down to the screenshots of russian characters showing up.

---

### Post by jodrre on 2007-01-06
I don't have the same monitor problems, but wouldn't it be easier to force it to think its a diff monitor, then when everything loads, getting a new driver and making it resolve to your monitor correctly?

---

### Post by rccharles on 2007-01-06
> **kavon89 said:**
>  Once again this PC has graphical issues with Linux... 5 diffrent distros so far and live cd's only 1 has worked fully worked!! (knoppix) :-# 



What I suggest you try is to copy the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file from Knoppix to your Ubuntu installation.  This has worked for me in getting a GUI in Ubuntu, although I have different hardware.

I won't be able to give you the specific commands.

Boot up in Knoppix.

You may be able to copy the file directly to the harddrive.  I think if you right click on the harddrive icon on the desktop, Knoppix will let you change the harddrive to read/write. Otherwise you will have to umount and mount the harddrive. 

The file to copy is:
/etc/X11/xorg.conf


As an alternative, you could copy the file a floppy or memory stick.

Should you copy the file to a  floppy or memory stick, boot up the PC.  When booting is done,  press
control-alt-f1

You may have to do this more than once.  This will put in a console session.  Logon and do something like:

sudo bash
cd /etc/X11
ls
mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup
# mount command may differ and need more parameters
# I think /media/floppy is in /etc/fstab
mount /media/floppy 

cp /media/floppy/xorg.conf xorg.conf

# there are other ways of restarting X11, but I'll burt force it.
init 1

init 2


Robert
8)

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-06
Thing is I just want to get familliar with Gnome/Ubuntu without installing. This is my gaming system and I don't want to put Ubuntu on here when I doubt I'll use it here. I downloaded to fully install on my Laptop, which I use for programming etc.

I am going to dig up my old Radeon 7000 PCI card and try it. Every distro of Linux I tried has failed with my x300 cept Knoppix, has worked very well with my Radeon 7000, heck the 7000 works more effieiently than on winblows too! Before scrolling up and down a webpage was jittery with winblows, on Linux it was smooth as milk.

---

### Post by kavon89 on 2007-01-06
I am making a new post refering to this thread in the General Help section.

New Thread: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332666](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=332666)

Please don't post here but rather in the new thread because I won't be watching this one.

Thank you

---

