---
title: "[SOLVED] upgrade problems with gutsy"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by noorez on 2007-10-22
Hi, I've just upgraded from feisty to the newest gutsy installation and I've run into some problems.

First, I can't find the cpu speed controller. I have an Intel Centrino Duo. I know that it can support speed control because I can do it on my windows installation.

Second, the nvidia graphics drivers don't seem to want to install properly at all. If I try using the restricted river manager to install them, and when i restart, i get some low resolution interface. 

Third, the kernel images in grub don't go in the expected order: the newest one is not at the top like it usually is? 


I tried using the older version of the kernel to boot when the newer one failed horribly and it seems to be working better: i got the screen brightness bar back...

Does someone have solutions to these problems, if you've run into them?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-22
Hi. You may want to add the CPU Frequency Scaling Monitor to your top panel: right click on an empty space in the panel and select "Add to Panel...", then scroll down until you find the applet, and press "Add".

For the resolution problem, try running nvidia-settings from the terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal):
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```
and see if your desired resolution is listed there.

---

### Post by noorez on 2007-10-22
Hmm....

I've looked at the CPU frequency scalling monitor....

Doesn't it just give you a dynamic graph of how much the cpu's are working? I'm actually looking for the option that controls cpu frequency... the one that was talked about on the main ubuntu page where they advertised the improvments the gutsy..


For the video card problem...I should have been more specific....Normally, when ubuntu starts you get the logo with the orange loading bar, then interface starts right away. For me, it flickered between a console...( i think the one you get with ctrl-alt-F1 )? ...when the gui finally started, I actually got some sort of message telling me that ubuntu is running in low graphics mode because it couldn't detect my video card or driver settings......

---

### Post by noorez on 2007-10-22
I should also note that, I am getting the same problem with the volume control that I did when I first upgraded to Fiesty.... the volume is extrealy soft and I can't turn it up AT ALL!....

should i just reinstall fiesty until gutsy is properly fixed? or if support is now over for fiesty, i wouldn't mind the older LTS one....


any help on this?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-22
The cpu scaling monitor gives me the following notice:
> CPU frequency scaling unsupported

You will not be able to modify the frequency of your machine.  Your machine may be misconfigured or not have hardware support for CPU frequency scaling.

Which is perfectly understandable for my processor; that, however, was what lead me to suggest it, as I thought it would give you the option of managing the CPU speed. Sorry about that.

A search in Synaptic gave me the following results for "CPU scaling":
[LIST]
[*]**cpudyn** - CPU dynamic frequency control for processors with scaling.
[*]**cpufreqd** - fully configurable daemon for dynamic frequency and voltage scaling.
[*]**emifreq-applet** - CPU Frequency Scaling applet.
[*]**gnome-applets** - already installed.
[*]**wmnetload** - an app for monitoring network load
[/LIST]

Maybe one of the first three is what you're looking for.

For the sound issue, try running **alsamixer** in the terminal and play with the levels of the channels to see if one raises the volume; that's the channel that must be set in the Volume Applet and in "System->Preferences->Sound", on the "Devices" tab. If you'd rather run alsamixer with a GUI, then install either **gnome-alsamixer** or **alsamixergui**.

As for the video card, could you please post your xorg.conf?
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by noorez on 2007-10-22
Ok. The xorg.conf file is below this, after enabling the restricted nvidia driver. Also, I got some very strange results after enabling them:

1) I received that message saying that I can't control my cpu speed that you mention as an error message dialog.

   I wonder why this is happening? I have a pretty good processor? Intel Centrino Duo...its still a good processor isnt it?

2) When I didn't have the restricted drivers enabled, the sound worked fine, when I enabled it just now, the sound started giving me the volume problem

I also want to mention separatly that the brightness applet is bugged,
in that screen brightness doesn't get dimmer as you move the slider down, the brightness jumps from low to high...




# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce Go 7600]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-64
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce Go 7600]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-22
I don't see anything out of the ordinary, except these two items:
> SubSection "Display"
Modes "1280x800"
You only have one resolution, which seems odd to me. And:
> Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection
have you modified the xorg.conf file?

Perhaps doing a reconfigure of the X server can help: to do this, press CTRL+ALT+F1; that will leave you in a console. Log in if you're asked to, then:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
next:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
you should accept all the defaults, except for the video driver (choose **nvidia**). If you are absolutely certain that your card and monitor support a resolution higher than what the defaults tell you, add it to the list. Once that finishes:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Antoher thing that cold be done: the previous kernel works well for you; you could try uninstalling the newer kernel from Synaptic (marking it for complete removal), and do an update:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
where you should be notified of the new kernel and can then install it. Maybe this will correct the configuration problems you've been having with it.

---

### Post by noorez on 2007-10-22
OK, the dpkg reconfigure did not work. I got the same result.

As for the linux-kernal image problem, i just misread version numbers. I am using the latest one, which is the working one. sorry for confusion on that part.

As for sound, it now appears to be random: sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't?
even when i don't use the bad driver as i stated before...

CPU frequency scaling is apparently unsupported for my comp rite now, but I'll do some more searching on this.

---

