---
title: "6.06 Installation Problems"
date: 2006-07-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by nyijedi on 2006-07-01
Hello everyone.  I want to preface this by saying I did search for help on this problem (not only on this forum), but have not yet found a solution.  I'm trying to install ubuntu 6.06 on an existing hard drive with windows xp already installed (dual boot).

When I initially tried to install ubuntu, I chose to manually edit the partition table.  I first resized the existing NTFS partition (w/ Windows already installed) in partitionmagic.  I then used the ubuntu partitioner to format the remaining, unallocated space of my HD in the following way:
1. Created a partition for ubuntu (ext3)
2. Created a partition for linux swap (linux-swap)
3. Created a partition of remaining space in FAT 32 for shared files

After specifying these partitions and moving on, I have problems on Step 5 when I am asked to prepare mount points.  On this screen, I have one drop-down menu for "Mount Point", nothing is listed for "Size," and the drop-down for "Partition" is EMPTY.  I've tried this numerous times, and get stuck at the same point every time.

Frustrated, I decided to use the option to simply use the largest amount of continuous space to install ubuntu.  When I do this, everything installs fine until the very end, when I then get an error that GRUB could not be installed on hd0.  The installation definitely tried doing something on my MBR, b/c after this happens, I am unable to load Windows (error loading OS) - I have to use GAG to then get into windows.

My first preference is to be able to format the partitions manually, so if anyone knows what I'm doing wrong, I would appreciate any input.  Also, is there any way to install ubuntu w/o installing GRUB, since this is where I'm having a problem?  Is there a way to simply use GAG as my boot loader instead of GRUB?

Thanks so much for all of the help.

---

### Post by tonyr on 2006-07-01
It sounds like you're using the LiveCD to install.  If you can get the Aternate CD 
or the Server CD, you should try the installation with one of those.  It uses a
text based interface, and at the GRUB step you can <Back> out and skip the GRUB
installation.

---

### Post by nyijedi on 2006-07-01
You are correct about the LiveCD.  I'm going to download the alternate CD and give this a shot now.  Thanks for the suggestion.

---

### Post by nyijedi on 2006-07-01
I got further using the alternate CD, but I still had an error when GRUB tried installing.  I figured out that the problem was that my hard drive is plugged into a promise ATA133 IDE port on my mobo, not the primary IDE.  When I switched to the primary IDE and installed, GRUB installed perfectly.  However, ubuntu only loads if my HD is connected to my primary IDE channel, and it won't load the root files when I try connecting through my ATA133 IDE mobo connector.

I'm assuming the problem is that when I plug into my ATA133 connector, my HD is located at hdi, and not hd1.  Does anyone know if there is a way to edit/change the info the GRUB is using so I can leave my HD connected to the ATA133 port instead of the primary IDE port?

---

### Post by givré on 2006-07-01
```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
And see at the end.
But be sure of what you change in this file. I recommand you to do a backup of this file before:
```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.bckp
```

---

### Post by nyijedi on 2006-07-01
Thank you for the advice.  I'm going to try this, but before I do, I have a noob question.  Once I backup the file, if I screw up want to restore the original menu.lst, how do I do this, since I would obviously be unable to log back into ubuntu?

---

### Post by tonyr on 2006-07-01
Boot the LiveCD.  Mount the root partition of your installation (**/dev/hdi1** ?) on some
convenient mount point (you may have to create one).  Say you created the
directory **/media/hdi1** and mounted** /dev/hdi1** there.  Then you would
```

sudo cd /media/hdi1/boot/grub
sudo cp menu.lst.bckp menu.lst

```

---

