---
title: "Can't get 1280 x 1024"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Geekboy on 2007-10-20
I can't get my screen resolution to 1280 x 1024.  My only option is 1280 X 960.  I have tried  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and rebooted.  That did not work.  I also did  sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg but only got this: ```
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20071020172144

``` I rebooted and still do not have the choice.  

Also, this is my config in xorg.conf:

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Geekboy on 2007-10-20
Could this be a driver issue?

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-10-20
> **Geekboy said:**
> Could this be a driver issue?
Possibly. What driver are you using? (it's in the section of xorg.conf right above what you quoted). 

I have the same GPU, so I can tell you that it should say "intel."

---

### Post by Qwerty_ on 2007-10-20
Geekboy have you tried installing the restricted drivers?

System>Administration>Restricted Drivers Manager

---

### Post by Geekboy on 2007-10-20
I got it working.  My PC is using integrated Intel 950 graphics card.  Ubuntu was using a default Intel driver.  I didn't note which.  I did install i915resolution, although I don't think that was what helped me.  Under Administration > Screens and Graphics, I was able to choose a driver.  I selected the closest one, an i945 driver.  I rebooted and I had the proper resolution.

Now I'm happy.  :)

---

