---
title: "Xmodmap"
date: 2007-08-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ofb on 2007-08-27
Okay, here's the story:

I have ~/.xmodmap-redfish that I /think/ was generated by XKeyCaps a dog's age ago when I first installed Ubuntu 6.10. (7.04 now.)

I used it to deal with my slightly different keyboard - an old Microsoft Ergo that puts the Alt keys near the middle (a bit of a stretch to do Alt-arrow), and the fact that I mouse on the left - so the business of Left and Right versions of Ctrl was screwing me up. I believe I made both Ctrl the same command. Or something like that.

The point is, everything has been just fine until now in Gimp I'm finding Ctrl selections do not work correctly. I'm guessing Gimp needs separate Left and Right Ctrl keys.

What I want to do, first, is revert to a stock keyboard setup so I have a clean slate.

So... do I just delete ~/.xmodmap-redfish?

Here's the header of that file

```
!
! This is an `xmodmap' input file for 
!   PC 105 key, wide Delete, tall Enter (XFree86; US) keyboards.
! Automatically generated on Wed Mar 14 10:37:25 2007 by o with
! XKeyCaps 2.47; Copyright (c) 1991-1999 Jamie Zawinski; 2005-2006 Christoph Berg.
! http://www.jwz.org/xkeycaps/
!
! This file presupposes that the keyboard is in the default state, and
! may malfunction if it is not.
!
```

---

### Post by Vadi on 2007-08-27
I'd go that way, yes.

---

### Post by ofb on 2007-08-27
Well, turns out that's not enough. I renamed the file with .BAK2, and got the attached startup dialog for "Load modmap files".

So I removed the highlighted 'xmodmap-redfish' (which no longer exists anyway) and continued.

Result is my Alt's are back in the standard positons, but Ctl is still messed up in Gimp. When I chose Selection and Ctrl-drag, I should get a selection box centered around the start point. I do, but with the added feature of a minus sign - these selections are removed from existing selections, not created. No amount of experimentation revealed a key combo to create normal selections.

So, I'm guessing I still don't have Right and Left Ctl keys?

I opened the Gnome Configuration Editor, and had a look under desktop/gnome/peripherals/host-redfish/kbd -

'layout' value: none
'model' value: none
'options' value: 'lv3	lv3:lwin_switch'
'overrideSettings' value: check-mark

and under /kbd.sysbackup -

'layout' value: us
'model' value: pc105


etc/X11/xorg.conf - 

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	
EndSection


So... what's all that mean then? :)

---

### Post by ofb on 2007-08-27
Oh, fudge.

There is no Left and Right for Ctrl, and I've just got the selection behavior backwards in Gimp. Works fine if you hit Ctrl /after/ clicking the beginning of your drag.

And that 'lv3:lwin_switch' will be the Third Level Chooser selected in System/Preferences/Keyboard.

Right then. Time to put everything back.

However - My current method of using XKeyCaps to re-map the Alt keys is unsatisfactory because it doesn't always function. I cannot do Alt-PrtScrn, for instance.

All I want to do is map the Left Alt to the Left Win key, and the Right Alt to the Menu key. This would put them in the standard positions. Is there a better way?

---

### Post by Vadi on 2007-08-28
Try System - Preferences - Keyboard - Layout Options - Alt/Win key behavior - and er test all the options listed there.

---

### Post by ofb on 2007-08-28
Yup, tried those. Several times, thinking it /must/ be there because both of the first MS Natural keyboads have this unfortunate layout.

---

### Post by Vadi on 2007-08-29
I don't know what else to try then, sorry.

---

### Post by ofb on 2007-08-29
Okay. Thanks for having a look.

---

### Post by Vadi on 2007-08-30
Oh, I know. Try using the 'Get Online Help' function. It appears only in certain gnome apps, but you can use it for anything really... it opens launchpad.net where you can ask questions, and a professional answers. It's saved me on two occasions already where forums couldn't :)

---

### Post by ofb on 2007-09-01
Thanks, I'll definitely keep that in mind for other problems. Right now I've already retrained my hands to the 'under the thumbs' Alts on this keyboard. 

This Natural Elite is slightly narrower than the Natural it replaced, so I'm finding I can do the Alt-arrow combo's for Konqueror file navigation in reasonable comfort. If I used Firefox, it'd be too tedious, but thankfully Opera uses Ctrl-arrows. The rest of the Alt combo's are okay after I remapped my head. 

[Bonus advice for people searching "Natural Elite" - if you're trying to get used to its wretched re-arrangement of the Del Ins Home End Up Down set, just pull off the Insert key. The set makes tactile sense again after that. Just pry it up gently with a couple of small screwdrivers, and you won't break anything, and you can replace it if you change your mind.]

---

