---
title: "Mounting A dvd-r Udf error"
date: 2007-07-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by N008 on 2007-07-26
why can't i mount my dvd-r

[[IMG]http://img401.imageshack.us/img401/9300/screenshotgnomemountpt9.th.png[/IMG]](http://img401.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotgnomemountpt9.png)

Please help

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-07-27
could you post your /etc/fstab file?

---

### Post by lmandrake on 2007-08-04
I'm append my little udf problem as well:

When I insert a udf formated dvd and kde tries to automount it (or when I try it manually) I just get the following error messge:

```
mount: block device /dev/scd0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,
       missing codepage or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
```

With dmesg saying 

```
[18770.108000] Unable to identify CD-ROM format.
```

My fstab having the following entry:

```
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   auto,udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
```

But doing 

```
sudo mount -t udf /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0/
```

works fine. Is there a way to make the automount a little bit smarter? I just got used to automounting dvds ...

Thank you in advance for your answers

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-08-04
I don't know for 100% sure but it seems like the 'auto' option would conflict with the 'udf,iso9660' ones.  Try changing that line in your fstab file to read:
```
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0     udf             user,noauto     0       0
```

You might also want to try 
```
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0     auto             user,noauto     0       0
```

and see if that will just work for everything.  Also if this is a cdrw drive, you might want to change the 'user,noauto' part to read 'user,noauto,rw' and if it is  just a cdrom then use 'ro' instead of 'rw'.

---

### Post by lmandrake on 2007-08-05
Thanks hamburglar6 for your reply. Just with the auto option it's now working as expected .

---

### Post by bigb_thedestroyer on 2007-10-02
This is really frustrating... I cant mount my UDF DVD disk either, however, it was working the first day I installed Ubuntu.


```
sudo mount -t udf /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0/
Password:
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,
       missing codepage or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

```

I dont know what else you need to see, so please leave me a list of command/output you need.  I really need help solving this problem.

The error message from the GUI Mount is below.

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-10-02
do the same thing as posted above.  in your /etc/fstab file edit the scd0 line to read:

```
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0     auto             user,noauto     0       0
```

edit the file with the command

```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by bigb_thedestroyer on 2007-10-03
Sorry to say, but that didnt work! :( I dont know what is going on, all these solutions are working for everyone but me.  Maybe I should just download all my vid's again...

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-10-03
could you post a copy of your fstab file?  also, are you sure that your dvd drive is /dev/scd0 and not something else like /dev/cdrom?

---

### Post by nidoo on 2007-10-03
I'm having the same problem my /etc/fstab/
> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=e90dd1cd-424d-4458-bdba-fac636110484 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=9fff09b3-8b74-4aa2-8c10-952eaae5c336 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

changing udf,iso9660 to auto does nothing for me.

trying to mount manually with
> sudo mount -t udf /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0/

just gets the error message
> mount: block device /dev/scd0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
here's the dmesg
> [   29.492000] b44: eth1: Flow control is off for TX and off for RX.
[   34.316000] NET: Registered protocol family 17
[   39.244000] NET: Registered protocol family 10
[   39.244000] lo: Disabled Privacy Extensions
[   39.244000] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth2: link is not ready
[   50.148000] eth1: no IPv6 routers present
[  195.600000] input: Logitech Bluetooth Mouse as /class/input/input10
[  233.440000] UDF-fs: No fileset found
[  275.704000] UDF-fs: No fileset found
[  422.900000] UDF-fs: No fileset found


---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-10-03
Both of my removables have been a problem for my entire history with Feisty. Specifically, the switch from PATA to SATA was the start of it all, so far as I can tell. I'm desperately hoping that Gutsy will resolve this. In the meantime, here's my info.
Here's the usual error message from Nautilus when I try to open one of the removables:
> "Unable to mount the selected volume.
<<Show more details>>
mount: special device /dev/hdd does not exist
"
Here's my fstab:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=939257eb-8e20-464b-9bf0-f76939667eb5 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=1cfc19bb-b5dc-4199-8498-7bb897ec58f6 none            swap    sw              0       0
# /dev/sdb1
UUID=a62131a4-4705-4c99-972e-b8e710c465ac /media/storage ext3 defaults 0 0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
```
dmesg:
```
:~$ sudo dmesg | tail
[ 7131.601399] end_request: I/O error, dev sr1, sector 881164
[ 7137.064121] sr 1:0:1:0: SCSI error: return code = 0x08000002
[ 7137.064130] sr1: Current: sense key: Hardware Error
[ 7137.064135]     Additional sense: Logical unit communication CRC error (Ultra-DMA/32)
[ 7137.064145] end_request: I/O error, dev sr1, sector 1248
[ 7137.130628] sr 1:0:1:0: SCSI error: return code = 0x08000002
[ 7137.130637] sr1: Current: sense key: Hardware Error
[ 7137.130642]     Additional sense: Logical unit communication CRC error (Ultra-DMA/32)
[ 7137.130652] end_request: I/O error, dev sr1, sector 1024
[ 7137.131356] UDF-fs: No partition found (1)
```
I have already tried editing fstab, replacing /dev/hdc and /dev/hdd with every single possible pseudonym, and the results are always worse than what I'm already experiencing. I would appreciate any help with this, as would many others, from the looks of it.

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-10-03
change the line in your fstab that reads 

> /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

to 

> /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 auto user,noauto,exec 0 0

meaning change the 'udf,iso9660' to 'auto'

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-10-03
that last post was for nidoo- ricardisimo your sata hard drive should be located at /dev/sda instead of /dev/hda.  try to mount using that instead; /dev/sda1 or sda2 or whichever one works.

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-10-03
bigb_thedestroyer- i missed earlier the command you were using.  after /dev/scd0 is in your fstab, there is no reason to specify the filesystem type from the command line.  try:

```
sudo mount /media/cdrom
```

---

### Post by roddersg on 2007-10-04
There is a problem with the /etc/fstab.  The original version is (as above)

/dev/scd0  /media/cdrom0  [COLOR="Red"]udf,iso9600[/COLOR] user,noauto,exec 0 0

The problem is that fstab cannot make up its mind whether to load udf or iso9600 and there is no mention in man fstab on multiple formats.  The correct solution is to use the word [COLOR="Red"]auto[/COLOR] as below

/dev/scd0  /media/cdrom0  [COLOR="Red"]auto[/COLOR] user,noauto,exec 0 0

and it works.
Thanks to those kind people at [http://amazingrando.wordpress.com/2007/05/02/how-to-mount-udf-dvds-in-ubuntu](http://amazingrando.wordpress.com/2007/05/02/how-to-mount-udf-dvds-in-ubuntu)

Now Feisty automounts my DVDs (whether udf or iso9600) correctly each time.

---

### Post by nidoo on 2007-10-04
No joy on changing udf,iso9660 to auto or manual mount. I only get this same error
> mount: block device /dev/scd0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-10-04
what is the command you are using to mount?

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-10-05
The problem is as I stated earlier... whatever mountpoints or aliases I enter fail to work any better than the default. Here are all of my options from lshw:
```
 *-cdrom:0
                description: DVD reader
                product: RW/DVD GCC-4520B
                vendor: HL-DT-ST
                physical id: 2
                bus info: scsi@1:0.0.0
                logical name: /dev/cdrom
                logical name: /dev/dvd
                logical name: /dev/scd0
                logical name: /dev/sr0
                version: 1.00
                capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd
                configuration: ansiversion=5
              *-disc
                   physical id: 0
                   logical name: /dev/cdrom
           *-cdrom:1
                description: DVD-RAM writer
                product: DVD-RAM GSA-H22L
                vendor: HL-DT-ST
                physical id: 3
                bus info: scsi@1:0.1.0
                logical name: /dev/scd1
                logical name: /dev/sr1
                version: 1.00
                serial: [HL-DT-STDVD-RAM GSA-H22L1.0006/08/05
                capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
                configuration: ansiversion=5
              *-disc
                   physical id: 0
                   logical name: /dev/scd1
```
The best case scenario is that the removables simply disappear. The worst is system freezes and the like. If anyone can decipher all of this - or better yet, assure me that Gutsy will resolve all of this - I would greatly appreciate it.

P.S. - Also, my fstab lists "hdd" and "hdc", and I have no way of knowing to which drive these refer, since neither my fstab nor lshw refer to these IDs. I think "hdc" is cdrom1, which is the dvdrw, but how can I be certain?

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-10-05
ricardisimo- it doesn't look like anything in your fstab posted above matches the logical names shown as the output of lshw.  have you tried using /dev/cdrom and /dev/scd1 as suggested by lshw?  also, if your fstab still has the udf,iso9660 option there, you should change both instances to auto.  you could also add the rw option to these in the fstab so that it all looks like this:

> 
/dev/cdrom        /media/cdrom0   auto       rw,user,noauto     0       0
/dev/scd1        /media/cdrom1   auto       rw,user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0   auto        rw,user,noauto     0       0


---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-10-05
I did, in fact, try /dev/cdrom and /dev/scd1. CDs appeared to be working perfectly this time around. However, DVDs wouldn't read at all. Let's try your further suggestion and see what happens. Thanks again.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-10-06
Some progress! The CD/DVD reader can read and play DVDs, and the DVDRW can read audio CDs. However, it appears that store-bought DVDs are invisible in the DVDRW, but not blank DVDs. I'm going to look for either older or newer DVDs and see if it is a CSS issue, or something else. Stay tuned!

P.S. - Also, CDs load extraordinarily slowly in the CD/DVD ROM... but at least they do load eventually.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-10-06
Hey! Everything appears to be working! The problematic CDs and DVDs might just be dirty or quirky. Thank you so, so very much!

---

### Post by Jd196 on 2007-12-24
I have the same problem
javier@javier-laptop:~$ sudo mount -t udf /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0/
[sudo] password for javier:
mount: block device /dev/scd0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

javier@javier-laptop:~$ 

but i cannot save fstab i get" You do not have the permissions necessary to save the file. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again."
Any suggestions?

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2007-12-24
To change your fstab you need to access it as root, i.e. use sudo.  Try this
```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
let us know if you have any more problems.

---

### Post by MrJHazelton on 2007-12-26
Maybe someone can help me, I am getting the same error other people have described yet when I insert a DVD-R Disc in my CD/DVD R/RW drive and nothing has helped, my current fstab reads:```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=6bc92916-90e2-4d74-906b-df23e52bdfd2 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=ae8020b7-9692-43a9-9606-59a38d4e09ae none            swap    sw              0       0

/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 auto user,noauto,rw 0 0
```

The line in question has also been tried the following ways:

Instead of auto it has said either "udf,iso9660" or "iso9660,udf" also where it says "user,noauto,rw" i have also tried without the rw but it is a RW drive.

And yes I did restart after every fstab edit, and I am running gutsy.

Thanks for reading!:guitar:

---

### Post by hamburglar6 on 2008-01-08
Sorry it took so long to respond MrJ-

what exactly is the error message you are getting?  Does your current configuration allow you to mount other cds or dvds?

---

### Post by MrJHazelton on 2008-01-28
Whoa, thanks for responding, haha.

Mounting DVD-R's still don't work for me, I had just given up :(

CD's and DVD work perfectly, as far as I can tell it is just burned dvd-r's.:confused:

---

### Post by walash on 2008-03-06
hi, 

i have a dvd/cdrw drive. i can't play a video file on my dvd+r disk. the video is in udf format. i have tried all the suggestions here abt mounting udf but still not lucky. pls find my fstab file here:



# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1 -- converted during upgrade to edgy
UUID=d95034e0-f6e6-480b-bf2d-50e2c68d6f5e / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /dev/hda5 -- converted during upgrade to edgy
UUID=cdec5bae-0b53-45fb-a1e9-614699a146e9 none swap sw 0 0
 /dev/scd0    /media/cdrom0 auto    user,noauto   0 0
 

and the error message i get is : Invalid mount option when trying to mount udf volume

attached is my screen print

---

### Post by Azakus on 2008-03-07
Install udftools:
```
sudo aptitude install udftools
```

---

### Post by swiftrahul on 2008-03-07
have u tried mounting it ?

---

### Post by Heratiki on 2008-03-25
I know this is old but I see it all over the place and after experiencing it myself I thought I would post and try to help others...

If you are trying to mount a DVD in Ubuntu Linux (7.10 Gutsy for me) and keep getting the window popping up saying something similar to this "Invalid mount option when attempting to mount the volume 'UDF Volume'." then you can attempt to change your /etc/fstab...  Just look for udf, iso9660 and change it to say auto instead...  This may help but not likely...  You can also attempt to mount the drive using sudo mount -t udf /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 (scd0 and cdrom0 are in my case yours may be different) and if it doesn't mount still then it's pretty easy to guess what you have...

You have one of the new and improved Windows Vista UDF (2.10) flying drink coasters...  See Vista is using it's own format of UDF which currently isn't able to be read by anything in Linux due to the file structure...  Remember when you or your friend burnt that DVD and it asked you if you would like to use the new Live Filesystem (not as compatible) instead of the old way (more compatible)...  Well you probably chose the Live Filesystem one which has lead you down your current path os destuction...  And if you do a dmesg | tail you'll probably see this 
> [17167.703768] UDF-fs: No fileset found
[17221.328256] UDF-fs: No fileset found
[17232.757267] UDF-fs: No fileset found
[17405.427496] UDF-fs: No fileset found
 

Or something similar...  But I'm sure it will say No fileset found...  So I'm sorry to disappoint you and shame on you and your friends for using Vista...  Don't you know it's dangerous?

Hope this helps and doesn't hurt...

Heratiki

---

### Post by jblaufuss on 2008-05-10
Thanks a lot Heratiki. I would have been searching for a long time had you not let us know that Vista burns DVDs in a "special" format. I hate Vista :)

---

