---
title: "Boot and mount problems after Gutsy Upgrade"
date: 2008-01-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Robynsveil on 2008-01-02
First off, I have *carefully* read all threads on this forum regarding this issue, and whilst there seem to be a few tentative stabs at a solution "didya try ...?" or "what's in your ..." I wasn't able to discern an authoritative approach to finding a solution, certainly nothing that would qualify making it a Sticky, or anything.

So, here's my problem: I recently upgraded my desktop from Feisty to Gutsy via online (2 gig or so worth download!) and now have a system that's stuffed. When I first boot, it comes to a black screen with:
> Log of fsck -C -R -A -a 
Thu Jan  3 06:54:28 2008

fsck 1.40.2 (12-Jul-2007)
fsck.ext3: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/sdc3

/dev/sdc3: 
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2
filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2
filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>

fsck.ext3: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/sdc6

/dev/sdc6: 
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2
filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2
filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>

/dev/sda6: clean, 306/3096576 files, 5544624/6183009 blocks
fsck died with exit status 8

Thu Jan  3 06:54:28 2008

and the option to hit DTRL D to continue, which it does, but this error worries me.

My /etc/fstab is as follows -- only changed ext3 from hdx to sdx:
> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/NTFS_Programs ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/sda2 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/sda5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sda6 /media/NFS_OverFlow ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/hdb  /media/cdrom udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc1 /media/x-plane ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/sdc3 /media/NFS_deskdocs ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/hdc5 /media/NTFS_Poser ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/sdc6 /media/NFS_XPlane ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# tmpfs /dev/shm tmpfs defaults,ro 0 0

Someone said something about uninstalling evms, so I had a look in Synaptic, and whilst there is a box with evms next to it, it's white, meaning evms is not installed. 

Had a look in my /dev folder: there appear to be files with names like sda, sda1, sda2, etc sdb, sdb1, sdb2, etc (these have a little x in the upper-right-hand corner of the icon) but no hdx anything... part of the problem? Interestingly, Nautilus sees and opens and reads and writes my NTFS drives just fine, but in order to log on to the drive, I have to enter my password for the system (Windows password). It 
When I double-click on a ext3 drive in Nautilus, it will log on to the drive, but will call it disk or disk1 or like that, instead of the name I gave it in fstab.

I hope I've given enough clues, here--if not, feel free to ask. Anyone have any solutions to getting my drives behaving the way they did before the upgrade and how to get rid of the boot errors?

Thanks in advance...
Robyn

---

### Post by HereInOz on 2008-01-02
Gutsy treats drives a little diffrently from previous versions of Ubuntu, in that all the physical drives are now "sd*" rather than "hd*".  I am guessing that your sdc drive is a usb device, but could be wrong.

Anyway, I had a similar issue with a 2nd hard disk which I had included in fstab, and when that mounted after the upgrade to gutsy, I could no longer mount a usb flash drive.  Some conflict with the "sd*" denomination, I figured.

So, by changing all my fixed disk mounts to UUID specs in fstab, rather than /dev/ specs, I fixed the issue.

You can find the UUID of each device in hardware information.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Robynsveil on 2008-01-04
Hi HereInOz,

Thank you - think I'm closer to a solution after I made the changes you suggested in my /etc/fstab, so now it looks like:



Had no issues getting UUID numbers for the ext3 volumes, but the ntfs volumes: different story. Since I couldn't mount the volumes, neither Hardware Information or the:

> sudo /sbin/vol_id -u /dev/sdc1

for say, my sdc1 volume gave me any UUID info. The steps I finally took to find this info were to:
1. replace the hd(x) with sd(x) in /etc/fstab -- reboot
2. try to open the volume in Nautilus, which generated an error. That error had a little help thingie that said basically I needed to 
3. force mount my ntfs volumes, thus (as sudo su):

> mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sdb5/NTFS_Poser -o force

which force-mounted it and placed an icon on the desktop. 
4. Right-clicking and selecting properties ->volume tab finally gave me the UUID number, which I 
5. typed into /etc/fstab -- reboot

Voila, they all work now. They were checked by fsck when I rebooted and we're all happy campers.

---

