---
title: "5.1 Speakers"
date: 2006-09-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by meames on 2006-09-20
Hi all,

Just started looking into learning all about Linux and decided Ubuntu was a good idea. Installed it last night and so far so good except one little thing.

I have a Creative Labs 5.1 Live! sound card in the machine which Ubuntu seems to have picked up fine, but how do I get the sound coming out of all 5 speakers - easy in Windows, little check box and away we go, but searched everywhere for an answer with no luck.

Other than that, very impressed so far.

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-09-20
Open up terminal and type 
```

alsamixer

```
You'll then need to have a play with the different volumes.

---

### Post by sjieke on 2006-09-20
Idd, you need to set the volumes for surround, center and LFE in alsamixer.

This will enable the channels, but if you play a stereo mp3 file, only the left and right channels are used. To duplicate these through all your channels you need to have an asound file for alsa. I'm not on a linux box right now, but when I get home this evening (living in belgium and now it's 10:40 AM) I will post my conf file and the instructions to get it working (at least how I got my 5.1 surround enabled for stereo files)

Greetz

---

### Post by sjieke on 2006-09-21
Ok,

A little bit later than expected, but here is how I got my 5.1 speakers enabled.

First you must make sure all surround channels are enabled in alsamixer (surround, center, LFE). To open alsamixer, type ```
alsamixer
``` in a terminal.

After you have changed things in alsamixer, you can test if everything works with the following command:
```
speaker-test -c6 -Dplug:surround51
```

If you hear noise from all your speakers corresponding with the location shown, your 5.1 speakers are set up and working.

To get stereo files played through all speakers you need to create a file, namely /etc/asound.conf

In this file you put the following:
```
# Set default sound card
# Useful so that all settings can be changed to a different card here.
pcm.snd_card {
     type hw
     card 0
}

pcm.dmix6 {
     type dmix
        ipc_key 1024
        ipc_key_add_uid false # let multiple users share
        ipc_perm 0660 # IPC permissions (octal, default 0600)
        slave {
                pcm snd_card # see below
                rate 48000
                channels 6
                period_time 0
                period_size 1024
                buffer_time 0
                buffer_size 4096
        }
     }

#route for stereo only
pcm.dmix20 {
    type route
    slave.pcm "dmix6"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.0 1
    ttable.1.1 1
}

#route for stereo sound+center+subwoofer
pcm.ch31dup {
    type route
    slave.pcm "dmix6"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.0 1
    ttable.1.1 1
        ttable.0.4 0.5
        ttable.1.4 0.5
        ttable.0.5 0.5
        ttable.1.5 0.5
}


pcm.ch51dup {
        type route
        slave.pcm dmix6
        slave.channels 6
        ttable.0.0 1
        ttable.1.1 1
        ttable.0.2 1
        ttable.1.3 1
        ttable.0.4 0.5
        ttable.1.4 0.5
        ttable.0.5 0.5
        ttable.1.5 0.5
   }


pcm.duplex {
     type asym
     playback.pcm "ch51dup"
#     playback.pcm "dmix2"
#     capture.pcm "mydsnoop"
     capture.pcm "snd_card"
}

###################
# CONVERSION PLUG #
###################
# Setting the default pcm device allows the conversion
# rate to be selected on the fly.
# duplex mode allows any alsa enabled app to read/write
# to the dmix plug (Fixes a problem with wine).
pcm.!default {
     type plug
     slave.pcm "duplex"
}

pcm.dsp "duplex"

pcm.dsp1 "duplex"

pcm.fr {
    type route
    slave.pcm "dmix6"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.0 1
    ttable.1.1 1
}

pcm.rr {
    type route
    slave.pcm "dmix6"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.2 1
    ttable.1.3 1
}

pcm.lfe {
    type route
    slave.pcm "dmix6"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.4 1
    ttable.1.5 1
}
```

Now you just need to configure your music/video player to use alsa if it isn't already.

the asound.conf file is for system wide settings, if you need it only for your user acount, put it in your home directory en name it .asoundrc

More info can also be found on the alsa web page. Here is a link to the page with info for duplicating the channels: [http://alsa.opensrc.org/FAQ028]("http://alsa.opensrc.org/FAQ028")

Let me now how it went...

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-09-21
Just out of interest, should 

```

speaker-test -c6 -Dplug:surround51

```

work on all cards?

I do have surround sound set up on my Audigy 2 Zs but that code above does nothing.

---

### Post by sjieke on 2006-09-22
I don't know if it should work on every card, but in my opinion it would be strange if it doesn't.
And what do you meen by nothing? Nothing on the prompt also? 
The only thing that the code does is play static noise on each channel seperatly (displaying on the prompt wich one it should be), nothing fancy...

---

### Post by _simon_ on 2006-09-22
The command prompt shows that it is testing the speakers but no noise comes out.

I know surround sound is working though, I've had it working for ages. I just thought I'd try your command out as I hadn't come across it before.

---

### Post by noizatu on 2006-09-24
Hi meames,  I had the same problem like yours (I'm an newbie also) a I have a Creative SB Live too and a Logitech X-530. Try:

```
alsamixer
```And try to check if the setting there are right. 

I muted Exchange (MM). I made the following connections:

front jack - rear output
center/LFE jack- center/LFE output
rear jack - rear output

Enable all wave. I like Wave Surround ~ 80 and Master ~32-40

These are my settings and I have sound on my 5.1 (only central is very silent..:-s).

If [COLOR=Red]anybody[/COLOR] has suggestions for Creative SB Live! [COLOR=Red]please[/COLOR] post!!!  :-({|=

---

### Post by LarPo on 2006-10-03
I'm having also problems getting out 5.1 sound. Speaker test works well but movies with 5.1 sound comes out from only 2 speakers as well as mp3s. I tried that /etc/asound.conf trick but it disabled sound totaly...](*,)

---

### Post by sjieke on 2006-10-04
What is the output of
```
cat /proc/asounds/cards
```

It could be that you need to change the card number to match your configuration. In the asound.conf file I posted before, you will need to edit the following part
```
pcm.snd_card {
     type hw
     card 0
}
```
and change the '0' to the number that corresponds with your sound card.

---

### Post by LarPo on 2006-10-11
Thanks sjieke:-D  It works now well! I had wrong card number as you suggested...

---

### Post by flosik on 2008-06-18
Could someone please help? i've tried all of this commands and nothing works for me - when i test the sound - there's nothing. also ```
cat /proc/asounds/cards
``` returns "cat: /proc/asounds/cards: No such file or directory" 

i use ubuntu 8.04 and just begun my journey to the wonderfull world of linux so please go easy on me :mrgreen:

---

### Post by karhulitos on 2008-06-23
It's a typo or something has changed. For me it looks like

```
nalle@karhu-laptop:~$ cat /proc/asound/cards
 0 [NVidia         ]: HDA-Intel - HDA NVidia
                      HDA NVidia at 0xd0880000 irq 18
```

so /proc/asound/cards not "asounds"..

---

