---
title: "Question about nautilus, gnome, and mounting."
date: 2007-06-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rekon on 2007-06-04
I just started using Ubuntu about 3 days ago and finally decided to convert my 200gb storage drive from NTFS to Ext3, After a few painful hours of tinkering with /etc/fstab and mounting and unmounting I seem to have the drives mounting at boot, and I am able to mount and unmount them without sudo. I have a 60gb partition for my media files like music and digital cam pictures, and a 140gb partition for pretty much anything else I need to backup or save. 

I have setup my /etc/fstab as follows:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                                       /proc            proc         defaults                    0  0  
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=33a20770-1eac-41cc-b08a-0a74abdafb42  /                ext3         defaults,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=a03962e2-9bb4-455e-8f7a-fde3d18d62bb  none             swap         sw                          0  0  
#/dev/hdc                               /media/cdrom0    udf,iso9660  user,noauto                 0  0  
/dev/fd0                                   /media/floppy0   auto         rw,user,noauto              0  0  
/dev/hda1                                  /media/ntfs      ntfs         umask=222,utf8              0  0  
	
/dev/hdb1                                  /music           ext3   	  auto,users,rw                  0  0  
/dev/hdb2                                  /storage         ext3   	  auto,users,rw                  0  0  

/dev/hdc1                                  /media/wdbackup  ext3         defaults                    0  0 

```

and cat /etc/mtab shows:
```
/dev/hda2 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
procbususb /proc/bus/usb usbfs rw 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/ntfs ntfs rw,umask=222,utf8 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw 0 0
/dev/hdc1 /media/wdbackup ext3 rw 0 0
/dev/hdc1 /media/wdbackup ext3 rw 0 0
/dev/hdb2 /storage ext3 rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/dev/hdb1 /music ext3 rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0


```

My questions are...

1) Why if in my /etc/fstab file I set the /music and /storage options to auto,users, and rw /etc/mtab reports rw,noexec,nosuid,and nodev? I am basically wonder if this is normal.

2) I am using GNOME w/ nautilus and I cannot seem to get the music and storage mounts to showup in the file browser, places, or on my desktop. Instead I must browse to Filesystem, Music or storage. Is there a way to add mounted drives to the Places menu?

Question #1 isn't really a problem because it works...I am just curious why the parameters aren't what I set. 

Thanks for your time for reading this long post for a few questions. :)

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-06-04
1. I'm thinking /etc/mtab is for temporary mounted folders/drives, such as USB drives, whereas /etc/fstab is for attached drives. either way, you should be able to have one or the other. Try commenting out the fstab, reboot. if your USB works fine, keep it otherwise comment out the mtab entry. You should only need one or the other.
pmount probably added the entires to /etc/mtab, I think those are safe to comment out.

2. try changing the mount points (this is assuming you commented out the /etc/mtab entries) from /music to either /media/music or /mnt/music (same with /storage). After a reboot this should show the drives in nautilus.

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-06-04
> **dfreer said:**
> 1. I'm thinking /etc/mtab is for temporary mounted folders/drives, such as USB drives, whereas /etc/fstab is for attached drives. either way, you should be able to have one or the other. Try commenting out the fstab, reboot. if your USB works fine, keep it otherwise comment out the mtab entry. You should only need one or the other.

No. mtab is a automatically generated list of currently mounted things (it gets regenerated every time mount/umount is executed I believe). It does not need to be edited.

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-06-04
> **rekon said:**
> 
1) Why if in my /etc/fstab file I set the /music and /storage options to auto,users, and rw /etc/mtab reports rw,noexec,nosuid,and nodev? I am basically wonder if this is normal.

mount does have default options (depending on the fs type IIRC). So it probably is normal. The mount man page will no doubt tell you the defaults. 
> 
2) I am using GNOME w/ nautilus and I cannot seem to get the music and storage mounts to showup in the file browser, places, or on my desktop. Instead I must browse to Filesystem, Music or storage. Is there a way to add mounted drives to the Places menu?

Only mounts under /media/ are shown (by default at least).

---

### Post by vanadium on 2007-06-04
Indeed, if these are USB drives that are not permanently mounted, then remove them from your fstab. When you plug them in, they will automatically be mounted in /media and show up as an icon on your desktop. To safely remove them, you can right-click the icon and select Eject.

If you label your disk, it will be mounted with the name of the label, e.g. /media/mydisk_1. You can label an ext3 volume with

sudo e2label <device> "my new label"

where <device> stands for your partition, e.g. /dev/hdc1

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-06-04
> **Jussi Kukkonen said:**
> No. mtab is a automatically generated list of currently mounted things (it gets regenerated every time mount/umount is executed I believe). It does not need to be edited.

Thanks for the info! I never knew what it was for per se, I just knew that items mounted with pmount and USB disks generally get a listing in /etc/mtab, but not fstab. I figured it was two seperate lists, my mistake.

---

### Post by rekon on 2007-06-04
> Indeed, if these are USB drives that are not permanently mounted, then remove them from your fstab. When you plug them in, they will automatically be mounted in /media and show up as an icon on your desktop. To safely remove them, you can right-click the icon and select Eject.

These partitions are on a 200gb hard drive that I wish to be a permanent part of my file system. I would like them to mount at boot, be read and writeable by users, and show up under the Places menus as well. I removed the entries for /dev/hdb1 and /dev/hdb2 from fstab, rebooted, and they both show up as mountable/unmountable drives that mount to /media/music and /media/storage as long as I am superuser while issuing the mount command. They also show up under my places menu when mounted. The question I have now is it possible to enable these to be auto mounted at boot, and can I make them mountable/unmountable by a regular user so I don't have to sudo the mount command, all while still having them show up in the Places menu's?

Thanks for all the fast replies! This is by far one of the best support websites I've ever been apart of. Fast and friendly replies... hard to find that on the internet anymore :) Thanks again you guys.

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-06-05
> These partitions are on a 200gb hard drive that I wish to be a permanent part of my file system.... The question I have now is it possible to enable these to be auto mounted at boot, and can I make them mountable/unmountable by a regular user so I don't have to sudo the mount command, all while still having them show up in the Places menu's?
You will want to use fstab for this (as it's a permanent partition and you have special needs). Let's try:
```

/dev/hdb2 /media/storage ext3 default,users,exec 0 0
```
ok, mount point is under media (remember to create the directory), so Places should work.

About mount options, man mount says this:
> default implies rw, suid, dev, exec, auto, nouser, async
This is a good starting point, it should get automounted read-write and files should be executable. Users are not allowed to mount though, so we add user- (or users-) option after default:
> users implies noexec, nosuid, nodev
You will probably want to execute binaries, so we'll override that (if you ever need suid or special devices on this file system, you'll know to override nosuid and nodev).

Try that for size, and let us know if it fits.

---

### Post by rekon on 2007-06-05
Works great thanks alot! I didn't realize that man mount would tell me what each individual option would do in fstab, and I also didn't realize that as you add options, you may have to override some other ones. Looks like man is my new friend aside from you guys. 

Now that I got that working I have been trying to see if I can get my Wine Drive C to show up in the places. I issued the command
```
sudo ln -s /home/rekon/.wine/drive_c /media/drive_c
```
and the drive_c shows up under media and links to the correct folder but it don't show up under places after a reboot. This isn't a big deal, I was just messing around trying to see if it was possible. 

Thanks Jussi and everyone!

---

