---
title: "Nvidia Problems In Gutsy"
date: 2007-11-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-14
Hey Guys, 

I have a Nvidia FX5600, and I am running gutsy. When I installed Gutsy, and ran the restricted drivers manager and enabled the Nvidia Driver, It worked fine.  I restarted, and it stopped working!  The bootsplash comes up, but GDM will not start.  If I boot to safe mode and switch the nvidia in the driver section of xorg.conf frm "nvidia" to "nv", it will let me boot, but the driver doesn't work.  I have tried everything- Binary Driver install, Envy uninstall and reinstall the driver, chaning the xorg file, EVERYTHING!

Please help me with my dilemma, it was so nice when Compiz-Fuzion was running nicely.

SC30317

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-11-14
log in using the nv driver. Then make a backup copy of your xorg.conf file
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
```Then do a ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` Select the appropriate resolutions. After that you can try and re-enable your restricted drivers. 

Note that doing the above, will make your xorg.conf as default and you will have to re-do the settings that you had in your xorg.conf like twinview etc.

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-14
Yea I have done this, to no avail.

Anyone else?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-11-14
You could try loading your drivers using the ENVY script.  Then use gksudo nvidia-settings to set your resolution and refresh rate.

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-14
I already said, as in my first post, that I have tried envy, in each way- install nvidia drivers, uninstall and then reinstall nvidia drivers, install them manually; everything envy has to offer.  Anyone else?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-11-14
Please list your xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-14
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Q22wb"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600 Ultra]"
    Driver         "nv"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600 Ultra]"
    Monitor        "Q22wb"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
Anyone?

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
Pretty Please?  This is driving me Crazy!

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
Bump it up

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
Someone's gotta know this- please

---

### Post by MeathooK427 on 2007-11-15
I have the same problem in kubuntu, however I installed it through the nvidia installer, seems like it may be a bug. It's pretty annoying...

---

### Post by GavinZac on 2007-11-15
have you tried using the driver from nvidia's site?

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
Did you read my thread?  I did try using the drivers from nvidia's site!

---

### Post by barney385 on 2007-11-15
Simply putting 'acpi=off' in kernel parameters at boot worked in Suse.

I'm not sure about Ubuntu.

---

### Post by nikolas68 on 2007-11-15
Have tried this already?
To install support for Nvidia cards, follow these steps:
1. Select System &#10148; Administration &#10148; Synaptic Package Manager.
2. Click the Search button and enter nvidia-glx new as a search term. In the list of results, click
   the check box next to nvidia-glx new and also nvidia-settings, so that both are marked for
   installation. Then click Apply.

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
You cant install both nvidia-glx-new and nvidia-settings togther, at least synaptic won't let me.  Why?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-11-15
nvidia-glx-new contains nvidia-settings.

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
Ok, i just installed nvidia-glx-new.  anything I have to do after that?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-11-15
type in a terminal```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```Configure the screens and resolution the way you want under the 'X Server Display Configuration'  and at the end make sure you click the 'Save X to configuration file' button

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
the popup comes up, and says " you do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver"  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restar the X server.  I did exactly that, but the driver still isnt working!

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-15
I also tried restarting, to no avail.

Please, any more help would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-11-16
Isn't it time to just reinstall and try again.  It sounds like something is terminal in your software.

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-16
Yea, probably.  I have just reinstalled 12 times and I don't feel like doing it again.  Thanks for all the help tho

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-11-16
Have you tried the alternate CD that gives more control of what's loaded.  Don't know if it handles video options, but it's worth a try.

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-16
Yes, thats what I have been using all along

---

### Post by enofuht on 2007-11-16
I am experiencing a very similar, maybe the same problem and I want to share some information, extracted from this frustrating case. I havn't worked through all the receips available and focused on configuring the Xserver by "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg". 

My system in use is working on a set of computers by transporting it in and booting it from an external usb-case. Every system bends under the configuration changes, possible through the x configuration mentioned above, except my nvidia card and board system at home. Its jumping and kicking like a mad donkey just like the way yours is doing, so I kept working mobile without the power of a homecomputer, till a happy day last week, where I was wondering if the new gutsy is capable of doing the right things to bring the right resolution to my screen. 
And so it happens: working system!

To keep the already long story short at the end: the difference was/is the kernel version. Since the kernel update/new version 2.6.22-14 the standard procedure with the new driver and the magic command from above leads to success. With the same configuration and a boot with the old kernel 2.6.20-16 its a mess right from gdm and the same things which are leading to success just a minute before are all just worth a pence. A boot with the 2.6.22-14 kernel, the command and a sign at the restricted driver dialoge and a reboot later all is fine. Isn't it strange? I read about the neccessity to sync the module and the drivers versions (or were it other entities to keep in sync?) so maybe its not the kernel version alone, but its correct dependencies... I don't know.

So why am I frustrated if its working? Because something in the kernel or between him and my system keeps freezing my system (at home as well as with the disk and my mobile pc), so I have to use the keeps-me-frustrated-kernel.

And why am I telling you about this? To send away the tip to have a look at your kernel version as well as hoping for assumptions aboute this case and maybe a tip from another person for you, based on this.

Greetings from Germany,
Chris

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-18
Yea the different kernel versions dont make a difference for me :(

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-19
Does anyone else have a solution for this problem?

---

### Post by 11hjpphty76lkjj on 2007-11-19
I'm having -I think- the same problem.

I installed the nvidia drivers from nvidia and it works great! But i reboot, and I have to reinstall the drivers again. Copying the xorg.conf doesn't seem to help....very odd. And..annoying.

A

---

### Post by WinterAyars on 2007-11-19
If you look at your /etc/rc.local file is there a "modprobe -r nvidia" in it?

I was having this same problem, i think, but adding a line:

modprobe -r nvidia

...solved it completely.

Or at least, it appears to have. Why that is the case i cannot imagine. (-r removes modules, so that means some faulty nvidia module must be getting loaded at boot. Or something.)

---

### Post by 11hjpphty76lkjj on 2007-11-19
I added the line, and I'll let you know on my next reboot.  Which I hope should be many, many days from now.  Yay Ubuntu!

Thanks!

A

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-19
The adding modprobe -r nvidia did not work for me.  Anyone else?

---

### Post by Malkor on 2007-11-20
> **kalosaurusrex said:**
> I added the line, and I'll let you know on my next reboot.  Which I hope should be many, many days from now.  Yay Ubuntu!

Thanks!

A

I had the exact same problem as you. Adding that line worked for me.

---

### Post by 11hjpphty76lkjj on 2007-11-20
Well it sorta worked mostly worked.  Cept for some reason the resolution at the gdm login is kinda messed up -- but once i login it's fine.  So it's acceptable. 

Thanks!

A

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-20
Yea, Im still not even getting a GDM :(

Anyone?

---

### Post by 11hjpphty76lkjj on 2007-11-20
How about this.  Lets remove the nividia-glx-new

sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx-new

then in the directory of your choice lets install the nvidia driver from here:
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.19.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.19.html)

wget [http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/100.14.19/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.19-pkg1.run](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/100.14.19/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.19-pkg1.run)

then run:

sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.19-pkg1.run

Follow the instructions and test to make sure it works, then modify the /etc/rc.local as above.

That's what I did, and it works for me.  I have a GeForce 6800XT.

I'm assuming you know how to get to terminal without X starting and that you know how to use the command line, so let me know if you need more detailed steps.  

Good luck!  I know it's frustrating when the driver doesn't work. But you'll get it working.

---

### Post by 11hjpphty76lkjj on 2007-11-20
Oh I forgot a step, also run

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

before starting this process and make sure GDM is not loaded.

ps ax | grep gdm

A

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-20
Thanks for your help.  Ill try this when I get home

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2007-11-26
This worked perfectly!  Thanks!

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2008-02-12
Is this the official Nvidia setup method?  I can't keep up anymore been using ATI for years NVIDIA is still unknown territory for me.

```

0. Download this file
http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_100.14.19.html

1. sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
2. ps ax | grep gdm  ; kill this process

3. sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx-new
4. sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.19-pkg1.run

5. /etc/rc.local  ; add this
modprobe -r nvidia
```


I got stuck at step 4 it wants me to install libc development package in order to install the Kernel header something before Nvidia can work properly.  So I tried this.
```
sudo apt-get install libc
sudo apt-cache search libc 

```
No results and no luck with the libc search.  Here's the error.log file.  What now?

> **nvidia-installer log file '/var/log/nvidia-installer.log'**
creation time: Tue Feb 12 22:32:08 2008

option status:
  license pre-accepted    : false
  update                  : false
  force update            : false
  expert                  : false
  uninstall               : false
  driver info             : false
  precompiled interfaces  : true
  no ncurses color        : false
  query latest version    : false
  OpenGL header files     : true
  no questions            : false
  silent                  : false
  no recursion            : false
  no backup               : false
  kernel module only      : false
  sanity                  : false
  add this kernel         : false
  no runlevel check       : false
  no network              : false
  no ABI note             : false
  no RPMs                 : false
  no kernel module        : false
  force SELinux           : default
  no X server check       : false
  force tls               : (not specified)
  X install prefix        : (not specified)
  X library install path  : (not specified)
  X module install path   : (not specified)
  OpenGL install prefix   : (not specified)
  OpenGL install libdir   : (not specified)
  utility install prefix  : (not specified)
  utility install libdir  : (not specified)
  doc install prefix      : (not specified)
  kernel name             : (not specified)
  kernel include path     : (not specified)
  kernel source path      : (not specified)
  kernel output path      : (not specified)
  kernel install path     : (not specified)
  proc mount point        : /proc
  ui                      : (not specified)
  tmpdir                  : /tmp
  ftp mirror              : [ftp://download.nvidia.com](ftp://download.nvidia.com)
  RPM file list           : (not specified)

Using: nvidia-installer ncurses user interface
-> License accepted.
-> No precompiled kernel interface was found to match your kernel; would you li
   ke the installer to attempt to download a kernel interface for your kernel f
   rom the NVIDIA ftp site ([ftp://download.nvidia.com)?](ftp://download.nvidia.com)?) (Answer: Yes)
-> No matching precompiled kernel interface was found on the NVIDIA ftp site;
   this means that the installer will need to compile a kernel interface for
   your kernel.
[COLOR="Red"]**ERROR: You do not appear to have libc header files installed on your system. **
       Please install your distribution's libc development package.
**ERROR: Installation has failed.  Please see the file**
       '/var/log/nvidia-installer.log' for details.  You may find suggestions
       on fixing installation problems in the README available on the Linux
       driver download page at [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com).
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by digitalslavery on 2008-02-14
I m stuck too, but this has worked for me before.

sudo apt-get install libc6-dev

CTRL+ALT+F1
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
$ chmod a+x NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9631-pkg1.run <-- this is the ver of your file you got from Nvidia
$ sudo ./ NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9631-pkg1.run

let me know how it goes i m trying again right now.

cheers!

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2008-02-14
Tnx for the tip.  But I went with the **Envy + "dpkg-reconfigure -phigh" combination** instead and it worked.

Download Envy
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)
```

sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg -i envy*.deb
sudo envy -t
```

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Finished now playing with the rotating cube all day long.

---

### Post by cwfloyd on 2008-02-14
Ok, I have an old nvidia tnt2 card, went to nvidia's website, downloaded the latest legacy driver file,
now I am stuck.
I do not seem to be able to get the escape key to work when grub is loading.
I am assuming that this is where I need to be in order to run terminal to install the pkg.
When I tried to install with the desktop gui terminal, I got an error telling me that this had to be done after exiting xterm.
I do not know how to get the command terminal prompt without booting up the desktop - I can get a c prompt when booting up windows, but I am still pre-k in Linux it seems! 
Yeah, I know how this sounds, but this old dog is slow on the learning new tricks detail.
I have a sneaky hunch that this is why I cannot get the system to shut down by itself, it just hangs on the splash screen after the bar disappears.
I have just been doing hard shut downs until I can resolve the video prob.
(so far the wife has been really excited about 7.10 - and I really need to learn more)
Linux has made computers exciting for us both again and this is good!

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2008-02-14
Hehe yeah I was lazy with the above **Envy+"dpkg-reconfigure" combination method**.  I left out the Terminal stage.
I too had wrecked my Nvidia graphics like the situation you are in right now.  But that's not so bad.
When you boot your PC into Ubuntu like normal and your Login Manager shows up do this to get into terminal and start fixing things:
```
Ctrl+Alt+F1
```

Before you do that here's some preparations.
I'm guessing you don't have access to Internet with your Ubuntu PC at this moment?  If you have access to Internet with this PC then you don't need to store the file on a USB-stick. 
Download the file **Envy New** from Alberto's homepage and store it on a USB-stick.
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

Then write down these commands on a piece of paper.

# To find out which particular device your USB-stick is located at.
# It should say **/dev/sdb1** or something similar might be different for you!
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Then mount you USB-stick so you can copy the Envy files to your harddrive.  
```
sudo mkdir /temp/stick1
sudo mount /dev/[COLOR="Red"]sd??[/COLOR] /temp/stick1
```
Check if the file is accessable.
```
ls /temp/stick1
cd /temp/stick1

```

```
sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg -i envy **[TAB ME!!]** .deb
sudo envy -t
```
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

