---
title: "ubuntu screen resolution problem"
date: 2006-03-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-01
Hey!

I installed Ubuntu some days ago. I've had Fedora core 2 for 1/2 year now.
My problem is that my Ubuntu won't show another resolution than 640x480. I'm stuck with 640X480! I've been searching on the internet for some days now trying to figure out what is wrong and I think I've got an idea of what is wrong. I've read a lot of tutorials regarding this topic, but the solutions won't work on my computer.

I think that my Vertrefresh and Horizsync has the wrong values (in the start my computer used the default values) and when I try to change those values  of vertrefresh and Horizsync, my screen ends up grey or flimmering....I need the right values I think.

I've got Silicon Motion Lynx3DM 720 and my computer is a Amilo M6500.

I'm not very familiar with commands in linux so please explain!


I've attached my xorg.conf..


Thanks in advance,
Jostein

---

### Post by bluevoodoo1 on 2006-03-01
Have you tried...
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-01
have tried it, but with no luck

---

### Post by daredevil on 2006-03-01
I had this problem before

```
sudo kdesu systemsettings
```

but this is for KDE though

---

### Post by Sandlst on 2006-03-01
When you reconfigured X, I assume you checked the resolutions you wanted....however on my computer I have found that I also had to uncheck 3 resolutions in that same menu that were checked by default, without my knowlege because you have to scroll the list down a bit for them to show up on your screen....I know the x-server is supposed to use the highest res. possible, so this shouldn't be neccessary, but it is the only way that works for me.....I hope it works for you too, good luck!

---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-01
I've tried to reconfigure, but it's still the same...is it possible to change the values of horizSync and VertRefresh and see the results immediately?

---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-01
One more thing...I just reconfigured my x and then I rebooted it. When the welcomescreen became visible it was with correct resolution. It filled the entire screen, but when I typed my username and password and entered (gui) it all went 640*480 again...I tried System->preferences -> screen resolution, but it is only possible to choose 640*480...

---

### Post by bluevoodoo1 on 2006-03-01
can you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file? You might have to manually type in your desired resolution. But if you change your xorg.conf, back it up first. 

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup

---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-02
Here is mye xorg.conf:
I've changed the values of horizSync and VertRefresh a lot times.
Anyone knowing the exact values? This is the problem??
(Silicon motion lynx3dm sm720)


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"no"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Silicon Motion, Inc. SM720 Lynx3DM"
	Driver		"siliconmotion"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	8192
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-95
	VertRefresh	50-180
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Silicon Motion, Inc. SM720 Lynx3DM"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by jamyskis on 2006-03-02
For a start, try replacing all the lines saying: Modes "1024x768" under the Screen section with the following:

Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "640x400" "512x384" "400x300" "320x240" "320x200"

It's possible that your monitor or graphics card doesn't support all of them, and it is equally possible that they support some more exotic resolutions, but these are a list of standard resolutions that it might be worth trying. Let us know what you get out of it. The fact that your graphics card only has 8MB leads me to suspect that your card might not support 1280x1024.

Also, under section "Monitor" replace VertRefresh 50-180 with VertRefresh 60-75, or even 60-60 if that doesn't. I rarely see a monitor that can manage 180Hz, and I doubt your hardware can. I might be wrong, but I suspect your X config is trying to push your hardware to do things it can't which is why it's defaulting to 640x480 60Hz.

---

### Post by meborc on 2006-03-02
**i found this site: **[http://www.ciao.co.uk/Productinformation/Fujitsu_Siemens_AMILO_M_6500__5373323](http://www.ciao.co.uk/Productinformation/Fujitsu_Siemens_AMILO_M_6500__5373323)
[B]
where it is stated that:[/B]

Display Type 14.1" TFT active matrix integrated 
Max Resolution 1024 x 768 / 24-bit (16.7 million colours) 

Graphics Processor / Vendor SMI Lynx3DM - AGP 
Video Memory 8 MB 

Max Resolution (external) 1024 x 768 / 24-bit (16.7 million colours) 
Supported Display Graphics VGA (640x480), XGA (1024x768), SVGA (800x600) 
Video Output Supported NTSC, PAL 
[B]
hope it's of some help[/B]

---

### Post by secular on 2006-03-02
I agree with jamyskis. 

> For a start, try replacing all the lines saying: Modes "1024x768" under the Screen section with the following:

Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" "640x400" "512x384" "400x300" "320x240" "320x200"

And I definitely agree you should change the following values in the "Monitor"  section:

HorizSync	30-92
VertRefresh	50-75

If you make these changes, I think you'll be on your way. Please let the forum know how this turns out.

---

### Post by bluevoodoo1 on 2006-03-02
[QUOTE=dyrehans]I've changed the values of horizSync and VertRefresh a lot times.
Anyone knowing the exact values? This is the problem??
(Silicon motion lynx3dm sm720)
[/QUOTE]

Perfect case of when the monitor's manual comes in handy. If you don't have it, maybe the exact specs can be found somewhere in cyberspace? Either way, the solutions above should hopefully work!

---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-02
hi again!

Same old story here. I'm starting to get a little bit tired of this Ubuntu. I have tried everything written in this forum, but it won't work!

I've changed the values of VertRefresh etc., but with no luck.

After having changed the values I use the command "startx" and the GUI starts up 
again. Sometime it starts with 1024x768, meaning that the screen is "grey&black" and it switches to 640x480 before I can see the GUI. (For one second) One time I saw some icons in 1024x768, but it switched to 640x480 very soon...

I really appreciate your help! I hope that this problem of mine can be fixed!!

---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-02
I tried to use xorgcfg file but got this message after I had saved the two files (/etc/X11/xorg.conf and another one)...I'm not sure if this says anything...


:~$ sudo xorgcfg
  ERROR Failed to initialize module list.
  ERROR Failed to initialize module list.
  ERROR Failed to initialize module list.
  ERROR Failed to initialize module list.

---

### Post by Mike S. on 2006-03-02
I had the same problem, I got a tip from another user.  I had not hit the space bar when the desired resolution was displayed.  I only hit enter and learned that it always defaulted by to 480 x 680.

After hitting the spacing bar it worked great.

Good luck,

Mike

---

### Post by dyrehans on 2006-03-11
I have found the answer!

I installed Fedora core 2 once again and I looked into the file xorg.conf there and here is the answer to my problem!
I replaced some lines (actually only VertRefresh and HorizSync) from the xorg.conf file in ubuntu with the lines from the xorg.conf file in Fedora Core 2. Seems like Fedora found my VertRefresh and HorizSync values automatically!

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Silicon Motion, Inc. SM720 Lynx3DM"
        Driver          "siliconmotion"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
        VideoRam        8192
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-95
        VertRefresh     50-180
EndSection


I hope that this will be useful for someone with the same problem that I had!
Thanks to everybody for being very helpful!

---

