---
title: "Internet sometimes hangs with &quot;looking up host name&quot;"
date: 2008-02-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-21
Firefox is normally good but now and again I'm sitting twiddling my thumbs waiting for a webpage to appear. I'm on an upto 8meg line. Tried opera and noticed in the status bar "looking up host name" as seconds tick by. Other times pages load really quick.

Any solutions out there?

---

### Post by freelinuxhelp on 2008-02-21
Sounds like your DNS server(s) are having issues. Comcast has lots of problems with this in my area.
You might try a different DNS server. I use 4.2.2.3

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-21
Thanks for quick reply. I'm connecting using a wired router. Not sure how to do what you suggest. Can you walk me through it. Or tell me what info is needed from my system.

---

### Post by freelinuxhelp on 2008-02-21
Chances are, there's a place in your router's management application that will let you tell it to either use the DNS server assigned with DHCP or to use the ones you specify.
I specify my own, using the two that I get from Comcast and 4.2.2.3.

---

### Post by Cypher on 2008-02-21
THe router is picking up the DNS information from your ISP and if you are DHCP'ing your address from the router, it'll pass that information to you.

Check out the contents of /etc/resolv.conf to see the info there. You can modify this file with any other valid DNS out there and it will begin to use that.

Know that when you reboot, and DHCLIENT runs again, it will overwrite your values with what the Router has. So the more long term "fix" might be to change the DNS info in the router itself..

---

### Post by Duckstar on 2008-02-21
I have exactly the same problem. 
I have firefox and opera and when i use them i someimtes get a fast response but most of the time i get "looking up hostname" sometimes i can take up to a minute.  Both browsers do this.  And i know its not our DNS servers because all the other machines (windows) in the office do not have a problem.
I also tried blacklist ipv6, but that hasn't worked.. i think its causing my internet windows to go grayed out aswell.  Any ideas ?

Thanks in advanced

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-21
Looking at the router details it's got these default settings checked

PPPoA

Obtain IP address automatically

Manually configure your DNS information: It's got a primary and secondary server set.

 cat /etc/resolv.conf
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search gateway.2wire.net


nameserver = routers setup page

---

### Post by Golem XIV on 2008-02-21
Check this article:

[HOWTO: Persistent DNS Caching with pdnsd]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=331850")

It helped me with the same issue.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-02-21
> One way of improving performance is to provide DNS caching on the local machine, so that repeated look-ups are quicker -- a local request rather than a trip out to the Internet and back. Although some client programs do this for themselves (**notably web browsers**),

It seems from that howto that web browsers should sort this out themselves. :confused:

What should be in /etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by freelinuxhelp on 2008-03-09
resolv.conf should contain info about your dns server(s)
here's mine:

```
nameserver 4.2.2.3
nameserver 68.87.68.162
nameserver 68.87.74.162
```

---

