---
title: "Cant Install this"
date: 2008-02-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by adi_das on 2008-02-17
I cant install this monkey cricket game. please explain me how to install it

---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2008-02-17
A pre-compiled binary is included in that archive.  I hope you trust the person who provided it to you.  ;)

You should be able to extract the files just by right clicking on the archive and choosing the option to open with file-roller.  The program is called "cricket".  Double click it to start the game.  Hopefully it will work and not damage anything.

---

### Post by jan quark on 2008-02-17
first extract the critcket tar and then the source tar

then navigate in terminal to the source folder
( ask if you do not kneo hwo to navigate in terminal)

and run theses terminal commands one after the other
```

./configure
```
```

make
```
```

sudo make install
```


this is the compiling process

make sure you have the build-essentials package installed

---

### Post by adi_das on 2008-02-17
> arvind@arvind:~$ cd /home/arvind/Desktop/cricket
arvind@arvind:~/Desktop/cricket$ cd source
arvind@arvind:~/Desktop/cricket/source$ ./configure
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for a thread-safe mkdir -p... /bin/mkdir -p
checking for gawk... no
checking for mawk... mawk
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking for gnome-config... no
checking for gnomeConf.sh file in /usr/local/lib... not found
configure: error: Could not find the gnomeConf.sh file that is generated by gnome-libs install
arvind@arvind:~/Desktop/cricket/source$ make
make: *** No targets.  Stop.
arvind@arvind:~/Desktop/cricket/source$ sudo make install
[sudo] password for arvind:
make: *** No rule to make target `install'.  Stop.

This is the message shown in terminal

---

### Post by jan quark on 2008-02-17
hm the configuration process could not be accomplished 

so try what yabbadabbadont suggested

extract all tar folders and run the cricket file

---

### Post by adi_das on 2008-02-17
It doesnt run

---

### Post by Sinkingships7 on 2008-02-17
it could be corrupt. if possible, download again.

---

