---
title: "6.10 doesn't make it past load screen."
date: 2007-03-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-05
ok, here is the deal. i am new to linux (thusly, i am posting in this forum). and while i am not a total idiot, i am unfamiliar with linux, and it commands. so please, take it easy on me. :D

i have a presario v6120us, with an amd 64X2 (TL-50) and an Nforce 6150 chipset. using a live copy of 6.10, i just set my machine up to dual boot with xp. every thing seemed to be going great. install went through with no hang-ups.

but when i tried to restart and boot up ubuntu, it gets through through the loading screen (with the progress bar) and then freezes on a blank screen. the computer is completely non-responsive. it wont even reset with the power button, you have to hold it for 5 seconds and force a power-down.

i also noticed that, for a second or two right before it freezes on the black screen, there is a small flashing line up in the top-left corner. like a prompt. then my fans and hard drive kick down and it's stuck.

also noteworthy: xp boots just fine, and i have no other issues. other than the non-booting ubuntu, that is.

so what does this all add up to? did my install take a crap on itself? should i just reinstall and try it again? or is this common problem with a solution?

thanks for you time,
jones

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-05
bump.

holy cow this forum cycles fast. my post sank to the second page in less than half an hour...

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-05
bump.  (wow, all the way back to page 3 in less than an hour....)

so i have been trying to spend my idle time wisely. i found that i can actualy get ubuntu to boot. and i think that i might have narrowed it down a bit...

if i hit ctrl+alt+space twice (a tip i off-handedly remember reading and tryed. though i dont really know what it does.) it will boot. but this opened a whole new can of worms. i discovered that when i shut it down, it gliches the audio and hangs up. (have to force a power-down) and then it wont start ubuntu again, even with the double tap trick.

so then i start it up in xp, and it wants to run scandisk (for obvious reasons). then if i reset it and do the double tap thing, it will start ubuntu again. 

this whole thing makes me want to chuck my laptop out the window. lol.

you guys got anything? im not going to give up easily, but this is getting agravating.

thanks again,
jones

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-05
ok, another update. i have been monkeying with it and this is what i have found out. 

the ubuntu booting is semi-random. by that i mean, it seems to be dependant on the ctrl+alt+space thing, but at the same time, it will refuse to boot at random. and while im not even sure if that key combo does anything (it doesnt work all the time), it has not booted without it. 

and i have yet to get it to shut down without hanging up. 

this is sounding more and more like a hardware problem. but xp is booting up and running strong. so that kicks that theory in the shins.

oh well, the saga continues.....

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-05
sorry to be the only guy posting in my thread, but i was 5 pages down and i still need some help. so ....... bump!

thanks
-jones

---

### Post by awells527 on 2007-03-06
Are you using any proprietary video drivers installed?

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-06
i havent installed any drivers. just whatever ubunutu auto detected.

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-07
bump.

sorry, just trying to keep this thread visible. i really need some help :D

---

### Post by blacksheep998 on 2007-03-07
I've got the same problem, only I cant even install. Its doing it when trying to load the OS from the liveCD. Someone suggested updating my bios which I'll be doing this weekend, I hope it works.

---

### Post by schms on 2007-03-07
1.

Disconnect all external devices (such as digital cameras, i-pod but not the keyboard
and mouse :-))  and try to boot again.


2.  
Check the content of /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Any strange entries ?  Rename the
file and reboot.

3.
At the GRUB menu, choose a line with a string like "recovery mode" and the
computer should start up  to the command line interface. There, key in
"sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" and answer the questions. When
you get back to the CLI, key in <startx> or reboot the system with <init 6>.

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-07
ok, i did the reconfigure thing. didnt really change much. i just scaled it back to its lowest setting to make sure it wasnt a video card issue.

though i did find one interesting thing. even the recovery moad likes to hang up, but at least it shows me what it is doing. the last line it shows befor freezing (multiple times) is :

[17179570.472000] PCI: Ignoring BAR0- 3 of IDE controller 0000:00:0d.0

and then it locks up and stares at me like a dead fish. so given the fact that it always lock up while loading something, and this is where it lock up (repeatedly) in recovery, im starting to thing that linux hates my IDE controller. 

or am i way off? anyone know?

---

### Post by ecs_pf5 on 2007-03-07
Sounds like what was happening to me. In my case, it turned out the ATI radeon x700 video card was not recognised quite right. I had to change the video card driver from 'ati' to 'vesa' in /etc/X11/xorg.conf

That was in Dapper. When I changed to Edgy, the same trick wouldn't work, this time I had to go the whole hog and install ati's linux fglrx driver. Then it worked just fine.

What video card have you got?

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-08
nvidia 6150 onboard. (in a compaq V6120US, if that matters)

what driver do you recomend i choose? the reconfig suggested going with something close to the name of the card manufacturer, so i picked "NV".

was that a bad choice?

and why would bad video driver make it hang up on shut down as well (on the rare occasion that i can get it to boot)? plus, what about recovery freezing while trying to deal with my IDE controller?

god, this is such a pain. figureing out linux is like trying to speak japanese out of a text book lol. but im not giving up. if millions of other people can figure this out, than so can i. :D

thanks for you help guy.

---

### Post by watson540 on 2007-03-08
Hey man, I hate to see that this error is happening to someone else besides me :( , and i have tried everything to get rid of it!! 
This will sound wierd but try it anyway cause for some reason it works ok.
When grub starts up and lets you pick what to boot (recovery or regular), highlight the very top one (the regular mode). 
Hit 'E' to edit that one. hit the down arrow and hit 'E' again to edit that line. Remove the words quiet and splash and then type in 'vga=791' and hit enter. Hit 'B' to make it boot. please report back and tell me if this works cause im going crazy thinking this is actually a fix for this problem, but i do happen to have the very same video card that you do in my laptop. Good Luck .
Anything i put in quotes dont include those quotesl. Like when i say hit 'E' i mean just hit E

EDIT: JUST TRIED THIS FIX WITH SOMEONE ELSE WITH AN HP LAPTOP. IT WORKED FOR THEM, LETS PRAY IT WORKS FOR YOU AS WELL , GOOD LUCK

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-08
ok, i tried this and it work great. i have no idea why, but who cares. what matters is that ubuntu will boot.

but here is the thing. it only works once. 

by that i mean, it doesnt save the change and i have to do it every time i start up. is there some kind of "save settings" command that i missed.

also, while i was editing that boot file thing (i am going to call it that for lack of a better term) i noticed a line that said "savedefault". do you think that line is forcing it back to default? should i try deleting it?

---

### Post by watson540 on 2007-03-08
pay no attention to the line savedefault. the file you need to edit to make it permanent is /boot/grub/menu.1st  scroll 3/4 of the way down to find the line .. you will see it..just add the vga=791 to the end of it. im so glad it worked for you though. good luck

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-08
ok, this is where i get to look like a certified retard. im not sure where this line is.

there is nothing in that boot file thing that says "boot/grub/menu". not even in the middle of one of the other line.

am i missing it? or is that line found somewhere else?

---

### Post by schms on 2007-03-08
You may consider to look right after line <## ## End Default Options ##> in

/boot/grub/menu.lst  :

(..)

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.17-11-386
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-11-386 root=UUID=2f84f545-c589-4c77-ad8a-e7d34493ec2b ro [COLOR="Red"]vga=791[/COLOR]
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-11-386
savedefault
boot

title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.17-11-386 (recovery mode)
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-11-386 root=UUID=2f84f545-c589-4c77-ad8a-e7d34493ec2b ro single
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-11-386
boot

(..)

---

### Post by watson540 on 2007-03-08
thank you for clarifying this, surely no one can mistake how to do it now. im just so lazy it never occured to me to do what you just did :)

---

### Post by thejones on 2007-03-09
sorry for the delayed reply guys. i have been rebuilding the engine in my work truck and havent had much time for the frivolous entertainment machine.

but i got it up and running now. i knew were to edit the file, but i didnt know how :D

after some poking around in the interweb, i found out how to open the text editor in sudo. so im one step closer to saying goodbye to windows. now i just have to get my wireless card to work and ill be in business.

thanks a lot for your help guys. untill you helped me out i was about to give up on linux and blame it on the hardware lol.

---

