---
title: "successful dual boot"
date: 2007-02-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Keltazz on 2007-02-07
Hi – i just made a successful dual boot with fat32 system and i thought i d share my experience. i had the easy partitioner do it the first time, but the second time with a new disk, there was no easy orange bar. so i spent some hours at the forum trying to get a clue. no one mentioned a couple things i found confusing, anyone, let me know if you did to. i m about to change my login to clutz.  before those two things, though, i wonder why the orange bar tool panel doesn't bother to say ubuntu will go in the white part of the bar? that would be so easy. i have found, at least one other person that wiped out windows  on the assumption that the orange part was how big you want ubuntu.  heres what i found confusing about the partition tool. when you make an extended partition, the tool shows the subsequent partitions with logical drive numbers, then in the next step those are replaced by sda numbers. which isnt so bad, but then when you go to mount, you get the partition sizes, but not the file type. so, if you made two the same size, you have to go back, and write it down, and then the order of the drives has changed in the window for some reason. when you are a newbie using the manual partitioner the first time its confusing. so heres what i did, 1.made 20G extended partition,2. made logical drives, 11G ext3 for /home, 10G fat32 for /share, 3G ext3 for / (blank) (root)  and 1.5G for /swap. you right click on the drive you want to alter, so when you right click on the 20G extended partition that you made first, you click new, and  in the upper little window with the numbers, make the 3G (3000 megabytes in partition tool) size. the remainder is automatically calculated! great..., then choose the file type ext3. next, rt click on the unallocated space blue bar and  go new, size 10G, 10000MB, select fat32 in the file menu. repeat for the other drives you are creating, making the 11G ext3, and the 1.5G ext3. ext3 for every partition that will be used by ubuntu. next,follow the menu prompts to apply the changes. at that point you should write down the file sizes and types, they will have been changed – the ten to 8.7, the 11 to 9.7 etc. , its a rounding to cylinders  and/or having a cushion between drives thing, i think.  now you match the partition/logical drive/sda# ( these letters might be different on your rig ) with the mount points from the menu. i tried /usr for the fat32 as suggested in a post i read, but it didnt work for me, i got a message that it couldnt mount that file type at that place, something like that. then you get to install! my fat32 is reading and writing on both platforms. on windows, it sees the fat32 as a drive with a letter – not so on ubuntu, the fat32 (/share, or your name ) and the home partitions/logical drives are folders in Filesystem, which has a drive icon. in ubuntu you won t be able to save files to the fat32 folder until you select on it make it so it can open with the file browser. i made a folder called fat in the fat32 folder-that-is-really-a-drive, that the ubuntu file browser can see, and windows can find the folder too.  there is a drive on the desktop   - its the windows partition and ubuntu can open the win image and text files that i ve tried with no problem. i ve read there is something like ext2.fs that can :) open ubuntu files from win, but  i dont know where it is, how to get it, or how it works. so, anyway,  YiPPEe! sincerely, keltazz

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-02-07
Congrats man, but could you use paragraphs next time..;)

---

