---
title: "8.04 Hardy Heron???"
date: 2008-01-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Promaster91 on 2008-01-15
I was looking around on the internet and found there is a Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron. Is this still in the debugging stage and should I upgrade to it because my laptop is new and it might have more drivers? Thanks.

---

### Post by CCNA_student on 2008-01-15
If you wanted to download Ubuntu 8.04, look here at [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/hardy/alpha-3/]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/hardy/alpha-3/").
I tried it out and it works better with my ATI video card than 7.10 does, but Ubuntu 8.04 is still in the Alpha stage so I would suggest that you not install it, unless you feel like contributing to its development. I hope that this answered your question.

      Sin Cere,

      CCNA

---

### Post by Promaster91 on 2008-01-15
Ok, does anybody know the eta for release.

---

### Post by CCNA_student on 2008-01-15
The stable version will be released in April.

---

### Post by nille on 2008-01-15
Check out the ReleaseSchedule:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseSchedule](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardyReleaseSchedule)

BTW, the version is a good hint for release ;)

7.10 means release in october 2007
8.04 means release in april 2008

---

### Post by crisnoh on 2008-01-15
::retracted::

---

### Post by Promaster91 on 2008-01-15
Ok, wow, I never noticed that. Thanks. I was looking at some screen shots and they look pretty cool. Can't wait for the stable release.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-01-15
That's actually what the version number means.  Gutsy's is 7.10.  That's 200(7), in October (10).  Ubuntu follows the Debian release schedule, so a new version every 6 months.  Cool.

EDIT
Aw man, I got busy on something else and got beat to it.  :p
/EDIT

---

### Post by machoo02 on 2008-01-15
> **JoshuaRL said:**
>  Ubuntu follows the Debian release schedule, so a new version every 6 months.Actually, Ubuntu follows the GNOME release schedule, which is every six months.  Debian puts out a stable release around every 18-24 months, or whenever it's ready (it's not a time based release).

---

### Post by Roasted on 2008-01-18
Is there any kind of list that we can view that confirms what is currently supported by Hardy?

For example, on my Toshiba laptop for the life of me I cannot get gutsy to work with my sound or with my wireless. So I was hoping I could see some sort of a list that confirms what's working on Hardy as of now.

That way I know whether or not I can get my hopes up about running Ubuntu as primary on my laptop. That'd be niiiiiiiiice. :)

I think I'll install it tomorrow, despite it being in the beta stage. I left Ubuntu installed on a 10 gig partition so that way I could obtain updates every so often to see if any of the updates fixed my lack of hardware support I'm experiencing. So I have nothing to lose with the 10 gb partition and Hardy being unstable, so I'll try it out and see what happens...

But until then, does anybody have any input on that list I spoke about?

---

### Post by anewguy on 2008-01-18
> **Roasted said:**
> Is there any kind of list that we can view that confirms what is currently supported by Hardy?

For example, on my Toshiba laptop for the life of me I cannot get gutsy to work with my sound or with my wireless. So I was hoping I could see some sort of a list that confirms what's working on Hardy as of now.

That way I know whether or not I can get my hopes up about running Ubuntu as primary on my laptop. That'd be niiiiiiiiice. :)

I think I'll install it tomorrow, despite it being in the beta stage. I left Ubuntu installed on a 10 gig partition so that way I could obtain updates every so often to see if any of the updates fixed my lack of hardware support I'm experiencing. So I have nothing to lose with the 10 gb partition and Hardy being unstable, so I'll try it out and see what happens...

But until then, does anybody have any input on that list I spoke about?

do you know what wireless chipset and what sound is in your laptop?  Try going into a terminal window and typing lspci, then post the results back here.  Maybe we can help you get wireless and sound working for you in Gutsy (7.10).

:)

---

### Post by nille on 2008-01-18
Also, note that such a list is often written by the community itself, by testing. So, if you have the time (and perhaps knowledge?) you can try to install and see what works and what doesn't. Also, if you find something that doesn't work you can always leave a bugreport to help developers fix it.

No one will blame you if you don't try, but someone may thank you if you do ;)

---

### Post by thelatinist on 2008-01-18
> **machoo02 said:**
> Actually, Ubuntu follows the GNOME release schedule, which is every six months.  Debian puts out a stable release around every 18-24 months, or whenever it's ready (it's not a time based release).

As I understand it Ubuntu is based on debian-unstable anyway.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2008-01-18
I believe my wireless chipset is a Realtek RTL 8187B.

---

### Post by ByteJuggler on 2008-01-18
> **Roasted said:**
> 
That way I know whether or not I can get my hopes up about running Ubuntu as primary on my laptop. That'd be niiiiiiiiice. :)


Might consider checking if there's already a support request/bug report about your issues, and if not submit them on Launchpad.  You might get lucky and have a hand in getting your issues resolved before release of Hardy.  :-)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-01-18
download the desktop cd and check it out...

hardy has problems with my dvd-drive  :(

---

### Post by machoo02 on 2008-01-21
> **thelatinist said:**
> As I understand it Ubuntu is based on debian-unstable anyway.
Yes, but Debian unstable (aka "Sid") is never actually released.

---

### Post by thelatinist on 2008-01-21
> **machoo02 said:**
> Yes, but Debian unstable (aka "Sid") is never actually released.

Yes.  My point was that since Ubuntu is based on Debian unstable, it would make even less sense to tie Ubuntu's release cycle to the release cycle of Debian stable.

---

