---
title: "6.06 server - standard install - 64MB RAM"
date: 2006-09-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by terrylwood on 2006-09-22
Does it install successfully with 64MB of RAM?  Attempts to install to disk on my 64MB environment initially warn that the installation must proceed with Low Memory and ultimately fails when trying to detect and mount CD ROM.  The same media seems to install without problem on two other machines (with more RAM).
Any experience that you are willing to share is appreciated.

For context, my purpose is to use the old hardware and Linux to create a small web access environment, ie, firewall, vpn.  If successful, I have interest in creating LAMP services.  


Thanks in advance,
Terry  

More info about my environment:
eMachines 400ix
AMIBios 4/19/1999
ATAPI CD-ROM
Single FAT-32 partition on IDE 6GB disk

---

### Post by halitech on 2006-09-22
It is possible to have it run on old hardware. looking at the rest of your specs, may want to go either just CLI or XFCE.

My specs:
AMD K6/2 350
64MEg PC100 RAM
6gig HD
32Meg ATI video card
Running Xubuntu 6.06
Apache 2
MySQL 5
PHP 5
phpBB2
Coppermine
ftp

---

### Post by terrylwood on 2006-09-23
Thanks, Adam.  Both encouraging and helpful.  Terry

> **halitech said:**
> It is possible to have it run on old hardware. looking at the rest of your specs, may want to go either just CLI or XFCE.

My specs:
AMD K6/2 350
64MEg PC100 RAM
6gig HD
32Meg ATI video card
Running Xubuntu 6.06
Apache 2
MySQL 5
PHP 5
phpBB2
Coppermine
ftp

---

### Post by k94382 on 2006-09-23
i have read that fluxbox should be really fast on those machines, but im not sure what it really is. i also got a laptop with 64 mb of ram and a 400 mhz processor so im looking into if fluxbox is something i would consider.

---

### Post by halitech on 2006-09-25
fluxbox is another Window manager like Gnome, KDE, XFCE and the like. Gnome and KDE are fairly "heavy" but from what I've heard flux and xfce are considered light and will normally run where others won't. I have xfce running on mine but with no mouse, kinda pointless so it boots to CLI and I just use SSH to control it.

---

