---
title: "4.1 Surround not working"
date: 2007-08-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by asakurax on 2007-08-08
Hello, I have an Intel ICH5 sound card and a fresh installation of Ubuntu 7.04. I just wanted to try out my 4.1 speakers, but found out that I can only hear sound from the front two ones. As I searched the answers given to similar questions in this forum, I found out everything I need to enable in alsamixer, which I did. I then activated speaker-test to check whether the speakers are configured correctly - it all worked this far. All of my speakers worked as expected. My surprise came when I found that when listening to any media not in speaker-test, again, only the front two speakers worked... I experienced this in Rhythembox, VLC and Xine. What should I do to enable sound from the rear speakers as well.

With Thanks,
asakurax.

---

### Post by tszanon on 2007-08-08
The media you are listening to probably only have 2 sound channels, which is true for almost all mp3 you will find around (I believe mp3 can't have more than 2 channels, but I'm not sure). Since a lot of videos use mp3 as their sound format, it will be the same case.

You will need some tweaking in order to play mp3s in all 5 speakers.

---

### Post by asakurax on 2007-08-08
Yeah, I know that, however, my previous computer had 5.1 speakers and I managed to make it play 2 channel MP3s as 6 channel ones. This time, however, the split is ***_only_*** working in the speaker-test and not in the "real world".

Help much appreciated,
asakurax.

---

### Post by tszanon on 2007-08-08
By default, there are some preset audio devices (names can be incorrect):
- default (2 channels)
- surround41
- surround51 and maybe some more.

What I've done to get music and videos working was setting up ALSA (/etc/asound.conf and ~/asound.rc) to create a new virtual sound device. Then, I set up xmms to use this new device (which I named ch51dup), so it copied the front speakers to the rear speakers and merged left and right into the subwoofer and center speaker. It was enough to play music in all 6 channels.

About videos, gxine and totem should be configure to use 6 channels. If the video had only 2 sound channels, then I used ch51dup, just like I did in xmms. if I recall correctly, that was all. It's been a long time. I never used Rhythmbox nor VLC, so I can't really help you much, but when I get home I can give you some instructions at configuring gxine (if no one helps you before that).

---

### Post by tszanon on 2007-08-08
In gxine, go to File > Configure > Preferences, then the Audio tab. It may look like the image below. As you can see, the setting to take care is:
-alsa front device (using all channels when audio has only 2 channels)

There is that alsa_surround40_device, but I don't know if it would meet your needs...that's strange, 4 channels? where is 4.1?

---

### Post by asakurax on 2007-08-09
Hi again, I just installed gxine - to no effect. The problem is that I only hear sound from the speakers connected to Line in. If I connect the rear speakers to the line in, I hear sound from them. I'm really at a loss... I found a site which recommends an .asoundrc file for my card (ICH5), in which the recommendation was to use :

```

pcm.intel8x0 {
    type hw
    card 0
}

ctl.intel8x0 {
    type hw
    card 0
}

pcm.ch41dup {
         type route
         slave.pcm surround41
         slave.channels 5
         ttable.0.0 1
         ttable.1.1 1
         ttable.0.2 1
         ttable.1.3 1
         ttable.0.4 0.5
         ttable.1.4 0.5
}

```

as the contents of my .asoundrc file. This, however, does not work. Perhaps this configuration is incorrect, but if so, I don't know what to change. 

Lots of thanks,
asakurax.

---

### Post by tszanon on 2007-08-09
> **asakurax said:**
> Hi again, I just installed gxine - to no effect. The problem is that I only hear sound from the speakers connected to Line in. If I connect the rear speakers to the line in, I hear sound from them. I'm really at a loss... I found a site which recommends an .asoundrc file for my card (ICH5), in which the recommendation was to use :
(...)
as the contents of my .asoundrc file. This, however, does not work. Perhaps this configuration is incorrect, but if so, I don't know what to change. 

Lots of thanks,
asakurax.
That's similar to mine. But, if I recall correctly, it just creates the device ch41dup. Now, you have to set the programs - somehow - to use it. Try that device in xmms and it should work (if you need instructions, I'll give them to you when I get home). But now the problem in videos would still persist. But let's go step by step. Once we get the audio working, we'll get to the videos.

[COLOR="Blue"]**Edit:**[/COLOR]
I searched my old threads and found this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=117701](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=117701) and this: [http://alsa.opensrc.org/FAQ028](http://alsa.opensrc.org/FAQ028)

That's how I got xmms to play the songs using all channels (and that's what we've been discussing).

---

### Post by laginimaineb on 2007-08-09
> **tszanon said:**
> That's similar to mine. But, if I recall correctly, it just creates the device ch41dup. Now, you have to set the programs - somehow - to use it. Try that device in xmms and it should work (if you need instructions, I'll give them to you when I get home). But now the problem in videos would still persist. But let's go step by step. Once we get the audio working, we'll get to the videos.

[COLOR="Blue"]**Edit:**[/COLOR]
I searched my old threads and found this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=117701](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=117701) and this: [http://alsa.opensrc.org/FAQ028](http://alsa.opensrc.org/FAQ028)

That's how I got xmms to play the songs using all channels (and that's what we've been discussing).

Actually, I just recalled that I also used a very similar configuration for my 5.1 speakers at home (I also have ICH5), and somehow it works globally (everything is routed correctly). Strange...
Just for reference, here's my asoundrc : 

```

pcm.intel8x0 {
    type hw
    card 0
}

ctl.intel8x0 {
    type hw
    card 0
}

pcm.ch51dup {
         slave.pcm surround51
         slave.channels 6
         type route
         ttable.0.0 1
         ttable.1.1 1
         ttable.0.2 1
         ttable.1.3 1
         ttable.0.4 0.5
         ttable.1.4 0.5
         ttable.0.5 0.5
         ttable.1.5 0.5
}

```

Oh, and one more thing, I found this: 
```

# ALSA library configuration file

# Include settings that are under the control of asoundconf(1).
# (To disable these settings, comment out this line.)
</home/.../.asoundrc.asoundconf>

pcm.!dmix {
   type dmix
   ipc_key 1024
   slave {
       pcm {
		type hw
		card "ICH5"
		device 0
       }
       channels 6
       period_size 2048
       buffer_size 4096
   }
}
pcm.!default {
   type plug
   slave.pcm "dmix"
   slave.channels 6
   route_policy duplicate
}

```

which is supposed to work for ICH5 (just change it to 5 channels since you want 4.1 surround).
P.S - I really hate to say this, but is it possible that on sound Windows is ahead? :confused:

---

### Post by laginimaineb on 2007-08-09
Oh and one more thing, I just remembered that on my computer I had to select duplicate front. Besides, I also remember going through a lot of trouble when configuring my speakers... It's just a matter of time until you find the right asoundrc that fits you. By the way, as pointed above, the code you posted means you just create a virtual device called ch41dup. To check whether it's configured correctly, however, you can use speaker-test but specify ch41dup with the -D argument.

---

### Post by asakurax on 2007-08-13
bump?:confused:

---

### Post by asakurax on 2007-08-18
bump ?

---

