---
title: "7.10 screen resolution issue"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by toosweetnitemare on 2007-10-22
i just  upgraded my friend's emachine to ubuntu 7.10 and i can not get the resolution to go above 800X600. 
I use dapper and i can do it. before this install of 7.10 the screen was 1240X760.
any ideas on how to raise the resolution would be very welcome because i can not do it in 
system>preferences>screen resolution. if you need any info about my system please ask.

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-10-22
What type video card are you using.  Can you post your xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by toosweetnitemare on 2007-10-22
my xorg.conf file looks like this:
> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation C51G [GeForce 6100]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:0:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"1772ED"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation C51G [GeForce 6100]"
	Monitor		"1772ED"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by some_random_noob on 2007-10-22
> **alienexplorers said:**
> What type video card are you using.  Can you post your xorg.conf file.

Couldn't he just use "System>Administration>Screens and Graphics" for this?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2007-10-22
First thig is to turn on restricted graphics.  Use system>administration>restricted graphics manager.  Then you can try resetting the resolution to what you want.

---

### Post by toosweetnitemare on 2007-10-22
thank you!!!! ill have to try that later when im back at their computer.

---

### Post by toosweetnitemare on 2007-10-28
when i went to enable the restricted drivers i got this error message:
> The software source for the package

   nvidia-glx-new

 is not enabled.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-28
Hi. Go to "System->Administration->Software Sources" and enable all the repositories on the first tab. If it doesn't prompt you to refresh the repository information, do so from either Synaptic (press the blue "Reload" button); from Update Manager (press the "Check" button); or from the terminal:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
Then the Restricted Drivers Manager should be able to find the driver.

---

### Post by toosweetnitemare on 2007-10-28
thanks i realized i forgot to enable the repository a few minutes ago, installed the driver and restarted. now it all works!!! Thank to all that helped, it was much appreciated!

---

