---
title: "7.1 i386 and amd64"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by gruntmc on 2008-03-27
I'm old, so I hope you cut me some slack. I recently installed gutsy and later installed a PC Chips MB w/2gb ram and 3000 processor. My question is: can I upgrade to the 64 disk or will I need a full install.
  Also, how can I install to an existing partition with out repartition everything or entire HDD?
Thanks, and I hope this makes sense.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-03-27
you can still use your x86 install, but if you want to use 64bit OS you will need a fresh install. And if you choose manual partition you can set up how Ubuntu installs

---

### Post by gruntmc on 2008-03-27
Thanks for reply. Will I need to reformat and partition HD Before I load 64?

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2008-03-27
No you would not need to repartition your hard disk drive.

You can use your existing partitions, but I guess you are forced to format the partition which host the main OS it self.
That means that you can choice to mount unchanged partition (could be your home directory) without having to format it.

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2008-03-27
You have a few options:

1) Install 64-bit on a new partition and keep your 32-bit install.  This way you can just select the one you want using GRUB on bootup.

2) Install 64-bit on top of your current 32-bit install.  You will have to format the partition you currently have 32-bit installed on and will lose your data stored on it.

To prevent loss of data using method 2 you have more choices:

     a) Move your /home folder to a /home partition.  This way whenever you upgrade you will not lose your data.

    b) Back up your /home folder onto other media (flash drive, CD, DVD)  and copy it back over after you reinstall.  

Note:  Some settings folders don't transfer well on upgrades.  They are hidden in your /home folder and if you have problems with a program after reinstalling simply delete those folders.  Or better yet, don't transfer them at all.  Just transfer the things you need.

Sorry, to give you such a complicated answer, I hope it helps.

---

### Post by gruntmc on 2008-03-27
Thanks for input, I think I'll go ahead and partition for just one partition, and reload on amd64. Not that much loaded anyway. Been away for awhile, tired of the Linspire crrrrrap, think I,ll stay with Ubuntu. Still have Microslop on other 'puter, but I like a stable system on my test bed. Again, thanks for all the info and help. Best to all, gruntmc.

---

