---
title: "Deluge weird crasing on startup"
date: 2007-09-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Pirate_Hunter on 2007-09-18
Last night I installed Deluge, it worked fine but now everytime i start it up it crashes. So i decided to run from terminal and these are the messages I got:

deluge
no existing Deluge session
deluge_core; using libtorrent 0.11.0.0. Compiled with NDEBUG value: 1
Applying preferences
Torrent Size 152897802.0
Available Space 11016048640
Raising error: 
deluge_core; using libtorrent 0.11.0.0. Compiled with NDEBUG value: 1
terminate called after throwing an instance of 'boost::filesystem::filesystem_error'
  what():  boost::filesystem::default_name_check: default name check already set
Aborted (core dumped)

I found that weird so I tried running it with sudo:

sudo deluge
Password:
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/deluge", line 54, in <module>
    bus = dbus.SessionBus()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/dbus/_dbus.py", line 669, in __new__
    mainloop=mainloop)
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.5/dbus/_dbus.py", line 293, in __new__
    mainloop=mainloop)
dbus.DBusException: org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NoReply: Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.

Has anyone else had or knows how to fix this problem its weird since everything was fine and I installed deluge through synaptic.

---

### Post by AlexKeaton on 2007-09-19
It sounds like a lost cause. You might as well uninstall the program and give up.

---

### Post by sunexplodes on 2007-09-19
Try deleting the .deluge folder from your home directory. That often solves startup crashes.

---

### Post by Pirate_Hunter on 2007-09-19
^ >  Try deleting the .deluge folder from your home directory. That often solves startup crashes. 

:-| You're asking me to delete the .Deluge folder from my home directory, its a weird request but i'll do so cause linux in itself has a weird way of working

---------------------------------

I haven't got a deluge folder in my home directory which is weird synaptic should've created one

---

### Post by sunexplodes on 2007-09-19
oh, my bad. the deluge folder i'm thinking of would be in

/home/user/.config/deluge . 

It's safe to delete a folder from your home folder because they're automatically generated by the applications, it's just configuration settings. if there's something in deluge's settings that is causing it to crash, deleting the folder i mentioned will cause it to start over with its default settings instead.

---

### Post by Pirate_Hunter on 2007-09-19
> **sunexplodes said:**
> oh, my bad. the deluge folder i'm thinking of would be in

/home/user/.config/deluge . 

It's safe to delete a folder from your home folder because they're automatically generated by the applications, it's just configuration settings. if there's something in deluge's settings that is causing it to crash, deleting the folder i mentioned will cause it to start over with its default settings instead.

No such file patch exists on my home directory, I haven't got a /homeuser/ directory to look for the deluge settings. I haven't even got /home/.deluge in my home directory so I dont even know where deluge is running from or if the install was just faulty "but than this is the second install with the same problem" :confused:

Can you think of something i can do to correct this problem I have no clue why it is happening, I use ubuntu 7.04 and deluge was installed from synaptic

---

### Post by sunexplodes on 2007-09-19
no no

i mean, like IN your home directory, go to .config/deluge

---

### Post by Pirate_Hunter on 2007-09-20
> **sunexplodes said:**
> no no

i mean, like IN your home directory, go to .config/deluge

Oh sorry for the newbness im still a geek in progress :(

---

### Post by Pirate_Hunter on 2007-09-21
Yeah you're right that did the trick which is really weird, so you're telling me I must do this all the time. 

I seriously hope not :(

Thanx for your help

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2007-09-21
This happened to me when I installed from getdeb or repo's. I uninstalled completely and got package from website. [http://deluge-torrent.org](http://deluge-torrent.org) and it works 100% now.

[IMG]http://i6.tinypic.com/52mqam0.jpg[/IMG]

---

