---
title: "5.10 install prob"
date: 2007-06-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by freefromXP on 2007-06-03
I had Kubuntu 5.10 installed on my pii400 laptop and I mes up the partions snd ran out of space.  SO I wiped HD.

   I am now installing ubuntu 5.10 but when I get to the users and PW section I enter names and password then it goes right back and keep startign that section over.  

   Can I finish install with out a user name and PW if so how will I log on and would I be able to get to root?

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-06-03
Um.... do you mean *5.10* or *6.10*? Because 5.10 is, like, ancient. You should upgrade if that's the case.

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2007-06-03
> **freefromXP said:**
> I had Kubuntu 5.10 installed on my pii400 laptop and I mes up the partions snd ran out of space.  SO I wiped HD.

   I am now installing ubuntu 5.10 but when I get to the users and PW section I enter names and password then it goes right back and keep startign that section over.  

   Can I finish install with out a user name and PW if so how will I log on and would I be able to get to root?

please advise your computers specs.

---

### Post by freefromXP on 2007-06-03
OK

   I am install 5.10 on a Dell inspron 7500. Pii 400mhz, 128m ram, 20g HD.  I had Ubuntu up and runnign but ran out of disk space because I partioned wrong,   I had Xubuntu and Ubuntu desktop install as well.  

  I had used Kubuntu 5.10 install disk to install it and had no problem.  I reformatted my HD to give me 10g ext / , 9g fat32 /home , 1g swap (because hey why not ).  

   After I to timezone I get to the users and password.  tiype the user name twice then the password twice.  I pauses for a min then goes right back to and asked me again and I can not proceed.  I could maually skip this but is the wise.

---

