---
title: "Can't seem to install"
date: 2007-11-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by robertlankford on 2007-11-14
I'm glad there is an "absolute beginner" forum, since I am certainly that.  I'm posting this from the gutsy gibbon live cd.  

I have a computer with 4 hard drives.

Sata 1 - Windows XP
Sata 2 - Clear and ready to go.
EIDE 1 - Various files - NTFS
EIDE 2 - Clear and ready to go.

I'd like to switch to Ubuntu (for as much as possible anyway).  With two hard drives to spare, I figure I have the perfect setup for giving this OS a whirl.  What I would like to do is leave the XP drive alone (sata 1) and place Ubuntu on one of the free hard drive.  My preference is to have Ubuntu installed on the second sata drive.

I tried this last week and could never figure out how to boot to my new installation.  I could boot off the live CD, but any attempt to boot my computer resulted in Windows XP showing up.  My bios, apparently, isn't sophisticated enough to let me choose which SATA drive I boot from.  It only allows me to make the SATA stack the first in the boot priority list.

I was never really confident that my Ubuntu install ever installed a boot loader anyway.  So I moved on and tried installing Ubuntu to the free EIDE drive thinking that I could, at the very least, force a boot via the bios on my computer.  That didn't work out either.  I left the install and came back some time later ... I'm really not sure if that ever finished correctly or not.

So, I fired up the partition editor and clear out both spare hard disks.  I then tried to install Ubuntu yet again on the SATA 2 drive.  I used the "Guided - Whole Disk" option during the setup.  At the end, it asked me where I'd like to install the boot loader.  The default choice was "(hd0)".  I figured that maybe this was the problem all along.  So I used the 'df' command to figure out the same of my sata 2 disk and changed '(hd0)' to '(sdb1)'.  The installation process then created partitions and copied files.  At the end of the process it reported a critical error and told me that grub could not be loaded onto sdb1.

So I'm stuck here yet again.  I'm a little frustrated (but realize my own ignorance is at fault), because I know that Ubuntu has to be easier to install than this.  I simply have to be overlooking something obvious.

So help me out please!  Here are some questions that I have:

1) How *should* this work?  Does each hard disk have its own MBR?  If so, does the sata 2 disk need to have grub installed in the MBR for that disk?

2) Shouldn't Ubuntu's default install program be able to pick up on my configuration and get me going without incident?  Or is trying to boot from two separate SATA disks to two different operating systems a curve ball for the install routine (I cannot imagine this to be the case)?

I'll quit rambling now.  Hopefully I've shared enough that someone more skilled than I can step in and point me in the right direction!

Thanks!

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2007-11-14
Some suggested reading:
[http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/installing)

---

### Post by Duck2006 on 2007-11-14
Boot up the ubuntu live CD and in the terminal type

sudo fdisk -l

and post the output.

You have to install the grub boot loader to the mbr of the first boot drive, (sd0)

---

### Post by robertlankford on 2007-11-15
Thanks for the responses!

Dr. Small -- I took a look at the link you provided.  Unless I'm missing something, those instructions seem to be tailored to the person trying to get all this working on 1 hard disk with multiple partitions containing multiple operating systems.

Duck --

Here is the list generated by the fdisk command:

```
[1]+  Stopped                 man fdisk
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ fdisk -l
fdisk -l
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/hda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x219c3adb

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1       60801   488384001    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/hdd: 163.9 GB, 163928604672 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19929 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x121e121d

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdd2           19554       19929     3020220    5  Extended
/dev/hdd5           19554       19929     3020188+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sda: 300.0 GB, 300069052416 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 36481 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x1c291c28

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       36480   293025568+   7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 200.0 GB, 200049647616 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24321 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x7a1f7a1f

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       23944   192330148+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb2           23945       24321     3028252+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb5           23945       24321     3028221   82  Linux swap / Solaris

```

---

### Post by Duck2006 on 2007-11-16
You have to install to the boot mbr of the boot drive, this may help.

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm)

---

### Post by robertlankford on 2007-11-16
Thanks again for the reply.

I tried following the instructions that I found in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351").  I tried installing grub to every stinking hard drive that I have! #-o  I did this by using the "setup (hd0)" command over and over again while plugging in different values (hd0, hd1, hd2, sd0, sd1, sd2, etc.).  I reboot, and Windows comes back up again. ](*,)

So here is what I want to know.  Which disk is the boot disk?  How can I tell?  And then, how do I match that up with the syntax that grub uses?  For example, if my second SATA hard drive is "dev/sdb", what does that translate to in grub-land?  Is it sd1?

I'm also a little worried that even if I did get grub loaded onto the mbr of the boot disk, I would be able to boot to Ubuntu, but XP would be gone.  I'd then have to figure out how to edit the magic lst file in just the right spot and in just the right way so that Windows would load again.And I have to tell you, my inability to figure out how to even get grub loaded in the right spot leaves my self-confidence on the floor about the prospect getting it to then let me boot into Windows too.

I'm a little frustrated/dismayed at all this (as anyone can probably tell).  I was very much looking forward to using Ubuntu and, literally, cannot get past the very first step in the process.  

I know it's my fault for being so ignorant, but it seems to me that the Ubuntu installer still has a way to go with multi-disk multi-boot setups.  I get the feeling that if I'd just load all my Operating System files into separate partitions on a single hard disk ( [mbr][windows xp][unbuntu] ), then all would be fine.

I'm know that the installer has some knowledge of other operating systems.  I would be very nice if the over-simplified options related to "where do you want to install Ubuntu" were a little more robust.  It would be nice if, at that point, you could sort of build the grub menu and tell the Ubuntu installer which Operating Systems you'd like to boot to and where ... along with which partition that Ubuntu should be installed to.

Maybe I'll try again with the version 8 or 9 series of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by robertlankford on 2007-12-24
Well, now that I'm home for the holidays and have some time to fool around with this stuff, I decided to just give up Windows and switch over completely to Ubuntu.  I still can't get Ubuntu to boot exactly the way I'd like (maybe my sata drives/bios just don't jive right with Ubuntu or something.  It does boot now though.  I no longer have Windows ... but that's not a bad thing at all!

So I'm posting this from Ubuntu 7.10.  I've been on this now for a couple of days.  I must say ... WoW!  I'm impressed.  I hope this distribution just keeps on gaining momentum.  I love it!  So far, I've been able to do anything I need to, with the following exceptions:

[LIST]
[*]Yahoo music subscription is Windows only.  It's their loss though.  I just won't renew my subscription anymore.
[*]Paid for Windows software won't work (without Wine or something).  I've got a notebook with XP on it though.  Purchased software is now banished to it in case I need to use it.  For instance, do any card makers make Linux software (hallmark, etc.)?
[*]GPS software?  If I'm ever going to convert the notebook over, I'll need GPS software since I use the notebook on trips.  Does anyone make software like that for Linux?
[*]Umm.  I think that's it so far.  Go Ubunutu!
[/LIST]

---

### Post by bumanie on 2007-12-24
May be you should try the super grub disk. It is a live cd that can often fix grub. If it can't fix grub, it can often get a distro to boot so that you can get into parts of the file system and try to fix grub by editing grub/menu.lst and fstab.
Try super grub disk and if you can boot your ubuntu install, post the output of sudo gedit boot/grub/menu.lst and someone on the forum will probably be able to help you.

---

### Post by sailor2001 on 2007-12-24
> **bumanie said:**
> May be you should try the super grub disk. It is a live cd that can often fix grub. If it can't fix grub, it can often get a distro to boot so that you can get into parts of the file system and try to fix grub by editing grub/menu.lst and fstab.
Try super grub disk and if you can boot your ubuntu install, post the output of sudo gedit boot/grub/menu.lst and someone on the forum will probably be able to help you.

correction   gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

