---
title: "NTFS Write"
date: 2007-05-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-05-21
I have ntfs-3g installed, and it worked. But now, it both requires root permission to view and shows up as a read only file system. The ntfs drive is the one I use for windows. I want to have it automount on boot to /media/XpDrive/. How can I do this. Will editing my fstab do it? What would I need to change?

---

### Post by jiminycricket on 2007-05-21
```
sudo aptitude install ntfs-config
```

Very easy GUI that should fix that issue.

---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-05-21
Its already installed though...

---

### Post by jiminycricket on 2007-05-21
Did you start it up with gksudo ntfs-config ?

post your fstab here otherwise.  ```
cat /etc/fstab
```

Pyschocats walkthrough if ntfs-config (different from ntfs-3g) doesn't work: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-05-21
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=1fc23276-d340-48c6-8e90-ac8c31493f22 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=f87b9354-3a17-485c-8f07-e4af80dbfcc3 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/XpDrive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
administrator@KBUNTU:~$

---

### Post by bobplano on 2007-05-21
why don't you try reinstalling it? purge all the files so that the prefrences can be deleted and then try reinstalling it.,

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-05-21
you need to assume ownership of the drive/folder to have write access. Assuming your username to be nekiruhs
```

sudo chown -R nekiruhs /media/XpDrive

```

As for the automount, if it is an internal drive you need to put an entry into etc/fstab for it.

try this :
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Understanding_fstab](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Understanding_fstab)

---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-05-21
No luck, when i chown the drive it complains about read only filesystem.
And I've tried purging and reinstalling, its picking up my fstab and wont make default settings

---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-05-21
Apparently NTFS-3g isn't working cuz Ubuntu treats it as a read only drive.

---

### Post by Terl on 2007-05-21
Here is my fstab.  I ran the ntfs-config and it generated the below.  Mine works like a charm, read, write, no problems.  Maybe you need to start over.  Your fstab looks like mine, unless I missed something.

```
john@starcom:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=72d51a45-6867-4536-97f9-4178ae047650 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=cb8dca8d-c9ba-4c21-bc23-0601ab2a6e68 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/xtra ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/winxp ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

How did you install it?  When I did mine it was via synaptic.  I then used the config tool from the menu and it asked for the password.  Check your /media folder, the contents of mine are owned by root but check the permissions:

```
john@starcom:/media$ ls -l
total 16
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root    6 2007-05-20 14:20 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 4096 2007-05-20 14:20 cdrom0
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 8192 2007-05-19 12:38 winxp
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 4096 2007-05-19 11:28 xtra

```

Can you post yours?  I think a chmod should fix it up....

---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-05-21
Fixed, apparently. It wasn't automounting due to an unclean shutdown. Now it works with full read/write ability.

---

