---
title: "i386"
date: 2007-06-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by axemurder785 on 2007-06-17
What does it mean if my computer is i386?

---

### Post by axemurder785 on 2007-06-17
can i install java on an i386 computer? if so how?

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2007-06-17
Intel pc.
Have a look at this:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I386;](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I386;))

---

### Post by axemurder785 on 2007-06-17
there isn't an article for it

---

### Post by Nitrokart on 2007-06-17
Remove the semicolon.

---

### Post by ThinkBuntu on 2007-06-17
i386, like x86, is an outdated term for an Intel-based system. Most modern Intel systems are i686.

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-06-17
> **axemurder785 said:**
> there isn't an article for it

[Link was wrong...]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I386")

I assume your looking at what version of Ubuntu to install. Usually when speaking of i386 we refer to them as 32 bit architecture processors/OS. Where as AMD64 in the downloads is the 64 bit version of Ubuntu. i386 is what will most likely work on your computer. If its not a recent machine (last 3 years or so) it probably doesn't support 64 bit. We can of course tell you exactly if your machine supports 64 by seeing the output of the following in a terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal):

```
cat /proc/cpuinfo
```

[Here is more info on 64]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/64_bit") (and a section on comparison to 32).

Oh and as to your original question, you can most certainly install Java in 32 (i386) bit Ubuntu.

Edit:
> **ThinkBuntu said:**
> i386, like x86, is an outdated term for an Intel-based system. Most modern Intel systems are i686.

Ya, you got a point there. I guess its just like the rest of slang that keeps getting carried over, but its not necessary to be super stringent on what words and terms they are so long as general meaning and understanding is conveyed IMO.

---

### Post by sailor2001 on 2007-06-17
i386 is the architecture (32 bit) as far as java goes.. go to synaptics and check java common and sun java6-jre, and sun java6-plugins

---

### Post by axemurder785 on 2007-06-17
can and how do i install java on it? if some1 could help me i would really appreciate it.

---

### Post by allix on 2007-06-17
Just enable the multiverse-repo in synaptic and install sun-java6-jre.

---

