---
title: "7.10 liveCD (video?) problem."
date: 2008-03-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Nowherefast256 on 2008-03-07
Hello all.

  New to the Linux experience and have ran into a problem even before I got started.

first, specs:

Nvidia GeForce 7300 GT
AMD Athlon 64bit 4000+
2.41 gig cpu
2gig RAM
Envision 19" widescreen

Experience:
   Downloaded the 7.10 ISO and burned it to a DVD(4x using InfraRecorder) booted to my dvd drive, picked 'run or install Ubuntu'. Went through a usual booting business, Then I get to a screen.

The screen had a black margin to the left about 2" wide. The rest was split horizontally with the top being brown and the bottom being pink. No cursor visible, I hear a sound which I would guess is akin to the Windows start up sound(only jungle-esue in nature) and there I am. At this screen with no means to interact. Had to hard restart at that point.

Boot to the DVD again. I read about checking the DVD's integrity could fix these problems so I run that selection from the boot screen. The DVD checks out fine with no problems.

Back at the boot selection screen. I for the life of me can't remember the exact name of the 2nd choice but I'm sure it's something about running in graphics safe mode. Again, boots fine. After a moment I see a busy cursor and a pointer. They're only on the screen for a second before it reverts back to booting and I loose signal from my video card. I hear the same start up sound as before yet no output to the monitor. 

So that's where I'm sitting now. I've been unable to find any answers to such a problem in my searches so I'm officially stumped.

If any additional information is required about my system please let me know.

Thank you for any information.

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2008-03-07
You might try manually configuring your x-server. 
At boot select the recover/repair option ( or hit esc. for boot menu and select same).
at prompt ubuntu@ something  enter
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg    
then hit enter.
I usually enter no on the first question then answer what seems right for the rest.
if it doesnt work the first time I will do it again and change answers.

---

