---
title: "7.04 Lexmark X1130 drivers not working"
date: 2007-04-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by GingerGirly on 2007-04-24
Hey, yippy I tried the new 7.04 Desktop CD and this time my Belkin Wi-FI was seen and there was an option to install my Nivida Driver.

But then when everthing was going so well I tried to get my printer working (which is also a scanner) and then nope nothing, the printer wizard even reconised what my printer was, but I tried the 1100 and others with nothing being printed at all.

Is there an easy way to get this working along with the scanner as I went to the Lexmark site and they do not have Linux drivers but they do have a dev kit, which is no use to me though as I'm no programmer.

I so, so want to dump windows but if I cannot print or scan it makes the OS a bit useless.

Why cannot it install the correct driver and download it like the Nvida...??

Any help would be gr8,

Hugs, Samantha

---

### Post by ramjet_1953 on 2007-04-24
Try this link, it may help.

[http://www.linuxprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Lexmark-X1130](http://www.linuxprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Lexmark-X1130)

Lexmark printers are about as Linux unfriendy as you can get!

Regards,
Roger :cool:

---

### Post by GingerGirly on 2007-04-25
OK, I'm even more confused now, I went to the link but what an earth do I do with it, I presume the lm 1100 is different from the 1100 already within Ubuntu 7.04....??

I need things to be really simple.... :confused: 

Helpppp Roger....!!!!

---

### Post by geminisfl on 2008-02-11
I finally made this printer work:

Let's see. I made some extra steps. I'm not sure that every step is necesary but I did it this way and it worked, so... :)

Firts of all you have to get this packages:
getlibs-all.deb
z600cups_1.0-2_i386.deb
z600llpddk_2.0-2_i386.deb
... the first one I think is only necesary if you have a 64bit distribution

then you must have 
libcupsys2-gnutls10_1.2.7-2~bpo.1_all.deb
libgnutls11_1.0.16-13.2sarge2_amd64.deb
libtasn1-2_0.2.10-3sarge1_amd64.deb

1) You must install getlibs-all.deb. If you have a 64bit distribution it supossed to give you some kind of "compatibility" with 32bit libraries.
2) Install de three debs: 
libcupsys2-gnutls10_1.2.7-2~bpo.1_all.deb
libgnutls11_1.0.16-13.2sarge2_amd64.deb
libtasn1-2_0.2.10-3sarge1_amd64.deb
... I don't remember the exact order in wich you have to install them. The system will tell you anyway when you have to install one first.
3) Install de z600 debs at the end.
4) Finally restart de CUPS daemon  "sudo /etc/init.d/cups restart"
5) Install the printer

Voilá!!! It worked for me (I've been one month trying)

I hope this helps

---

### Post by dwp0980 on 2008-02-13
Ok, this looks interesting.  I've tried just about every other advice here and on the CUPS forums and still not got the X1130 working with Gutsy 64bit.  I'll give this a try tonight.

I'm a bit confused about the getlibs though.  I installed it the other night to get ezquake working, but I don't understand exactly how I use it to install the .debs listed by **geminisfl**.  Can anyone help me with the commands required?

Many thanks

---

