---
title: "8.4 RC desktop freezes completely after clicking on time/date"
date: 2008-04-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rogue_trader on 2008-04-21
Hello,

I installed Ubuntu 8.04 RC a few days ago. Everything worked fine until I installed the autoupdates today. After installing, I wanted to view the calendar and since I cannot get rid of my windows reflexes, clicked on the date and time display at the top right of the screen (gnome standard install). after that, the desktop freezes and the "applications", "system" and "places" menu become inaccessible. The programs shown at the bottom of the screen do not respond to any clicking either, the oly solution seems to be a restart. active programs continue working though, but you cannot open new ones via the desktop menus. This crash can be reproduced.

What can I do?

... I get the impression that one should always do a full system backup (at least of ubuntu) before installing any updates (please refer to my "rocky start" post in this group for more autoupdate trouble). How can I do that / avoid such problems?

Thanks in advance,

RT

---

### Post by Antillean on 2008-04-25
I'm experiencing a similar problem with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. 

When I downloaded and installed it using Wubi last night I was able to click on the time/date and configure my settings for it. But since logging in today, every attempt to click on time/date freezes the entire desktop except for everything apart from the time/date to the right of the User name (I dunno what that area is called). So I can click on stuff like Wired network connection and the speaker, but I can't click on things like Applications and Firefox to the left of the top panel, or anything on the bottom panel. I can still use programs that are already open and switch windows using Alt+Tab though.

And oh, after trying to survive on that for a few minutes, all the windows in the bottom panel and most of the stuff in the top panel disappeared. At that point the shutdown button disappeared so used ALT+Sysreq REISUB to reboot.

---

### Post by ghettro on 2008-04-26
yep, I'm having the exact same problem.  The whole top menu bar freezes when I click time/date.  This is on the final i386 8.04 release

---

### Post by cs2007 on 2008-04-26
Hi
I installed the ubuntu 8.04 and I dont know why it is freezing some times automaticllay, and I can not do anything, just must turn of my pc from the button manually. 

any idea plz??????????????

---

### Post by slk00 on 2008-04-26
Yes. the same thing is happening in my PC as well.



> **rogue_trader said:**
> Hello,

I installed Ubuntu 8.04 RC a few days ago. Everything worked fine until I installed the autoupdates today. After installing, I wanted to view the calendar and since I cannot get rid of my windows reflexes, clicked on the date and time display at the top right of the screen (gnome standard install). after that, the desktop freezes and the "applications", "system" and "places" menu become inaccessible. The programs shown at the bottom of the screen do not respond to any clicking either, the oly solution seems to be a restart. active programs continue working though, but you cannot open new ones via the desktop menus. This crash can be reproduced.

What can I do?

... I get the impression that one should always do a full system backup (at least of ubuntu) before installing any updates (please refer to my "rocky start" post in this group for more autoupdate trouble). How can I do that / avoid such problems?

Thanks in advance,

RT

---

### Post by instinctive on 2008-04-27
This is definitely not an isolated issue. It has started to occur on my installation of 8.04 (final release). It did not start upon the initial installation, but has now started a day after.

Basically once you click on the clock the 'date and time' highlights and then the two panels freeze except for the 'user switcher', 'notification area' and 'rubbish bin'. The only way to fix the issue is to completely restart.

Does anyone have a suggestion for this issue, please?

---

### Post by instinctive on 2008-04-27
Ok now this is seriously strange. As soon as I posted the above reply my clock started to show the weather so I decided to click on it and it did not freeze. In the past the weather was not showing when it froze. More information to complicate this issue hey. :)

---

### Post by hannah187 on 2008-04-27
just raising my hand too. I had a fresh 8.04 installation. Everything works fine barring that time/date issue. I have got a Think Pad T22.

---

### Post by doubletruncation on 2008-04-27
I had this problem as well on a fully updated, upgrade of 8.04 LTS which I performed on 4/26/08 from the main server. I do not use google calendar/evolution. The problem disappeared when I set the location in the preferences for the date/time. (Right click on the date/time, select preferences, select locations tab). Before doing this the date/time did not display the current weather though show weather/show temperature were both selected on the general tab, there were no locations set in the locations tab and left-clicking on the date/time would freeze gnome.

---

### Post by allvar on 2008-04-27
Me too.
Seems to me that there is a problem in Evolution Calendars. I can not access Evolution Calendars through Evolution either, Ev. hangs completely. Somebody mentioned in an earlier post that it might be connected to Google Cals - any thoughts on that?

I have a Google Calender added but I do not, in by noobiness, know how to remove it since Evolution hangs. How?

/Allan

---

### Post by unnamedstone on 2008-04-27
happened to me once, but not anymore

---

### Post by Bingulim on 2008-04-28
Same here.

To get it working again I have to do a "killall gnome-panel".

---

### Post by Antillean on 2008-04-28
I edited the Date/Time under System -> Administration -> Time and Date and now it no longer freezes.

---

### Post by hellonull on 2008-04-30
Alt+F2, then

```
killall gnome-panel && gnome-panel
```

will unfreeze it. This is likely an upstream problem with GNOME 2.22.1, not Ubuntu.

---

### Post by rajaf on 2008-04-30
Same problem here. As soon as I click date and time, computer freezes. Not even Alt+F2 works.

---

### Post by rogue_trader on 2008-05-01
A few days ago I installed the new auto updates, and the problem was gone. Thanks for solving that (at least for me), whoever you are! :-)

Regards,
RT

---

### Post by Etiksan on 2008-05-02
> **doubletruncation said:**
> I had this problem as well on a fully updated, upgrade of 8.04 LTS which I performed on 4/26/08 from the main server. I do not use google calendar/evolution. The problem disappeared when I set the location in the preferences for the date/time. (Right click on the date/time, select preferences, select locations tab). Before doing this the date/time did not display the current weather though show weather/show temperature were both selected on the general tab, there were no locations set in the locations tab and left-clicking on the date/time would freeze gnome.

Thanks for the post, i've been googling around and found your solution. No more freezing now :)

---

### Post by jd_cincy on 2008-05-06
> **Etiksan said:**
> Thanks for the post, i've been googling around and found your solution. No more freezing now :)

I did not have success trying this.  The weather now shows up, but when I click the time / date, it still freezes up completely.

---

### Post by hellonull on 2008-05-07
A gnome-panel update was recently shipped for Ubuntu...

```
sudo apt-get update
```

to check/install updates.

---

### Post by jjmatt on 2008-05-16
Has anyone found a solution to this problem yet? I've tried the above possibilities (setting my location, updating) and none of them  work, the time/date thing still freezes when i click it.

Thanks

---

### Post by instinctive on 2008-05-17
I had this problem. That solution about changing to location, etc did not work. However this does not occur anymore once I installed all the updates.

---

### Post by djxcon on 2008-05-18
This was happening to one user profile on Hardy LTS but not the other.  Had to run the following on the user that had the freeze issue.
[COLOR="Red"]
**NOTE:** THIS WILL RESET THE LOOK AND FEEL OF YOUR PERSONAL CUSTOMIZATIONS[/COLOR]

```
rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity
```

---

### Post by pramodtvm1 on 2008-06-24
I am also having same problem.My system freezes when clicing date/time :(
someone please help.

---

