---
title: "i386 vs. AMD64: quick question"
date: 2007-02-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by nomiK on 2007-02-09
Hi,

I think I used the i386 version of the Ubuntu 6.10 iso instead of the amd64 one for my Amd 64 3400+ box...

I just wanted to know, although it is working, what is possibly wrong with that, or could go wrong?

Also, I want to know if it is straightforward to reinstall ubuntu from scratch?

Thanks

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2007-02-09
You have the right version. AMD64 is a general name for 64bits version of Ubuntu, so is i386, just a general name for 32bits version.

---

### Post by nomiK on 2007-02-09
So since I have a 64bit box, I should get the amd64 version...?

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-02-09
> **nomiK said:**
> So since I have a 64bit box, I should get the amd64 version...?

Not really.  You will have problems with flash sites(no 64-bit plugin yet) and some other minor things.  I'm running dual-core AMD with 32-bit Edgy and runs like a charm.

---

### Post by nomiK on 2007-02-09
Thanks, Ill stick with my current then.

Starting to really like ubuntu now...

---

### Post by ffxr on 2007-02-12
Maestro23 or ANYONE else for that matter, why do you decide to use 32bit  instead of the 64bit?

i realise not all apps.. have been written for 64bit architechure and there may be some setup issues.. but you paid for a 64bit CPU so why continue to use 32bit software?

this whole question of 64bit architecture in Linux is really puzzling.. i have been wondering the web looking for information on it.. but i am struggling to understand what i should do with my new dual core 64bit CPU ( i wanna get the max performance out of it/them) , but the information i have come across is either incomplete or way over my head...

i am considering using a different linux distro, gentoo or debian.. as from what i have gathered from various sources AMD64 is better realised in these distro's.

can anyone help fill in my knowledge gaps (which are massive) in this area? with links or posting here or whatever.. (ll continue to trawl the internet regardless)

& other questions..

what is Feisty's AMD64 support like? 
does KDE4 support AMD64?
also if i install a 32bit OS, can 64bit apps' still take advantage of my 64bit hardware?


thanks.. pls post any thoughts at all.. 
all reading is good..

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2007-02-12
Guys,
I'm one happy Linux Ubuntu 64 user.

I got an am64 and all the apps I want.

True it takes some work to get flash to work but that was about the only problem I got.

To get flash on a 64 bit version, I had to install firefox 32 and then flash.

The thing is, I haven't done much myself. I've just downloaded a few scripts that some smart x64 users had written. It gave me the choice to install a couple of version of firefox. then the choice to install flash, then the choice to install java.

Now I own an amd64 running 64bit applications most of the time (you get a real boost when burning CDs or ripping stuff for example) and when an application is missing I just use the 32 bit version. It is possible to use 32 bit on 64 bit. It's just not using the full power of the 64 bit architecture (which you paid for).

Installing Linux 32bit is a problem on a 64bit architecture simply because you won't benefit from its power. It's a waste of ressources and money.

The 32bit apps I've installed on my 64bit Linux are:

firefox32 for flash (firefox exists in 64bit version but flash won't be supported, sad)
flash plugin
java (Java exists in 64bit version but because of flash, i needed to install firefox32 and because of firefox32 I had to install java32)
skype
googleearth

For skype and googleearth, I've downloaded automatix2 which is a repository of proprietary applications. It downloaded all the required 32bit libraries required to run these applications and installed the applications.

I just had to use it.

---

### Post by FrozenFOXX on 2007-02-12
ffxr, I come from using 64-bit on Gentoo and it's important to note that "better realized" isn't really the phrase to use.  Gentoo is NOT for the faint of heart, it is for those that either a)want to learn EXACTLY how Linux works (because it won't work if you don't) and b)like to do things the hard (but supremely effective) way.

Linux is Linux.  The only big difference between Ubuntu and Gentoo that I've noticed so far is that Gentoo forces you to build from source, Ubuntu gives you the *option* to build from source.  You'll run into the same or more issues in any distribution because ultimately they're all Linux, just different ways of seeing it.  The concept of an OS that builds itself and maintains itself IS cool but not for everyone.


Under Gentoo you will probably become much more familiar with setting up a chroot environment to run 32-bit apps (which IS effective) but it can be cumbersome and perhaps a bit self-defeating.  This isn't to say it's better or worse, just different.  Unfortunately though if sitting in front of a dysfunctional system for days on end in the command line doesn't sound like fun to you Gentoo probably isn't for you (installing the system alone can take multiple days if you're new).


Gentoo's advantage is that since everything is built from source you can build just about anything for 64-bit...but there's no reason you can't download the source and build it in Ubuntu either.  Your choice.


Onto your questions.  No idea about Feisty, consider it the same until you read otherwise given that you're just recompiling the source for 64-bit most of the time (the reason there's an issue with things like the Flash plugin is because you can't download the source.  If you could you could just build it yourself and have no issue).

All KDE has the source available for download and compilation onto multiple platforms.  I have yet to hear of KDE *not* compiling on x86, x86_64, PPC, or a few other platforms (though I suppose it's remotely possible but that'd alienate quite a few KDE users).

If you install a 32-bit OS it only knows how to interface with the hardware like it's 32-bit, hence limiting all software installed to work in 32-bit.  This means you **CANNOT** install 64-bit applications, only 32-bit ones.  64-bit and 32-bit are generally speaking exclusive.  You run 64-bit you run 64-bit, you run 32-bit you run 32-bit, and to run 32-bit inside 64-bit requires a processor that understands 32-bit instructions (such as AMD64 chips), the correct 32-bit library counterparts installed, as well as either a wrapper or a chrooted environment.  Wrappers are typically app specific, chrooted environments are not.



Generally speaking, if you're running a 64-bit OS forget about 32-bit apps.  Yes, there's ways around it but *generally* it's much more productive and easier to worry about running things in 64-bit which, mercifully, most open source software you'd care to run can be compiled for.




**Note**:  Like everything else I may post it is important to remember that I am not infallible and it's entirely possible that I am incorrect on some or all points.  Anyone with more correct information is always encouraged to correct my points.  Thank you.

---

### Post by ffxr on 2007-02-13
thanks FrozenFOXX.. that was as complete a response as i could have hoped for & really helped my understanding of the subject...

---

### Post by p1977p on 2007-07-11
hi ndefontenay,
i have a similar configuration as yours, but i'm unable to find the scripts you mentioned (for firefox etc.) could you please mail me the links? email: [EMAIL="p1977p@lycos.com"]p1977p@lycos.com[/EMAIL]. thanx in advance.

---

### Post by Rui Pais on 2007-07-11
> **FrozenFOXX said:**
> 
Linux is Linux.  The only big difference between Ubuntu and Gentoo that I've noticed so far is that Gentoo forces you to build from source, Ubuntu gives you the *option* to build from source.  You'll run into the same or more issues in any distribution because ultimately they're all Linux, just different ways of seeing it.  The concept of an OS that builds itself and maintains itself IS cool but not for everyone.

++

Nice said. Been a former gentoo user i completely agree more with you.


> **p1977p said:**
> hi ndefontenay,
i have a similar configuration as yours, but i'm unable to find the scripts you mentioned (for firefox etc.) could you please mail me the links? 

32b browsers:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202537](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202537)

64b browsers+nspluginwrapper:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=425672](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=425672)

general how to install anything:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191205](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191205)

hth

---

