---
title: "ATI x1950"
date: 2008-02-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by kevmore on 2008-02-01
is this video card crap?  I have been trying for weeks to make it work with desktop effects, since it is supposed to have good 3d performance.  If I can't get it to work, I'm gonna get a different one that works with linux.  The question is, Which card is going to work the best for the desktop cube and other effects.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-02-02
> **kevmore said:**
> is this video card crap?  I have been trying for weeks to make it work with desktop effects, since it is supposed to have good 3d performance.  If I can't get it to work, I'm gonna get a different one that works with linux.  The question is, Which card is going to work the best for the desktop cube and other effects.

HI and have you tried Envy
[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by jon_gunnar on 2008-02-02
> **kevmore said:**
> is this video card crap?  I have been trying for weeks to make it work with desktop effects, since it is supposed to have good 3d performance.  If I can't get it to work, I'm gonna get a different one that works with linux.  The question is, Which card is going to work the best for the desktop cube and other effects.

I got an x1950Pro card and it works like a charm
All I did was to follow the instructions here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI?highlight=%28BinaryDriverHowto%2FATI%29]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI?highlight=%28BinaryDriverHowto%2FATI%29")
And from this point on in that page:** Install from ati.com (latest version of drivers)**

---

### Post by jan quark on 2008-02-02
well nvidia cards are well supported by ubuntu

I have a working fx5200 but also a working ati xpress

did you installed the restricted drivers for ati propertly?

did you set up compiz the right way ?

just being curious and want to narrow the problem

---

### Post by kevmore on 2008-02-03
Are any of your cards AGP?  

and no it probably wasn't set up right.  I need a walk through.  But I've heard the AGP card is not supported.

---

### Post by kevmore on 2008-02-03
The thing is, I have an AGP mb.

---

### Post by kevmore on 2008-02-03
Envy makes my computer fail to boot up.  hangs after username and password.

---

### Post by kevmore on 2008-02-03
ATI drivers makes my computer hang with a blackk screen at startup.

---

### Post by richardward101 on 2008-02-03
I had an X1950 for a while which was AGP too.

Months I spent, many months trying to get the thing to work. Sadly to no avail, I'd recommend not wasting more time, though of course I could be wrong and there may be a solution.

I now have an NVIDIA card, and the drivers work like a charm. I've heard far fewer problems about nvidia in general.

However, ATI were bought by AMD and the drivers are slowly being open sourced (presumably in preparation for integrating GPU's into CPU's), so in the fullness of time you card may become fully supported, the drivers may even be better than nvidia's. However you may be waiting quite a while for that to happen.

Ultimately I would ask you the following question: do you really need the Xgl effects? They're nice sure, and every time I install a distro I try and activate them, play with the a while and then leave them turned off. The only time i turn them on is when people say "but Vista has cool effects with Aero," and I show them what GNU\Linux has been doing for years. If 3d support itself works do you really need the Xgl effects? (if the answer is YES then i'll shut up)

(PS the card itself is not actually crap, just the drivers, if you don't want the composite extensions (or whatever it is that the effects require) its a lovely and reasonably priced card)

---

### Post by kevmore on 2008-02-03
I don't really need the effects, but they are cool.  I don't know if I even need 3d because I don't have any games for linux.  I just wanted the card to work the best it can.  I want to get my screen into 1680 X 1050, and right now I can't do that.  The card works fine in win xp, and that is where my kids do all the gaming.  I had to buy that card to play spiderman 3.  When I put glxgears into the terminal I get dismal results.  So I don't think the 3d is working.  I don't really want to go out and buy a new card, so maybe I will have to wait it out.

EDIT. Now after all the f*cking around I can't get my computer to boot normally.  I have to use gnome failsafe mode or nothing happens.  Maybe I should have quit a while ago.

---

