---
title: "Is Screen Resolution Preferences lieing to me?"
date: 2007-04-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Tulx on 2007-04-27
Hi

Heres the story: I enabled Nvidia drivers from Restricted Drivers Manager. Then I ran this code in terminal:```
sudo nvidia-settings
``` After that it displayed me Nvidia X Server settings. From there I set my resolution to 1280x1024 @ 85 Hz. I took: save to Save to X configuration file. It saved it then... I at least hope so. In the Screen Resolution Preferences it says to me that my current settings are 1280x1024 @ 123 Hz. Ok, thats will do too. Now I rebooted Ubuntu and after that ,it says from Screen Resolution Preferences that it current settings are 1280x1024 @ 50 Hz but Nvidia still tells me that my settings are 1280x1024 @ 85 Hz. Also after rebooting it said that X server thinks that I should have english keyboard but actually I have an estonian one. And it asked: do you want to keep gnome settings or use X-server settings. I choose keep Gnome settings because my keyboard is with estonian layout. 

My xorg.conf```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG F900P"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 111.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 Ti 4200 with AGP8X"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_85 +0+0; 1024x768_85 +0+0; 1280x1024 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0; 1280x960 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 960x720 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```
Is there any way to detect my real settings? Is it possible that Screen Resolution Preferences is lieing? Should I manually edit my xorg.conf with some HOW-TOs found in the net? Im a little bit confused. Answer or any kind of help would be nice.

-Tulx

---

### Post by u.b.u.n.t.u on 2007-04-27
ModelName      "LG F900P"
HorizSync       30.0 - 111.0
VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0

Are these figures correct for your monitor? They need to be correct. 

Xorg has known issues which are being looked at, and hopefully fixed by Gutsy Gibbon.

There is more information here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=423745](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=423745)

---

### Post by Tulx on 2007-04-27
Yes, my monitor certainly is LG F900P. About these HorizSync-s and VertRefresh-s I think they have something to do with Hz. As It is only 50 Hz right now. Please could anyone tell me from where I know what are the right values for HorizSync and VertRefresh? How do I find out what are these right values for them?

I have ran about 4 ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` No improvement when takeing different resolutions. (For 1280x1024 there was only 1280x1024 @ 60Hz. 60 Hz is too less and it aint working either! It still gives me 50Hz!). I think when running this "wisard" I need to go for advanced not medium or simple and manually set these HorizSync and VertRefresh values.

Without enabling these nVidia drivers it gives me 1024x768 @ 60 Hz.

Also, why have they made this driver manager. Cant I just do this HOW-TO and do like in the 6.10 and earlier. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia) My dapper was working well with this How-To. There must be a solution. 

-Tulx

---

### Post by u.b.u.n.t.u on 2007-04-27
Your monitor should have a pdf manual and in the specs you'll find the information.

You can manually edit the xorg.conf, adding in the refresh rates. If the lowest is say 50 and you only see 50 (for the vertical, eg, VertRefresh 50.0 - 160.0 then change it to VertRefresh 85.0 - 160.0) to force 85.
[B]
This may or may not work for you and if you make a mistake you will be locked out of Ubuntu. [/B]You will need to edit the xorg from a command line. I use nano.

This is a known problem. There is no solution to my knowledge at this time, only limited fixes.

There is a discussion here if you are interested:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=423745](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=423745)

---

### Post by Tulx on 2007-04-27
I have very primitive knowledge about handling terminal but thanks do the linuxcommand.org I can peform some tasks...  and I use gedit, for no good reason. Ok, thats not the point. 

I dont have my monitor manual but I think there must be somekind manual in the web. I go lurking for that. I will post when I have:

a)messed something up
b)get it working
c)having no idea what to do next

Thought even if I lock myself out of my ubuntu I can always reinstall.

-Tulx

---

### Post by uncleted on 2007-04-27
I have an LCD monitor and had a similar problem to you.  It seems to be a known issue that Ubuntu is not detecting the full range of settings for monitors on install.

nvidia-settings did detect the correct values for it though, and everything is fine.  I don't really trust the screen preferences app it always shows the refresh rate at 50Hz however the monitor itself tells me it's running at 60Hz.  Check for an option on your monitor's menu to see if it can display the current settings so you can confirm them as correct.

According to [this page]("http://www.firingsquad.com/hw/2036/LG_F900P/") your monitor should be able to do 1280x1024 at 85Hz, and the sync and refresh values you got seem to be the right ones.

---

### Post by Tulx on 2007-04-27
Thanks!!!:)  I never ever would have the idea to look inside monitor menu. It says it is with 85 Hz tough these Screen Resolution Preferences say that it has only 50 Hz. There was no problem at all. Actually there is a problem because its saying wrong information. At least I was in the right way of thinking that maybe its lieing. I dont know should I be mad for being kind of stupid or happy because it solved so easly.

Thank You- Tulx.

---

