---
title: "ntfs-3g issues"
date: 2007-05-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ezman5086 on 2007-05-26
I am running ubuntu feisty.  I needed to write files to my windows partition, so i installed ntfs-3g using the tutorial on this site.  now, ubuntu doesn't even see the ntfs partition.  it recognizes the fat32 partition and can read that fine, but the ntfs partition that I was trying to read has disappeared from "computer" and "places."  It was there before, and I could read the drive perfectly before installing ntfs-3g.  how do I get it at least back to the way it was (being able to read the partition), and hopefully with privileges to write to the drive?  I tried uninstalling and reinstalling ntfs-3g and ntfs-config, but nothing changes.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-26
Reboot.

---

### Post by ezman5086 on 2007-05-26
tried that.  nothing.  even rebooted windows.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-26
Open up a terminal (Applications --> Accessories --> Terminal)and post the output of ```
cat /etc/fstab
``` for us, please.

---

### Post by ezman5086 on 2007-05-26
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=e7391745-0503-408b-a71c-4ab8b5662fb6 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=7E24A21E24A1DA03 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=D442-6B0C /media/sda2 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=12cc296e-ce6f-4692-aff1-84389d4da990 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
ezra@ezra-laptop:~$

---

### Post by ezman5086 on 2007-05-26
hey, i don't know how it worked, but i needed to move my computer so i shut it down.  when i started it back up, i had to get something off my windows partition so i booted that... got what i needed, shut it down and went back into ubuntu.  everything seems to be there and working now.  weird, but i'm glad it works.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-26
Oh right, I forgot about that...

Sorry to burst your bubble, but that wasn't a miracle; it was a feature. You have to boot into Windows twice for ntfs-3g to start working, but I can see from previous posts you only booted once. Just a good piece of info for the next time you try this... :D

---

### Post by Znupi on 2007-05-26
> **Happy_Man said:**
> Oh right, I forgot about that...

Sorry to burst your bubble, but that wasn't a miracle; it was a feature. You have to boot into Windows twice for ntfs-3g to start working, but I can see from previous posts you only booted once. Just a good piece of info for the next time you try this... :D
What? It worked for me the first time around, without rebooting anything. :|

---

### Post by szaka on 2007-05-27
> **Znupi said:**
> What? It worked for me the first time around, without rebooting anything. :|
NTFS-3G allows read-write mount for safety reasons only if NTFS is consistent. Sometimes it mounts immediately, sometimes after booting into Windows once and sometimes after booting into Windows twice. Windows is not able to repair itself always in one boot, sometimes it needs two reboots. Far the most common case is that no Windows reboot is needed at all. But if one doesn't shutdown Windows properly or detach external drives safely then Windows reboot is required.

---

### Post by Znupi on 2007-05-27
> **szaka said:**
> NTFS-3G allows read-write mount for safety reasons only if NTFS is consistent. Sometimes it mounts immediately, sometimes after booting into Windows once and sometimes after booting into Windows twice. Windows is not able to repair itself always in one boot, sometimes it needs two reboots. Far the most common case is that no Windows reboot is needed at all. But if one doesn't shutdown Windows properly or detach external drives safely then Windows reboot is required.
Thanks for the info :). Guess I was one of those lucky guys, lol :)

---

