---
title: "2.5GB tar file extracts only 630MB"
date: 2006-07-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by yoyek on 2006-07-11
Hallo,

Few days ago I have done complete backup of my home directory with command:

```
cd ~/
tar cvpf /tmp/home_backup.tar .
```

My home directory has about 2.5GB and as expected my tar archve also has 2.5GB.

After that I installed new system on the same machine and when I tried to extract this tar to temporary home directory (tar xvpf home_backup.tar) I only get 630mb of it. Only part of my files was extracted. When I list contents of that tar indeed there was only 630mb inside. But: my tar file HAS 2.5GB! and there was no errors when i was backing up my home directory few days ago.

Where is my data?!

Please help me.

Sorry for my english - it's not my native language.

And one more note: everything I know in linux is from this forum, so above tar commands was found somewhere at this forums, with little help from manual.

Yoyo

---

### Post by thingy on 2006-07-11
What is the output of "df -h" on your system.

What was done to the tar file after you had created it...I mean, did you ftp/copy the file somewhere else, wipe the disk and then install the new os and then copy the file back to the new system?

---

### Post by yoyek on 2006-07-11
> **thingy said:**
> What is the output of "df -h" on your system.

```

Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/hda2              68G   42G   23G  65% /
varrun                252M  184K  252M   1% /var/run
varlock               252M  4.0K  252M   1% /var/lock
udev                  252M  152K  252M   1% /dev
devshm                252M     0  252M   0% /dev/shm
lrm                   252M   19M  234M   8% /lib/modules/2.6.15-25-386/volatile
/dev/hda3             5.2G  4.0K  5.2G   1% /media/hda3
/dev/sda1             9.7G  4.5M  9.7G   1% /media/usbdisk
/dev/sda2             9.6G  5.4G  3.8G  59% /media/usbdisk-1
/dev/sda3              56G  6.6G   49G  12% /media/usbdisk-2

```

> **thingy said:**
> What was done to the tar file after you had created it...I mean, did you ftp/copy the file somewhere else, wipe the disk and then install the new os and then copy the file back to the new system?

I have created it on fat32 partition on external usb disk (/dev/sda3). And just before extracting it I have copied it to my linux partition (/dev/hda2).

---

### Post by thingy on 2006-07-11
> I have created it on fat32 partition on external usb disk (/dev/sda3). And just before extracting it I have copied it to my linux partition (/dev/hda2).

Can you post the output of a "ls -la your_data.tar"


Can you post the output of the "mount" command also please.

The tar command has an option to list the tar contents. E.g. tar tvf my_file.tar and when you list the contents of the tar file, do you see all your data files?

Before working on your tar file, make sure you have a copy of it!

---

### Post by yoyek on 2006-07-11
> **thingy said:**
> Can you post the output of a "ls -la your_data.tar"

-rwxrwxrwx 1 yoyo yoyo 2689525760 2006-07-11 12:02 home_backup.tar*

> **thingy said:**
> Can you post the output of the "mount" command also please.

```
/dev/hda2 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.15-25-386/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
/dev/hda3 on /media/hda3 type vfat (rw,utf8,umask=007,gid=46)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw)
/dev/sda1 on /media/usbdisk type ntfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,uid=1000,gid=1000,umask=077,iocharset=utf8)
/dev/sda2 on /media/usbdisk-1 type ext3 (rw,nosuid,nodev)
/dev/sda3 on /media/usbdisk-2 type vfat 
(rw,nosuid,nodev,quiet,shortname=mixed,uid=1000,gid=1000,umask=077,iocharset=utf8)
```

> **thingy said:**
> The tar command has an option to list the tar contents. E.g. tar tvf my_file.tar and when you list the contents of the tar file, do you see all your data files?

Unfortunatelly I only see files that was extracted, nothing more.

---

### Post by thingy on 2006-07-12
If you follow the instructions, make sure you have a backup of your tar file and other data. **I don't take any responsibility what so ever!**

**Make a copy of your tar file and work on that copy using the instructions below!**

-----


Ok! I can understand that you might be desperate to get the data back...and so here's something you can try. It's not easy but the concept is understandable.

Read the post by:

 **From:**
  **[COLOR=#330099] David Serrano (Hue-Bond)[/COLOR]** - [view profile]("http://groups.google.co.uk/groups/profile?enc_user=cb_tMCMAAABj5wjinnAoIdVa3ERU0O8AIg3V97_eZZyU3M9sRTMnx29vlb9UGrPzYG3OkIrkPsw&hl=en")         **Date:**
  Thurs, Feb 2 2006 11:47 pm
in the thread below:

[Link]("http://groups.google.co.uk/group/comp.os.linux.misc/browse_thread/thread/ebbe04f4f30c5486/577aa1612c52106c?lnk=st&q=repair+tar+file&rnum=4&hl=en#577aa1612c52106c")


In his post, he describes what he had to do to get back most of his data from his tar file.

Basilically, he did a:


> tar tvf mytar-file.tar 

and made a note of what the last file the tar program listed was. Do the same for your file and note down the full name + path.


then, run the find_tar_headers.pl perl script on your tar file to find out the position of the next file after that last file.

What ever the position is, you need to divide it by 1024 to get the value in KB and then use a dd command like this: (replace the 1234567890, with the position you found)

dd if=**mytar-file.tar** of=myrecoveredtar-file.tar bs=1k skip=1234567890


Please please be careful in typing the command...the dd command is a dangerous command. Don't run any of these commands as the root user...do it as your normal user.

if the dd command worked, then you will have a new tar file in that dir called myrecoveredtar-file.tar

and you can now extract the contents of that using:

tar xvf myrecoveredtar-file.tar

Notes:

1. The last file that the tar program listed is probably corrupt and hence you won't be able to recover it

2. If you have more than one corrupt file in the tar program, you will have to do the above steps several times.

3. If you're not sure about what each step does...(read the google post VERY carefully, then ask questions and I'll try and explain)

Good luck!

---

### Post by yoyek on 2006-07-12
Oh man! You have saved my life! :)
Thank you

---

