---
title: "7.07 working under Vista with MS Virtual PC 2007 but..."
date: 2007-06-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by MacScotland on 2007-06-13
Have not been able to get any networking or sound enabled, yet.

Will post a short summary of what I had to do to get to this stage here soon.

Any pointers on where I go from here will be appreciated. Main thing I would like to do is download all patches to the 7.04 distro  - can someone point me to those please?

Stupid question too - does ubuntu have any kind of auto-updater a la Windows Update?

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-06-13
1.) What are your network and sound cards?

2.)? is that a question?

3.)That can be done when you get connected. See 1.

4.)Yes. It requires the Internet though.

---

### Post by RelativelyQuantum on 2007-06-13
Not certain weather this would help, as I don't run virtual PC, but you could try going into System > Administration > Network, and enabling your connection - if you haven't already done so. This may require inputting proxy information, though this can be bypassed using DHCP.

As for the auto-update, yes. Ubuntu regularly reveives updates through the internet through an application similar to that on windows. The difference is that it allows you to be more selective about what goes onto your machine.

Hope this helps :)

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-06-13
My best advice to you OP is to stop using Virtual PC. It's a Microsoft product and its not meant to run Linux (only MS Windows, I think I'm right on that) and in all my experiences it has been horribly slow. Thats three strikes and its out for me.

[Virtual Box]("http://www.virtualbox.org/") is a superior product (its also FREE) that supports openly all Variants of Windows, BSD, Linux and a few other OS's like open Solaris.

Alternatively, if you have some money and want  a very powerful, feature pack and bleeding edge product I'd look at VMware they have an excellent solution, the Workstation to be more precise (their Server version is equally superior to Virtual PC).

Neither of my alternatives will give you any problems with networking or sound since they take care to support products other than just Windows.

---

### Post by MacScotland on 2007-06-13
Thanks all.

I'm going to take the advice re. Virtual Box and give it a try.

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-06-13
> **MacScotland said:**
> Thanks all.

I'm going to take the advice re. Virtual Box and give it a try.

You won't be disappointed. One thing I might add, its best IMO to install it via the repo (bottom of downloads page) rather than the deb. Makes upgrading painless and via the update manager.

---

### Post by MacScotland on 2007-06-13
Can you clarify what you mean with links? Bottom of what page? Tx.

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-06-13
> **MacScotland said:**
> Can you clarify what you mean with links? Bottom of what page? Tx.

ROFL!!! I forgot your running the VM on Windows Vista and not Ubuntu :p

[You want this binary,]("http://www.virtualbox.org/download/1.4.0/VirtualBox_1.4.0_Win_x86.msi") it will install into Windows without any trouble, repos are only for Ubuntu/Debian :D.

---

### Post by MacScotland on 2007-06-13
OK - already had that - I was worried you meant some other ubuntu 7.04 download.

---

