---
title: "...fresh install, no display module"
date: 2006-10-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by poisonborz on 2006-10-30
Title says it all - fresh install of Edgy, when I go to Display module, it says it's corrupted... I've installed the nvidia driver, so refresh rate and resolution is okay, but of course I can't change it (GUI-wise) without a DM (or can I?) is there a way to reinstall/replace it completely? Thanks...

---

### Post by land0 on 2006-10-30
If you are not able to boot into the gui do the following from the text based login. Enter your username then password when prompted. Afterward type the following 
from the command line

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

enter your password when prompted

This will bring up a program that will walk you through setting up the stock kernel module(driver) for your video card.

After you have answered all the questions (mostly just hit the enter button) The only section you need to interact with is when it asks about what level to use when setting up the monitor. Choose medium then choose the correct frequency and highest resolution setting. (It usually is already selected so you may just need to except the first one that is highlighted.)
Now after it finishes it dumps you back in the command line. All you have to do now is type:

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by poisonborz on 2006-10-30
Sorry, maybe I wasn't clear enough... I have GUI (I've meant the Display Module's gui for changing the resolution), I have the good driver, and in the NV options, my monitor is also detected... The only problems is, in the System panel under monitor/display it just says

```
The module Display could not be loaded

The diagnostics is:

Possible reasons:

An error occured during your last KDE upgrade, leaving an orphaned module.
You have old third party modules laying around.
```

...or is the only option to reconfigure X with the above command completely?

---

