---
title: "Problems with new installation: pc performance, installing flash, and more"
date: 2007-05-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Jarekb84 on 2007-05-03
Hell All,

After a few months of thinking on it and trying out the live cd, I installed my first version of Linux this morning. I installed Ubuntu Feisty Fawn 7.04 x64 this morning, was pleased with the simple installation process, and surprised that all my hardware was working on first bootup. I did run into some problems that I'm hoping the community can help me with.   

System Specs
AMD Athlon 64 3200+
Nvidia GeForce 6600 GT
120GB HD (Ubuntu is on this one)
300GB Maxtor as storage
1.5GB DDR 400 Memory
Not sure which motherboard is in pc

**1** After installing the OS, the system was rather sluggish with the CPU frequently being used at 70% or higher, response times from applications being slow, and choppiness when moving windows around. After asking in IRC, I installed the Nvidia drivers from the System > Administration > Restricted Drivers Manager and this improved performance a bit, but it still wasn't quite great. I asked in IRC again and someone gave me a link to a site that contained instructions on how to install Beryl. Did that, but performance didn't really improve. 

So question is, what else can I do to make things run smoothly?

**2** I installed the 64 bit version of Ubuntu, but seems that Flash doesn't support this yet. Someone in IRC suggested getting the 32 bit version of Firefox and trying to install flash again. Problem is I can't figure out how to do either. I tried installing flash from the Add/Remove Manager, but the check box to install was grayed out. I'm not sure which version of Firefox I have, I assume the default for the OS install is the 64 bit one. 

So how can I go about installing Flash on this system and probably to the same extent other plugins like shockwave.

**3** This deals a bit with #1 and the Beryl installation. The text on window headers (blue bar) that aren't in focus is distorted. The text appears distorted/fuzzy/pixelated on background windows. Also when moving from desktop to desktop the screens appear slightly pixelated. Is there a setting or something I can do to make both of these things smooth?
Also sometimes when a window is maximized it comes out as a black screen. If I resize it, the contents of the window appear. Is this a bug with Beryl?

**4** Can someone point me to a good beginners guide to linux that would include things such as: how to manually install programs, navigate system folders in the terminal, how to format a second hard drive, how to make programs autostart on bootup, and other beginner tips.

Thanks for any help, 

Jarek

---

### Post by Nekiruhs on 2007-05-03
Thats odd, installing Beryl will normally slow down your PC if anything. Beryl is just a Desktop Compositing Engine used for 3d and transparency effects.  I have it running on my and in know way does it speed up my PC.  Try posting the contents of your xorg.conf file in etc/x11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by Jarekb84 on 2007-05-03
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:59 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "COMPAQ P1100"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
    Monitor        "COMPAQ P1100"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1792x1344" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "640x350"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1792x1344" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "640x350"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1792x1344" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "640x350"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1792x1344" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "640x350"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1792x1344" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "640x350"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1792x1344" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "640x350"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Jarekb84 on 2007-05-04
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202537&highlight=flash](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202537&highlight=flash)

Well that thread helped with number 2. I followed the steps outlined and got a 32bit version of firefox and flash installed easily. Did have a problem with the java install, a screen came up with the agreement letter, but I couldn't click or press anything to continue. 

Anyway, does anyone else have an idea of how to improve performance on this machine?

---

