---
title: "3d causes X Server to crash"
date: 2007-12-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Gimmeliberty on 2007-12-07
Hi all, I've only been using Linux for a couple months, so I have a very limited understanding of everything.

Almost any 3d application causes the X server to crash immediately, bringing me back to the login prompt. Oddly enough, my Compiz desktop effects work just fine.

These programs cause an immediate crash: glxgears, Google Earth, Celestia, Foobillards, or trying to use VLC with OpenGL video output. This has led me to believe that the problem is related to how my X session is handling OpenGL, but I was under the impression that Compiz utilizes OpenGL, and as I mentioned, it works just fine.

I use an Acer Aspire 5100 laptop with AMD Turion x64with an ATI Xpress 1100. I am using fglrx -- I think I installed the most recent driver version, 7.11, but I'm not positive (how can I check that?).

Here is my Xorg.conf:
> 
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync    28.0 - 64.0
	VertRefresh  43.0 - 60.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option	    "UseInternalAGPGART" "yes"
	Option	    "MonitorLayout" "LVDS, AUTO"
	Option	    "FSAAEnable" "off"
	Option	    "Capabilities" "0×00000000&#8243;"
	Option	    "FSAAScale" "0&#8243;"
	Option	    "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
	Option	    "HWCursor" "false"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Option 	    "TexturedVideo" "on"

EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "DAMAGE" "true"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

I bet the problem is somewhere in there, but dealing with Xorg.conf is a headache for me.

Does anybody have any ideas on what's causing the crashes?

Thanks!

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2007-12-07
try typing this to reset it:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

(sorry bodhi and SrSmall, I forget the other command that made defaults...)

---

### Post by Gimmeliberty on 2007-12-07
Hi NikoPSK,

I typed that and went through with the reconfiguration -- however, all 3d acceleration went incredibly slowly, including desktop effects, so I restored the backup xorg.conf.

After the reconfiguration, celestia and google earth crashed just as before, but I think foobillard opened ok.

---

### Post by Gimmeliberty on 2007-12-07
Strike that -- all 3d programs crash the same whether using my original xorg.conf or the one created by the reconfiguration program. The only difference I noted was that the reconfigured xorg slowed my desktop effects to a crawl, making the desktop all but unusable.

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2007-12-07
try this:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -plow xserver-xorg
```

or this if that doesn't work.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Gimmeliberty on 2007-12-07
Unfortunately, both -plow and -phigh produce the exact same result as before -- very slow desktop effects and continued crashing of 3d apps. I have to restore my old xorg.conf for the desktop effects to return to normal speed.

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2007-12-07
... crap. At this point would you consider a clean install of gutsy?

---

### Post by Gimmeliberty on 2007-12-08
Nah, I'd definitely prefer not to. This is my second clean install of Ubuntu (my first being Feisty two months ago, which I broke) and I'd rather not make this a monthly reinstall type of deal.

Maybe there's something up with the video driver? I originally installed ATI's 8.42 driver (I think) with Envy, then I upgraded it to 7.11 with the download from ATI's site. Of course, I don't think 3d worked  with the old driver either.

Maybe Envy is to blame?

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2007-12-08
well, envy screwed up my xwindows... 3 times! So I could presume...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3470483](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3470483)

---

### Post by Pethegreat on 2007-12-08
I assume this is realted. 

How do I wipe video card drivers when something goes wrong? I have been trying to install ATI drivers, and they keep giving me problems. Since I have no idea how to revert back to stock, I have to install ubuntu over again. 

I have ubuntu version 6.10 with an ATI x1650.

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2007-12-08
well, the commands I gave you reconfigure your xorg file so....

---

### Post by Gimmeliberty on 2007-12-10
Hey, this is kind of strange and possibly related.

When I type fglrxinfo into the terminal, I get:
> display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon Xpress Series
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7059 Release


Which is, I assume, as it should be.

However, if I type in glxinfo, I get, among other things:
> OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.1)


Why in the world would these be different? Shouldn't they be the same? Perhaps this is why OpenGL works just fine for Compiz but crashes the X server for any other program.

Any insights?

---

