---
title: ".config directory in home dir"
date: 2007-06-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by haelters on 2007-06-05
Hello,

I've noticed that there is a hidden directory .config in my home dir in which I can configure some things. I've seen that in ~/.config/autostart I can put .desktop files that will be automatically started upon login. 

I'm aware of the thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=454982&highlight=.config+directory+in+home+dir](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=454982&highlight=.config+directory+in+home+dir)), but it does not explain the following questions:

Where can I find information on that .config directory? Is there a document that describes all the possible subdirectories with their possibilities? Is it a standard (freedesktop?) ...

thanks

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-06-05
As nearly any program may choose to put its config files in there, the document you would like to see is potentially a mile long... :)

Most programs put their configs in .config OR in their own .progname directory -so the docs are program specific, not general.

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by haelters on 2007-06-05
I wasn't really looking for a document that lists all the possibilities, but more like a document that gives guidelines or a standard. A bit like the LSB documents or Gnome Guidelines.

It is really difficult to see who uses those files...

I love standards, It makes everybody's live easier. e.g. upto now, it was clear that config files for programs specific for a user could be found in a .progname directory. It was no obligation, but everyone did it...

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-06-05
Sorry - it is always tough to know just where someone fits along the path to guru nirvana...

In my .config dir, most of it seems to be XFCE related, apart from GTK  itself.  Not more info from here I'm afraid - too new this time around (last looked about '93 till this year).

Hope you find what you want to know! (and pass it on if interesting) :)

---

