---
title: ".exes for ubuntu?"
date: 2007-05-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by DUDE_2000 on 2007-05-12
I've only ever used windows, so I'm used to .exes, but with my portable hdd (which has .exes on it) i tried to run one and it wouldn't run. Do i need wine or a similar program, or is it impossible to rune .exes on ubuntu?

thanks, **Resolved**

---

### Post by jtraub on 2007-05-12
Yes. You should install wine to run your exe files. If these exes are DOS programs, you must use dosbox instead of wine

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-12
Yip.  You need install at least wine if you want to run Windows stuff and just so you know, wine cannot run all the Windows apps so now you know.

---

### Post by thelocust on 2007-05-12
It's not impossible just very inconvenient with wine. What are you looking to run?

---

### Post by SirGrant on 2007-05-12
Ya you need wine to run .exe files.  .exe are windows executables so install wine and set it up and you might be able to install the program.  Also make sure you check the wine database to check for any potential problems that might come up with running the program in wine.  .

---

### Post by DUDE_2000 on 2007-05-12
thanks. i guessed, but i didn't know that.

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-05-12
.exes don't run natively on Ubuntu, there is an installer program that will work on Ubuntu since your unconnected. Search the internet for Debian installers of any application you really need. I do think ya should focus on getting connected, there really isn't much point to having Ubuntu without ready access to the net.

Google for winehq, I don't know if they have a debian. Wine is the layer that allows some windows programs to run. Search the appDB on winehq for your programs.

If theres a debian and you get it installed, then you can run .exe via the terminal.

```
wine /path/to/.exe
```

path to .exe is the path to direct wine to the installer exe file of the windows program. Thats my crash course answer, I'm still thinking internet first installing later... For a bit more info read on wineHQ and my sig, ubuntuguide.org

Edit: *grumbles at all the people including taurus that posted before him, wonders if he's losing his typing skills.*

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-12
> **starcraft.man said:**
> 
Edit: *grumbles at all the people including taurus that posted before him, wonders if he's **losing his typing skills**.*

](*,)  #-o

---

### Post by starcraft.man on 2007-05-12
> **taurus said:**
> ](*,)  #-o

LOL, awwww... oh well, I shall rest my fingers. Night folks and taurus, was fun maybe I will have to start stalking you around the forums :p

---

