---
title: "[SOLVED] Write to ext HD problem - i/o error"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by oeolycus on 2007-10-18
I've read several posts on issues similar to mine, but haven't found a resolution.

I have a [Seagate 300 gb ext HD]("http://www.seagate.com/www/en-us/products/external/pushbutton_backup/"). It's formatted NTFS and has worked with Ubuntu for as long as I've used Linux (with the release of 7.04). Now suddenly it's read-only!

In the past I have backed up my entire home directory before messing with system wide changes, and I was about to do another (reinstall Windows and 7.10). I get this error whenever I try to copy to the ext HD.

```
Error "I/O error" while copying "/home/dlba...Reagan.jpg"
```

Let me start at the beginning. I'm trying to make a new home dir backup but it's failing with the above error after about 2000 files. I experimented a little and if I unmounted/reconnected, I could move small batches of files over. Then when I tried to move the big batch, and it failed after a few thousand files, I couldn't move **anything** over--including the small files I was using to test the write capabilities with. A quick unmount/reconnect and I could again move small files over.

The drive seemed to be bickering with certain files in the home directory each time, and after it failed on those, it would fail on anything else. I didn't have any special permissions on those files, and a 'sudo cp -R' would fail out with the same i/o error as well.

This kind of read-only problem had occurred before--if the drive was unplugged before unmounting on Windows or Linux, and the power cable is poorly made, so sometimes it will lose power without warning. So I plugged it into Windows and did a chkdsk without letting it "fix any problems." The NTFS drive was read/write for Windows XP.

However, when I moved it back to my Ubuntu laptop, I could no longer move ANY files over--even the small ones I had used for experimenting. _The drive was now completely read-only_. I found this error in the syslog at this point:

> Oct 18 16:10:48 redacted ntfs-3g[8472]: Mft record 0x4911 was marked unused in mft bitmap but is marked used itself.  Corrupt filesystem or library bug!  Run chkdsk immediately! 
Oct 18 16:10:48 redacted ntfs-3g[8472]: Could not allocate new MFT record

I am completely lost at this point. ntfs-3g is up-to-date, the drive works on windows, and I haven't had a similar problem in the past. Short of formatting either the HD or my laptop, I can't think of a resolution. There's not enough room on the Windows computer for the HD's files.
[B]
Any thoughts?[/B]

The following information was requested by previous 'helpers' in posts similar to mine.

fdisk -l
```
Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        9352    75119908+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2            9353        9729     3028252+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5            9353        9729     3028221   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 300.0 GB, 300069052416 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 36481 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       36481   293033601    7  HPFS/NTFS
```

cat /etc/fstab
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=2a1b6dd0-a554-4587-ad45-ec74d3b46b67 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=eb848b89-b214-40a7-a075-9308dced2290 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
```

---

### Post by oeolycus on 2007-10-19
Is there a better place I can post this to find an answer? While not necessarily a noob to computers and  Linux, I am unfamiliar with the Ubuntu community.

Thanks,

O.

---

### Post by oeolycus on 2007-10-21
SOLVED:

After several attempts at sorting this out by myself, I finally hit on the right thing. Used chkdsk in Windows XP with the option:

> Automatically Fix File System Errors

**ONLY**.

No errors were found, but afterwards Ubuntu could write to the drive again! I tried every other option and combination of options and gave up too early. So simple--grr!

---

### Post by szaka on 2007-11-11
When the power goes away then the NTFS volume can get corrupted on any OS and the NTFS-3G driver will refuse to make certain changes due to its strict sanity checks to prevent data loss. However this case is safely supported since version 1.616, released in June, 2007. 

The alternative solution is indeed running chkdsk with the /f option.

---

### Post by mahiyar on 2007-11-11
When I had this type of problems it was mostly due to windows not shutting down properly. Restarting and the properly shutting down windows did the trick. (I wish I could shut down windows forever :))

---

### Post by szaka on 2007-11-11
> **mahiyar said:**
> When I had this type of problems it was mostly due to windows not shutting down properly. Restarting and the properly shutting down windows did the trick.
Yes, this is also one of the most common and perfect explanations. The solution is also ok but it doesn't always guarantee success. Thanks for helping out :-)

---

