---
title: "5.10 to 7.04 , please !"
date: 2007-07-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by sergio eduardo on 2007-07-09
It has been a year since my last attempt at Ubuntu but that effort was foiled by illness . As a result of that I forgot everything and have to start from scratch , which includes a big upgrade from my original 5.10 to 7.04 . 
I have a DVD with the ISO  burned by my XP laptop ( Nero 7 ) but I don't know how to go from here .
It'is a desktop AMD 1GHz , 30 GB HDD , 512 0f RAM , SyncMaster 753 DF monitor , HP scanjet 4470c ( lent it to a friend for a while ) , a Canon S600 printer (connected ) and a  Logitech QuickCam 4000 Pro , 
I have just reinstalled 5.10 ( Install CD ) and need to , somehow upgrade to a newer version . I know that 7.04 is a beta but then again so am I :) 
I would appreciate some help on this . 
Thank you    sergio
P.S. Ubuntu is solo in there , no dual-boot . Windows is gone .
I am using the desktop to post this .

---

### Post by deadgobby on 2007-07-09
Boot up from CD rom first and then go for the install from there. You'll need to do a fresh install of 7.04.  You'll not be able to up grade from Breezy. Glad you are feeling better. Welcome back.
Gobby

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2007-07-09
7.04 is no longer beta. simply make sure your computer is set ot boot from the cd drive, and insert the disc with 7.04. and choose start/install. when the desktop loads you'll have the option to actually install it from there, or continue to run the live cd, and not install it to the hard drive.

---

### Post by Gummy200 on 2007-07-09
you don't need to get a boot disk if your already running 5.10 you can go through the updates manually via your terminal. Run this in terminal.

update-manager -c -d

then you update manager will have the next version of ubuntu available to update. continue to do this until you reach feisty fawn.
HOWEVER note if you are running a 56k modem this can take a 1day for each update, DSL 1 1/2 hours for each update is about the maximum.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-07-09
> **Gummy200 said:**
> you don't need to get a boot disk if your already running 5.10 you can go through the updates manually via your terminal. Run this in terminal.

update-manager -c -d

then you update manager will have the next version of ubuntu available to update. continue to do this until you reach feisty fawn.
HOWEVER note if you are running a 56k modem this can take a 1day for each update, DSL 1 1/2 hours for each update is about the maximum.

Hi did you post to the correct thread? No where in the post did they request a boot disc and clearly states they have the feisty ISO. Why on earth would anyone want to upgrade that way with the ISO in hand? :(


```
sergio eduardo  	It has been a year since my last attempt at Ubuntu but that effort was foiled by illness . As a result of that I forgot everything and have to start from scratch , which includes a big upgrade from my original 5.10 to 7.04 .
I have a DVD with the ISO burned by my XP laptop ( Nero 7 ) but I don't know how to go from here .
It'is a desktop AMD 1GHz , 30 GB HDD , 512 0f RAM , SyncMaster 753 DF monitor , HP scanjet 4470c ( lent it to a friend for a while ) , a Canon S600 printer (connected ) and a Logitech QuickCam 4000 Pro ,
I have just reinstalled 5.10 ( Install CD ) and need to , somehow upgrade to a newer version . I know that 7.04 is a beta but then again so am I
I would appreciate some help on this .
Thank you sergio
P.S. Ubuntu is solo in there , no dual-boot . Windows is gone .
I am using the desktop to post this .
```

---

### Post by sergio eduardo on 2007-07-10
Well ,  thank you for all your replies , attention and good wishes . Funnily enough I have been having problems booting from the DVD . I have tried every combination possible and when it comes to boot from the CD it results in failure and reboots back into 5.10 . The only time it works is when I used the Install CD , hence the reinstall .
In another words my only chance now is to do the updates climbing the staiway ! 
I am on a reasonably fast broadband ( for Australia ) and I don't care if it takes 3 days ! 
That boot from CD has been a pain for a while now , legacy of my ignorance ( still current ) and Gummy 200 's suggestion is exactly what I need . 
Thanks a lot guys . 
P.S. Is that all there is to it as far the updates go ? OK , I will talk to you guys on 6.06 or 6.10 with an update . I'll post from the laptop .
sergio

---

### Post by sergio eduardo on 2007-07-10
Sorry people but the reply was " You need to be root to run this program " . Would someone guide me into this one  ? :confused:
Thank you .

---

### Post by Ek0nomik on 2007-07-10
> **sergio eduardo said:**
> Sorry people but the reply was " You need to be root to run this program " . Would someone guide me into this one  ? :confused:
Thank you .

Put the text, 'sudo' in front of the command.  Without the ''s obviously.  This will give you temporary administrator rights.  Type in the password, and off you go.

I am not sure what packages that command is going to grab in your case.

**deadgobby** is correct that you can't do a simple 5.10 to 7.04 upgrade in a single shot, but you can upgrade to a 6.xx version and go from there.

[http://cmsproducer.com/ubuntu-upgrade-5.10-breezy-badger-7.04-feisty-fawn](http://cmsproducer.com/ubuntu-upgrade-5.10-breezy-badger-7.04-feisty-fawn)

---

### Post by sergio eduardo on 2007-07-10
No luck with the update manager . I had no problems with sudo and through Systems>Administration to reach the update manager but with the same result as before : "Your distribuition is no longer supported . For help contact www. ubuntuLinus.org ..."  
I reload it a few times and 4 updates compiled and installed every time I reloaded . Dead end it seems ... 
Still trying to get it to boot from the CD but Grubb starts up as soon as it sees the word " Failure " , even when I put all boot options to CD boot . Hehehehehe  this is war ! :(
P.S. EkOnomic , on my initial Ubuntu  I did update to 6.06 but the option is not there anymore, with or without sudo .

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-07-10
Maybe this will help:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes)

---

### Post by sergio eduardo on 2007-07-10
Well , thanks again for all your help . I decided to think about the booting problem and burnt a new CD . 
Bingo !!! 7.04 is installing using all my meager 30 GB HDD at this very moment . What a start of a comeback . Never mind , I will be busy now trying to figure out drivers for my FX 5200 ( nVidia) and stuff like that . It is almost finished installing , YES ! The learning starts . Thank you and I'll be back if really stuck with something not covered by other sources .
sergio

---

### Post by sergio eduardo on 2007-07-10
Thank you again for your support . I finally managed to pinpoint the problem and made a new CD from my ISO file ..
Bingo ! 
I am now posting from my brand new 7.04 . It looks good and it flies . The learning process restarts now ,  which includes the all important "Folding" . 
Happy man !! :):)

---

