---
title: ".drmc file error?"
date: 2006-11-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by englishmen on 2006-11-03
I attempted to log on to my laptop today and all tho i tried and tried i couldn't log in, i logged into another account i have on the laptop and opened "Users and Groups". To my shock the account in question was not even listed, i created a new account and set the name and password to what the account in question should be and in advanced settings > home directory i set the location to the same as the account in question.

I know get a error with something to do with .drmc file error and permissions 644, its a error about a paragraph long and am unable to log in. Does anyone know how i can fix this as i really don't want to loose my account?

Thanks

---

### Post by DSn0wMan on 2006-11-03
Seems like the same problem I had a year ago. Check this thread out.

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=168015](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=168015)

I think I ended up getting it working by doing the following:

use ctrl->alt->f2 to access the command line.
```

sudo chmod 644 .dmrc
sudo chown username .dmrc
sudo chmod 755 /home/username
sudo chown username /home/username

```
Then reboot.

---

### Post by englishmen on 2006-11-03
Thanks for the suggestion, could you please tell me where i need to press ctrl>alt>f2? Is it when im logged in via the other account or on the main login screen? Thanks.

---

### Post by DSn0wMan on 2006-11-03
ctrl, alt, and f2 are all keys on the keyboard.

I should have written ctrl+alt+F2.

Sorry about the confusion.

---

### Post by englishmen on 2006-11-03
I am aware that they are keys on the keyboard, i just wasn't aware at what stage i need to press the keys. Is it when im logged in with the other account or at the log in screen?

Thanks

---

### Post by DSn0wMan on 2006-11-03
You can do it at any time. It's basically a way to login and work with stuff indepndent of any GUI / XServer stuff.

---

### Post by englishmen on 2006-11-04
When i type in the first line

> sudo chmod 644 .dmrc

it asks me for my password which i enter, it then says log in failure.

Edit: I was going to reinstall ubuntu some time soon anyway, will doing it now and creating a account with the same home folder as the troublesome account sort this problem out?

---

### Post by englishmen on 2006-11-04
I'm having no luck and as i wanted to do a  reinstall anyway can someone please tell me how i can back up some folder/files from the  troublesome account. I can browse the home folder in questions but i cant copy anything to my usb stick, i get a i don't have permission error.

Can someone help? Thanks.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-11-04
If you have root access tyr, in a terminal,
```
gksudo nautilus
``` then copy your data.

If not, reboot to failsafe mode and copy with the CLI.

[Basic Commands](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/CommandLineBeginners#Basic_operations)

---

### Post by englishmen on 2006-11-04
I did as you suggested but got the below message and couldn't copy folders to my usb stick.

> (nautilus:8203): GnomeUI-WARNING **: While connecting to session manager:
Authentication Rejected, reason : None of the authentication protocols specified are supported and host-based authentication failed.

(nautilus:8203): libgnomevfs-WARNING **: Failed to open session DBUS connection: Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
Volume monitoring will not work.
test@mark-laptop:~$ 

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-11-04
It looks like you will have to boot to failsafe (recovery mode) or from the live CD and copy (back up) your data manually from the CLI or live CD.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2006-11-04
After reading the thread, I would advise you to boot in failsafe mode or to a live CD and then:

```
sudo chmod 644 .dmrc
sudo chown username .dmrc
sudo chmod 755 /home/username
sudo chown username /home/username
```

(perhaps without the sudo)

on you current home folder. This will be located on ? /mnt/hda2/home/user_name or wherever your ubuntu root is installed.

Then re-boot to HD.

---

