---
title: "6.06 LTS only boots from Live CD"
date: 2006-12-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by wheels17 on 2006-12-09
Installed 6.06 LTS on an elitegroup 760gx-m motherboard with athlon XP 2800+, integrated graphics, two seagate 300g pata drives as master on pata 0 and 1, western digital serial ata on Sata port 1 as boot drive. dvd rom on PATA 0 as slave. The system will not boot from the hard drives.  It just stops after the bios screens.

If I start the live cd and use the menu option 'boot from 1st hard drive', the system starts from the sata hard drive and runs fine.

menu.lst exists in /boot/grub, and is requesting 'default 0' and 'timeout 3', but there's no evidence that grub even starts.  In the automatic kernels list, it shows # groot=(hd2,0), which makes sense as the two 300g drives are hd0 and hd1.  They show as FreeBSD from playing with Freenas, but have not been configured under Ubuntu.  The SATA drive was new and unformatted when Ubuntu was installed.

here's fdisk -l
Disk /dev/hda: 300.0 GB, 300069052416 bytes
16 heads, 63 sectors/track, 581421 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 1008 * 512 = 516096 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1      581421   293036152+  a5  FreeBSD

Disk /dev/hdc: 300.0 GB, 300069052416 bytes
16 heads, 63 sectors/track, 581421 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 1008 * 512 = 516096 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdc1   *           1      581421   293036152+  a5  FreeBSD

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       19376   155637688+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2           19377       19457      650632+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           19377       19457      650601   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Here's the full menu.lst

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		3

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=/dev/sda1 ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd2,0)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery mode) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-27-386
root		(hd2,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-27-386 root=/dev/sda1 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-27-386
savedefault
boot

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-27-386 (recovery mode)
root		(hd2,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-27-386 root=/dev/sda1 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-27-386
boot

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-23-386
root		(hd2,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-386 root=/dev/sda1 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-23-386
savedefault
boot

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-23-386 (recovery mode)
root		(hd2,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-386 root=/dev/sda1 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-23-386
boot

title		Ubuntu, memtest86+
root		(hd2,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin 
boot

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

It's probably something very simple for someone, but not for me...

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-12-09
```
 ## ## End Default Options ##

title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-27-386
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-27-386 root=/dev/sda1 ro quiet splash
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-27-386
savedefault
boot

title        Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-27-386 (recovery mode)
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-27-386 root=/dev/sda1 ro single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-27-386
boot

title        Ubuntu, memtest86+
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/memtest86+.bin 
boot

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
```Hello wheels17,
Regardless of the way hard disks are plugged in and jumpered, or how they are seen by disk partitioning software, it is normal for Grub to number a Sata or SCSI disk as the first hard disk. Therefore I think that if you edit your menu.lst Ubuntu entries with (hd0,0) instead of (hd2,0) after the 'root' command, it should improve things. I'm just guessing though, you might need to try again if that doesn't work.

> The system will not boot from the hard drives.  It just stops after the bios screens. > menu.lst exists in /boot/grub, and is requesting 'default 0' and 'timeout 3', but there's no evidence that grub even starts. Without an error message? Not even a '       Disk boot failure, insert system disk and press enter '? Usually there is some error message. :confused:
The BIOS will normally be reading the MBR of your first hard disk. (Meaning the one that is first according to your BIOS). I'll bet Grub has installed to MBR on your sata disk, which seems to be disk number 3 according to your fdisk output.
To get your computer to look at an MBR in a non-first hard disk, you could try tapping either your F8 or your F12 key (depending on what key is correct for your computer). That should give you a list of devices you can boot from. Select the one you think is the sata drive and continue booting and see if Ubuntu will boot up.
To make that permanent, you should be able to change the hard disk priority in your BIOS. 

Grub's [Command Line Interface]("http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#cli") (CLI) can also be extremely useful for finding out what Grub thinks of your computer. If you can get a Grub command line but still experience booting problems, try a few of the commands explained in that link just given and see if that will help. (Especially if you can find out which hard disk is which according to Grub).

Regards, Herman :D

---

