---
title: "Uninstalled compiled packages"
date: 2007-07-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Quebecois74 on 2007-07-19
Grettings.

I'm not sure this is absolute beginner material but since this is my first try with Linux I'll go with it here.

How do you uninstall a package or programmed that was installed via tarball / make / make install routine? Is there such a thing as "make uninstall" ?

I've searched (almost) everywhere and as soon as you put "install" or "uniinstall" as a search keyword, the result is usually a load of unrelated garbage.

Thanks!

---

### Post by jasonlfunk on 2007-07-19
The simple answer is no. If you compile a program from source there is (generally) no automatic uninstall.

---

### Post by Quebecois74 on 2007-07-19
So I just kill the folders?

---

### Post by jasonlfunk on 2007-07-19
Pretty much. You may want to see if you can find a listing off all the files generated by the make file so you can delete them all. I don't know for sure how to do this though. Perhaps on the maker's website?

---

### Post by pyros on 2007-07-19
I've never tried this, but to quote the gnu make manual ([http://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/manual/make/Standard-Targets.html):](http://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/manual/make/Standard-Targets.html):)
> 
`uninstall'
    Delete all the installed files—the copies that the `install' and `install-*' targets create.
    This rule should not modify the directories where compilation is done, only the directories where files are installed.
    The uninstallation commands are divided into three categories, just like the installation commands.

so, if you have the source files still, you can run make uninstall to remove it.

---

### Post by distroman on 2007-07-19
You might be able to do a make uninstall, as fare as I know it all depends on if the author felt like it.
Go to the dir and try a make uninstall, try in /src as well, if not you have to do it yourself.

---

### Post by Majorix on 2007-07-19
```
sudo make uninstall
```

---

### Post by avik on 2007-07-19
Also, consider using checkinstall (it's in the repos).  Whenever you would use make install, use checkinstall instead:

```

./configure
make
sudo checkinstall

```

This makes a .deb and uses dpkg to install, meaning you can uninstall it using apt-get or aptitude.

---

### Post by pyros on 2007-07-19
> **avik said:**
> Also, consider using checkinstall (it's in the repos).  Whenever you would use make install, use checkinstall instead:

```

./configure
make
sudo checkinstall

```

This makes a .deb and uses dpkg to install, meaning you can uninstall it using apt-get or aptitude.

Wow, that's just straight cool, right there.

---

### Post by Quebecois74 on 2007-07-19
I'll try all these as soon as I reach my Ubuntu box. Thanks!

---

### Post by RedSquirrel on 2007-07-19
If you don't have the ability to 'make uninstall', make a log of what was installed with:

```
make -n install > make_install_log.txt
```

By the way, checkinstall is handy, but it doesn't work all the time.

---

### Post by avik on 2007-07-20
> **RedSquirrel said:**
> By the way, checkinstall is handy, but it doesn't work all the time.

Strangely enough, I find that sometimes I have to run sudo make install, *then* run sudo checkinstall for it to work.

Still, your other suggestion to log make install's output is great.

---

### Post by pyros on 2007-07-21
> **avik said:**
> Strangely enough, I find that sometimes I have to run sudo make install, *then* run sudo checkinstall for it to work.

Still, your other suggestion to log make install's output is great.

I have to wonder if everything really is getting packaged up int he deb then...

---

### Post by Quebecois74 on 2007-07-21
make uninstall seems to work! I just wonder why this is not part of the man make page?

Now I'll try the checkinstall bit once I solved my other problems...

Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by pyros on 2007-07-21
Now that you mention it, make install isn't in there either. But, at the end they do tell you to see the "The GNU Make Manual" wich is where I found the uninstall command.

---

### Post by avik on 2007-07-21
> **pyros said:**
> I have to wonder if everything really is getting packaged up int he deb then...

To tell you the truth, I've wondered that myself.

---

### Post by Quebecois74 on 2007-07-24
> **pyros said:**
> Now that you mention it, make install isn't in there either. But, at the end they do tell you to see the "The GNU Make Manual" wich is where I found the uninstall command.

Yep, the this manual has a few other goodies as well :

```
all
     Make all the top-level targets the makefile knows about. 

clean
     Delete all files that are normally created by running make. 

mostlyclean
     Like `clean', but may refrain from deleting a few files that people normally don't want to recompile. For example, the `mostlyclean' target for GCC does not delete libgcc.a, because recompiling it is rarely necessary and takes a lot of time. 

distclean
realclean
clobber
     Any of these targets might be defined to delete more files than `clean' does. For example, this would delete configuration files or links that you would normally create as preparation for compilation, even if the makefile itself cannot create these files. 

print
     Print listings of the source files that have changed. 

tar
     Create a tar file of the source files. 

shar
     Create a shell archive (shar file) of the source files. 

dist
     Create a distribution file of the source files. This might be a tar file, or a shar file, or a compressed version of one of the above, or even more than one of the above. 

TAGS
     Update a tags table for this program. 

check
test
     Perform self tests on the program this makefile builds.

```

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2007-07-24
you won't find install and uninstall in the make manual because these actions are not part of the make system but instead are conventions that almost all coders for Linux have agreed on and made compatible actions for...

make almost always is performing scripted actions for you as defined in **Makefile** = a plain  text file in the top level directory of your source package(s)

its also slightly entertaining to note that make specifically calls for an uppercase 'M' in 'Makefile' or it won't work ~ one of the few times that developers have made a conscious decision to 
exercise their rights to a CaSe SenSiTivE filesystem ~ ahh the magic of *NIX

---

