---
title: "5.10 Preview release doesn't detect DHCP setup"
date: 2005-09-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by wkh on 2005-09-24
I searched and found nothing relevant on this.

I'm trying to install a dual boot setup with Windows XP and Ubuntu 5.10 Preview. The Ubuntu installer got to the part where it attempted to detect network hardware. It didn't detect that I use DHCP (which is what I use in Windows). I'd prefer to not have to configure the network post-install, because then I'd have to go back and forth between booting into Windows and Linux and yadda yadda - I'd like to have everything work when Ubuntu is finished installing.

Should I try the 5.04 release? I'm downloading the 5.04 Live CD to see if it will detect things properly.

Supposing I do have to **** around and configure networking manually after installation, what programs and whatnot do I run to do that?

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-09-24
> what programs and whatnot do I run to do that?

It probably isn't finding a network card driver for whatever you are using.  If it's wireless than that's typical...they never work out of the box.  Maybe you should boot a liveCD (Knoppix or whatever) and print out the output of **lscpi**.  That gives you your hardware info and it's a good place to start.

---

### Post by wkh on 2005-09-24
OK, I ran lspci (and also ifconfig, if it matters) after starting up with a 5.04 Live CD. Networking didn't work. lspci produced many lines of output (I printed the output of that and ifconfig), but the only line about my wireless NIC is:

[FONT=Courier New]0000:00:00b.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM3406 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 03)[/FONT]

If you want me to type more stuff, I could but I'd prefer not to type all that stuff from a printout :)

Sound and printing (!) worked, so if I can get networking to work (including WEP) I'll be a happy panda. Thanks!

Edit: Implied in this is that X Windows started up just fine at a reasonable resolution, the mouse worked fine, so I think things could be much worse.  :smile:

---

### Post by Benzima on 2005-09-24
wkh:

I had the same problem with 5.10 preview. I tried a lot of things, but it just wouldn't detect. Funny thing was 5.04 always detects and sets it up first time through. 

I finally gave up on 5.10 preview and hope I won't have the same problme with final.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-09-25
Please report it, so the developers can do something about it.

---

### Post by wkh on 2005-09-25
I got it to work with ndiswrapper. DNS lookup seems to be a little slow -- going around to different websites in Firefox seems slow, but I can download things fast. Anyway, this is good enough for now.

Eh, it seems that Ubuntu doesn't come with any mp3 players. WTF? :/

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-09-25
Did you tried with xmms player?

sudo apt-get install xmms

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-09-25
> I got it to work with ndiswrapper. DNS lookup seems to be a little slow -- going around to different websites in Firefox seems slow, but I can download things fast. Anyway, this is good enough for now.

Eh, it seems that Ubuntu doesn't come with any mp3 players. WTF? :/

You might want to try a couple different drivers for your Broadcom card with ndiswrappers.  There seems to be more than one and some work better than others.  You can also check the contents of /etc/resolv.conf and make sure the DNS server entries are the best ones.

It comes with MP3 players but the codecs are not installed by default.  That's one of those usability vs. philisophical problems.  Ubuntu won't include anything that isn't GPL software (totally free).

---

