---
title: "6.06 : having to install Personnal Security Manager (PSM) ???"
date: 2006-07-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-06
Cheeee, I'm finding new things to ask about today. I guess I am on a row.  :-)

Ok, I just started ASM and it said I have a new mail. So I click on that link to see what I have. Upon starting Mozilla I get a popup saying :

This document cannot be displayed unless you install the Personnal Security Manager (PSM). Download and install PSM and try again, or contact your system administrator.

Funny, I didn't have this before. I know I had small updates this morning about password code. Could this be  a bug ???

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-06
Just saw the following reply to another thread of the same nature.

**sudo apt-get install mozilla-psm**



Why would we have to do that ?

Why isn't this included in the automatic updates ????


Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  mozilla-psm
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 179kB of archives.
After unpacking, 709kB of additional disk space will be used.
Get:1 [http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com](http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com) dapper/universe mozilla-psm 2:1.7.12-1.1ubuntu2 [179kB]
Fetched 179kB in 1s (127kB/s)
Selecting previously deselected package mozilla-psm.
(Reading database ... 94303 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking mozilla-psm (from .../mozilla-psm_2%3a1.7.12-1.1ubuntu2_i386.deb) ...
Setting up mozilla-psm (1.7.12-1.1ubuntu2) ...
Updating mozilla chrome registry...done.

---

### Post by karl.dane on 2007-04-28
I'm running ubunti feisty, which was upgraded via apt from edgy.

I can't get mozilla to access ssl (https) sites. The message I'm presented with is: 'This document cannot be displayed unless you install the Personal Security Manager (PSM). Download and install PSM and try again, or contact your system administrator.'

Other google searches suggest I run apt-get install mozilla-psm, but this helps not at all. apt-get reports:

'Package mozilla-psm is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
However the following packages replace it:
  mozilla-browser libnss3
E: Package mozilla-psm has no installation candidate'

What's the ubuntu fix for this? Yell if any other information is required. The inability of mozilla to access ssl sites is quite irritating!

Ta,

Karl Dane

---

