---
title: "One Partition is Read Only"
date: 2007-07-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ireshsl on 2007-07-16
Hey Guys,

I use Ubuntu 7.04 & Windows XP as dual boot. I have Installed Windows XP in a 40 GB Hard Disk and it has 4 partitions, I have Installed Ubuntu in a 80 GB hard disk and it has 2 partitions

I read and wrote files in all those NTFS and Fat 32 parttions (Windows XP) when I in ubuntu without any problem.

But from today morning, I can only read files in a one partition of those 4, when I try to change the permission I get this error message.

[img]http://i19.tinypic.com/61nm98k.jpg[/img]

I need to save files when I in Ubtuntu to use it in Windows XP, so can you please help me to solve this problem ?

Thanks

Iresh

---

### Post by felicity on 2007-07-16
You might try:

```
sudo chmod -R a+rwx /media/storage
```

but change /media/storage to the location of the partition you refer.

---

### Post by Pheodax on 2007-07-16
Are you sure you have NTFS-3g installed? You don't have full read/write support by default on Ubuntu. Please check out the following tutorial if you haven't installed NTFS-3g. It's a very detailed guide and NTFS-3g is actually easy to setup.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009)

If you have installed NTFS-3g before (or just now) and it still doesn't work, could you post the contents of your /etc/fstab file?

---

### Post by ireshsl on 2007-07-17
> **Pheodax said:**
> Are you sure you have NTFS-3g installed? You don't have full read/write support by default on Ubuntu. Please check out the following tutorial if you haven't installed NTFS-3g. It's a very detailed guide and NTFS-3g is actually easy to setup.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009)

If you have installed NTFS-3g before (or just now) and it still doesn't work, could you post the contents of your /etc/fstab file?

Hi Pheodax

I have already installed NTFS-3g,...

Please check this


cat /etc/fstab

server@server:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=fad55abb-02fe-4d17-8a38-ab89d24dc9c1 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=2f7cb11e-11b5-4fe3-bf56-cd2604b77bcf none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb6 /media/share ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb5 /media/Programs ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
server@server:~$ 


Thanks !,

Iresh.

---

### Post by Pheodax on 2007-07-17
Ok.. I'm really stuck now :( Your problem seemed to be one of the problems I had when I first started using Linux (only a few weeks ago), but it seems it's a little more complicated then that.

Your /etc/fstab file looks just like mine, but I have full read/write support for my Windows partitions. There's one more thing you could try, but I think ntfs-3g has already configured that. It's about the same felicity suggested.

chmod 777 /media/Programs
chmod 777 /media/share

(That's what ntfs-3g did for me here)

---

### Post by ireshsl on 2007-07-17
> **Pheodax said:**
> Ok.. I'm really stuck now :( Your problem seemed to be one of the problems I had when I first started using Linux (only a few weeks ago), but it seems it's a little more complicated then that.

Your /etc/fstab file looks just like mine, but I have full read/write support for my Windows partitions. There's one more thing you could try, but I think ntfs-3g has already configured that. It's about the same felicity suggested.

chmod 777 /media/Programs
chmod 777 /media/share

(That's what ntfs-3g did for me here)

Hi Pheodax,

I followed these steps
_________________________________


sudo gedit /etc/fstab

copy the bottom ntfs line and paste just below it, so you have two lines identical next to each other.

Edit the line you just pasted:
you want /dev/sdb5 to read /dev/sdb7
you want /media/Programs to read /media/Data

save and exit.
reboot


Your link is very useful ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009) )


Now I can full access (read/write) that partition without any problem.

Thanks !

Iresh.

---

### Post by Pheodax on 2007-07-17
Awesome! :guitar:

Great that it worked for you.

---

