---
title: "7.10 Beta - a tear in my eye"
date: 2007-09-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jctweb on 2007-09-27
So I'm posting this from my desktop machine whilst watching my laptop install Gutsy from the 7.10 live CD.

Why is this important?  Because I'm doing it on an E1505 with an ATI X1400 graphics card and an Intel 3945abg wireless card....graphically!!

:guitar:


It brings a tear to my eye to install without a fight.  THANK YOU!!!!!

---

### Post by hotweiss on 2007-09-27
Can't wait to install Gutsy Gibbon myself, I've installed a Linux OS for the first time in my life and I'm so impressed that I've dumped Windows all together. I've gotten almost everything working now... I just noticed that Ubuntu needs a Bluetooth manager, you shouldn't have to use any terminal commands to connect your mouse or headset.

---

### Post by tdrusk on 2007-09-27
Yes, Gutsy is going to be so smooth and simple.

One of my favorite features is the bulletproof x, meaning you will never break xorg.conf.

---

### Post by mysticmatrix on 2007-09-27
> **hotweiss said:**
> Can't wait to install Gutsy Gibbon myself, I've installed a Linux OS for the first time in my life and I'm so impressed that I've dumped Windows all together. I've gotten almost everything working now... I just noticed that Ubuntu needs a Bluetooth manager, you shouldn't have to use any terminal commands to connect your mouse or headset.

Why not just upgrade?

```
update-manager -d
```

I di it today and am loving it :guitar:

---

### Post by tdrusk on 2007-09-27
> **mysticmatrix said:**
> Why not just upgrade?

```
update-manager -d
```

I di it today and am loving it :guitar:

When Gutsy comes out I'm starting fresh.

---

### Post by hotweiss on 2007-09-27
> **mysticmatrix said:**
> Why not just upgrade?

```
update-manager -d
```

I di it today and am loving it :guitar:

This is the first time I have install Ubuntu, so before I do another install I want to set up everything 100% here. I really don't want to mess with a thousand different commands later on in Gutsy that could compromise it. I just need my HD working now:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=561590](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=561590)

LOL, help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by zachalekos on 2007-09-28
> **fuzzyhair said:**
> Yes, Gutsy is going to be so smooth and simple.

One of my favorite features is the bulletproof x, meaning you will never break xorg.conf.

As of this morning my lappy has no GUI :( :(

---

### Post by hotweiss on 2007-09-28
> **zachalekos said:**
> As of this morning my lappy has no GUI :( :(

LOL, I'll wait for the final release. Plus, Automatix doesn't seem to be working on Gutsy.

---

### Post by zachalekos on 2007-09-29
using Linux Mint now, and very happy with it.

---

### Post by DarkDancer on 2007-09-29
I have gutsy running on a virtual machine right now, I just installed it and it is doing the update... ;)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-09-29
i ran gutsy for a couple of days. after a fairly big update, it broke big time. buyer beware if you choose to use it now.

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2007-09-29
> **wolfen69 said:**
> i ran gutsy for a couple of days. after a fairly big update, it broke big time. buyer beware if you choose to use it now.

Buyer beware? There's no buy when it's free :P

---

### Post by Joakim Stokland on 2007-09-30
Whoaaa! I installed Gutsy today, and to describe it with one word: GREAT! I think this may be the "Breakthrough" of Ubuntu. Some things in Feisty hold back my recommendations for some people, but those days seem to have passed. Totem and Amarok automatically installs codecs, just like Firefox does with plugins. My widescreen required an extra package to be able to view the correct aspect ratio in Feisty, but in Gutsy it works out of the box (after running an update, though). Since I installed Gutsy today, I haven't tested it thoroughly, but MAN this is promising! And the default theme is nice, with CF turned on by standard. This is absolutely stunning!

---

### Post by Perfex on 2007-09-30
I upgraded couple days ago, all went smooth except for wireless, previously I was using the ndiswrapper package from the repository, but reinstalling this and the drivers didn't work.
So I removed any trace of ndiswrapper and the drivers from the drive, compiled ndiswrapper from the source package, reinstalled the the drivers, set them up.. now it works.

---

### Post by raymonda on 2007-10-01
I have a Dell 6400 with an x1400 ATI card and the Gutsy beta will not work properly. As with 7.06 it falls over with Xwindows and goes all bezerk. They just can't get it right. A NVIDIA works without a problem.
Second monitor support is that a separate install?

---

### Post by atd85 on 2007-10-02
> **raymonda said:**
> I have a Dell 6400 with an x1400 ATI card and the Gutsy beta will not work properly. As with 7.06 it falls over with Xwindows and goes all bezerk. They just can't get it right. A NVIDIA works without a problem.
Second monitor support is that a separate install?

same problem here with an x1300.. its not so smooth for some of us..

---

### Post by Curtiss on 2007-10-02
I have gusty installed on my test machine which is also the grandkids PC 3-6 years old and so far they haven broke it yet.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-10-02
> **hotweiss said:**
> LOL, I'll wait for the final release. Plus, Automatix doesn't seem to be working on Gutsy.

Who needs automatix anyway?

---

### Post by Wynne G Oldman on 2007-10-02
> **hotweiss said:**
> LOL, I'll wait for the final release. Plus, Automatix doesn't seem to be working on Gutsy.I don't think that you will need Automatix with Gutsy. It downloads any codecs or plugins as you need them. It even installs flash support in 64 bit Firefox. It just gets better and better!

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2007-10-02
No need for automatix!

---

### Post by urk_nono on 2007-10-02
> **fuzzyhair said:**
> Yes, Gutsy is going to be so smooth and simple.

One of my favorite features is the bulletproof x, meaning you will never break xorg.conf.

HoHO! I'm somehow a master of disaster of breaking my xorg (backup shmackup!) I'll put it to the test.

---

### Post by mivo on 2007-10-02
Looked at Gutsy Beta today, and it was impressive enough to make me decide to switch over from Kubuntu. I just have to decide how to do it best. :) They did a marvelous job. Only flaw: the Compiz settings manager really needs to be installed by default. Without it, the choices offered are very limited and the average user won't know how to even use half of what is possible.

---

