---
title: "7.10, ati x1600, Will it work on release?"
date: 2007-10-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by studo77 on 2007-10-11
I installed Feisty(amd64) on my pc. Everything seemed to work fine. So i went into getting Compiz/Beryl to work. After a lot of guides and people who have got it to work, i found that on the 64bit version it is impossible.

So i must get the 32bit, i thought. Hey, there is a 7.10 coming up, Great!

I got the 7.10 (32bit) from US server, the others are empty, possibly due to release in a week.

So stuck in the cd, and booted. The visual interface crashed, and i never got a desktop. Even a commandline was unavailable.

My guess is that it is due to my X1600 graphics card.  Live-cd boot was with WinMCE and Feisty(64bit) installed. 

Do any of you have the same experience?

Do any of you know if it will work on release?

---

### Post by skipbarker on 2007-10-11
I had the same problem with 7.10 on an ATI X1600. I could not say for sure that it will be fixed by release, but I hope so. I can vouch that Feisty i386 works fine and with [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=488385") HowTo I managed to get  Compiz running.

---

### Post by swisscow on 2007-10-11
I'd hold fire with the xgl and compiz for a few days as ATI are supposedly releasing a driver for ATI cards which will let them use Compiz without XGL - I'll believe it when I see it!

Have a look here if you are interested

[HTML]http://www.phoronix.com/forums/[/HTML]

---

### Post by skipbarker on 2007-10-11
Yeah. I can't wait for the new 8.42 drivers.

---

### Post by studo77 on 2007-10-11
.Sweet. hope for a nice landing then with  8.42 driver and 7.10 final. hmm, better keep my live-cd ready at hand...

Will look into the guide, there is so many out there. Hope for automatic switch to the best driver when upgrading to 7.10, but know it is asking a lot.

---

### Post by studo77 on 2007-10-11
#2: That how/to worked straight away. Nice, now i just need to figure out why my keyboard has switched back to english setup..

---

### Post by studo77 on 2007-10-11
#2: Maybe you also have a link for for me on how to change screen resolution/refresh?


I only have 1024@60 as max. found a guide, which destrouyed myxgl. So now on a fresh install, and updating...

---

### Post by drbob07 on 2007-10-11
To get past 1024x768 (assuming your monitor supports it)

You need to 
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.back
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Scroll down to the section about your monitor, it should have a list of modes, 
just add one for 1280x1024 (in the same format as the other lines)

Save the file (CTRL+O I believe)

CTRL+ALT+Backspace, or reboot, to restart X

```

It's been a while since I've done it, so sorry if my directions suck ;)

---

### Post by studo77 on 2007-10-12
Getting there...

When just putting in your information i get a lousy refres rate of 47:(

So i combined with this
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=454217](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=454217)

Which gave a non working result. But i now changed under monitor for the sync and refresh to go up to my 85Hz. But now i get an oversize desktop when selecting 1152x864. Maybe i should try 1280x1024....or another depth.....

Will return if testing gives other results.

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-78*edited
	Vertrefresh	43-85*edited
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
.......removed......
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection



On Beryl, how do i reset all settings. I got it working perfectly, but now the un/minimize does nok work, tried reinstalling, but it used all the old settings.

Still need to find keyboard layout settings. Keep going back to us style, annoying, i do not know where the keys are.

---

### Post by studo77 on 2007-10-15
got it working

added on more line
Depth 24
Modes "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600"
EndSubSection

into
Depth 24
Modes "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600"
virtual 1152 864
EndSu bSection


no clue of what it does, but it works

---

