---
title: "5.1, sub-woofer not working"
date: 2007-08-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rufi_dukes on 2007-08-08
Hi, here's my current problem:
i have an intel DP965L mother board with ( i think!) an HDA sound
card... is that Alsa? how do i find out which drivers i need?)

i've tried looking under preferences->hardware but i can't read the
tangle of info there given...

anyway, i rang manufacturer of computer (pioneer) and they said that i
needed to get driver for sigmatel from intel;
so, i duly went to their site but found it formidable and frankly
forbidding...

couldn't make out one end of the site from the other...

so, then i launch Gnome Alsa mixer and low and behold i get the
following under preferences: sigmatel stack 9277

does this name refer to my sound card, or the driver for sound card, or
what?

anyway, the speaker system is 5.1, that is 5 speakers with sub-woofer...

and my problem, in a nutshell, is that i can get sound out of 4 of 5
speakers,
but not out of woofer or center speaker!

i'm happy with 4, but can't wait till i can get beethoven's 9th blaring
out through this subwoofer...

can you help?

thx kindly,
rufus

---

### Post by linuxwizard on 2007-08-08
Have you checked your volume controls to make sure everything is turned up or is their something muted and needs to be unmuted.
speaker on panel > right click

---

### Post by rufi_dukes on 2007-08-08
yeah, checked all that;
the three jacks (outlets) i have need to be programmed to distribute the sound to the various speakers: 5, and the sub...
i have sound coming thru 4 (not the center) and not the sub...
which kinda robs one of half the experience, right?

it's bc i can't figure out the right combination of boxes ticked in the preferences section of gnome alsa mixer....

just hoping someone else has had the same problem reading this

thx kindly for responding,
rufus

---

### Post by rufi_dukes on 2007-08-09
anyone?

---

### Post by Metallion on 2007-08-20
I know this is an old thread but I got here trough the search function since I have the exact same problem. I continued my search and found the answer so I´ll dig up this thread in case Dukes still didn´t fix his issue.

you need to edit ~/.asoundrc or create it if it doesn´t exist. Now paste the following inside it

pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "surround51"
    slave.channels 6
    ttable.0.0 1
    ttable.1.1 1
    ttable.0.2 1
    ttable.1.3 1
    ttable.0.4 0.5
    ttable.1.4 0.5
    ttable.0.5 0.5
    ttable.1.5 0.5
}

In case you have a 7.1 surround set up use this instead.

pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "surround71"
    slave.channels 8
    ttable.0.0 1
    ttable.1.1 1
    ttable.0.2 1
    ttable.1.3 1
    ttable.0.4 0.5
    ttable.1.4 0.5
    ttable.0.5 0.5
    ttable.1.5 0.5
    ttable.0.6 1
    ttable.1.7 1
}

Source: [http://madman2k.net/article/84](http://madman2k.net/article/84)

---

### Post by rufi_dukes on 2007-08-30
thanks for the response;
i successfully edited the .asoundrc the way you described;
alas! still no sound from center or woofer....

i'm wondering if i have configured the leads correctly, but then again, i've tried every combination that seems possible and still nothing....

any other ideas?

thx again,
rufus

---

