---
title: "Configuring my Intel graphics card"
date: 2007-02-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2007-02-01
I want to maximize the capabilities for my graphics card for Ubuntu.  How do I install the drivers for it?

When I scan the PCI bus (in verbose mode), I get the following for the graphics card:

00:01.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller] (rev 03) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
        Subsystem: Dell Unknown device 00b4
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 0, IRQ 9
        Memory at f4000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=64M]
        Memory at ff000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=512K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>

---

### Post by riven0 on 2007-02-02
If I'm not mistaken the drivers that come preinstalled by Ubuntu *are* the official drivers. As far as I know, all the official Intel graphic drivers are open source, so there is not reason why Ubuntu wouldn't use them.

---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2007-02-02
> **riven0 said:**
> If I'm not mistaken the drivers that come preinstalled by Ubuntu *are* the official drivers. As far as I know, all the official Intel graphic drivers are open source, so there is not reason why Ubuntu wouldn't use them.
So, you mean the driver was included with the normal installation of Ubuntu?

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-02-02
can you post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?
(Or you could just look in it and search for what driver you are using for your graphics card.  I belive for your card it should be the i810 driver.  If it is vesa, then you have some work to do.

---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2007-02-02
> **jordanmthomas said:**
> can you post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?
(Or you could just look in it and search for what driver you are using for your graphics card.  I belive for your card it should be the i810 driver.  If it is vesa, then you have some work to do.

Yes, I'll post it as soon as possible.

---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2007-02-02
here is the file you asked me to post:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:1:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SDM-S51"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"SDM-S51"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


Hope this helps:)

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-02-02
According to this, you already have the proper 3d drivers installed.  
try running glxgears and see if you get even decent fps
If so, everything should be fine.  (I have an integrated intel card as well and performance in windows is simply much better unfortunately)

---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2007-02-03
I ran glxgears, but the frame rate seemed really slow.  Then again, I have a computer outdated by today's standards.  Oh well, I think this is the best I can do.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2007-02-03
Try this:
```
glxinfo |grep direct
```

What is the output?

---

### Post by purplearcanist on 2007-02-03
direct rendering: No
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2007-02-03
Check in Synaptic and see if you have the i810 drivers installed. You are using the default Mesa drivers, which don't provide direct rendering.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2007-02-03
Been there - Done that...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=320799&highlight=82810](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=320799&highlight=82810)

I think what you have is what there is - nothing better...

[http://xorg.freedesktop.org/archive/X11R6.8.0/doc/i810.4.html](http://xorg.freedesktop.org/archive/X11R6.8.0/doc/i810.4.html)

---

### Post by riven0 on 2007-02-03
I agree; it is the official Intel driver, purplearcanist, and you're not going to get much better performance out of it. Having one myself, I can definitely say these are not the cards to get if you want fast direct rendering performance or are going to play some intense FPS games.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2007-02-03
Yes. While Beryl and Planet Penguin Racer works quite well on my i855 chipset, I cannot play the more graphics intensive games.

---

### Post by DirtDawg on 2007-02-03
I believe the i810 driver does not include XGL 3D drivers by default. I installed AIGLX (a sort of open-source XGL) and it solved some of the 3D issues I was having, though things do not run perfectly by any means.

For example, when I run "glxinfo |grep direct", I get:
```
libGL warning: 3D driver claims to not support visual 0x4b
direct rendering: Yes

```

That line about visual 0x4b has been known to crash games of [BZFlag]("http://www.bzflag.org/")(The Horror!), but at least direct rendering is "Yes". Still, as mentioned above, things like graphically intense FPS games run, but they don't run well. I used the Beryl tutorial to get AIGLX. [Here]("http://wiki.beryl-project.org/index.php/Install/Ubuntu/Edgy/XGL") for Edgy, [here]("http://wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Install_Beryl_on_Ubuntu_Dapper_with_AIGLX") for Dapper.

---

### Post by Metlin on 2007-02-05
There could be a conflict with libgl -- I had a similar problem and it was choppy because libgl1-mesa-dri was not the compatible with my Intel i810 drivers.

Can you try doing:

```
sudo apt-get install libgl1-mesa-dri
```

And then, just open up a terminal and try running ```
glxgears
``` and see if it looks alright?

---

### Post by thejart on 2007-02-15
dirtdawg,

i'm trying to install the aiglx drivers for my intel 82865G onboard card and i can't figure out how to do that.  you said that you followed the beryl tutorial, but i don't see a mention of how to install for intel cards.

i'm also wondering what "decent" frame rates are for glxgears, i'm hovering around 750 without direct rendering.

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-02-15
On my i915 I get about 900 with direct rendering.
I've been told this is abysmal compared to real cards, but I don't game anbd beryl runs fine so I am not complaining.

As for the AIGLX drivers, you'll want to use the i810 driver.  I believe it is in synaptic.  Update your xorg.conf to use i810 instead of vesa and you'll be set.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2007-02-16
> **thejart said:**
> dirtdawg,

i'm trying to install the aiglx drivers for my intel 82865G onboard card and i can't figure out how to do that.  you said that you followed the beryl tutorial, but i don't see a mention of how to install for intel cards.

i'm also wondering what "decent" frame rates are for glxgears, i'm hovering around 750 without direct rendering.

If you're using Edgy, AIGLX is already installed.

---

### Post by mendingo84 on 2007-02-16
if you are using Edgy, AIGLX is installed by default. i had the same problem. the solution is simple: uninstall this package: **xorg-driver-fglrx** . i don't know why this package is installed by default, it messes everything up but it has no use. uninstall it and direct rendering will work. it did in my case. 
plz post if i was right...:popcorn:

---

### Post by thejart on 2007-02-16
thanks for the responses guys.  i figured it out.  i didn't uninstall the xorg-drive-fglrx, but i'll look into that (just to see if that helps with any performance).  i understand now that it is installed by default but that you have to configure it properly in xorg.conf.  i was following the community guide on [installing aiglx for edgy]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/AIGLXOnEdgy"), but i had copy and pasted the bottom section without noticing that the "server layout" section was already there.  once i cleaned everything up, direct rendering started working.  it bumped my frame rate to around 900.  then i installed beryl and it works, too.  i was originally just trying to get google earth to use my card for rendering...beryl is kindof a bonus :)

jordanmthomas: i'm like you, don't really play games, either.  the intel chipset should be fine for my needs.  hey, you're right up the road from me.

---

### Post by thejart on 2007-02-16
one more thing.  the guide doesn't tell you to comment out Load "GLcore" in the Module section.  this was key to getting everything working for me.  beryl wouldn't load; it immediately crashed the x server.  ...pretty annoying for a while.  anywho, it's working now.

---

### Post by DirtDawg on 2007-02-16
> **DarkN00b said:**
> If you're using Edgy, AIGLX is already installed.

Oh! That's good to know. I use Dapper. Sorry thejart, I may have led you astray.

I find AIGLX quite useful, as XGL is not available with my Intel chipset. Without AIGLX, I could not use 3D.

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-02-16
> I find AIGLX quite useful, as XGL is not available with my Intel chipset. Without AIGLX, I could not use 3D.
Before AIGLX I used XGL on my Intel card and it worked fine.  It just used a LOT of memory for some reason.  Oh well, you've got AIGLX which is way better anyway.

thejart:  a long, boring drive away

---

