---
title: "./configure Permission Denied"
date: 2006-07-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
I've looked up many tutorials on compiling from source, and one tutorial says that ./configure doesn't need the sudo command. But if i use ./configure it says permission denied. Yet if i use sudo ./configure it says command not found. What gives?

I'm following the tutorial here... 
[http://www.beginningubuntu.com/software_20.html](http://www.beginningubuntu.com/software_20.html)

It's a tutorial to help newbies (like me) But still it gives me no information on how to bypass this.

I shouldn't have to log into root (which i can't figure out how to do ethier) according to every tutorial/beginners guide i can find.

Any help would be greatly apreciated!!! I can't find info on this anwhere, almost as if i'm the only one who has this problem! lol.

I'm running Ubuntu from a fresh install too. I reinstalled ubuntu and still no luck :(.

---

### Post by digby on 2006-07-13
It's possible that the execute bit simply hasn't been set on the configure script.  Try this:```
 chmod a+x ./configure
```

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
execute bit? What is that. Is that something in the configure file that is in the source of dillo that i'm trying to compile?

I haven't read anything about the A+X thing, what does that do exactly?

I'd hate to do something and mess everything up and have to start over... just want more info on exactly what that command is doing..

I've only been using linux for a few days now, so please forgive me if i seem really dumb and stupid :) just like to understand what i'm doing before I do something.

EDIT: I've looked up execute bit and i think i found my answer.. something about linux permissions, going to look this up and hopefully that'll answer my question :). Thanks for info

---

### Post by digby on 2006-07-13
Nothing wrong at all with asking questions and wanting more info.  I applaud curiousity, in fact!

In windows, execuatable files are identified by there extension (.exe, .com, .scr, .bat, etc.).  In unix (and thus, linux) executable files have what is called an execute bit set.  If you type ls -l in your home dir, you might see something that looks like this:```
matt@dreadnaught:~$ ls -l
-rw-r--r-- 1 matt matt   2113568 2006-07-11 23:22 gnucash_2.0.0-1_i386.deb
-rwxr-xr-x 1 matt matt 3810 2006-06-22 20:51 script.py
```
The leftmost column is what we are interested in.  This is the file's permissions.  The first character '-' in this case just means that we're looking at a plain old file (as opposed to a directory or a few other things like sockets or block devices (you don't need to know what those are)).  The next 9 are what you need to know now.  

They come in 3 sets of 3, and indicate what you are allowed to do with the file.  The 3 options are r, w, and x (read, write, and execute respectively).  The three groups (or octets) are ordered for the file's owner, the group, and everyone else (others). 

So in our example above, the file script.py has the permissions -rwxr-x-r-x.  Remember that the first - means it's a file.  Then we see that the owner of the file has permission to read, write, and execute the file (rwx).  Group members and others only have permission to read or execute it (r-x).

The way permissions are changed is with the chmod command.  The arguement that I told you to give it (a+x) set's the execute bit as on for all users.  If you wanted to give everyone the ability to read the file, you would use a+r.  If you wanted to take away all other's ability to write to the file, you would use o-w.

So I'm simply making sure that your script is, in fact, executable.  If that isn't the problem, we'll try something else.

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
Thanks for all the info! I was a little crosseyed at first, But I think I understood it. In the directory of my source, i tried typing "chmod a+x ./configure"

and i got "chmod: changing permissions of `./configure': Operation not permitted"

then i tried "sudo chmod a+x ./configure"

well this is what happened. 

chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ chmod a+x configure
chmod: changing permissions of `configure': Operation not permitted
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ sudo chmod a+x ./configure
Password:
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: Permission denied
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ sudo chmod a+x configure
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: Permission denied
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ sudo ./configure
sudo: ./configure: command not found
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ chmod a+x ./configure
chmod: changing permissions of `./configure': Operation not permitted


lol, as you can see i tried a few things more the once. but anyway, when i type ls -l in the dillo source directory, it shows this for hte configure file:
-rw-rw-rw- 1 root root 294250 2006-07-13 18:49 configure

So it does infact not have x bit enabled :), Now to just figure out how to enable it.

I tried doing so in the browser by right clicking the file, and going to the permissions tab, but it says, "you are not the owner, you cannot change permissions" or something of the like..

I'll keep looking into it. Thanks again.

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
Oh, i think i figured it out... I suspected that it could be becauase the folder was on a fat32 partion. So i moved it into my /home/chris/ folder and tried again, and now i'm able to change permissions. 

Although i'm getting an error :( oh well, time to read the tutorial again see if i missed something.

This is what i'm getting now, when i run the ./configure, If you can help then that would be great, if not i'm going ot search it anyway. 

chris@chris-desktop:~/dillo-0.8.6$ ./configure
checking build system type... i686-pc-linux-gnu
checking host system type... i686-pc-linux-gnu
checking target system type... i686-pc-linux-gnu
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for gawk... no
checking for mawk... mawk
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... a.out
checking whether the C compiler works... yes
checking whether we are cross compiling... no
checking for suffix of executables...
checking for suffix of object files... o
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... yes
checking for gcc option to accept ANSI C... none needed
checking for style of include used by make... GNU
checking dependency style of gcc... gcc3
checking for gcc... (cached) gcc
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... (cached) yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... (cached) yes
checking for gcc option to accept ANSI C... (cached) none needed
checking dependency style of gcc... (cached) gcc3
checking for ranlib... ranlib
checking how to run the C preprocessor... gcc -E
checking for g++... g++
checking whether we are using the GNU C++ compiler... yes
checking whether g++ accepts -g... yes
checking dependency style of g++... gcc3
checking for gethostbyname... yes
checking for setsockopt... yes
checking for socklen_t... socklen_t
checking for glib-config... /usr/bin/glib-config
checking for GLIB - version >= 1.2.0... yes
checking for gtk-config... /usr/bin/gtk-config
checking for GTK - version >= 1.2.0... yes
checking Hackish check for FLTK... ./configure: line 5889: fltk-config: command not found
./configure: line 5890: fltk-config: command not found
checking for egrep... grep -E
checking for ANSI C header files... yes
checking for sys/types.h... yes
checking for sys/stat.h... yes
checking for stdlib.h... yes
checking for string.h... yes
checking for memory.h... yes
checking for strings.h... yes
checking for inttypes.h... yes
checking for stdint.h... yes
checking for unistd.h... yes
checking jpeglib.h usability... no
checking jpeglib.h presence... no
checking for jpeglib.h... no
configure: WARNING: *** No libjpeg found. Disabling jpeg images.***
checking zlib.h usability... no
checking zlib.h presence... no
checking for zlib.h... no
configure: WARNING: *** No libz found. Disabling PNG images ***
checking openssl/ssl.h usability... no
checking openssl/ssl.h presence... no
checking for openssl/ssl.h... no
configure: WARNING: *** No libssl found. Disabling ssl support.***
checking for pthread_create in -lpthread... yes
checking for ANSI C header files... (cached) yes
checking fcntl.h usability... yes
checking fcntl.h presence... yes
checking for fcntl.h... yes
checking for unistd.h... (cached) yes
checking sys/uio.h usability... yes
checking sys/uio.h presence... yes
checking for sys/uio.h... yes
configure: creating ./config.status
config.status: creating Makefile
config.status: creating dpip/Makefile
config.status: creating dpid/Makefile
config.status: creating dpi/Makefile
config.status: creating doc/Makefile
config.status: creating src/Makefile
config.status: creating src/IO/Makefile
config.status: error: cannot find input file: src/IO/Makefile.in

---

### Post by digby on 2006-07-13
try this: sudo chmod 755 configure

using numbers is just another way of changing permissions... 755 means -rwxr-xr-x

edit:  ah!  yes - permissions are a function of the filesystem, and fat32 doesn't support unix-style permissions for obvious reasons

---

### Post by halfvolle melk on 2006-07-13
I think the problem is that you're trying to do this in /media. Check this out:
```
hb@eojd:~$ cd /media
hb@eojd:/media$ mkdir bla
mkdir: cannot create directory `bla': Permission denied
```
You (user chris) are not the owner of /media and therefore can't write to /media. If you try again in /home/chris it should work.

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
yea it did. Didn't even think about that at first. But now i'm getting tons of errors. The tutorial said not to worry too much about missing files when running ./configure. but now when i do "make" i get this..

chris@chris-desktop:~/dillo-0.8.6$ make
make  all-recursive
make[1]: Entering directory `/home/chris/dillo-0.8.6'
Making all in doc
make[2]: Entering directory `/home/chris/dillo-0.8.6/doc'
make[2]: Nothing to be done for `all'.
make[2]: Leaving directory `/home/chris/dillo-0.8.6/doc'
Making all in dpip
make[2]: Entering directory `/home/chris/dillo-0.8.6/dpip'
Makefile:234: .deps/dpip.Po: No such file or directory
make[2]: *** No rule to make target `.deps/dpip.Po'.  Stop.
make[2]: Leaving directory `/home/chris/dillo-0.8.6/dpip'
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/chris/dillo-0.8.6'
make: *** [all] Error 2

---

### Post by halfvolle melk on 2006-07-13
Well,  think the config error is an issue. Read this:
[http://lists.auriga.wearlab.de/pipermail/dillo-dev/2004-March/001783.html](http://lists.auriga.wearlab.de/pipermail/dillo-dev/2004-March/001783.html)
Maybe the "./autogen.sh" thing solves it.

---

### Post by Unknowndeepness on 2006-07-13
Bash: su
Password: <enter-your-password>
./configure

:cool:

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
Hmm..

chris@chris-desktop:~/dillo-0.8.6$ ./autogen.sh
bash: ./autogen.sh: No such file or directory

No idea what that is anyway. But that what I get. 

They are right though, the makefile.in is in my /src/io . But Where is it looking for that it's missing? i have no clue...


and the su thing.. 

chris@chris-desktop:~/dillo-0.8.6$ bash: su
bash: bash:: command not found
chris@chris-desktop:~/dillo-0.8.6$ su
Password:
su: Authentication failure
Sorry.
chris@chris-desktop:~/dillo-0.8.6$

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
Woooot!!!!! I figured it out. I had two directories. a /home/chris/dillo*/src/io and
/home/chris/dillo*/src/IO

The ./configure was looking in the IO folder but it was empty, And the io folder had all the data it was looking for supposely. So i copyed the files from the io to the IO folder and....

It worked!! haha. I thought i'd never figure out how to compile something.

This is awesome.

Thanks for everyone who helped me out. :)

---

### Post by lindyslack on 2006-07-13
Just wondering.. If you are just trying to install dillo why not just:


sudo apt-get install dillo


????

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
It's a tutorial from [http://www.beginningubuntu.com/software_20.html](http://www.beginningubuntu.com/software_20.html)

It's just to learn how to compile.. I know i coulda easily downloaded Dillo another way. But it's hard to find good compiling tutorials with real examples to follow :)

Although the tutorial didn't mention all the things that went wrong for me haha.

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
haha, and after all that i did "sudo make uninstall" :)

Now i want to try another way. I read something about checkinstall or something like that before, so that the program can be uninstalled through synaptic or whatever..

I wanna find out how to do that as well. But thanks so much everyone.

After i'm done i'll probably just install dillo from synaptic since that version is less likely to be screwed up by me :)

---

### Post by lindyslack on 2006-07-13
well then... Ubuntu by default doen't have a root account enabled but... by typeing:

sudo passwd

and enter a password you want for a root password. 
Then you can type:

su

And switch to "root". Then you can run as a super user and mess everything up real good... LOL... JK... ;) I love messin it up real good... real good way to learn too...

---

### Post by mssever on 2006-07-13
> **Zengrath said:**
> Thanks for all the info! I was a little crosseyed at first, But I think I understood it. In the directory of my source, i tried typing "chmod a+x ./configure"

and i got "chmod: changing permissions of `./configure': Operation not permitted"

then i tried "sudo chmod a+x ./configure"

well this is what happened. 

chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ chmod a+x configure
chmod: changing permissions of `configure': Operation not permitted
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ sudo chmod a+x ./configure
Password:
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: Permission denied
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ sudo chmod a+x configure
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: Permission denied
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ sudo ./configure
sudo: ./configure: command not found
chris@chris-desktop:/media/hda2/dillo-0.8.6$ chmod a+x ./configure
chmod: changing permissions of `./configure': Operation not permitted


lol, as you can see i tried a few things more the once. but anyway, when i type ls -l in the dillo source directory, it shows this for hte configure file:
-rw-rw-rw- 1 root root 294250 2006-07-13 18:49 configure

So it does infact not have x bit enabled :), Now to just figure out how to enable it.

I tried doing so in the browser by right clicking the file, and going to the permissions tab, but it says, "you are not the owner, you cannot change permissions" or something of the like..

I'll keep looking into it. Thanks again.

This is slightly off-topic, but you can alter the permissions of your fat32 partition--just not the usual way. Try this:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
Find the line that refers to your fat32 partition. In the fourth column, add the following (assuming that you're working as the user created during the install):
```
uid=1000,gid=1000,umask=022
```
Now, remount the partition.

Here's what it means: uid is your numerical user id. That means that you become the owner of all the files on the partition. gid is the group. umask defines the permissions for all the files on the partition. Here's how it works:

In octal, the permissions are as follows:
read = 1
write = 2
execute = 4

Add the numeric values to determine the permissions for each of user, group, and all. Full permissions is represented by 777. The umask digits are subtracted from 777 to determine the actual permissions. So, umask=022 produces permissions of 755 or -rwxr-xr-x.

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
Thanks for the info. I understand now what -rwxr-xr-x means. But i totally do not understand how 755 = -rwxr-xr-x and how to find out what number equals what set of permisions.

I read over your post about 10 times and I just don't get it :). 

But I understand somewhat your trying to say. the unmask=022 part is the important number, and that full permisions is 777. So in order to get 755 which = -rwxr-xr-x i need to add 022 for unmake so that it equals 755...

Right?

I don't understand what you mean by:
.       In octal, the permissions are as follows:
.       read = 1
.       write = 2
.       execute = 4

And what do you do with those numbers? heh.

This is what i have now:
#Added by diskmounter utility
/dev/hda2 /media/hda2 vfat rw,user,fmask=0111,dmask=0000 0 0

I had trouble setting up access myself so i used that diskmounter script i found on a tutorial somewhere.

---

### Post by mssever on 2006-07-13
In the longer notation, there are three letters for each permission category (user, group, and all--sometimes called world). In octal notation, there is one digit each for user, group, and all. This single digit contains the permissions for that entity.

Here's where the 1, 2, and 4 come from. Here they are in binary:

000 = 0 = no permissions
001 = 1 = read
010 = 2 = write
100 = 4 = execute

As you can see, this numbering scheme is able to encode the complete set of permissions for an entity. For example, to set read and execute permissions, you want binary 101 = octal 5. As you can see, it's merely adding up the values. You have three digits because there are three kinds of permissions (user, group, and all).

I hope i didn't make this murkier by my explanation. :)

---

### Post by Zengrath on 2006-07-13
Hahaha. I get it now. I'm so glad i took Cisco networking at my colledge and learned how to count binary and octets and all. Yea i totally undertand now. Normally i would have no idea that 100 in binary = 4 in octets, but somehow i remembered something :). So yea i get the 777 thing. 111 = 7 :)

Now i just hope i remember it by tommarow :)


By the way. Since i finaly got my first program to compile. (had to do it again afterwards since few features wern't installed due to few missing lib's)

I went to manaworld, and attempted to compile their game... downloaded the libraries needed. compiled and everything without a single error! haha.

I couldn't believe it. I was trying to compile mana world for ages the other day and I didnt even come close, now I do it on the first attempt. go figure..


Thanks again everyone.

---

### Post by mssever on 2006-07-13
I don't know why I didn't think to explain this before, but it's an easier way to remember all this. Octal permissions are what is called a bitmask. In a bitmask, the first value is 1, and each successive value is double the previous one. This ensures that when you add up the values you want to select, the resulting number can only represent one possible combination.

---

### Post by digby on 2006-07-13
> **Zengrath said:**
> I couldn't believe it. I was trying to compile mana world for ages the other day and I didnt even come close, now I do it on the first attempt. go figure..


Thanks again everyone.
I'll drink to that!  haha... we're all just glad to see someone picking it up... but just so you know my rule: now that I know how to compile, I avoid it like the plague unless necessary!  :mrgreen:

---

