---
title: "Another Newbie with a Resolution Problem"
date: 2006-04-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dperrin on 2006-04-06
Hi,

First time playing with ubuntu, or linux of any kind for that matter.  I am also having a problem with my resolution being stuck at 640x480 and no other options.  I found a few threads in here on the subject, but still cannot find my problem.  Would anyone out there be kind enough to comment on my xorg file?

Many thanks,
Darryl

---------------------

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"3Dfx Interactive, Inc. Voodoo 3"
	Driver		"tdfx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Visual Sensa"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"3Dfx Interactive, Inc. Voodoo 3"
	Monitor		"Visual Sensa"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Sutekh on 2006-04-06
- I've never worked out how to hack the xorg.conf properly to do this.

 - I'd suggest stopping the display manager (your desktop) and reconfiguring the X windows server

 - This will stop the GDM (GNOME display manager) and put you at the command line
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
 - This will reconfigure the X Windows server
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
 - You will be asked a long string of questions regarding your mouse/keyboard and monitor.

 - If you are unsure what to answer use the default/suggested value

 - Evetually you will get to the section that allowsyou to choose the available resolutions.  Pick the ones you want.

 - When you are finished reconfiguring use
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```
 - To start the GDM again.

---

### Post by RRS on 2006-04-07
Do you have an Ubuntu live CD? Knoppix would work too.

If either of them run with the correct scren resolutions you could simoly copy the differences in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file into your current file. 

I used the file from my other machine that's still running Breezy (same monitor thru KVM switch). Since I didn't have a live CD handy I simply emailed the file as an attachment to myself and downloaded to the Dapper machine. Guess I should get my networking set up, would've been more efficient.

Also when I tried "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart" the computer seemed to hang and I used the power button to force a reboot, which I've heard isn't recommended, so you may want to simply "sudo reboot".

Hope I've been able to help a little.

Edit; just noticed my typo's, sorry.

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-04-07
what Sutekh said, 

after restarting gdm go to System > Preferences > Screen Resolution
and select desired resolution from the list.

---

### Post by frodon on 2006-04-07
What you need here is to put in your xorg.conf the horizontal and vertical refresh rate parameters of your screen then restart xserver (Ctrl+Alt+backup).
You will find the instruction and syntax here : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

---

### Post by dperrin on 2006-04-07
Thanks, I will try this when I get home tonight.

Darryl

---

### Post by dperrin on 2006-04-08
You were bang on Frodon.  That was all that was needed.  Thanks to everyone who helped.

Darryl

---

