---
title: "./vmware-install.pl does nothing"
date: 2006-07-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by RobbieT on 2006-07-29
I've been through the how-tos on loading vmware server, and everything works until I get to this command:

./vmware-install.pl

When I put that in the terminal and hit enter, nothing happens. No errors, nothing. I've tried running it in these different ways:

sh ./vmware-install.pl
sudo ./vmware-install.pl
sudo sh ./vmware-install.pl

And still get nothing. I've installed the linux-headers and the gcc for this version (I'm running Ubuntu 6.06), I've uninstalled vmware player, but still had the xserver-xorg-driver-vmware installed, so I uninstalled that and tried again, but still get nothing when I try to run vmware-install.pl.

Anybody have any ideas?

---

### Post by cjm5229 on 2006-07-29
You must cd to the directory you unzipped VMware to. ie; ```
$ cd /home/you/vmware-distrib
```

---

### Post by RobbieT on 2006-07-29
I should have put that in - I was in the correct directory, the vmware-servre-distrib directory that contains the vmware-install.pl. I also tried it from outside that directory, but that didn't work, either.

---

### Post by cjm5229 on 2006-07-29
Check your /etc/ file, if you have a vmware file there delete it. For some reason when you uninstall vmware it leaves that one behind. You can't install a new vmware until it is removed. You usually get an error about VMware being allready installed though.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2006-07-29
i've never tried installing it from anywhere else, but you should be running the installer from /tmp, i.e. /tmp/vmware-servre-distrib/vmware-install.pl ...

---

