---
title: "6.06 Praise  - and -site viewing"
date: 2007-05-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by 504harry on 2007-05-19
Hi guys, 
Up to Ubuntu606 (recently, not just now)..and all seems to work inc USB and so on....and a new .pdf viewer - well that solved ONEof THREE  Ubuntu issues and means I can read stuff off thw Web. Thanks Ubuntu. Nearlyt a WIN-replacement for "modest" Users IMHO.

However, wanting to learn a LOT I 'm here and can't read the posts -
The Post new Thread is large15mm high .....then the rest is very small  . . . . I've setInternet Explorer Font-size to largest and this is still very small AND this composing screen (test-size 3mm high) ) is even smaller, if I didn't know what I wrote it would be hard to follow.
Is there something I'm missing - -  to get the font more easily read?  On other BB sites it seems the text is larger than here ( ie Today, Right Now).

I came on hoping to find some simple chat but whoooah! Even the Absolute Begineers is getting a tad tricky - suggest someone just enters - - - - -  (and sorry I don't remember the exact text, but I think it started by loging into Terminal ).  Dare I suggest it - but absolute begineers shouldn't be expected to do this level of fiddle - it might be OK to introduce some update ....eg go to [www.updatesite](www.updatesite) and click on the download - most folks can do that - but once you are into the fabric of Linux it is (dare I suggest) very easy to misplace a comma,/// or something and it just doesn't work.


That's enough.....
Obviously I'm speaking alone, as usual - so no change, eh?

I Note that the Font Description and Point-size are both blank, is this important...On the Top-Right ( of Message Panel), there are two buttons for text-size - these don't work! I moused-over the text first, then click on - - nothing. Also I cannot set BOLD or Italics - v.odd?  Below:_ Everything is "on" except HTML is Off,

Thanks - - -  sure someone knows!!!

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2007-05-19
To make sure I understand this: are you using IE and not able to browse the forums correctly due to font size problems ?

---

