---
title: "Screen Stuck at 640x480 resolution! Help greatly appreciated"
date: 2007-11-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by 449 on 2007-11-30
So I just restarted my computer and when I it boot's up the screen resolution is 640x480. What's the easiest way to fix this? I'm running Ubuntu 7.10 and have a Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 900. Thanks for you help!

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-11-30
To change your screen resolution: System> Preferences> Screen Resolution.

There might be something weird that caused this and changing the resolution back might not be a permanent fix.  After changing the resolution back, reboot to test it.

---

### Post by 449 on 2007-11-30
> **wormser said:**
> To change your screen resolution: System> Preferences> Screen Resolution.

There might be something weird that caused this and changing the resolution back might not be a permanent fix.  After changing the resolution back, reboot to test it.

It only has the one option.

---

### Post by 449 on 2007-11-30
Anyone?

---

### Post by 449 on 2007-11-30
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"PHILIPS 107E"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"PHILIPS 107E"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-11-30
I found something that might help.  Have you installed 915resolution package.  I found it on this [blog]("http://scotu.netsons.org/blog/index.php/2007/07/08/how-to-get-your-intel-graphics-to-work-at-the-best-with-ubuntu-linux-feisty-704/").  It looks like it will solve your problem.  Just install, reboot and go back to the screen resolution to change it to your liking. 

```
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
```

---

### Post by skyjacker on 2007-11-30
Try this Procedure:

1) Back up the present xorg.con

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup
```

2) Stop gdm or kdm
```
 sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop (or kdm for kde)
```

3) Edit xorg.conf
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

4) Select the resolutions you want available by arrowing down to each desired line and pressing the “space bar”

5) Validate your choices with “enter”

6) restart X with Control+Alt+Backspace

7) Choose the desired resolution under the “Systems/Preferences/Screen Resolutions drop down list

NOTE: if you don't need to add any additional resolution sizes, skip # 4 & 5

---

### Post by 449 on 2007-11-30
When I got to the black screen and tried to type in the command it did nothing. :confused:

---

### Post by skyjacker on 2007-11-30
> **449 said:**
> When I got to the black screen and tried to type in the command it did nothing. :confused:
By "Black Screen" do you mean the terminal?

---

