---
title: "Nvidia 8400GS and optimal mode"
date: 2008-04-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jba6511 on 2008-04-03
Having difficulties with a Nvidia 8400 GS card. I did a search which turned up nothing.

 Everything works great during when using the Live CD and after the initial install. Last night I updated fiesty from its base to all the newest updates and then rebooted. I get a message on my monitor that says not optimal mode recommended mode 1280x1024 60Hz. When I attempt to change the screen resolution to these settings, the option is not there. 1024x768 is the highest resolution it has available with 54 Hz refresh rate. After about a min or so the screen goes blank and just displays the message about optimal mode. I am using the restricted drivers as well. 

I know the problem is not with the monitor as it is attached to a KVM switch and my other PC running Fiesty fully updated with a Nvidia 7600GT does not have any issues. 

I have posted my xorg.conf below:

[PHP]# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400 GS]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400 GS]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/PHP]

---

### Post by Tatty on 2008-04-03
System->Administration->Screen And Graphics.  Make sure you have set your screen up correctly.  This should add the nessesary lines to xorg.conf

Then System->Preferences->Screen Resolution.

---

### Post by jba6511 on 2008-04-03
That seems to have done the trick. I set the monitor to 1280x1024 with a 60 Hz and then logged out. After logging back in I was able to change the resolution to 1280x1024, but only a 54 Hz refresh. Not sure why 60 was not an option but everything appears to be working again. Thanks.

---

