---
title: "7.10 should I upgrade now?"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by carusoswi on 2007-10-27
Ok, I've read the new on what is new in Gutsy.  To those of you who have already installed it, do you think it worth the trouble to someone whose system is working, if not perfectly.  I love Feisty (and Ubuntu in general), but have never quite been able to get my sound cards working correctly - can't record through my Audigy 2 PCI or my onboard Realtek AC'07 (not that I would consider using that card for audio acquisition - it is terrible - ok for playback, though).

I purchased a third party printer application that allow my Canon limited functionality.

Other than those problems, most everything else on my Feisty machine is working fine.

It's very stable, I run Crossover to use a few MS Office applications, and they are working ok.

So, my question is whether or not I should bother with the new OS.

Thoughts from those with experience would be appreciated.

Thanks!

Caruso

---

### Post by adamorjames on 2007-10-27
If it's stable and you like stability then stick with Feisty until Hardy comes out which will be an LTS release. If you like new and sometimes buggy then go with Gutsy.
EDIT: Upgrading to Gutsy comes down to if you are willing to overcome some problems that MAY occur. For some people Gutsy works fine on their comps but for others not so well. Hardy should be great and will be more stable, it's just the wait that is the killer for some. :D
EDIT: I don't notice any big changes but that's just my experience.

---

### Post by khurrum1990 on 2007-10-27
Hi, yeah I think u should really upgrade. It will be really helpful to u. The hardware support and stability has improved a lot.

---

### Post by langster on 2007-10-27
In my humble opinion,

If you only have one system and it is stable and does most of what you want then I would NOT Upgrade now.

For example,

I did install 7.10 on my newish HP 64x2 4400 PC and am very pleased. The new built in Compiz effects are very slick and might help bring more Wind people over to the light side

HOWEVER, 7.10 is sweet and works extremely well with one big exception. Infrequently, when a window closes it leaves a piece of itself on the dektop in a degraded form. the desktop is not frozen, but this piece of a image will not go away even if i switch workspaces. When I reboot of course it is gone. I have the restricted drivers inabled (Nvidia).
The bright side is that this infrequent image does not freeze any apps. I am hoping to find the answer to that or perhaps a little update would fix it. 

BUT-7.10 totally torched my older, hand mad system with the notorious MSI KT-400 Mobo that I was able to install 6.06 LTS on, and be able to boot by passing arguments to the kernel or it would not boot! ( I added apic=force after lots of forum searching). Oh well, guess I should only experiment on one PC at a time!!! ha. Back to 6.06 LTS it is on the crabby machine.

---

### Post by skompier on 2007-10-27
I was using 7.04 and everything was working fine, but I always like to try new things and I tried upgrading and had problems. I always backup important files, so I decided to wipe the partition and install 7.10 via the LiveCD.

That worked fine and I was using Gusty for awhile but then random "things" started happening. Video problems mainly, but other problems as well. I never had ANY problems with 7.04. I reinstalled once again and then random problems started again.

I went back to 7.04 and have had no random issues. Everything is working and I'm very content. So in summation, 7.10 is not for me. I'll check Hardy out when it's released I'm sure...:)

---

### Post by dptxp on 2007-10-27
Try 7.10 on a new partition.
100% fresh install.

---

