---
title: "Thunderbird package update lost my profile"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by erm4gh on 2007-10-24
I'm running Ubuntu 7.10. I had been running Thunderbird "2.0.0.6+nobinonly-0ubuntu1 (gutsy)". This morning when I booted the Synaptic package manager recommended upgrading Thunderbird 2.0.0.6 to "2.0.0.8~pre070122+nobinonly-0ubuntu07.10" . I let it. The packages description is "Package to ease upgrading from older mozilla-thunderbird package to the new thunderbird package.This package can be purged at anytime once the Thunderbird package has been installed."

Whatever it installed identifies itself as version 2.0.0.6 (20071022) in the help menu. When I ran it I got the new account wizard (i.e it looked like I lost everything). My prefs.js file doesn't seem to be empty or corrupted, and my profiles.ini file seems to be okay. I used

thunderbird -profile /home/eric/Profiles/Thunderbird/Tanstaafl

to launch Thunderbird with a command line argument to specify the profiles location. It worked fine. My profile.ini contains:

[General]
StartWithLastProfile=1

[Profile0]
Name=default
IsRelative=1
Path=46w92tij.default

[Profile1]
Name=Tanstaafl
IsRelative=0
Path=/home/eric/Profiles/Thunderbird/Tanstaafl
Default=1

which looks good. That puzzled me and then I remembered that I had also installed Thunderbird using ubuntuzilla about a week ago. Since both packages seemed to use identical builds I had forgotten about it. I was looking at its profiles.ini which was in ~/.thunderbird. The one from the Ubuntu official repository which synaptic updated is in ~/.mozilla-thunderbird. It contains

[General]
StartWithLastProfile=1

[Profile0]
Name=default
IsRelative=1
Path=gyxyhaz1.default

That profile is just a stub. Its prefs.js just contains:

# Mozilla User Preferences

/* Do not edit this file.
*
* If you make changes to this file while the application is running,
* the changes will be overwritten when the application exits.
*
* To make a manual change to preferences, you can visit the URL about:config
* For more information, see [http://www.mozilla.org/unix/customizing.html#prefs](http://www.mozilla.org/unix/customizing.html#prefs)
*/

user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.addon-background-update-timer", 1193234032);
user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.background-update-timer", 1193234032);
user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.blocklist-background-update-timer", 1193234032);
user_pref("extensions.lastAppVersion", "2.0.0.6");
user_pref("ldap_2.prefs_migrated", true);
user_pref("ldap_2.servers.default.filename", "default.mab");
user_pref("ldap_2.servers.default.replication.lastChangeNumber", 0);
user_pref("ldap_2.servers.default.uri", "moz-abldapdirectory://default.mab");
user_pref("ldap_2.servers.history.replication.lastChangeNumber", 0);
user_pref("ldap_2.servers.pab.replication.lastChangeNumber", 0);
user_pref("mail.attachment.store.version", 1);
user_pref("mail.folder.views.version", 1);
user_pref("mail.smtpservers", "");
user_pref("mail.spam.version", 1);
user_pref("mailnews.quotingPrefs.version", 1);
user_pref("mailnews.ui.threadpane.version", 5);

I copied and pasted the contents of the ubuntuzilla profiles.ini into the ubuntu's profiles.ini , restarted Thunderbird normally and the problem went away.

Neither Ubuntu or Thunderbird has crashed, it had worked fine last night before I shutdown my system, and I'm not using the default name of the profile so I'd assume that this problem was due to the package update. Has anybody else run into this problem?

I'd also appreciate some help figuring out how to control which executable is run when I have multiple versions of an application. I know how to do that with XP, I haven't figured out how to do that with Ubuntu yet due to its using shell scripts to launch programs such as Thunderbird and Firefox. 

[http://kb.mozillazine.org/Recovering_a_profile_that_suddenly_disappeared](http://kb.mozillazine.org/Recovering_a_profile_that_suddenly_disappeared)

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-10-24
You can determine which program is run by editing the launcher(s). To edit the Gnome panel menu, right-click on "Applications" and select "Edit Menu." Panel quick launchers, default applications, etc., can all be edited pretty much the same way. 

As for the commands to use, that's pretty straightforward. For the ~/.thunderbird version, use the command "thunderbird". For the other one, "mozilla-thunderbird".

---

### Post by nanotube on 2007-10-24
what's the output of
```
ls -al /usr/bin/thunderbird
```
?

it could be that that fancy upgrade clobbered the thunderbird link that used to link to ubuntuzilla's version of tb, which switched you from using the ubuntuzilla version to using the repos version.

---

### Post by erm4gh on 2007-10-24
I ran thunderbird and it identified itself as version 2.0.0.6 (20071022). I exited, waited a minute and then ran mozilla-thunderbird . It identified itself as version 2.0.0.6 (20070728) . Great.  I assume I can do the same type of thing with Firefox (synaptic had updated Firefox to a trunk build rather than the real 2.0.0.8 that ubunutzilla had installed). 

ls -al /usr/bin/thunderbird
[I]lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 30 2007-10-24 06:52 /usr/bin/thunderbird -> ../lib/thunderbird/thunderbird
[/I]

---

### Post by nanotube on 2007-10-24
yes, this shows that your thunderbird shortcut now points to the repos version, they clobbered the ubuntuzilla link. 

prior to this "ease upgrading" package, repos thunderbird did not have a /usr/bin/thunderbird link, so ubuntuzilla co-opted it. if you want to keep using ubuntuzilla version, just change your thunderbird launcher to "mozilla-thunderbird". 

repos thunderbird can be started with "mozilla-thunderbird.ubuntu" (or, just thunderbird, because they overwrote the link)

firefox repos version can be started with "firefox.ubuntu"

hope that clears it up. :)

---

### Post by erm4gh on 2007-10-24
Thanks, that clears things up.

---

