---
title: "7.10 and Wireless"
date: 2007-10-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2007-10-05
I have a d-link wireless card and router. When i installed 7.04, (finally ditching windows), after MUCH kerfuffle, I was able to get the card working nicely with the windows driver under ndiswrapper.

However, when the last kernel update came around, it nerfed my ndiswrapper so that my wireless doesn't work. (Fixed this by just changing grub to boot into previous kernel). Does anyone have any experience of 7.10 and it's beta's and wireless and d-link routers. (It uses the ralink chipset iirc).

Would like to know before I wipe my hdd and install 7.10 in a few weeks time ;)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-10-05
test it on the live-cd...

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2007-10-05
Well, yes i am aware of that, but the ubuntu drivers for my wireless card are, quite frankly, as much use as a chocolcate teapot. If I use the livecd and my wireless doesn't work, it doesn't tell me much, tbh. My issue is will 7.10 nerf my windows drivers through ndiswrapper?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2007-10-05
Wireless is very touchy in Linux. If things work they work if they dont, prepare for headaches.

Right now I'm using 7.10 beta  right now and my wireless usb card worked without a hitch while in 7.04 it didn't at all.

Why  not try the 7.10 live cd and see if your wireless card works before you install. If they dont you will know if you will have to try to install the drivers manually..

Also rememebr that Linux kernals ending in an odd number are unstable, whie kernals ending in even numebr are stable.

---

### Post by OffAxis on 2007-10-05
Are you sure your card isn't supported natively?

The ralink chipset is supported without the ndiswrapper.

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2007-10-05
Oh there is a driver for it natively, but it is absolutely cack. Had a huge amount of trouble with it, and only managed to get it to work for about 10 minutes. Then i gave up before i threw my pc through a window and got ndiswrapper ;)

---

### Post by OffAxis on 2007-10-05
ya, I know what you mean. 
It was a bit of a song and dance the first time I installed it (on 6.10). My D-Link is a USB card and I didn't have it plugged in when I originally installed ubuntu. I finished the install, plugged it in, it was detected properly, and then promptly crapped out.
But when I reinstalled the OS (a few hours later:)) I had the card plugged in, and it worked fine.

There were a few more hoops to jump through in 7.04, I think  because I didn't have a wired connection set up initially (I had to add the gateway specifics with the route command, add it into the interfaces list, and bring the interfaces up and down a few times) but it's worked flawlessly since then.

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2007-10-05
It's well documented that the drivers used for my card, (seamonkey iirc?), are bloody useless. Hopefully, they will be replaced in 7.10.

Funnily enough, the windows drivers under ndiswrapper means the card is actually performing better and far more reliable with less dropped connections than it ever was under windows. Go figure :)

---

