---
title: "Video driver trbl."
date: 2008-02-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-07
I had my PC running good using Envy.

Then had to do a reinstall after making new disk partitions that went bad.

I have been unable to get my video back and have tried everything done the 1st round. I have been reading this forum for days and had no luck. Plz help me. I am working at getting Ubuntu down but still very new to all of this.

my video card is a GeForce 7900 GT Extreme.

I did a new install and got all of the updates. 

Went to Restricted Driver Manager and Enabled the Driver "NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (latest cards).

Did a restart and now just a black screen.

I can do ctrl-alt-F1 and get to the command line.

What should I do next.
thx

---

### Post by emarkd on 2008-02-07
Try running:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

This will regenerate the config file for your graphics system.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-07
Sounds like you will need to reconfigure X to get back to the GUI.  This problem is so common, I even just finished writing a HowTo on it :) 
Try the automatic method above with -phigh, but if that doesn't work, try this (it's without -phigh): [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760)
You can try that method of getting the restricted drivers again, or download them direct from nvidia - [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-07
> **emarkd said:**
> Try running:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

This will regenerate the config file for your graphics system.

That made a backup of /etc/x11/xorg.conf.20080207183912

I did a reboot and there is the login screen. 

Went to enable compiz fusion and found that the Restricted Drivers are now Not in use.

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-07
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Sounds like you will need to reconfigure X to get back to the GUI.  This problem is so common, I even just finished writing a HowTo on it :) 
Try the automatic method above with -phigh, but if that doesn't work, try this (it's without -phigh): [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760)
You can try that method of getting the restricted drivers again, or download them direct from nvidia - [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)



checking on this info now.

:)

---

### Post by Power_Pickle on 2008-02-07
Thank you, Guys. I was worried I would have to nuke from orbit as I had the same problem.

I'll have to add this thread to my favorites. :)

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-08
Rocket2DMn thanks but both ways did not work.

I decided to try Envy and this time it worked. Except for this.

In Envy when I go to save X configuration File it is telling me Unable to remove old Xconfig backup file '/etc/X11xorg.conf.backup'.

I am unable to remove this file gives me permission denied. Looks like only / can remove it. I was using sudo and thought that it had / permissions.

Can anybody help?

---

### Post by emarkd on 2008-02-08
using sudo gives your root permissions for that command.  Does the file exist?  If so, what exact error message does it give it? You're doing:

```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

right?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-08
Can you please post the contents of your xorg.conf file?
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
For envy, we still want to save that backup file just in case, so we'll rename it:
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup.old
```
If you MUST delete it, use
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-13
Had everything working good with Envy but Envy lost something after a few days and keep giving me an error that my nvidia-xconfig was not in use and to run. nvidia-xconfig. did that and it did not help.

I uninstalled Envy as this same thing has happened when I used it B4.

When booting up now going to the low res. mode.

I may be on the hunt for something that is just not going to work on this PC. My GeForce 7900 GT is SLI-Ready. I have read that there is no driver for SLI cards but thought that was only if you were using SLI.

here is my xorg.conf incase it helps.


levi@Ernie:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Fri Jan 11 14:26:48 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "VX2025wm"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 65.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GT/GTO]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GT/GTO]"
    Monitor        "VX2025wm"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection



hope to get this rig working.

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-15
I am back to square 1 now. My son ( 12years ) wanted to see how the Install for Ubuntu was done. Thought this was good as time as any.

Anyway I am back to a clean install of 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon (64 bit).

I have downloaded all updates but have not Enabled Restricted Drivers or installed Nvidia's drivers. 

Looking for somebody to walk me through this to see if I have been just making user errors. I am very new to Ubuntu.

My goal is to enable the Extra Visual Effect ( Compiz Fusion )
Getting a driver to work has been kicking my but and do not want to go back to MS. Plz talk as basic as possible in given instructions.



Side note:
I am not 100% sure how the xorg.conf file works but her is a new copy of mine.



:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GT/GTO]"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "VX2025wm"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GT/GTO]"
        Monitor         "VX2025wm"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1680x1680" "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection



Something that is strange is that in the xorg.conf it shows my Monitor as VX2025wm (ViewSonic. When i go to System-Administration-Screens and Graphics it is showing the Model: plug 'n' play, Resolution 1680x105 at 60Hz. (res and Hz are native to this LCD) but why did the Model change from VX2025wm to plug 'n' play.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-15
The monitor model isn't really of any concern.  If Enabling Restricted Drivers doesn't work, you should try installing the nvidia drivers direct from nvidia's website: [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)
With the proprietary drivers you should be able to use CF with full effect.

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-15
I Enabled the Restricted Drivers and then did the required reboot. When done booting up went to a black screen.

I did ctrl-alt-F1 and then the following commands.
logged in.
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo killall gdm
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg (went through setup and picked all defaults)
sudo reboot

Now it boots back up and I can see everything. Also not in Low Res. mode..

Wen to enable the Extra Visual Effect ( Compiz Fusion ) and says that the Restricted Drivers need to be enabled. I checked in the Restricted Drivers and it is not in use and not Enabled.

I have down loaded the nvidia drivers files
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-169.09-pkg2.run
nvidia-xconfig-1.0.tar.gz

Unsure what to do with the tar.gz file

When installing the .run file B4 unsure about setting the run level. I have read through NVIDIA's Driver installation instructions and they were made for people with more knowledge of Linux than I have. There New Linux Users guide did not help me much.


Can somebody tell me what commands I should use to install NVIDIA's drivers?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-15
To get to the run file, you might have to set permissions first
```
chmod +x *filename.run*
```
You can then open with
```
sh *filename.run*
```
Note: This directions say you should have X closed, so you need to be in a TTY for this I think.
It asks you about runlevels?  The standard runlevel is 5 (multi user GUI), runlevel 3 is multi-user terminal.

The tar.gz file is a compressed archive, so you would unpack it like so:
```
tar xzvf *filename.tar.gz*
```
First install the necessary programs to compile
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get install checkinstall
```
build-essential contains all the compilers and checkinstall is a newer way to install from scratch on debian based machines.  Read more here about installing for your reference - [http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)

Then navigate into the folder and you probably need to run something like:
```
./configure
make
sudo checkinstall
//otherwise use
sudo make install
//instead of checkinstall (checkinstall might be a GUI program, I'm not sure)
```
You might need to read through here - [http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.07/README/index.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.07/README/index.html) - I've never install nvidia proprietary drivers myself since I have an ATI card, so I'm not entirely certain how this process is done.  Chapters 4 and 6 seems relevant on that readme.

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-18
first I did 
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get install checkinstall
   Both commands seemed to work ok.

Then I went to install the NVIDIA drivers.
did ctrl-alt-F1 (getting to term.)
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo killall gdm
chmod +x NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-169.09-pkg2.run
sudo sh  NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-169.09-pkg2.run
(only using sh would not work)

The NVIDIA setup started,

Went through the NVIDIA setup and seemed ok till I go this error:
WARNING: Unable to perform the runtime configuration check for library 'libGL.so.1' ('/usr/lib32/libGL.so.169.09'); assuming successful installation.
Only option to pick was ok. ( So I picked ok)

Keep going through the NVIDIA setup and let it update my X conf and back up old. then setup said Installation of the NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver for Linux-x86_64 (version: 169.09) is now complete.

tar xzvf nvidia-xconfig-1.0.tar.gz
moved to the folder it unpacked in
./configure
make
sudo checkinstall

   This installed the nvidia-xconfig. Nice my 1st install with a tar file.

sudo reboot

boot up came up in:
Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode.

I checked in Restricted Drivers Manager and it is Enabled and status=in use.

I checked in Screen and Graphics. screen is back to the plug 'n' play with a resolution of 800x600 at 73 Hz. The graphics card driver says vesa - Generic VESA-compliant veido cards. Above that it says Graphics card (NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series) 

Also there was an update to the nvidia-xconfig from version 1.0-1 to 1.0+20070502-1.
This also gave an error of E:/var/cache/apt/archives/nvidia-xconfig_1.0+20070502-1_amd64.deb: trying to overwrite '/usr/bin/nvidia-xconfig', which is also in package nvidia-glx-new.


Any help getting out of low resolution would be great.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-18
After using checkinstall, you should be able to remove it normally:
```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-xconfig
```
Then you can reconfigure X automatically
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
```
or manually with [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760)

---

### Post by paultag on 2008-02-18
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> After using checkinstall, you should be able to remove it normally:
```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-xconfig
```
Then you can reconfigure X automatically
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
```
or manually with [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760)

This should fix the issue. Trust the repos!!

Cheers,
Tag

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-20
I ran
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-xconfig
and now the update for NVIDIA-xconfig is gone. There is progress. :)

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh

takes me out of  Low Res. mode but the Restricted Drivers are showing not enabled.

I am reading more on reconfigure X manually with [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=690760)
  ( thx for the link )


**** 1 ?
When I am enable Restricted Drivers is the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file no longer used?
****

Your help is appreciated and I can not wait to get the eye candy from Compiz Fusion working. I will report back after reading more from that link.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-20
The restricted nvidia drivers will show up as "nvidia" in the xorg.conf file rather than "nv" which is the open source nvidia drivers.  "vesa" is a fallback driver with limited capacity - that is what is used in your safe graphics mode.

---

### Post by minutest on 2008-02-24
I have gone through everything that I can find and still unable to get the restricted drivers or the Nvidia driver to work at a resolution of 1680x1050.

I used sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
and able to get my LCD's Native resolution of 1680x1050 but the Restricted Drivers / Nvidia Driver are not Enabled.

Unable to get any of the Extra Visual Effect ( Compiz Fusion ) eye candy. :(

I have also tried manually editing xserver-xorg with no luck.

If anybody has any other idea's I am open to them. I am going to live with the -phigh setting for now but man do I ever want compiz Fusion to work.

BTW I am not interested in using Envy. I has given me a taste of Compiz Fusion (talk about hook and bate) but Envy did not seem to stay working well with my system.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-02-24
Envy creates problems when you upgrade your system.  I have recently been given better directions on how to compile the nvidia drivers from their website if you're interested, it goes as follows:
download from [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html)
```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx nvidia-new-glx
sudo rm /lib/linux-restricted-modules/.nvidia_new_installed
^^ignore any file not found errors ^^
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r` build-essential xserver-xorg-dev
```
CTRL+ALT+F1 to get to a tty
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo chmod +x /path/to/NVIDIA*
sudo /path/to/NVIDIA*
^^ this will execute the .run file ^^
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```
Then once back in gnome
```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

---

