---
title: "7.10 No Sound on USB Audio"
date: 2008-01-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Elevator_Hazard on 2008-01-18
Ok I've tried many things, its finding my USB Audio and everything... First sound in flash didn't work, but then it did, and usb headset sound didn't work (yea it used to) and now sound in flash isn't working and the usb headset sound still doesn't work, I'm not sure why this is happening and as I've said I've tried a lot of things to fix this, read a million and a half posts on these forums and other places about this problem, no luck though.

Some more details is that when I select USB Audio in System -> Preferences -> Sound on any of the drop down lists and hit Test, it says that it can't because the resource is missing or not available. This headset is a Logitech Sterio USB Headset and it used to work for like one or two times on linux, though the sound quality is bad. But sound (except in flash) is working fine on my speakers Currently (even sounds pretty ok). I've had plenty of problems so far on 7.10 that I've never had on a much older computer running 7.04... I can provide more details if asked and told how to get those details if its complex :) I'm still not the greatest with linux.

---

### Post by eggdeng on 2008-01-18
Run
```
asoundconf list
```
to get a list of the available soundcards. Then run
```
asoundconf set-default-card xyz
```
where xyz is the name your usb device. 
Reboot for changes to take effect.

---

### Post by Elevator_Hazard on 2008-01-18
Well they didn't say reboot in the thing I read, it might work now, thanks I'll get back to this to tell you results.

---

### Post by Elevator_Hazard on 2008-01-18
Darn, I'm getting the same error about resource being busy or unavailable... (through ALSA and USB Audio). When I set sound playback to Autodetect or I think both the Intel Csomething options I have it doesn't make any sound but it says it does. And on OSS I get sound from speakers.

---

### Post by Elevator_Hazard on 2008-01-20
ok this is interesting: I started it up and logged on into KDE (yea I got kde installed as well, though started with ubuntu and that's the usual session type I use) and I got some sound in my USB Audio, just the sounds you get when logging in and a few other KDE-unique sounds, the rest didn't work or went through speakers... Hope that helps anyone trying to help me.

---

### Post by Fleece Flamingo on 2008-01-20
Maybe it's because your speakers aren't supported.

---

### Post by Elevator_Hazard on 2008-01-20
Logitech says they don't support linux, but this headset has worked before for like one time of using ubuntu.

---

