---
title: "ext3 data recovery"
date: 2007-09-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Bothered on 2007-09-12
Does anyone know if it is possible to recover data on an ext3 filesystem? I entered a command in the wrong terminal and completely hosed by home directory ](*,)

As far as I understand it from web searching, this is impossible, but I was wondering if there is a new tool around that I haven't turned up in my searching.

At the very least I can restore from a back up, but I'm right at the end of my back up cycle and hence am going to lose some data if I can't recover it.

---

### Post by shearn89 on 2007-09-12
What command did you do? Generally in a terminal when something's deleted, its gone - it doesn't move it to Trash or anything. I think it might be backup time...

At least you didn't do the "command of doom"....

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-09-12
well, the inode would be deleted which points to where the data actually is... the data is still there but recreating the inode could be a problem - but I'm sure there is some software that should be able to recreate it.

---

### Post by Bothered on 2007-09-12
> **shearn89 said:**
> At least you didn't do the "command of doom"....

It amounted to that. It was in step 5.7 of LFS, where "fixed" header files are deleted.

```
GCC_INCLUDEDIR=`dirname $(gcc -print-libgcc-file-name)`/include &&
find ${GCC_INCLUDEDIR}/* -maxdepth 0 -xtype d -exec **rm -rvf** '{}' \; &&
**rm -vf** `grep -l "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE" ${GCC_INCLUDEDIR}/*` &&
unset GCC_INCLUDEDIR
```

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2007-09-12
[http://foremost.sourceforge.net/](http://foremost.sourceforge.net/) is a **data-carving** tool that may/maynot work on ext3 ...
it is included on the *bootable* System Rescue CD at [http://www.sysresccd.org/Main_Page](http://www.sysresccd.org/Main_Page)

---

### Post by Bothered on 2007-09-12
I've tried something similar to that. I'm in the process of restoring my backup now, but it's a lengthy procedure :-( Backup every weekend for me now - lesson learned.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-09-12
I make backups every 6h ;)

---

### Post by Bothered on 2007-09-12
I would backup more often, but I need a new cable - the cable I have is too short. It's just enough extra effort to put me off ...

---

### Post by shearn89 on 2007-09-13
> **Bothered said:**
> It amounted to that. It was in step 5.7 of LFS, where "fixed" header files are deleted.

```
GCC_INCLUDEDIR=`dirname $(gcc -print-libgcc-file-name)`/include &&
find ${GCC_INCLUDEDIR}/* -maxdepth 0 -xtype d -exec **rm -rvf** '{}' \; &&
**rm -vf** `grep -l "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE" ${GCC_INCLUDEDIR}/*` &&
unset GCC_INCLUDEDIR
```

Ouch. Its quite similar isn't it?

---

