---
title: "5.10 Live Shutdown Leaves Notebook in Limbo"
date: 2005-11-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by polo_step on 2005-11-24
When testing 5.10 Live on my notebook just now, I had a problem with shutdown.  The shutdown seemed to go normally, and the CD popped out -- but then the notebook was stuck in an 'on' state with a flashing cursor on a blank screen and none of the usual ways of powering down the computer worked.  I had to manually pop the battery.  Doesn't *seem* to have done any damage, but I dunno...

If this is how a real installation will shut down, I don't think this is going to work for me.

Any thoughts on this?

---

### Post by thomas.mcmahon on 2005-11-24
I had a similar problem on my old Compaq Armada. Is the problem a recurring one, or did it just happen once?

---

### Post by d1337 on 2005-11-24
Notebooks seem to spawn power issues likely because of the various ACPI's (methinks that's the right acronym) that all of the different mfgs use.  I have Ubuntu Breezy running in 64bit on my personal laptop and Breezy (stock 32) running on another.  I didn't try the live in either, I just jumped in knowing that I could make it happen, but luckily didn't have many issues.  You may try hitting Hardware --> Laptop Support with more machine specs.  There seem to be many of us using Breezy on Laptops and I guarantee you that there wouldn't many if you couldn't shutdown or hibernate easily.

d1337

---

### Post by polo_step on 2005-11-24
I didn't try it again as it seemed to me to be too dangerous to screw with.  Pulling the battery out of a running box to shut it down seems like asking for trouble.  I was just wondering if people who experience this bug in Live also experienced it in the installed version, that's all.

I was trying to come up with a small secondary Linux to use with the primary XP on this box, but nothing looks that hot so far.  Puppy Linux gets kernel panic halfway through load and Ubuntu Live can't exit cleanly.

From what I've read, rigging up WiFi to work properly with AES/WPA2 is a nightmare in Linux too, so I'm getting discouraged.:(

---

### Post by carlosqueso on 2005-11-25
I had the same problem with Knoppix (never tried ubuntu live CD), and once I tried any installed linux, it worked fine. My suggestion is just install a disto, I like either ubuntu or blag ([www.blagblagblag.org)](www.blagblagblag.org)), on you spare hard drive space and see if it works.  I've noticed live CD's are wonky on laptops.

---

### Post by polo_step on 2005-11-26
[QUOTE=carlosqueso]I had the same problem with Knoppix (never tried ubuntu live CD), and once I tried any installed linux, it worked fine.[/QUOTE]
Curiously, DSL (which is a Knoppix variant) shuts down fine from live.

I tried U 5.10 Live again tonight with the same results.

U has some problems with my VIA video and RaLink wireless networking, plus I'm really wanting something small I can run from USB drive, so I'll probably go with something like Puppy or DSL if I have to do a lot of tweaking anyway.  :( This notebook only has 40G, and that's not a lot for a full-blown dual-boot U/XP system.

---

