---
title: "6.06, 6.10 and 7.04 H2 Live CDs - None work!"
date: 2007-01-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by monkeydust on 2007-01-16
Hello all

Sorry to post - I try and avoid it when possible. Have searched but see nothing.

I'm trying to install Ubuntu on an Acer laptop, specs as follows:

192mb RAM
AMD Athlon, 800mhz
20gb HDD, currently XP

What's puzzling me is that the Live CDs for Dapper, Edgy and Feisty Herd 2
all fail after X loads. The splash screen where the little icons for nautilus etc. 
appear (with welcome sound) shows and then leaves. Then it then sits there 
reading the CD for literally hours, with nothing happening. The mouse doesn't respond.

The bizarre bit is that Damn Small Linux freezes at about the same place!

Laptop is currently running XP fine.

All the CDs pass their validity checks.

The same CDs have installed fine on my other laptop. 

Is this laptop doomed to run XP forever more? I'm reluctant to install from the Alternative CD (and destroy Windows partition) if it's just going to do the same.

David

---

### Post by raul_ on 2007-01-16
Why would the alternate install destroy the other partition?

---

### Post by Dokatz on 2007-01-16
You can install from the alternative disc and just be careful not to overwrite windows, resize the partition and such...Then it'd be good game if it didn't work you could just give the space back to windows. But as always, Anything that you really care about should be backed up so much that it's almost silly.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-01-16
Use the alternate CD

Wipe windows

Learn Linux

Be free

PS As has been said the alternated CD will be just fine if you whimp out and preserve windows. Addiction is a hard habit to break :p

Hey, here's a how-to:

[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/)

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2007-01-16
With those system specs please look at [Fluxbuntu]("http://fluxbuntu.org/").

---

### Post by monkeydust on 2007-01-16
Ok thanks all.

---

