---
title: "How to get cd/dvd drives mounted"
date: 2007-04-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Drifter on 2007-04-27
When I installed fawn I had them mounted, when I put in a cd etc it would show up on the desktop.  Now it says can't mount the drive or drive not mounted.

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-04-27
From the gui:

Places > Computer > Right click on the drive and Mount Volume

From shell

sudo mount /dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0

Your scd0 and cdrom0 might have a different name.  You also check /etc/fstab if it is listed there.  If not add it.

---

### Post by Drifter on 2007-04-27
Invalid mount option when attempting to mount the volume '17_20070421'.  I get this message when I try to mount from where the drive is on my computer

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-04-27
Post your /etc/fstab.

```
less /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by Drifter on 2007-04-27
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hdb1
UUID=093ac06b-d1cb-400f-8aff-c102f64729f4 /               ext3    defaults,error
s=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hdb5
UUID=420e5aff-0699-4c74-a42e-54e90d7fb096 none            swap    sw            
  0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,unhide,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,unhide,noauto     0       0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hda5   /media/hda5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-04-27
> /dev/hdd /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,unhide,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,unhide,noauto 0 0

That is where your cdrom is in fstab.  The /hdd and /hdc don't look right to me.  I am still a noob but I believe that hdc and hdd are names for hard drives.  

This is what mine looks like:

```
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
```

Do you have 2 cd drives?  I think the hdd and hdc need to be scd0 and scd1.  Somebody else will have to confirm this.  They might be named different if this is a desktop or that is how they are named in a desktop enviroment.

Or it could be the 'unhide'.

---

