---
title: "Another DVD mounting issue..."
date: 2007-06-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Spydax on 2007-06-27
Ok, so I'm fairly certain I've got my linux box where I want it, with the exception that my laptops internal DVD drive is useless.  I used that drive to install linux, so there's no reason in my mind that it won't be able to recognize it past the install phase.  I have no external drives, my main HD is in 4 parts (/, /home, /windows, /swap) and that's all, this is what my fstab shows


> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=13fa988d-a17c-4ba4-b0e7-f2b7024fe3e9 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=41178363-920e-4ea7-9591-bb942b623171 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=9BD2-88D0 /windows vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=d245bac9-0929-4acc-8766-eed8ce38db24 none swap sw 0 0
**/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0**


my /media folder shows "cdrom" (with a gray arrow on the top right corner - I'm using Tangerine icons) and "cdrom0" with no icon.  Both folders stay empty whether I put in a burned music cd, burned dvd, burned data cd, burned data cd, legitimate dvd and legitimate audio CD.  No dice, no automounting. 

The icon doesn't appear on my desktop, but on my top panel I have my "disk mounter" item, I can see a grayed out "CD-ROM 1 (not mounted)".  

I click "mount cd-rom" and I get - 
> "unable to mount the selected volume."
"mount: special device /dev/scd0 does not exist."

I check my /dev folder, and no, there is no scd0.  I got sda, sda1, sda2, sda3, sda4, sdb, and sdb1.  Non of these even have disc icons.  The sda's have a big X icon, the sdb icons are hard disk icons.  Then it spouts off info for sequencers.

/dev/disk/by-id recognizes - scsi-1ATA_Hitachi_HTS541660J9SA00_SB2B51SLGGG682B
     there is a red X in the bottom right corner, and a gray arrow on the top right.  That same file name duplicates itself just adding the extensions -part1, -part2, -part3, -part4.

Double clicking on any of those gives me the following
> "Cannot open /dev/disk/by-id/<filename above> - No application is known for this kind of file.

Also in my /dev folder there is no mention of CDROM in anyway - goes from console - core - dsp - full.  No mention of CDROM or DVDROM

Erm, I'm really kinda new to all this, so if you need me to get results of a command or something please let me know what the command is vs saying "get me your fstab results" that throws me for a loop.  I tried doing some 1s -1 | grep or something like that, but I never got a response, I wasn't sure whether that was an i, L, or a 1.  I'm really lost and just really wanna watch me some super troopers.  Any help would be appreciated!

Side note - I have no problem mounting/unmounting external drives (thumb drives and the like)

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2007-06-27
Please post the output of the following commands:

```
ls -l /dev/sd*
```

```
ls -l /dev/hd*
```

---

### Post by Spydax on 2007-06-27
nick@SpyBuntu:~$ ls -l /dev/sd*
/dev/sda
/dev/sda1
/dev/sda2
/dev/sda3
/dev/sda4
nick@SpyBuntu:~$ ls -l /dev/hd*
ls: /dev/hd*: No such file or directory



I appreciate the help.

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2007-06-27
What is the Make and Model of your laptop?

---

### Post by Spydax on 2007-06-27
Sager 5760 (aka clevo M57U), it's got SATA hard drives in it, which isn't on topic, but I figured maybe the DVD burner connects the same way.  The DVD burner when I pull it out has a Pioneer 8X DVD/DUAL/RW sticker on it (Code - DVR-K16RS.  Hopefully I don't have to connect this PC to the internet to fix it, as it's pretty internet-less at the moment because I'm in Iraq.  So I'm on the forums at work with the laptop next to me.

---

### Post by Spydax on 2007-06-27
Using the help yourself link I found the following

> # cat /proc/scsi/scsi
Attached devices:
Host: scsi0 Channel: 00 Id: 00 Lun: 00
    Vendor: ATA     Model:  Hitachi HTS54166   Rev:  SBB0
    Type:     Direct Access                              ANSI SCSI revision: 05

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-06-27
Have you tried removing the entry from fstab?
CD Drives do not *really* need an entry in the fstab, as they should automount.
 
Try to see if it works when you dont have a fstab entry.

---

### Post by Pragmatist on 2007-06-27
Looks like this guy had the same problem and found a solution!
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2898845](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2898845)

See post #9:
> 
			 		 		 		 		I have a Clevo M570U as well and had the same problems with Ubuntu not recognizing the CD/DVDRW under Feisty, even after successfully installing it via the LiveCD. After trying every suggestion under the sun, I finally enabled RAID in the BIOS - even though I only have 1 hard drive. That did it! CD/DVD is now recognized and works perfectly. YMMV.


---

### Post by Spydax on 2007-06-27
WTF enabling RAID?  But hey, it worked like a charm interestingly enough.  Now I gotta go discover how to get rid of UbuntuSE as now I can't load into the newer kernel because of it.  Thanks a bunch guys, I was starting to lose hope!!!

---

