---
title: "(.)RPM files?"
date: 2006-02-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by neelabhro on 2006-02-17
How do i open a .rpm file. Where do i get a package manager capable of doing it and how is it installed. The Ubunutu package manager doesn't appear to have this capabaility as of yet.

thanks

---

### Post by Klaidas on 2006-02-17
Do you want to convert RPM to DEB? If so, use alien:
```
sudo apt-get install alien
```

But chech packages.ubuntu.com , maybe there's a pachage in .deb already :)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2006-02-17
You can trying convert the .rpm package to .deb, but it will be better if you can find a .deb package or compile it instead. Ubuntu is based on debian which uses .deb package. .rpm package is red hat and there's a chance it won't work if you convert it. But you can try.

```
sudo apt-get install alien
sudo alien XXXXX.rpm
sudo dpkg -i XXXXX.deb
```

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2006-02-17
[QUOTE=neelabhro]How do i open a .rpm file. Where do i get a package manager capable of doing it and how is it installed. The Ubunutu package manager doesn't appear to have this capabaility as of yet.

thanks[/QUOTE]
ubuntu uses debian's .deb package manager instead of rpm.  

While others have already noted that it is possible to use the alien utility to convert packages from RPM to DEB, it is always preferable to install debs from the repositories.

Check that you have enabled the "universe" and "multiverse" repositories in Synaptic, refresh, and then search for the package you were trying to install.  Odds are, there is a .deb for it already.

---

