---
title: "Re: newbies' first questions"
date: 2006-01-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dueY on 2006-01-23
How did my reply get above your initial post? ZUH?

[QUOTE=sallam]Greetings,
I have a few basic questions that I have difficulty finding answers for:
[list]
[1]- where is my computer? how do I browse to my folders in the other old partitions?. I have 6 partitions, but ubuntu's 'home' and 'file system' lists only stuff located in the ubuntu partition. I've installed ubuntu in its own partition using a free space in my hard drive, so windows and other partitions were not formatted, and I use a dual reboot (win xp and ubuntu 5.10)..

[2]- can I live with ubuntu without typing in terminals? those commands are extremely hard to memorize for a windows user.

[3]- how do I edit resolv.conf file? it says I'm not the owner so I cannot change permissions. I'm using a d-link network card (ethernet) connected to a d-link router. Firefox doesnt connect, though I can ping fine. Seems that the connection works only if I type IP addresses, not domain names. I read somewhere here that the solution is to change dns rom 192.168.1.1 to my ISP's 2 DNS's numbers. But how can I do that? In windows I firefox works fine.

[4]- how do I upgrade firefox 1.0.7 that comes with ubuntu 5.10, to the latest 1.5? no typing in terminals please. I know its not there in available repository, but can I somehow add it manually so that 'add applications' installs it?

[5]- can I use my windows xp firefox profile in ubuntu? it would be better to use same profile in both xp and ubuntu.

[6]- my divx movie files failed to open in ubuntu. is there a divx player for ubuntu?
[/list]
Thanks very much for your patience. I'm about to break down after several days trying to figure out all the above.. I long for the day I quit windows for good.[/QUOTE]


1.  Go to ubuntuguide.org and look at the mounting NTFS partition guide
2. Yeah you can, but should try to pick up a little terminal knowledge here and there along the way
4. Easiest way is to use Automatix.  Search forums for 'automatix' to find the thread.
6. Get mplayer and w32codecs from Synaptic.  Not sure if they are on backports or not.

---

### Post by GreyFox503 on 2006-01-23
Hi.  Welcome to the Ubuntu forums.  These forums and [https://wiki.ubuntu.com]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com") are great places to look for answers.  Here are a few:

1)  To mount windows partitions: _[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MountingWindowsPartitions](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MountingWindowsPartitions)_

2)
[quote=sallam][2]- can I live with ubuntu without typing in terminals? those commands are extremely hard to memorize for a windows user.
[/quote] 
I wouldn't know, I've never tried.  :)  But seriously:  while "setting up" your new installation and performing administrative tasks, you do use the shell frequently.  However, once you've set it up how you like, you can use Ubuntu on a daily basis without ever typing a command.

Don't sit down and try to memorize terminal commands.  Just look them up as you need them, and pretty soon you will just know them.  Or write some of the most frequent ones on a piece of paper.  Pretty soon you won't need it.

3)
[quote=sallam][3]- how do I edit resolv.conf file? it says I'm not the owner so I cannot change permissions. I'm using a d-link network card (ethernet) connected to a d-link router. Firefox doesnt connect, though I can ping fine. Seems that the connection works only if I type IP addresses, not domain names. I read somewhere here that the solution is to change dns rom 192.168.1.1 to my ISP's 2 DNS's numbers. But how can I do that? In windows I firefox works fine.
[/quote] 
To fix your networking problems, I would check to see if your computer is set up to use DHCP.  Find the network admin tool in the GNOME panel and try setting it to use dhcp.  If that doesn't work and you know the DNS addresses you want, you can add them to /etc/resolv.conf yourself.  Here's my resolv.conf for comparison:

```
# Generated by dhcpcd for interface eth0
domain desktop.umr.edu
nameserver 131.151.1.7
nameserver 131.151.1.116
``` 

If you need root (administrator) privileges to modify/create/delete a file, use the prefix 'sudo' before your command.  Instead of this
```
gedit /etc/resolv.conf
``` use```
sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
``` 
Enter your user password when prompted.


4)  Firefox 1.5:  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirefoxNewVersion]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirefoxNewVersion")

5)  If you want to copy your bookmarks and other settings from your Windows installation, you can, but I don't know of any way to make both OS's use the same set of bookmarks.  I believe Firefox's bookmarks are in C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\Application Data\Mozilla\Firefox\Profiles\something\bookmarks.html

In Ubuntu, the bookmarks are stored in /home/<username>/.mozilla/firefox/something/bookmarks.html


6)  For proprietary codecs like Divx:  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats")


Have fun using Ubuntu.

---

### Post by sallam on 2006-01-23
wow, thanks so much for the prompt and detailed answers. I really appreciate your help and friendliness. Looks like I'm going to enjoy my stay here.
Many thanks indeed.

---

### Post by sallam on 2006-01-23
Greetings,
I have a few basic questions that I have difficulty finding answers for:
[list]
[1]- where is my computer? how do I browse to my folders in the other old partitions?. I have 6 partitions, but ubuntu's 'home' and 'file system' lists only stuff located in the ubuntu partition. I've installed ubuntu in its own partition using a free space in my hard drive, so windows and other partitions were not formatted, and I use a dual reboot (win xp and ubuntu 5.10)..

[2]- can I live with ubuntu without typing in terminals? those commands are extremely hard to memorize for a windows user.

[3]- how do I edit resolv.conf file? it says I'm not the owner so I cannot change permissions. I'm using a d-link network card (ethernet) connected to a d-link router. Firefox doesnt connect, though I can ping fine. Seems that the connection works only if I type IP addresses, not domain names. I read somewhere here that the solution is to change dns rom 192.168.1.1 to my ISP's 2 DNS's numbers. But how can I do that? In windows I firefox works fine.

[4]- how do I upgrade firefox 1.0.7 that comes with ubuntu 5.10, to the latest 1.5? no typing in terminals please. I know its not there in available repository, but can I somehow add it manually so that 'add applications' installs it?

[5]- can I use my windows xp firefox profile in ubuntu? it would be better to use same profile in both xp and ubuntu.

[6]- my divx movie files failed to open in ubuntu. is there a divx player for ubuntu?
[/list]
Thanks very much for your patience. I'm about to break down after several days trying to figure out all the above.. I long for the day I quit windows for good.

---

