---
title: "8.04 beta updates to current 8.04 release??"
date: 2008-04-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dannybob on 2008-04-18
iv been enjoying my new ubuntu 8.04 beta i recently installed (new to ubuntu) i have found my way around the new os with ease... so far anyway. i have installed all the basic programs, compiz an so on, but i have also had shed loads of updates an was woundering if the updates mean i will not need to uninstall my beta version to install the final version. do the updates im getting keep it upto date in release terms? i noticed one of the updates mentioned 8.04 hardy LTS, but im sure my initial install wasn't long term support...

also..

im sorry to say i got the lazy way into ubuntu an used wubi to do all the work.
 if i do need to uninstall my beta to replace with final release, will the backup option on the unstall page mean i will be able to keep evrything i have done (compiz settings, amsn, nvidia drivers, themes, screenlets, skybox, wallpaper.... 

seems like a lot of work if i do need a full reinstall.

and lastly..

LVPM...do i want to go all the way? but more importantly will LVPM allow me to keep my vista on the other partition? i installed wubi/ubuntu on a seperate partition, its the only way i could get it to work in the end but this statment worries me..
[COLOR="Blue"] "and the ability to replace the original operating system with Ubuntu."[/COLOR]
do i get the option? 

cheers for any help         :confused:

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-04-18
well, if you run all the updates then you will end up with a stable version and not beta anymore.

but then if you'd download the stable cd and install it, there would be hardly any updates to it :)

And normally, the settings of your programs will be stored in your home folder. So if you ever want to do a fresh install, backup the /home folder.

---

### Post by dannybob on 2008-04-20
thanks, i read else where today that i can also get an upgrade/update but author also sugested fresh install to smooth the bugs out. i still have certail updates that will not install due to an error.
being a new user to ubuntu iv found this great selling point to the os an downloaded way too much junk software (junk to me).

---

### Post by FredB on 2008-04-21
We are in a world of "smooth" upgrade. Not the big bad ones ;)

---

