---
title: "7.04 install question"
date: 2007-04-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rgraves22 on 2007-04-19
Are there mininum specs for the new version of ubuntu? 7.04

I just downloaded it, and installing it on a laptop pilfered from work.. ( it would of been donated anyway, and IT got first dibbs ) 

Anyways my question, the laptop is a toshiba Satellite Pro 460C and im unable to find specs for it anywhere online.. The Install is taking forever.. each of the  screens take anywhere from 3 - 5 mins to load. The laptop did come pre installed with windows 2000 pro installed.. just curious if anybody else has ran into the same long load times...

Thanks in advance...

---

### Post by Seisen on 2007-04-19
It seems like  a older laptop you can follow this guide to do a minimal install.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems")

---

### Post by rgraves22 on 2007-04-19
I don't think it has that low of memory, XP runs fine on it.. :confused:

---

### Post by az on 2007-04-19
You need 256 megs of ram to run Ubuntu.

You can get by with 64megs using Xubuntu and its' alternate installer.

---

### Post by rgraves22 on 2007-04-19
When I tested it out before installing it, it worked like a charm.. I do believe it has upgraded Ram, and its atleast a PIII 800Mhz

---

### Post by az on 2007-04-19
> **rgraves22 said:**
> When I tested it out before installing it, it worked like a charm.. I do believe it has upgraded Ram, and its atleast a PIII 800Mhz

That's better than my desktop at home.

---

### Post by Comzee on 2007-04-19
> **az said:**
> That's better than my desktop at home.

Wow, I could go to a garage sale and buy a 1.2ghz 256 memory pc for $40. You need to upgrade your desktop.

---

### Post by rgraves22 on 2007-04-26
> **Comzee said:**
> Wow, I could go to a garage sale and buy a 1.2ghz 256 memory pc for $40. You need to upgrade your desktop.

Im running 7.04 on my box at home, live.. no install yet. I had to use 6.10 on my laptop at work.. its to old. 800Mhz, 192MB Ram.. 7.04 needs atleast 256MB of Ram to run.. thats why it screweed up on me. 

My box at home is a 2.4Ghz, 512 RAM, Vista Ultimate ( I know I know ) Dell Precision 340.

---

