---
title: "Nvidia drivers"
date: 2005-06-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Breepee on 2005-06-04
I just installed Ubuntu 5.04 on my box and I updated it (22 updates, went all automatic) and then I wanted to install the nvidia driver. I did exactly what the guid said, but upon (re)starting gnome/X the screen turns black and the only thing I can do is shut down. What to do?

---

### Post by Seti on 2005-06-04
Did you update your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file accordingly?
You should be seeing a white nVIDIA logo screen once its setup right.

---

### Post by Breepee on 2005-06-04
[QUOTE=Seti]Did you update your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file accordingly?
You should be seeing a white nVIDIA logo screen once its setup right.[/QUOTE]
I did exactly what is written [here](http://ubuntuguide.org/#installnvidiadriver), so no, I didn't manually edit the xorg.conf. After step 6, everything went black...

---

### Post by somuchfortheafter on 2005-06-04
ok you will need to reboot into the kernel for recovery *its marked in grub as recovery mode i think*. anyway after this boots you will be logged in as root in a console. from here enter in

pico -w /etc/X11/xorg.conf

after this loads look for the section named device
under there look for the driver, it should be named nvidia if this is already done and the problem still persists. change it to nv instead *this is the old driver*. then reboot back into the normal ubuntu kernel. fire up synaptic and download all of the restricted modules and kernel headers for your kernel, then try the instructions again but before you reboot change the xorg.conf file like mentioned above to the nvidia driver by entering in nvidia to replace nv. after this is done you should be able to reboot with everything working.

---

### Post by Breepee on 2005-06-04
[QUOTE=somuchfortheafter]ok you will need to reboot into the kernel for recovery *its marked in grub as recovery mode i think*. anyway after this boots you will be logged in as root in a console. from here enter in

pico -w /etc/X11/xorg.conf

after this loads look for the section named device
under there look for the driver, it should be named nvidia if this is already done and the problem still persists. change it to nv instead *this is the old driver*. then reboot back into the normal ubuntu kernel. fire up synaptic and download all of the restricted modules and kernel headers for your kernel, then try the instructions again but before you reboot change the xorg.conf file like mentioned above to the nvidia driver by entering in nvidia to replace nv. after this is done you should be able to reboot with everything working.[/QUOTE]
 OK, it said 'nvidia', changed it to nv, I'm now back in gnome. Synaptic says linux-restricted-modules-386 (I'm using kernel 386) is installed. What should I do?

---

### Post by somuchfortheafter on 2005-06-04
install them as well as the kernel headers for your kernel (386) for the 2.6.10 kernel though not the .11 one. and then retry the instructions from the guide and manualy replace nv with nvida again. then reboot

---

### Post by Breepee on 2005-06-04
[QUOTE=somuchfortheafter]install them as well as the kernel headers for your kernel (386) for the 2.6.10 kernel though not the .11 one. and then retry the instructions from the guide and manualy replace nv with nvida again. then reboot[/QUOTE]
 I installed the kernel headers, changed nv to nvidia, repeated the preoces described in the guide, exactly the same as before. When X is loaded, all is black.

---

### Post by mark_v_torres on 2005-06-04
Hi,

Im am an Ubuntu newbie as well and Ive been messing around trying to get the nvidia drivers to work.

When I use the drivers provided by Ubuntu as well as the one by nvidia, I get a black screen when X starts up. I know that X is up because I hear the Ubuntu start up 'tribal' sound. I can even log in because entering my username/password, I hear the sound that is played during login.

I tried version 7174 as well as 7167, and7664 from nvidia website, as well as version 7174 on Ubuntu packages.

I got the screen to finally show when using version 7667 but when I try to run glxgears, glxinfo, I get the following error:

glxgears: relocation error: /usr/lib/libGL.so.1: symbol gnu_dev_makedev, version GLIBC_2.3.3 not defined in file libc.so.6 with link time reference

Im posting my xorg.conf below, I tried a lot of combinations, basically commented/uncommented the lines with #.

I have an HP zv5255 running on a modified k8 kernel to make alps work. I also tried using my old k8 and amdg4-generic kernels with no success.

Help! :)



<code>

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

#Section "Extensions"
#	Option 	"Composite" "Enable"
#EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
#        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
  Option        "LeftEdge"              "120"
  Option        "RightEdge"             "830"
  Option        "TopEdge"               "120"
  Option        "BottomEdge"            "650"
  Option        "FingerLow"             "14"
  Option        "FingerHigh"            "15"
  Option        "MaxTapTime"            "100"
  Option        "MaxTapMove"            "110"
  Option        "EmulateMidButtonTime"  "75"
  Option        "VertScrollDelta"       "20"
  Option        "HorizScrollDelta"      "20"
  Option        "MinSpeed"              "0.2"
  Option        "MaxSpeed"              "0.5"
  Option        "AccelFactor"           "0.01"
  Option        "EdgeMotionMinSpeed"    "15"
  Option        "EdgeMotionMaxSpeed"    "15"
  Option        "UpDownScrolling"       "1"
  Option        "CircularScrolling"     "1"
  Option        "CircScrollDelta"       "0.1"
  Option        "CircScrollTrigger"     "2"

EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Mac 32M/GeForce 440 Go 64M]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option 		"RenderAccel" 		"true"
	#Option 		"AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
	#Option "UseEdidFreqs" "false"
	#Option "IgnoreEDID" "true"
	Option "NvAGP" "3"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	#Option		"DPMS" "true"
	HorizSync	30-67
	VertRefresh	30-60
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Mac 32M/GeForce 440 Go 64M]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


</code>

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-06-04
Let me tell you all how I fixed my nvidia problems. I downloaded Kanotix and booted with it in. Then I stole kantox's

kwrite /etc/X11/Xfree86.conf

file and put it on a floppy (or emailed to myself, I don't remember). Then I cut it out and pasted it into the Ubuntu xorg.conf.

Maybe a live CD that has xorg might work better. Say....the suse live?

---

### Post by Breepee on 2005-06-06
Is there someone who has got it working? Could he/she explain ho he/she did it (and perhaps post their xorg.conf)?

---

### Post by somuchfortheafter on 2005-06-06
mine works so give it a shot
```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:3:0:0"
	Option		"RenderAccel"		"true"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```


as a precaution i suggest you do the following command to make a backup of your existing xorg.conf file unless somthing goes wrong
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```
then to restore the backup
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
so try you luck with that

---

### Post by thierry13 on 2005-06-06
Actually, I get everything work except after a reboot, X don't start, I need to reinstall the nvidia driver or to switch back to driver 'nv'

does anybody know why? and how to have the nvidia driver works each time?

thanks

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-06-06
[QUOTE=thierry13]Actually, I get everything work except after a reboot, X don't start, I need to reinstall the nvidia driver or to switch back to driver 'nv'

does anybody know why? and how to have the nvidia driver works each time?[/QUOTE]

Yes, I do know why that occurs after each reboot, but the sol'n isn't ideal for many reasons.  The main problem when trying to use the binary installer from Nvidia is how the Ubuntu package manages "thread local storage" (populating /usr/lib/tls).  The easy sol'n is to remove S20nvidia-glx from your runlevel or just creat a custom runlevel without it (like I did with runlevel 5).  Then, remove the nvidia packages entirely and just install the kernel headers and build your own.  No more reboot issues.  No more nvidia ubuntu packages.  Just lots of Nvidia loving the way it should be.  Of course, you'll have to do this for each kernel you install, but you won't be reliant on the Ubuntu package manager to get you the nvidia driver you need.

\\//_

---

### Post by Breepee on 2005-06-06
I tried it again (with the help of somuchfortheafter's xorg.conf, although mine was more or less the same) but it didn't help.

I think I'm going to reinstall Ubuntu (just to make sure it's clean), compile my own kernel (with 686-smp, apt-get-able kernel does not work) and install the drivers again.

[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/KernelHowto](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/KernelHowto) hope this will do the trick. I compiling for a dual Xeon. Are there special things I need to know? Or occur the optimizations autmagically?

---

