---
title: "Where did my Windows partition go?"
date: 2007-07-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dndrich on 2007-07-19
Hmm.  I'm using Feisty, and it works great.  I have a dual boot with Windows XP.  No problems.  Both work great.  I used to be able to see my Windows partition from Ubuntu, and read from it.  I want to read and write.  So I downloaded NTFS configuration tool.  That installed fine.  Trouble is, I can't see my Windows partition from Ubuntu anymore!  Somehow it is unmounted?  How do I mount it back again so I can see it?  I know it works fine.

Daniel

---

### Post by rajeev1204 on 2007-07-19
post the result of this command ( paste it here )

cat /etc/fstab

---

### Post by dndrich on 2007-07-19
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
/dev/sda3 / ext3 defaults 0 1
/dev/sda4 none swap sw 0 0
/media/host defaults 0 1 0 0
/dev/sda2 /windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

I managed somehow to get the windows partition remounted.  Not sure how.  In any event, here is that log.  My windows partition now appears as /windows.  Can I edit that?

Daniel

---

### Post by dndrich on 2007-07-19
Hmm.  I rebooted, and the windows partition is gone again!

Daniel

---

### Post by Craleand on 2007-07-20
I'm a newbie when it comes to Ubuntu, and I encountered the same problem last night.  (Actually read this thread to see if there was an answer).  Not seeing one posted I started playing around with the NTFS Config tool.

I went into the tool and unchecked "Enable write support for internal device" and clicked OK.  Nothing happened.

Now, I don't recall if I rebooted or not, but went back into the NTFS Config tool and re-enable write support for the internal drive.

I got an error message indicating that it could not find my windows drive, but gave me a list of suggestions on how to fix.  First suggestion was to run ntfsfix inside a terminal window, but did not work.

Second was to boot up windows, then do a clean shutdown of windows.  (It does not recommend doing this if you have Vista).  It was this that solved my problem.

So, if you have XP, give it a try.  Worked for me.

---

