---
title: "Mount point query"
date: 2008-01-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-02
Hi - my son has just sorted out the mount point for my external hard drive so that I can read my stored windows files. However he did say I would have to enable it each time I logged on. He has now gone on holiday. I tried to enable the drive today and it says access denied. I have gone into Admin mode and attempted to enable it and have noticed that the the File User name is incorrect - he has put it in my full name and not the name that I have stored as User name - how can I change it to the correct one? I have noticed that the correct user name is not in the drop down list - but is is in the settings for a second external hard drive that I have attached to the laptop and that one works fine (it does have the correct user name)
I presume the incorrect username is the reason why the hard drive won't mount on startup automatically. Anyone got any helpful ideas
Thanks - itgirl4004

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-02
I don't understand how you are trying to enable it. What program/application are you using to do it? 

We may have to go back to basics on this. Some info that we might find useful - can you post the output from the commands :
[B]sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab[/B]

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-03
these are the output commands

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1   *        1284        4111    22715910    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sdc2               1        1283    10305666    5  Extended
/dev/sdc5               1          65      522049+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdc6              66        1283     9783553+  83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order
ann@ann-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=fe03d3f7-159a-48d3-9b4d-4ddf3bc4bb4e / ext3 nouser,defaults,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=638f0514-e5da-4a96-b7c5-db40b8f502eb /boot ext3 nouser,defaults,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=3CB894E6B894A046 /media/sda1 ntfs defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,uid=0,gid=46,auto,rw,nouser 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=58b68543-9e61-494b-be96-2d47a2660f21 /var ext3 nouser,defaults,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=9b4ced37-20c7-4cd5-93d0-ae9422f71d9c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 auto user,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,auto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent ntfs uid=1000,gid=0,noauto,rw,nouser 0 0
ann@ann-laptop:~$

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-03
The program I am using to enable the external hard drive is  System Settings- Disk and File Systems

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-03
As far as I can tell, the disk was not plugged in while you did those commands. Am I right?

I see an entry in fstab for a disk labeled FreeAgent. Is your external disk a FreeAgent disk? i.e. Am I looking at the right entry here?

When you talk about the username being wrong, are you talking about a window titled "Configuration - System Settings" and a drop-down list called "Files belong to user:"? If so, your username must (as fas as I know) be there. The command **id** will tell you your username and the groups you belong to. 

If all my guesses have been right so far, but for some reason your username really is not in the frop-down list, you can try this: Click the Advanced button near the bottom, and find in the Options field a part that says "umask=" followed by a 3-digit number. Make a note of the current number and then change it to **000**. Do **not** insert any spaces. This change makes the disk accessible to all users, so you should be able to enable it and  access your files now. 

Another way to fix the problem (if my guesses are right) is to edit the file /etc/fstab by hand with the command:
**kdesu kate /etc/fstab**
and find the line for the FreeAgent disk and change the "uid=" number to your user id (shown by the command **id**) but this is more risky than the way above - a mistake editing that file could possibly leave the system unbootable.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-03
Thanks for all of that - I will give it a try tomorrow and let you know how I get on!
Cheers

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-04
Hi again

I have followed the instructions and clicked the Advanced Button at the bottom. I did not find a part that says "umask=" followed by a 3-digit number in the Options field. 

I have not followed your second option as I don't want to risk not being able to reboot. 

The freeagent drive does come on when the laptop boots up - it is connect to a USB hub and starts automatically and goes off automatically on shut down.

The problem as i see it is that my son has typed my full name in as the user id when attempting to enable this external drive instead of the real user id which is just my first name. Your suggestion would be great and I am sure it would work if only the unmask was available in the options field.

There is an options space - which is blank followed by  fs_freq  , also blank followed by fs_passno aslo blank - non of which I know what to do with!
Cheers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-04
OK, it's probably wise to play safe. You could try adding this to the end of the options that you have got:
```
,umask=000
```
Don't add any spaces, and don't forget the comma to separate from the last option.

Give it a try. You can undo it again, and at worst it will prevent mounting just that one drive - it won't break the whole machine.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-04
not too sure if I am supposed to be adding the code to the options in System Settings- Disk and File Settings or in the shell.
Tried it in the former and no difference.
have not tried in the shell as I have no idea what would need to go before it - hope that make sense!!!
Cheers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-04
Yes, I meant the former. I don't know why that didn't work. 

When you have mounted the disk (I know you can't access the files), can you then get the output of the command **mount** and post it here?

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-05
Is this what you mean?

/dev/sda8 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
/dev/sda5 on /boot type ext3 (rw)
/dev/sda1 on /media/sda1 type ntfs (rw,nls=utf8,umask=007,uid=0,gid=46)
/dev/sda7 on /var type ext3 (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw)
/dev/sdb1 on /media/FreeAgent Drive type ntfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,sync)

Cheers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-05
Perfick. Try these commands. Firstly we need to unmount the drive:
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
```
and then re-mount it with different options:
```
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 -t ntfs '/media/FreeAgent Drive' -o rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,sync,umask=000
```
See if that helps. If not, I just want to verify the version of kubuntu you are using. Can you post the output of the command:
**cat /etc/lsb-release**

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-05
Me again 
Thanks for that - I will try it but I do need to double check first - I have other drives mounted on dev/sdb1 but the drive in question shows that it is mounted on dev/sdc1 when I locate it in the System Settings - Disk and File Settings so I don't want to try unmounting it from the wrong place - or is that part of the problem? 
I am happy to follow instructioins and can use Shell but I have no idea at present just what is happening and just what the commands mean - (being a beginner!) so please bare with me.
Cheers

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-05
Sorry I forgot the second request - it might help for you have that now as well

DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=7.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=feisty
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 7.04"

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-05
It seems a  bit odd that you say the drive is on /dev/sdc1. In post #11, the output from mount that you showed us seemed to have it on /dev/sdb1. Does it get put different places on different boots? I've read that that happens with USB drives, but I don't have any experience with using them yet. Maybe you need to use the -L option with the label name instead of the device name in the mount command, something like is in your fstab.

Perhaps something like:
```
sudo mount -L FreeAgent -t ntfs '/media/FreeAgent Drive' -o rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,sync,umask=000
```
But I don't know much about this, so you should wait for The Cog to check what I suggest before trying it.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-06
Thanks for your suggestion - I am also quite confused because as you say the out put on post 11 does quite clearly shows the drive as being on /dev/sdb1 but in System Settings - Disk and File Settings it shows up as being on /dev/sdc1 - it looks like a conflict of interest to me - I will wait and see what Cog has to say s well before proceeding any further.
Cheers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-06
Hey! Don't rely solely on me. I'm well confused. 

Post 3 (fdisk) shows that the only drive that exists at all is sdc, with sdc5 and sdc6 being swap and linux partitions respectively. But in the same post, fstab suggests that sda8 should be the root partition and sda6 be swap. I should have run away screaming at that point.

Post 11 (mount) agrees that sda (the drive we established in post 3 doesn't exist) is actually the root system drive, and also shows that another non-existent drive (sdb1) is also mounted on /media/FreeAgent Drive. 

I really don't know if sdb is the problematic external drive or if it is a different drive. Maybe the problem drive is indeed sdc. Post 1 says there are 2 external drives. Fstab (post 3) mentions 2 ntfs partitions: One is sda1, which doesn't sound very external to me. Tthe other is labeled FreeAgent, and although fstab doesn't give a device id, post 11 shows sdb mounted on /media/FreeAgent Drive.

Let us know what you think, itgirl4002. Hope it's not getting too deep for you. If it is, just try those commands above and see if they work. If not, post any error messages, and try and tell us how much of this guesswork you can confirm or correct.
I also notice that sdb and sdc are not the same disk, because sdb1 is ntfs (mounted in post 7), but sdc1 is vfat (fdisk, post 3). So now I will make some more guesses:

1) Only part of the fdisk output got posted. We are missing the fdisk entry for sda, and if it was plugged in at the time, we also lost the entry for sdb.

2) sdb is probably the first external drive, the one that works OK. We have seen this mounted on /media/FreeAgent Drive.

3) sdc is probably the problem external drive. If this guess is correct then we have a partition list. We still have more questions though:
* Which partition is wanted?
* Where should it be mounted?

These commands should get something working:
```
sudo mkdir /media/sdc1
sudo mount /dev/sdc1 /media/sdc1 -o rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,sync,umask=000
sudo mkdir /media/sdc6
sudo mount /dev/sdc6 /media/sdc6
```

So the partitions contents should be available on /media/sda1 and /media/sda6. If you know which partition you actually want the you only need to make the mount point for that partition.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-06
Hi Cog
You are being very patient with me - thankfully!! 
I have just noticed something happening which relates to rks' observation - now that both external drives are on when I rebooted the drive info has swapped over - the freeagent drive now shows up as /dev/sdb1 in System Settings- Disk and File Settings and the other external hard drive shows up as /dev/sdc1  - (gremlins at work me thinks!! - what do I know about it?) 

Hence as yet I haven't followed your last suggestion yet as that could make latter drive mention inoperable and at the moment I can write and read on that one on - that one  shows up in the settings as PFD2J0K20W6FT - This particular drive was partitioned containing a bootable version of Linux and a windows partion for saving files to from the laptop hard drive. I managed to lose all windows i June (don't ask me how - it's a long story) The bootable linux no longer operates but I can copy and save files to it from both operating systems so that is fine.

The other drives (partitons ) that show up are the laptop internal drive 
Disk FUJITSU 

partiion 1        is   media/sda1       ntfs                   dev/sda1         (windows - I suspect) (I know)
partition2                                                                dev.sda2
partition 5                                    /boot       ext3     dev/sda5
partition 6                                     none      swap   dev/sda6
partition 7                                    /var        ext3      dev/sda7
partition8                                    /              ext3      dev/sda8

The information on this drive remains the same at all times - it only the info on the other 2 drives which varies depending on whether they are both on on switch on or whether only one is on. 
I have run the command mount again at this time to just show you what I mean before I carry out your suggestions and to see if you are still recommending that I do the same  - 

/dev/sda8 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
/dev/sda5 on /boot type ext3 (rw)
/dev/sda1 on /media/sda1 type ntfs (rw,nls=utf8,umask=007,uid=0,gid=46)
/dev/sda7 on /var type ext3 (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw)
/dev/sdc6 on /media/usb0 type ext3 (rw,noexec,nodev,sync,noatime)
/dev/sdb1 on /media/FreeAgent Drive type ntfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,sync)
/dev/sdc1 on /media/EXTNL DRIVE type vfat (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,noatime,uid=10                                                              00,utf8,shortname=lower)

I have to say that for the freeagent drive my usename (in admin) has been entered as my full name using Capital letters for the start of each name and it should be my first name only - in lower case - is that what  shortname=lower all about at the end of the output?
Cheers Itgirl4002

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-07
Yeah, more questions, I know. But we are getting there slowly.

1)
So which one is the problem drive? Is it the vfat EXTNL DRIVE or the ntfs FreeAgent Drive? I'm guessing it's the EXTNL one, but I'd like confirmation.

2)
Do you know why I can only see an entry for one external drive in fstab? Are you filling all the mount options manually every time, or am I missing something else?

3)
Can you also post the output from the command **blkid** while both external drives are plugged in?


We may even get this working bfore your son comes back from his hols.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-07
hi Cog
1. The NFTS Freeagent drive is the one that is causing problems. It does not have any Linux partitions on it at all - it contains a lot of windows files. There is plenty of room on it for me to save from Linux to if I want to - but in particular I would like to read files from it when I am in LInux  . I like to us Linux for the Internet and emails etc - it opens up much more quickly that windows. But I do use quite a bit of windows software - so amy using both operating systems each day.

2. Not sure that you mean by fstab (could be Chinese to me - and I should know I have been there several times!!!) I am not manually mounting any drives - what you see is what comes up when I open up in Linux. (Ubuntu)

3. The blkid command

/dev/sda1: TYPE="ntfs"
/dev/sda6: UUID="9b4ced37-20c7-4cd5-93d0-ae9422f71d9c" TYPE="swap"
/dev/sda7: UUID="58b68543-9e61-494b-be96-2d47a2660f21" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext                                  3"
/dev/sdc1: TYPE="ntfs"
/dev/sda5: UUID="638f0514-e5da-4a96-b7c5-db40b8f502eb" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext                                  3"
/dev/sda8: UUID="fe03d3f7-159a-48d3-9b4d-4ddf3bc4bb4e" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext                                  3"
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="EXTNL DRIVE" UUID="1CED-58F0" TYPE="vfat"
/dev/sdb5: TYPE="swap" UUID="565e8b02-96ca-4bda-b585-12c8cdaedc2f"
/dev/sdb6: UUID="9fcbef1a-f225-4527-b25a-3e8038a085d4" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext                                  3"

Hope this makes sense!
Cheers Itgirl

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-07
OK, making some progress. We have a bit of a problem in that sometimes it's sdb1 and sometimes it's sdc1. Also, it doesn't seem to have a label (although your fstab file thinks it should have a label of FreeAgent), so we can't identify it by the label. We'll have to use trial and error a bit to find out where it is.


You could try this stinker which should try to work out which device it's on, or if that doesn't work for some reason you will need to look at the out put from sudo fdisk -l yourself:
```
sudo fdisk -l | grep 'sd[cd]1.*HPFS' | sed 's/ .*//'
```

Once you know which device it's on, try and mount it with this command:
```
sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sdc1 /media/freeagent -o rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,sync,umask=222
```

These comands aren't permanant - rebooting will lose the config again. If they give an error message, you could post it here which may help debugging.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-07
Hi Cog

following the last command this is the output that I got

mount: /dev/sdb1 already mounted or /media/freeagent busy
mount: according to mtab, /dev/sdb1 is mounted on /media/FreeAgent Drive

Hope this makes sense 

This is the output from your first suggestion
sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 60.0 GB, 60011642880 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7296 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        3472    27888808+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            3473        7296    30716280    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            3473        3491      152586   83  Linux
/dev/sda6            3492        3618     1020096   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda7            3619        3873     2048256   83  Linux
/dev/sda8            3874        7296    27495216   83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1       30401   244196001    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdc: 33.8 GB, 33820286976 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4111 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1   *        1284        4111    22715910    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)

We are talking about the 250 GB drive.
Cheers Ann
/dev/sdc2               1        1283    10305666    5  Extended
/dev/sdc5               1          65      522049+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdc6              66        1283     9783553+  83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order
Cheers Ann

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-07
Sorry I forgot to mention that the 'stinker' code only resulted in mylaptop name

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-07
I don't know whether this will help, but after your son set up things so you could access the external drive, did it work correctly for you for a few times and then stop working, or did it not work the very first time you tried to use it?

Also, did he just show you what to do to enable it or did he write down the steps? If you have his written description, it might give us a clue.

I don't mean to be unkind, but did you see it actually work after he said he had fixed it?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-08
I think I know what the problem was with the stinker command. This should work better:
```
sudo sh -c "fdisk -l | grep 'sd[bc]1.*HPFS' | sed 's/ .*//'"
```

What it is doing is running fdisk -l and  looking for is either sdb1 or sdc1 followed by NTFS on the same line. If it finds it, it prints the device name. You can do this by hand of course - the line we wanted was in about the middle of the fdisk -l you just posted, and told us that your freeagent was curently /dev/sdb1.

Try the stinker code and see if it works now.

The other error you got was that /dev/sdb1 was already mounted. you need to unmount it first, so we can re-mount it with the required options. So try this (on sdb1 or sdc1 whichever is the freeagent disk at the time):
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sdb1 /media/freeagent -o rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,sync,umask=222
```
Notice the spelling of umount - it missing an 'n'. Copy and paste is best for these commands.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-08
Bingo - I can now read the freeagent drive - thank you so much - I am not sure whether I will be able to write to it anyway as it is NTFS and doesn't have any Linux partitions on it.

Also I guess the real test is whether it is still mounted and I can still read it when I re boot - I will try that now and see what happens.
Many thanks
Itgirl

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-08
Sorry I spoke too soon!!! On reboot when I click on the drive icon on the desktop it tells me I have no access rights but after the commands earlier it worked fine.

In answer to your question rkd about if it I saw it working when my sone set it up - yes but he showed me that I would have to enable it each time I booted through System settings - disk and file settings and demonstrated it working - but when I rebooted  the following day after he had set off on his holiday it wouldn't allow me to enable - it just says I don't have permission.

I will do the same procedure as in last post from Cog and see if ti works again - but I am sure it will re-set itself if I restart.
I have put in the commands and code again and can now read the drive.
I will reboot and return with the result (I knew is was too good to be true!)

Cheers Itgirl

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-08
Same thing has happened - I could see all of the files on the drive and copy from it but not to it - then I rebooted and when I clicked on the icon on the desktop i was told I could not access the drive.

I went to system settings - disk and file settings and attempted to enable the drive (having logged in as Adminstrator) and got the following: error - while enabling   /media/freeagent

further details revealed

The system reported  mount: special device/ dev/disk/ by-label/ FreeAgent does not exist

Does this make any sense?  (Personally I think we between us made progess - well you have and I have just followed the helpful suggestions)

Cheers Itgirl

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-01-08
We are making progress then - good.

You will not be able to write to the drive. Your version of Ubuntu (Feisty) cannot do that by default, and I don't know how to install the extra drivers although I know they are called ntfs-3g. 

The commands I gave you do not permanently modify the system so would need re-doing after every reboot. I see no way round this at the moment.

The problem with trying to enable the drive in system settings is that the configuration is wrong. The disk does not have a label - the output of **blkid** in post 20 showed that. I don't feel inclined to help you label the disk as it is something I have never done before.

And not having a label (or a UUID) means we cannot control how it gets mounted at first - at least I can't think of a way. I thnk the best thing is to live with running those commands by hand when you want to mount the disk. Your son should be able to label the disk and set up the configuration so it mounts properly when he gets back. If this is a problem for you, post back here and we can try and sort something out.

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-08
Yes, it makes sense. And it certainly is progress.

We could stop here as long as you don't mind going through the multiple steps to make the drive accessible each time you restart the computer.

If you'd like to make it recognize the disk automatically, I think we can do that without very much more work.  The mount command doesn't make any permanent record of what is mounted, and that's why you have to do it again after each startup. fstab is where you record the information about how you want the disks to be mounted. Because the USB disks don't get the same device each time, the best way to identify a USB disk is by a label. Your external disk doesn't have a label right now, but there is a program that will add a label to it without erasing the data on the disk. So we could give your disk a label, then fix up the fstab line for that disk to have the extra mount options that The Cog showed you to use, and then it should be accessible without extra action every time.

Which approach do you want to take? Do those commands every time you start the computer, or make it automatic?

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-08
This is sounding even more promising - preferably I I would like to make it automatic otherwise I have to keep coming back to these posts to find the commands that I need to make it work!
You have explained the mystery (in my mind) as to why the device settings seem to swap from one external hard drive to other depending on which one is on when I boot up. 
Thank you
Cheers Itgirl

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-08
Here is what I think will put a label on the disk and fix up fstab so that the disk will be accessible automatically.

It probably would be good for you to save the output from these commands so that we can go back and look at them if the result doesn't come out as expected in the end. You could do the commands one at a time, copy the command line and the output it produced right after the command finishes, and paste it into an editor window. Save the file each time you add something to it so that if the computer hiccoughs, you won't lose the record you had collected up to that point.

I got the impression that you use Kubuntu. If that is wrong, then the 'kdesu kate' in the command below should be changed to 'gksu gedit' or whatever editor you prefer.

First, fix fstab. Open the Terminal and do the following commands:
```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
kdesu kate /etc/fstab
```

Change the file to replace this line:
```
LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent ntfs uid=1000,gid=0,noauto,rw,nouser 0 0
```

with the line:
```
LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent ntfs uid=1000,gid=0,rw,auto,sync,umask=222 0 0
```

Save the file and exit.

Now we will put the label on the disk.

Determine the name of the external disk the way that The Cog showed you. Let's assume it is /dev/sdb1. Then enter the commands:
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
sudo ntfslabel /dev/sdb1 FreeAgent
sudo mount -a
```

If everything went right, at this point, the external disk should be accessible at /media/freeagent. It should appear there automatically whenever the disk is turned on when you boot.

Now let's check that: Shutdown and startup the computer and see whether the external disk is accessible without you doing anything.

If that is okay, try: Shutdown the computer, turn the disk off (or disconnect it from the hub), and startup the computer. The disk won't be accessible, but Ubuntu should come up normally -- no errors or hangs.

If you got an error at any point, post the commands and output and we'll try to figure out what is wrong.

If the above works as described, then I think you are set, at least for the time being. Your son set it up differently, requiring you to use Disk and File Settings to enable the disk. He probably had a good reason to do that, and may change it back to that when he returns. We don't know what he was thinking, and at least I don't know much at all about Kubuntu, so I could easily be overlooking something. 

It might have been much easier to get it working again by figuring out how your son intended it to work and finding and fixing whatever point he didn't get quite right. But I'm not familiar with Kubuntu, so I couldn't do that. (Ubuntu doesn't use Disk and File Settings, at least not by that name, so I know nothing about it.)

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-09
Hi rkd
Thnaks for for your help
I followed the fist two command lines - the second one open up fstab kate (yes I am using Kbuntu)
The line I was expecting to see that I was to change is not the same as you had written down - in fstab kate the line came up as 

LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent ntfs uid=1000,gid=0,auto,rw,user 0 0
So I haven't changed anything as i am not sure if i should as it isn't quite the same as the line indicated by you. (I am a complete beginner at this but I think I am getting to grips with it more and more (not bad for a 58 year old!!!)

and in the shell window it all came up as 
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
kbuildsycoca running...
kparts: ERROR: saveAs: Malformed URL

I have all this saved so far - and await further instructions.

I think my son set it up to use enable using disk and file setting because in my wisdom I had tried to set it up like that in the first place and because it didn't work the first time for me I tried to mount it several times using different mount points - he had a difficult job sorting out the mess I had created in the first place and also he didn't have a lot of time as he was getting ready to go off on holiday. he is home on Friday but may well be leaving straight away to return to London where he works and lives - I know he won't have time to sort out this on my laptop for me. 
Cheers itgirl (believe it or not I used to teach IT!!!! - not operating systems and code however!

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-09
Well, that seems odd. I got the text for what I thought the current LABEL=FreeAgent line should be by looking at post #3 where you posted the output from cat /etc/fstab. I don't remember you mentioning making any change to fstab since then.  It would have been helpful had you included what that line currently looks like in your post (remember that we can see only what you show us). So could you post that now? Might as well show the whole fstab, just as you did in post #3. I wonder whether anything else has changed.

I'm puzzled by the errors from ntfslabel. Could you post the output from running this command?
```
ntfslabel -h
```
You don't need sudo for that -- it just lists a short help page about the program. No special privileges needed for that.

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-09
Oh, wait a minute. I just noticed that you didn't say that the long set of error messages was from trying the ntfslabel command -- I just assumed that is what you meant.

Did that set of error messages come from the three commands I said would change the label or did they come at some other point?

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-09
The errors came from the following in Post 32

sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak
kdesu kate /etc/fstab

Thats as far as I got because it didn't produce what you said would come next.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-09
I have run the following command as well just in case you still need it
ntfslabel -h

Usage: ntfslabel [options] device [label]
    -n, --no-action    Do not write to disk
    -f, --force        Use less caution
    -q, --quiet        Less output
    -v, --verbose      More output
    -V, --version      Display version information
    -h, --help         Display this help

Developers' email address: [email]linux-ntfs-dev@lists.sf.net[/email]
Linux NTFS homepage: [http://www.linux-ntfs.org](http://www.linux-ntfs.org)

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-09
I'm afraid you still didn't give a completely clear picture of what happened. My guess is that either while you were using kate to look at fstab or after you exited kate, that long set of error messages appeared in the Terminal. Is that guess correct?

If so, I'm rather puzzled.  Have you ever gotten messages like that before when you used kate?

Let's try this to see whether it always happens. I want to see the whole fstab as it currently is. Let's use kate to do it. Enter this command in a Terminal:
```
kdesu kate /etc/fstab
```
Before you do anything in the kate window, check the Terminal window to see whether any messages appeared. If possible, move the windows around so that enough of the Terminal window is visible while you are in kate that you could see any messages as soon as they happened. Then select all of the text in the kate window and paste it into a post here. If you get any errors in the Terminal, paste them into the post, too, and tell me what you were doing when they happened.

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-09
Oh, I realized I should put the error message into a Google search, and I just did. It seems it's a mostly harmless bug in the X Window display system, so I think we can ignore those messages.  

I still want to see the contents of fstab, so please do post a copy of it.

If you want to see it, here is the description I found of that error:

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=7964.0;topicseen](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=7964.0;topicseen)

As you see, there are directions for editing the xorg.conf file to get rid of the messages. If you want to do that, go ahead. If it doesn't bother you to just ignore the messages, you can.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-10
Thanks once again
I pasted the code into the terminal
This appeared in the terminal and a window opened asking me for my Kate password to open Kate.


X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device

If I open Kate without using the terminal and paste in the code nothing happens (I assume that is what is meant to happen.

As soon as I entered my password this text appeared in Kate
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=fe03d3f7-159a-48d3-9b4d-4ddf3bc4bb4e / ext3 nouser,defaults,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=638f0514-e5da-4a96-b7c5-db40b8f502eb /boot ext3 nouser,defaults,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=3CB894E6B894A046 /media/sda1 ntfs defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,uid=0,gid=46,auto,rw,nouser 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=58b68543-9e61-494b-be96-2d47a2660f21 /var ext3 nouser,defaults,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=9b4ced37-20c7-4cd5-93d0-ae9422f71d9c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 auto user,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,auto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent ntfs uid=1000,gid=0,auto,rw,user 0 0
At the same time some more error text appeared in the Terminal

so the whole text in the terminal is as follows

X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device

I haven't tried to follow the instructions for the bug on the link that you included – maybe one thing at once as I might lose track of what is going on here – unless I need to get the bug sorted before the drive problem can be sorted.
Cheers Itgirl

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-10
Okay, it isn't necessary to make the fix to xorg.conf before doing the rest of the work. You'll have to be a little extra careful when those error messages appear so that you don't overlook other error messages that might happen at the same time. Maybe print a copy of the expected error messages you can check to be sure no new error messages appear.

The difference in the LABEL line probably was harmless, but it was good for you to stop to check when you noticed that. So I think we can resume trying to get your disk to mount automatically. I'll repeat the instructions here, with the updated LABEL= line. 

Open a Terminal window and enter the command:
```
kdesu kate /etc/fstab
```
Replace the line that begins "LABEL=" with this one:
```
LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent ntfs uid=1000,gid=0,rw,auto,sync,user,umask=0222 0 0

```
Save the file and exit.

Now we will put the label on the disk.

Determine the name of the external disk the way that The Cog showed you. Let's assume it is /dev/sdb1. Then enter the commands:
```
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
sudo ntfslabel /dev/sdb1 FreeAgent
sudo mount -a
```
The umount might display a message that says the device is not mounted. That's okay. It's also okay if it doesn't display any message.

If everything went right, at this point, the external disk should be accessible at /media/freeagent. It should appear there automatically whenever the disk is turned on when you boot.

Now let's check that: Shutdown and startup the computer and see whether the external disk is accessible without you doing anything.

If that is okay, try: Shutdown the computer, turn the disk off (or disconnect it from the hub), and startup the computer. The disk won't be accessible, but Ubuntu should come up normally -- no errors or hangs.

If you got an error at any point, post the commands and output and we'll try to figure out what is wrong.

If the above works as described, then I think you are set.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-10
Hi again
I have followed all commands - and shut down and restarted once - the disk appears as a folder in Storage/media  and when I opened the folder it was empty.
I went to system settings/ disk and file settings and enabled the drive. (that's the first time it has enabled when I have asked it to - previously it always told me I don't have permission)

This is the output from the commands

umount: /dev/sdb1: not mounted
ann@ann-laptop:~$ sudo ntfslabel /dev/sdb1 FreeAgent
ann@ann-laptop:~$ sudo mount -a
mount: No medium found
mount: special device /dev/disk/by-label/FreeAgent does not exist
ann@ann-laptop:~$   

I will try the second shutdown as instructed and see if I can still enable it and let you know

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-10
Hi 
I have done the shutdown - removed the drive/ usb hub - restarted and as you say the folde was there but nothing in it
I shut down again and connected the hub and drive back up and restarted. I still have to enable it through stystem settings/ disk and file settings. however since has now enable twice and I very pleased that I have got that far - thanks you guys. 
I guess I will have to settle for that. 

Many thanks
Itgirl

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-11
It sounds like it is usable about at the level you expected to have when your son showed you how it would work.

Do you want to be able to put new files on that disk and/or modify ones already there, or do you only want to read files from that disk? I think what we set up will allow only reading, but I'm not certain of that (since it seemed not to pay attention to the fstab, at least not completely). If you want to be able to write to the disk, try copying some small file onto it and see whether it works. If not, we still have some work to do.

Also, if you don't want to settle for manually enabling the disk each time, we could continue to work on it to try to get it to be completely automatic.

You decide what you want to do.  If you decide to let it stand as it is for now, but later decide you want to work on it some more, you can open a new thread. I might not see the new thread, so if you want me to notice it, send me a private message at the time so I know to go look for it.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-11
Hi rkd
Yes the drive is now at the same point at which my son set it but whereas when I tried to enable it the following day it wouldn't let me - it will now allow me to enable it each time.
I can copy files from the disk which is really great as it has a lot stored on it and that makes it easier than switching operating systems in order to get tot those files.

It won't let me paste to it 
Yes it would be great if I didn't have to use system settings/ disk and file settings each time to enable it
Cheers Itgirl

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-11
Your post wasn't quite clear whether you would like to be able to put new things onto the external disk, or you were just reporting that I was right that it probably would not let you do that.

If you don't want to be able to put new things onto the disk, just ignore the rest of this post, and ask for instructions about making the disk be enabled automatically.

If you want to make it possible to put new things onto the external disk, go into the Terminal again, enter
```
kdesu kate /etc/fstab
```
On the line that begins with LABEL=, change the 0222 to just 0 (keep everything else on the line the same). Save the file. Then shutdown and start up again and see whether after you enable the disk, you can put new things on it. And make sure you can still read things from the disk, too. Then post to tell us whether it worked or not.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-11
Done as you suggested - I can still read from the disk but it still will not let me write to it!

I can still enable it to read from it.

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-11
Okay, after reading a little, I found that in Ubuntu 7.04, which is what you have, the default NTFS support is read-only (read-write was made default in 7.10). But it is easy to add the package for read-write to 7.04:
```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g
```
Then use kdesu kate to edit fstab. Change the LABEL= line to change the word "ntfs" to "ntfs-3g". Save the file and exit kate.

It should be possible to unmount then remount to get the external drive to work, but that didn't seem to work for you earlier, so just shutdown and restart the computer. Maybe with the new version of ntfs you won't have to enable the external disk manually. Check to see whether the external disk is accessible without doing it yourself. If the external disk still doesn't come up automatically, enable it manually, as you have been doing.

First check to be sure you can still read files from the external disk. If that is working okay, then check to see whether you can add something to the external disk.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-12
Believe it or not I can now write and read on the freeagent drive. I have to enable it first through the disk and file settings but it will allow me to do both things.

I followed the above instructions and changed nfts to nfts-3g and when I went back into disk and file setting the drive had disappeared. I remnounted it and selected Type Auto - shold I have selected nfts? 

I did all of this several hours and if my memory serve me right I think I changed the code in Kate back to nfts as the drive had disappeared althogether.  It did come back but now if I go into the terminal and put kdesu kate /etc/fstab  - it comes up with the following and doesn't open Kate anymore - so if I have edit in Kate I can't see how to do it now! (I am sure that you are disparing of me and my novice skills!!)

The drive does however work - unlike when it was first set up and wouldnt enable the next time I went to it - so I think mega progress has been
many thanks to you and the Cog - who seems to have gone very quiet just recently!
Cheers itgirl

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-12
Good news that you got it working. I'm sorry that you had several hours of struggling with it, though. I don't know what caused it to be so hard, but I'm glad you were able to find a way to make it work.

I don't know what is going on with the part about not being able to start kate any more. I think you tried to put some error message into your post, but it didn't show up. Could you do that again, or if you can't get it into a post, describe it as completely as you can? We ought to figure out what is wrong and fix it, in case you have some problem later where you need to use kate to edit something else.

I don't know whether you should have chosen auto, ntfs, or ntfs-3g when you had that choice. I'm hampered by not knowing anything about the disk and file settings program you use. I ought to make some time to install Kubuntu onto my test computer and see whether I can figure out how to get it all working smoothly. But I can't do that right now, so I'll just keep on helping as best I can without it.

From what you say, things are pretty well set for working with your external disk. But let's fix whatever problem there is with kate now, so it is there for you in case you need it for some other problem later.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-13
Hi rkd

This time when I did the command for kate in the terminal it did open up - so it must have just been acting strangely yesterday!!!

looking in Kate this is the latest text that comes up - I seem to have 2 entries now for LABEL should I have both or just one of them?

Like I say I can now enable it and I can read and write from it but have to enable it manaully each time.
cheers Itgirl

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=fe03d3f7-159a-48d3-9b4d-4ddf3bc4bb4e / ext3 nouser,defaults,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=638f0514-e5da-4a96-b7c5-db40b8f502eb /boot ext3 nouser,defaults,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=3CB894E6B894A046 /media/sda1 ntfs defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,uid=0,gid=46,auto,rw,nouser 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=58b68543-9e61-494b-be96-2d47a2660f21 /var ext3 nouser,defaults,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=9b4ced37-20c7-4cd5-93d0-ae9422f71d9c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 auto user,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,auto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
proc /proc nfs users,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=0,rw,auto,sync,user,umask=0 0 0
LABEL=FreeAgent /media/freeagent auto users,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0

---

### Post by rkd on 2008-01-13
I hope the error with running kate doesn't come back. At least we can forget about it for now.

My guess about the second LABEL line in fstab is that maybe the disk and file settings program you use sometimes updates fstab, and when you were working on trying to make the external drive visible again, one of the things you tried made it add the line.

I think you should have only one line for a given disk. I'm pretty sure the one you need to keep is the one that has "uid=1000,gid=0" on it. So if I were you, I would remove the second LABEL line. If removing the second LABEL line makes the disk disappear again, put that line back in and use the computer with both LABEL lines.

I think you are going to have to live with enabling the disk each time unless someone who understands things better than I do comes along and makes a suggestion. If I have a chance to set up Kubuntu on my test computer, I might be able to figure out how to get it to enable automatically. If I do that, I will post an answer here, so check back occasionally.

---

### Post by itgirl4002 on 2008-01-13
Very many thanks for your help - It is much appreciated  - I will remove the last line and see what happens. I will also look back form time to time to see if you have added anything. Good luck in setting up and using Kubuntu.
I don't know a great deal about it but I do like using it. 
Cheers Itgirl

---

