---
title: "re: bug 57399"
date: 2006-08-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by robertackerlind@yahoo.com on 2006-08-23
I really like ubuntu 5.10. I set up and maintain a cyber cafe with free coffee and dsl for consumers of mental health services. I get older systems for free and upgrade them a little so people can do the music videos. youtube.com is the acid test to see if a computer meets minimum standards. I am busily installing ubuntu on all the computers that have duplicate copies of win98 that are not technically legal. We are now legal. We are now able to buy older computers with more speed and ram but no operating systems and load ubuntu. youtube appears to play properly with a minimum of 800 mhz and 256 ram. unfortunately I have been doing updates/upgrades. Shortly after doing ubuntu 6.06 there came a small update that disabled the sound for youtube. This happens on all systems with various components. I have spent much time looking through forums that get nowhere. I have tried many suggestions with manager and terminal, nothing worked. Frustrating days! Movies with sound are important. I am now reinstalling ubuntu 5.10 and intend never to do updates/upgrades until they are better researched and supported. thank you very much for 5.10. sorry i am grumpy about 6.06 i appreciate your attention.
Re: updates cause sound to fail in youtube from Simon Law at 2006-08-23 10:11:17 UTC 
This is actually a problem with the Macromedia Flash plugin. It tries
to use the OSS for sound, which is often grabbed by other devices.

Re: updates cause sound to fail in youtube from Simon Law at 2006-08-23 10:17:43 UTC 
Proposed initscript 
The attached initscript should be installed as part of this package.
It can be removed once Macromedia ships a Flash plugin that's less
naive. One can hope that this will happen with Flash 9, which is rumoured
to use ALSA.
We can have this started at S99 and killed at K01.
Is there a simple way to turn the sound back on in youtube? My only solution is to reistall 5.10. Sound returns on youtube. Bug occurs on all five pc's with different components. Happens shortly after upgrading to 6.06 when a short ubuntu update comes along. This would argue that the problem is with the upgrade/updates and not flashplayer. by the way what happened to open office draw on 6.06? or the screensaver options? shouldn't an upgrade be better and not less?

---

