---
title: "Ordinary User Can't Connect to the Internet"
date: 2006-09-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by NT4.0 on 2006-09-02
I have set up an account for another user on my desktop computer. However, GNOME PPP does not connect to the Internet from this account (it dials up, hangs for some seconds as if connected, with the IP 0.0.0.0, and disconnects). I have tried two providers, neither worked. The Networking applet in the Administration menu is absent, but, strangely enough, the item "use tools that establish dial-up connection" in the new user's properties is checked. Maybe I need to chmod some files, if I only knew which ones, maybe something else... I am at a loss as my experience is still too little. I just need to let that user get online.

---

### Post by NT4.0 on 2006-09-02
I saved the connection log when tried to connect from this account:

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.55
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L1DP8,8007072850
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L1DP8,8007072850
CONNECT 115200
User Access Verification
Username: 
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
Username: 
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: mts
mts
Password: 
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
Request Denied
Username: 
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: mts
mts
Password: 
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
Request Denied
--> Don't know what to do!  Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Sat Sep  2 23:24:14 2006
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 22446
--> Using interface ppp0

When I connect from my account (which was the first on my Ubuntu system), it does not say it "looks like a login prompt" but goes straight on making the connection and setting IP and DNS. I know that dial-up is almost obsolete nowadays and I will have to think of switching to ADSL which probably works better with Ubuntu, but I still need to solve this. Can anyone suggest anything?

---

### Post by paulphillips on 2007-07-18
I realise that this answer is way-late, but I had exactly the same problem, until I changed the gnome-ppp options to the following (hit "setup" button from GNOME ppp window).  See the screen snapshot.

Cheers,
Paul.

---

### Post by NT4.0 on 2007-07-18
Yes! Exactly so. Although I figured it from the wvdial.conf file that the stupid mode must be always on (I played with settings so much at that time so I don't even remember how I got it right). Guess dial-up is pretty stupid nowadays...

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-07-18
One of the problems with dial-up is that there are variables which are out of your hands.  From your log file it appears that the modem was working.  I think the hang-up (pun not intended) was some sort of setting at your ISP.  The next person's ISP might require stupid mode "off".  
Although I have a horrible ISP for Linux (Juno), I can connect to them for a short time.  My ISP wants stupid mode "off".

---

