---
title: "Modem install - how to continue?"
date: 2006-09-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by PCD on 2006-09-24
I was fortunate to buy an internal modem with linuxant OEM drivers. I have got this far but am now in over my head and would appreciate any advice.

> michael@michael-desktop:/usr/bin$ sudo hsfconfig
Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.18.00.03oem

If you need assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Debian-testing/unstable linux-2.6.15-26-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)
Please ensure that the kernel-headers or kernel-source package is installed.
On Debian, try "apt-get install kernel-headers-2.6.15-26-386"

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux]

WARNING: missing file /usr/src/linux/include/linux/autoconf.h
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hsfconfig".
michael@michael-desktop:/usr/bin$


---

### Post by helmut_hed on 2006-09-26
Installing the packages "build-essential" and "linux-headers-2.6.15-26" should get you past these errors.  build-essential provides programming packages, and linux-headers gives the information necessary to build kernel modules (which your modem driver is).

Good luck,
Jeff

---

