---
title: "6.10 Edgy Vs 7.04 Feisty Fawn"
date: 2007-05-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Robert98374 on 2007-05-06
I understand that its a major upgrade but i am wonder what is some of the different things that are better?

---

### Post by KIAaze on 2007-05-06
-It comes with Compiz by default, and most of the times it also works without any issues. :)

Other things from the web which I haven't been able to verify since I started using Ubuntu with Feisty beta:

# Ubuntu 7.04 Feisty has a Windows migration tool which recognizes Internet Explorer bookmarks, Firefox favorites, desktop wallpaper, AOL IM and Yahoo IM contacts, and imports them all into Ubuntu during installation. It can also import other or all user accounts and their settings from Windows.
# Wireless Networking improvements with Avahi that makes wireless connections easy.
# Ubuntu Feisty Fawn offers easier Multimedia codecs and third party software installation. These packages were available already with early releases as restricted and copyrighted proprietory packages. Now Ubuntu makes it even easier to install proprietory, restricted and third party applications/drivers and codecs.

[http://ubuntu.sabza.org/2007/04/17/whats-new-in-ubuntu-704-feisty-fawn/]("http://ubuntu.sabza.org/2007/04/17/whats-new-in-ubuntu-704-feisty-fawn/")

The codec installation is indeed simple, but I don't know how it was in Edgy.
For the wireless, I managed to get it working in a public access place, but not in a private wifi network (didn't try a lot either since I had cable or wifi under XP at that moment).

The migration tool is a great idea, altough I haven't had a chance to try it yet.

---

### Post by Robert98374 on 2007-05-06
i just happened to get ubuntu right before 7.04 came out and i was just thinking about upgrading to it. My next question is that should i go through the update manager or should i download a fresh copy completely?

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-05-06
I tend to go for a fresh install :) I just think it keeps the system cleaner :)

---

### Post by msandersen on 2007-05-06
I guess a fresh install of any OS has the least chance of something going wrong. That's one advantage of having a separate Home partition. And now you already have the needed partitions.
Personally I've only used the Alternate CD as I haven't trusted the graphical install yet; but also because I was upgrading, and to use it as a source, you need the Alternate one.

---

### Post by raeb on 2007-05-06
I just did the upgrade through the update manager yesterday, and it went extremely smooth.  Not a single hiccup.  My sound was acting a bit funny but setting the volumes manually and rebooting fixed it.  Even the nvidia drivers got installed without issue (which blew me away) .  Anyway, that was my experience.

---

### Post by msandersen on 2007-05-06
Of course, if you'd had it a while and had a highly-modded system with lots of apps etc, it would be a paint to do a clean install. That is why I've chanced Upgrades over clean installs, despite some users running into trouble. Sometimes waiting a little bit from a release to see any issues that may arise and corresponding fixes to become available is wise.

---

### Post by Robert98374 on 2007-05-06
i originall installed with the alternate CD, this computer had the minium memory to run the install from the live CD. illtry the upgrade if it doesnt work ill reinstall Edgy. This is the test pc, ill br getting a brand new system in aa couple months so i am testing the waters so to speak

---

### Post by msandersen on 2007-05-07
From what I've been able to make out, there are not a lot of new things for current users. It's supposed to make things easier for new users, with a migration assistant (apparently deosn't work with Vista), easier automatic codec installation and setup of Compiz. Of course, if you already have all that, not so much of an incentive... Personally, going with an officially-supported Compiz package, if it works, will be an incentive, rather than having to rely on 3rd party Beta nVidia drivers etc.
But I'm wondering about any improvement in Gnome; it seems a minor upgrade with no new fweatures, probably various bug fixes and minor feature enhancements, nothing major. Maybe it will has performance. Some people report it seems to run faster, though how much of that is a Placebo effect, I don't know.
I think Gibbon will be a more substantial update, when Mark Shuttleworth hopes Compiz will finally come as standard when it has stabilised. Hopefully they'll tone down some of the more extravagant effects, like wobbly Windows etc; they are eye-catching, but get in the way of normal use. 
The release after that will be a LTS release, so it will obviously be a little more conservative, going for stability.

---

### Post by Robert98374 on 2007-05-07
So far its fairly stable, i was hoping that it would fix the issue that i have where it feels like the processing power goes in bursts. It also fixed a few bugs with my keyboard so it accomplished something :-)

---

