---
title: "Second partition error"
date: 2007-05-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by califman831 on 2007-05-20
I am trying to install a second partition to my system.  In gparted I marked the partition as Ext 3, but  I get this message when i try to access the drive.

hal-storage-fixed-mount refused uid 1000

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-05-20
Would probably need more info to help you out here - but did you format the partition after creating it?  Is there Win on the system somewhere?  The more info - the better the answers tend to be  :)

---

### Post by kaptainlange on 2007-05-20
You aren't trying to resize the root partition are you?

Is this new partition a new disk or on the same disk.  

Also to double check, you're running gparted as root?

---

### Post by califman831 on 2007-05-21
this is a new partition on the same diskdrive, windows is no where on this sytem.  How do you format under linux.  Is the process similar to dos where you had to do an fdisk and then a format?  Ran gparted using sudo.

---

### Post by kaptainlange on 2007-05-21
Alright, another question.  What does the disks partitioning currently look like, and what are you trying to get it too.

I'm trying to see if you're trying to resize the root partition.  This will not be possible if you are booting into the current installation.  You could use the live cd to do that however.

---

### Post by califman831 on 2007-05-21
Nope,  am making no attempt to resize the root partition, that am aware of.  I'm  just trying to create a new working secondary partition of 36 gigs of previously unallocated space. 

The root is /dev/sda1 40 gb ext3.
the new partition is set as /dev/sda3 36 gb ext 3

---

### Post by Skrynesaver on 2007-05-21
Given the returned UID of 1000 are you sure you are running this command as root?

---

### Post by califman831 on 2007-05-21
I'm not completely certain, but from the terminal I typed the following:

sudo gparted
<my password>


yes, no? additional switches?

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-05-21
Sounds good  - but was there any the drive was mounted at the time?  If you are running on a single drive, you will need to run GPartEd from the LiveCD (in a live session) because the drive is not then mounted.  If that was the problem - I'm sure you're OK from here.... :)

If not - check later (off to bed here shortly)...

---

### Post by califman831 on 2007-05-21
[IMG]http://i76.photobucket.com/albums/j24/califman831/gpartedscreen.png[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i76.photobucket.com/albums/j24/califman831/hallerror.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by kaptainlange on 2007-05-22
Hi, I think we all misunderstood what you were attempting.  I personally thought you were trying to create the actual partition, not mount it.

This puts things in a better perspective.  Could you post the contents of /etc/fstab , I think this might lead us to the culprit.

---

### Post by califman831 on 2007-05-23
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=3d884807-1105-4bcb-afb1-d516542abfc9 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=18ae6f8f-a616-4538-8b52-a011f6673203 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/cdrom        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/           /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0# Generated by Automatix
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

---

### Post by kaptainlange on 2007-05-23
Make sure to create the folder "/media/sda3" and then edit /etc/fstab as follows.

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>
proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# /dev/hda1
UUID=3d884807-1105-4bcb-afb1-d516542abfc9 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /dev/hda5
UUID=18ae6f8f-a616-4538-8b52-a011f6673203 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0# Generated by Automatix
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

#Add this line for your new partition
/dev/sda3       /media/sda3    ext3   defaults 0 1
#This should mount your new partition at /media/sda3, make sure /media/sda3 exists

```

Once that is edited, do:
```
sudo mount -a
```

That should mount the partition to /media/sda3.  You should then be able to access it as such.  I'm assuming the problem you were getting, and this is a guess since I don't use KDE, is that there was no instructions on how to mount the partition.

---

