---
title: ".tar.gz"
date: 2007-08-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by hackxxcrack on 2007-08-17
hi, I have a prob, when i try to install programs, in .tar.gz, i try in the terminal ./configure and when i put that it says:
bash: ./configure: No such file or directory


Whay can i do?

:guitar:

---

### Post by ThrobbingBrain66 on 2007-08-17
First, you have to extract the files from the .tar.gz

You also have to have some tools installed:
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

This is a great reference:
[http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/](http://monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/)

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-08-17
Files in the .tar.gz are just like .zip in Windows.  You need to uncompress the file before installing.

```
tar -xzvf filename.tar.gz
```

Another method is just use your file browser to locate the file and double click it.

The best way to install programs is using apt-get or synaptic.  Always look to use those methods first for best results.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-17
Depends on what is in the archive. Some archives contain binaries or python scripts.

Look to the original site for install instructions or the README in the extracted archive.

---

### Post by AlexenderReez on 2007-08-17
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> Depends on what is in the archive. Some archives contain binaries or python scripts.

Look to the original site for install instructions or the README in the extracted archive.

it is true....but for most of the software will use make executable file to install which you can easily install it using>  ./configure && make && sudo make install

---

