---
title: "Can no longer access NTFS parition from ubuntu"
date: 2007-07-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by AxAeo on 2007-07-20
I had my Windows XP hard drive mounted with NTFS-config in /media/windows and it worked fantastically for a good long time, and then one day I booted up Ubuntu and it wasn't there next to filesystem, nor is there anything in /media/windows and NTFS config. I can still boot Windows though - what the heck happened?

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-07-20
I have no idea what happened but try manually mounting the windows partition.  Another idea is to remove and install ntfs-3g again.  Good luck.

---

### Post by gn2 on 2007-07-20
> **AxAeo said:**
> I had my Windows XP hard drive mounted with NTFS-config in /media/windows and it worked fantastically for a good long time, and then one day I booted up Ubuntu and it wasn't there next to filesystem, nor is there anything in /media/windows and NTFS config. I can still boot Windows though - what the heck happened?

Did you update Ubuntu to a newer kernel?

When I did I lost NTFS access but re-installed my NTFS write utility* and that cured it.
.
* Automatix provide an excellent NTFS/Fat32 automounter that makes NTFS writeable and mounts automatically. [www.getautomatix.com](www.getautomatix.com)
Automatix has it's own forum support if required.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-20
Check the output of
```
sudo fdisk -l
```
and compare it to the entries in
```
cat /etc/fstab
```
My drives onces changed from hda to sda for no apparent reason, so I had to modify my fstab file to match.  If this is the case for you as well, you can edit by running:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by AxAeo on 2007-07-21
Below are the results of sudo fdisk -l and cat /etc/fstab. I don't really know how to interpret them or compare them, but by looking at /etc/fstab you would think that the drive was mounted...

> 
Disk /dev/hda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1       19456   156280288+   7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/hdb: 122.9 GB, 122942324736 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14946 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hdb1   *           1       14569   117025461   83  Linux
/dev/hdb2           14570       14946     3028252+   5  Extended
/dev/hdb5           14570       14946     3028221   82  Linux swap / Solaris


> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=55212b10-c985-441f-ab38-1b25f37fbba3 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=f76fc703-e6f6-4076-9fcc-911420ec47ae none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2007-07-21
OK, I vote for reinstalling ntfs-3g.  Your fstab file looks good, though the cdrom/hdc stuff doesn't have any numbers to specify a partition for whatever reason.  It shouldn't affect the windows partition mounting, though.
The line in my fstab looks like this:
```
/dev/sda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```
The only difference is you have UTF capitalized.

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2007-07-21
Do a disc check check on your windows partitions before anything else and also while in windows unmount any Usb Storage devices,boot windows twice to check its clean. then try again.

---

### Post by meierfra on 2007-07-21
I'm sure this isn't your problem, but if one  hibernates Windows then one can't access it from Ubuntu

---

### Post by AxAeo on 2007-07-21
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> OK, I vote for reinstalling ntfs-3g.  Your fstab file looks good, though the cdrom/hdc stuff doesn't have any numbers to specify a partition for whatever reason.  It shouldn't affect the windows partition mounting, though.
The line in my fstab looks like this:
```
/dev/sda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```
The only difference is you have UTF capitalized.

I tried reinstalling earlier, before I showed you this.

> **meierfra said:**
> I'm sure this isn't your problem, but if one  hibernates Windows then one can't access it from Ubuntu

I noticed that... and when I un-hibernated it didn't come back. I haven't tried anything since my last post, but I'll update whent I do.

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2007-07-21
We must remember that if you shut down windows without shutting down properly , the ntfs log with be labeled as "dirty" and therefor will not easily mount with any current tools we have , in other words you must shut down windows properly.

---

### Post by AxAeo on 2007-07-21
It mounts totally fine if I do it manually... But I'll go and make sure windows turns off properly next time, and see if it works.

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2007-07-21
> **AxAeo said:**
> It mounts totally fine if I do it manually... But I'll go and make sure windows turns off properly next time, and see if it works.

Let us know please Sir.

---

### Post by AxAeo on 2007-07-21
Heh, apparently that was it... I ran Windows again, and it did a drive-checking utility on its own before it booted and then everything was fine in Linux. Thanks guys. :)

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2007-07-22
> **AxAeo said:**
> Heh, apparently that was it... I ran Windows again, and it did a drive-checking utility on its own before it booted and then everything was fine in Linux. Thanks guys. :)

aye , the ntfs log was flagged , I had a time in the past figuring that one out as well , I was getting lazy and when i would reboot I'd just cut windows the hell off..

good deal , glad to help.

---

