---
title: "x86 vs a64?"
date: 2006-08-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Valk01 on 2006-08-12
Hey all. just wanted to know which version was better for somone just starting out. I faught with the a64 version last night trying to get net, got net this morning, and tried to install flash ect and killed Firefox in doing so. 
Firefox now dies when i go to a webpage with flash on it. I also tried the Xinerama explanation of running dual head.. about the only thing that has worked for me so far was the seemingly simple disabling of tulip for nvlan =\.

for my first ubuntu install, its very fast. pretty easy to navigate and with the laptop next to me with forums up, pretty easy for me, a complete linux nooblet.
but should should i stick to 32bit? seems a lot of stuff doesnt like to run in 64bit, but im kinda new and maybe not qualified to make that statement.

Valk

---

### Post by xpod on 2006-08-12
I think(?)that the 86 is better for older hardware BUT i really could`nt tell you what the actual differences are im afraid....new too

---

### Post by Valk01 on 2006-08-12
I just installed the x86 version and network worked out of the box. so... im happy with it. now i get to go through the process of setting up dual displays with xinerama.. or should i use twinview?

also, i need to set up open gl and figure out wine and various codecs.

---

### Post by xpod on 2006-08-12
I really could`nt tell you but i think when it comes to preferances your best bet is trying things out and see what suits you best.

I presume this is something to do with using extra monitors is it?

I just installed recently too im afraid so im not really SURE about anything yet.....I installed "automatix" and it seemed to have the various stuff i was used to using in xp like the flash player and java etc

So far ive got everything going on here that i ever used in windose WITHOUT having to chase down specific codecs  and elusive scripts etc to run things.

ALL THAT is still a bit beyond me....sorry im not more help

---

### Post by Valk01 on 2006-08-12
well, we can work together on that then perhaps. Im gonna head back into linux now and try to configure my x for dual displays. there is a good guide [here](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174&highlight=multiple+monitor)

that im gonna try. a little afraid though, since xinerama died on me last time and i had to learn how to copy files in term really fast heh.

the wiki has some info on getting proprietary codecs, so ill try it out and see if it all works. ill report back =)

---

### Post by xpod on 2006-08-12
I really wish you luck BUT the "working" together thing might leave you needing even MORE help IF im the one your working with...lol

Thats not to say i dont mind learning something new..

only been using pc`s for a few months but i probably crammed more m.e/xp stuff in in that short time than most avarage users do in a lifetime.

The usual surfing and chatting bored me so i started solving all the probs our xp & m.e had (got them from friends all messed up)  and before i knew it i was pulling them apart,getting other bit`s n pieces,installing slave drives AND new operating systems and HERE i am.....

Sorry bill...it was nice while it lasted....haha

---

### Post by Corvalis on 2006-08-12
:confused: 

am i wrong in thinking that the x86 is for intel chips and the a64 is for amd?

or is that an oversimplification?

---

### Post by tseliot on 2006-08-12
> **Corvalis said:**
> :confused: 

am i wrong in thinking that the x86 is for intel chips and the a64 is for amd?

or is that an oversimplification?
Both Intel and AMD have 32bit and 64bit CPUs.

If you have a 64bit CPU you can use both 32bit and 64 bit Operative systems.

My CPU is an Athlon 64 3500+ and I use Ubuntu 32bit because it makes my life a bit easier.

---

### Post by xpod on 2006-08-12
Thats about right me thinks(?)

edit:thats what mine is too on this pc

---

