---
title: "Gusty + Nvidia Restricted Screen resolution wont change pls help Xorgconf is correct"
date: 2007-11-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-10
I've been going round and round trying to get Gusty and Nvidia drivers. I'm on my third clean install now. Card is a Geforce II

I did the preferred method this go around, I went to restricted drivers and enabled the Nvidia driver. Rebooted and my screen size is not selectable in the screen resolution, nor in system | Administration | Screens and graphics.

I checked my Xorg.conf and it has everything correct (screen 1440x900) and my correct monitor is in Xorg. When I go to admin | screen and graphics my monitor is not there, if I go to add it's not there either. Now all this worked fine till I enabled the restricted driver. 

[B]# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV15 [GeForce2 GTS/Pro]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"VA1912wSERIE"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV15 [GeForce2 GTS/Pro]"
	Monitor		"VA1912wSERIE"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x1440"	"1440x900"	"1280x1024"	"1280x960"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection[/B]

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-11-11
Remove all of the resolutions you see where it says Modes (in the Screen section) **except** the one you want. The reason it's not working is because you have a res listed in there larger than the one you want and xorg wants to use the largest available.
 Also don't use the Screen Resolution tool because it doesn't work correctly with Nvidia cards. You would be better off with
```
nvidia-settings
```
for making adjustments
put that in a terminal

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
I took all the others out but 1440 x 900 Restarted X still only 800x600 ](*,), I think I'm missing some drivers :confused: 

I went to term nvidia-settings and got 

> ~$ nvidia-settings
The program 'nvidia-settings' can be found in the following packages:
 * nvidia-glx
 * nvidia-settings
 * nvidia-glx-new
Try: sudo apt-get install <selected package>


---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-11-11
Try uncommenting these 3 lines at the bottom
```
 # InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
```
Just remove the #s

---

### Post by so7777777os on 2007-11-11
Maybe you missing some drivers, try to install it again&#12290;&#12290;&#12290;&#12290;&#12290;
I am new to Ubuntu.....

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-11-11
Nope :( still stuck on 800x600

---

