---
title: "[SOLVED] ATI 9100 Mobility Driver issues"
date: 2008-02-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-26
I have a Radeon 9100 Mobility video card in my HP Pavilion zv5000 laptop. I followed the instructions for installing the drivers from here: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide#Finish_the_Installation](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide#Finish_the_Installation) and it didn't work for me. Here is the information I received after running the fglrxinfo command:

sethalos@sethalos-laptop:~$ fglrxinfo
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual!

When I initially rebooted, it started up in safe graphics mode.

Here is my xorg.conf file:


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
# InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
# InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "stylus"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "eraser"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "cursor"
Driver "wacom"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
Option "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
Option "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
Option "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies Inc RS300M AGP [Radeon Mobility 9100IGP]"
Driver "ati"
BusID "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "aticonfig-Device[0]"
Driver "fglrx"
Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies Inc RS300M AGP [Radeon Mobility 9100IGP]"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Modes "1440x900" "1280x800"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
Device "aticonfig-Device[0]"
Monitor "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Viewport 0 0
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection


I've been trying to get my drivers for my card installed now for about 3 weeks and I'm just not having any luck. I'm still in the safe graphics mode and can't seem to revert back to the previous xorg settings. I did save a backup copy (or it did it automatically), but what is the command to use it?

Thanks
Seth.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-02-26
You should try Envy, also have you checked your Restricted Drivers Manager, to see if your card driver is listed?

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-26
Hi there, thanks for your reply.

Yes, I have checked the restricted drivers and there is nothing for my ATI card, I do have one for my Wireless card, and one for my Modem, but that is all.  Now in the previous Ubuntu Feisty version,my card did show up in the restricted drivers and I simply clicked on it to use it and it worked fine.

I also checked to be sure that Restricted driver Repo's were checked in my Repository and it was.

I really can't understand why it isn't working at this time.

As well, I have tried Evny and all of the options that it gave, and it still did not work for me. I end up having to boot back in with the Safe Graphics mode.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-02-26
> **Sethalos said:**
> Hi there, thanks for your reply.

Yes, I have checked the restricted drivers and there is nothing for my ATI card, I do have one for my Wireless card, and one for my Modem, but that is all.  Now in the previous Ubuntu Feisty version,my card did show up in the restricted drivers and I simply clicked on it to use it and it worked fine.

I also checked to be sure that Restricted driver Repo's were checked in my Repository and it was.

I really can't understand why it isn't working at this time.

Have you tried Envy?

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-26
Hi yes.

I tried Envy, I tried all of the options for the card and it still rebooted into safe graphics mode.  It's the weidest thing it worked fine in Feisty, and the card showed up in the Restricted Drivers list.  Not sure why it's not now.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-26
Can you try:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-26
Hi there.

Yep, I've done that several times actually when I am forced to reboot from safe graphics mode.

It seems that my card is recognized as an RC300M Radeon 9100 Mobility.  However, where I used to be able to use Beryl/CompizFusion I can't any longer.  I used to have Avant-Window-Navigator installed, and can't use that now either.

I've read so many posts with similiar problems but I have yet to find anything that works for me.

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-27
Can anyone explain to me why my ATI card isn't showing up in the Restricted Drivers box anymore?  It did in Feisty but not for Gutsy.  Is there a way for me to have it show up so that I can select it? I have my system set up perfectly now but I really would like to have my ATI card set up properly so I can use the CompizFuxion eye candy again, as well as Avant.

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-27
Also, this is the output error I'm getting when trying to use Envy:

Envy - Version 0.9.9
Ubuntu Gutsy 32bit
Your graphic card has been detected as a ATI Mobility Radeon 9000/9100 IGP Series
Your graphic card is supported by the legacy Driver
Envy Error: ATI's legacy driver does not support your Operating System

Not sure what that means it seems contradictory.

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-27
Bumpity for the Experts.

---

### Post by JoshuaRL on 2008-02-28
Man, I feel you.  I had a Mobility Radeon 7500 on my old laptop.  I had to tweak xorg.conf a bunch to get it to run.

If you want to try the ATI drivers again, give [this post](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=423584) a look.  You also might try [this HOWTO on your specific card](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4406414) if that doesn't fix it.

But for me, I could never get the ATI drivers working on my older card.  If thats the same for you, try the open source driver.  To get it, try [this HOWTO here](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) from the help wiki.

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-28
> **JoshuaRL said:**
> Man, I feel you.  I had a Mobility Radeon 7500 on my old laptop.  I had to tweak xorg.conf a bunch to get it to run.

If you want to try the ATI drivers again, give [this post](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=423584) a look.  You also might try [this HOWTO on your specific card](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4406414) if that doesn't fix it.

But for me, I could never get the ATI drivers working on my older card.  If thats the same for you, try the open source driver.  To get it, try [this HOWTO here](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) from the help wiki.

Thanks for your help JoshuaRL I appreciate the time you've taken to try and help me with this issue.

Unfortunately, I spent the entire morning going through everyone of those How-To's and a couple of others. I tried t manually install the drivers via Envy and reconfigure my Xorg.conf file as suggested, and still no joy.

And I'm defeated. I've decided to not bother with the 3d support until there is a fix. I'm actually considering going back and installing Feisty rather than Gutsy, it worked great for me and I have very little issues.

If anyone else has this version or similar of card and actually got it to work properly, I'd love to hear about it. I'm not new to Ubuntu (having used it for about two years now) but I'm still no expert by far on how to get these things up and running.

---

### Post by Sethalos on 2008-02-28
Ok, after much screwing around I finally fixed it, I don't even know how the heck I did it really, but I fixed it.

The one thing I didn't do was actually install the Beryl Manager. Once I did that...everything worked perfectly.

I feel like a total noob about this as it was the last thing I was thinking was the problem.  So to all ofyou who helped thanks very much.
-Seth

---

