---
title: "7.10, Nvidia - black screen on boot"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by richardgundersen on 2007-10-18
Hi

Was running 7.04 with Compiz Fusion on an Nvidia 8800 GTS perfectly (nvidia 100.14 driver I think, manual install)

Did the update to Ubuntu 7.10 (not a fresh install). On entering runlevel 3 it tells me to use 'Basic Graphics' or 'low res' or something - so I thought OK will install the driver again, I can cope with that (not sure your average aunt Betty is going to be ready to switch to Ubuntu if she has to do this though!).

Anyhoo, click OK expecting to start Gnome in basic graphics mode  but.... nothing except a black screen. I've given it 20 minutes and still the same. Even resintalled the Nvidia driver again in safe mode, rebooted and get the same problem. Restored a known-working nvidia xorg.conf and same problem. You get the idea :)

Pleeeeasssseeeeee help!

---

### Post by Yannovitch on 2007-10-18
Hello,

I had the same problem with my quadro fx 360m.

You must have the latest nvidia driver ( version > 100) to run without black screen.
you must go in safe mode, make an 
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
and then reboot in safe mode and make a 
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
and select the nvidia driver

---

### Post by richardgundersen on 2007-10-18
Cheers - will try it out. Thanks for the tips!

---

### Post by richardgundersen on 2007-10-19
One thing before I try this (getting round to it slowly) - why doesn't even basic resolution/drivers work? Surely they are failsafe??

Is it purely because i'm upgrading and it's trying to keep my settings?

---

### Post by richardgundersen on 2007-10-19
Hmm, from the command line I can't download anything because my wireless network isn't started. Starting to wonder if 7.10 has been tested with Nvidia drivers. Sorry - my frustration is getting out but I honestly don't think there's anything particularly special about my setup - it's just a bog standard pc with an nvidia graphics card. Hasn't this been tested? 

I'm gonna stick with it because I love Ubuntu/Linux but it means that as usual I'll prob be spending the rest of the weekend trying to get Ubuntu to work ho hum. 

If anyone can help me I would be very grateful as always

---

