---
title: "do I have 2 printers installed?"
date: 2006-09-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mikl2 on 2006-09-29
After following the instructions at:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanonPixmaIP4200](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CanonPixmaIP4200)
I successfully installed drivers to get my canon 'ip4300' printer working.  However, after mucking around in the file system I found this in /etc/printcap: 
# This file was automatically generated by cupsd(8) from the
# /etc/cups/printers.conf file.  All changes to this file
# will be lost.
iP4200-Ver.2.60|iP4200-Ver.2.60:rm=MyLinux:rp=iP4200-Ver.2.60:

Does this mean I have 2 installs of the same printer?  (ip4300)  Since I couldn't find the Linux drivers for the '4300, I tried the '4200-ver.2.60 and it worked.  If you see a problem with the output of /etc/printcap, can you tell me how to fix it without hosing my printer?
Thanks

---

### Post by daller on 2006-09-29
The data looks fine...

Do you have any problems?

---

### Post by mikl2 on 2006-09-29
No problems that I can't deal with.  I am unable to choose the quaility of print.  Such as 'good, better, best, or something like that.  I believe I'm stuck with 'normal' and that suits me, since I don't do any photo printing.  Just glad to be able to make hardcopy.  
I've got 2 weeks under my belt with this Ubuntu thing, and before that, I knew absolutely nothing about command line usage.  
After studying the /etc/printcap output, it appeared to me the the two entries of my printer with the | (pipe)  between them caused some concern.  Perhaps I should be more adept at reading these files before I post here.  Still learning as best I can.  
Thank you to all.

---

### Post by daller on 2006-09-30
Sure thing!

Everything takes time to learn!

PM me if you have any problems!

---

