---
title: "installing dialup modem problem"
date: 2007-02-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2007-02-24
i think i found why i can't get my primary desktop machine to recognise any external modem that i connect to it. i tired 3 different ones and i tried the dialup how to pages that are available with no success. there is a locked folder named ttys0 and when i use pppconfig it tells me that it is locked. ttys0 is what my modem is if you know what i mean. sorry i am still trying to understand the terminology. i also have 2 locked folders on the desktop that i can't get rid of so i don't know if these two things are connected.
this is what one thing turned up:
carla@carla-desktop:~$ pon
carla@carla-desktop:~$ root
bash: root: command not found
carla@ca-desktop:~$ sudo bash 
root@ca-desktop:~# connect to the ISP configured as "provider"
bash: connect: command not found
root@carla-desktop:~# exit
exit
carla@carla-desktop:~$ pon   # connect to the ISP configured as "provider"
carla@carla-desktop:~$ plog # shows the (status) messages generated by pon and poff
Feb 24 22:18:59 carla-desktop pppd[6061]: pppd 2.4.4 started by carla, uid 1000
Feb 24 22:18:59 carla-desktop pppd[6061]: Device ttyS0 is locked by pid 5668
Feb 24 22:18:59 carla-desktop pppd[6061]: Exit.
Feb 24 22:21:58 carla-desktop pppd[6169]: pppd 2.4.4 started by carla, uid 1000
Feb 24 22:21:58 carla-desktop pppd[6169]: Device ttyS0 is locked by pid 5668
Feb 24 22:21:58 carla-desktop pppd[6169]: Exit.
ca@ca-desktop:~$

---

### Post by foxiness on 2007-02-25
if you can not use ext-modem with linux you can log-in to internet form windows-pc the two connect with LAN.

this post because i dont know how to help you with modem,i hope it help you some way "even if temp".

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2007-02-25
is LAN like a network? that is way too advanced for me right now and anyway the machine i want to get on the net it my primary machine. the laptop i am on is a pain to use and much slower. it doesn't have a network connection either. anyway it is not the modems fault that i can't connect. i think it is thta i have locked the folders.

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2007-02-25
I'm not sure what you are doing with all those commands.

You have to run your commands as root which means using [COLOR="DarkOrange"]sudo[/COLOR]


The simplest way that I have found for me is to
1.)  run  **sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf** in Terminal window
2.)  run **sudo gedit /etc/wvdial.conf**
3.)  remove the ; from  */etc/wvdial.conf* and add your ISP info
4.)  run **sudo wvdial**

once this works, I then download and install gnome-ppp and use it to dial out

---

### Post by rapattack1 on 2007-02-26
ok yeah maybe i did do that before. this has been a long painful thing. today my friend(a linux guy) came over and got it happening. Apparently one problem was that the serial port was stuffed and the other was the password/username for my isp. Something strange was going on because he got into some secret thing that shows what supposedly entered as my password and username. What it showed was totally incorrect. that is not my details. oh this was on my laptop btw that he got this info because he said 'well if you can connect on the laptop(with a different modem-credit card modem) then why not on the desktop. So he compared details. It is very strange how when he entered the same details it worked and now i am connected on the desktop machine. Weird as hell but it works.
Oh I used Gnome PPP btw.
Thanks for all your help.

---

