---
title: ".deb?"
date: 2007-12-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Garath531 on 2007-12-20
I have recently installed Ubuntu Feisty Fawn 7.10 on my computer and would like to download MySQL on it. I have looked a MySQL's website and found the free download for Ubuntu. However it if for Drapper Drake and the only file type available for download is a .deb file. I was wondering what a .deb file is and how to install it. Also, will it work with Feisty Fawn?


--Garath531 ;-)

---

### Post by metalpancake on 2007-12-20
you should be able to double click on it and it should simply install itself.:)

---

### Post by yabbadabbadont on 2007-12-20
System->Administration->Synaptic Package Manger.  Search for mysql and install it from there.  By the way, Feisty Fawn is 7.04.  Gutsy Gibbon is 7.10.

---

### Post by Garath531 on 2007-12-20
Ok, thank you everyone.


And thank you for the correction yabbadabbadont.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-12-20
.deb is the default installer for debian based operating systems, this includes ubuntu.
It is almost like a .exe in windows however its more like a zip file in behavior

---

### Post by mdsmedia on 2007-12-20
> **yabbadabbadont said:**
> System->Administration->Synaptic Package Manger.  Search for mysql and install it from there.  By the way, Feisty Fawn is 7.04.  Gutsy Gibbon is 7.10.I should add that installing from Synaptic is a more "secure" method, more in that automatic updates are cleaner and less problematic for packages installed from official repositories, and packages in Synaptic are less likely (not saying other packages are likely) to have security vulnerabilities.

And yes, if the package is available for Dapper (6.06) it should be fine in Feisty or Gutsy, as they are the later releases.

---

