---
title: "Static LAN IP"
date: 2007-12-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by fmbugdadi on 2007-12-29
Hi to all:


Looking to disable DHCP and setup my Lan to this computer as static. Not quite certain on how to do this on the client side. I noticed that under System --> Administration --> Network, there may be a way to do this. Under  Wireless settings, Network password. Would this be the password to my router, or the Password to my Encryption scheme? Once I set up static IP, how do I verify from terminal?

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2007-12-29
The password will be your WEP key encryption (if you have one setup), and all you need to do, is specify an IP Address, your gateway and subnet (which should automatically fill in) and click ok.

Then, run:
```
sudo ifconfig
```

To check the IP Address of your device, and if it did not change, then restart networking:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

Dr Small

---

### Post by fmbugdadi on 2007-12-29
I did all those things, and it does not connect. Not sure, if I have to change anything on the router's end? In the past, I know I have been able to do it without changing anything, although, once I get it working, I want to disable dhcp. Also, under password type, I enter wpa2 personal, but it keeps reverting back to wpa personal. Not sure why.

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2007-12-29
I never had any success with WEP keys before. I always had to disable them on the router in order to connect.

---

### Post by fmbugdadi on 2007-12-29
No, I have had no problems using WPA2, I am just trying to create a static lan connection to my router. not using wpa2, or at least wpa does not make any sense from a security stand point. I will not surf on an open wireless network, if that is what you are suggesting.

---

### Post by bindatype on 2007-12-29
You can make it easier for us to help you by pasting the contents of your /etc/network/interface and /etc/resolv.conf files as well as the output of these commands

```

ifconfig

```
```

iwconfig

```

Change or obscure the IP if you feel uncomfortable about it.

---

### Post by bindatype on 2007-12-29
Also, you should check  your wireless card. What model is it? Can it "see" your access point? Are you using NDISWrapper?

---

### Post by fmbugdadi on 2007-12-29
here is the information you asked for. I hope it helps you help me.

ifconfig:ath0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:04:1E:42:6F:F7  
          inet addr:192.168.1.101  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::205:4eff:fe42:6ff7/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1292 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1219 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:980781 (957.7 KB)  TX bytes:176827 (172.6 KB)

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:06:1B:C5:E7:02  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:3708 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:3647 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1633032 (1.5 MB)  TX bytes:314157 (306.7 KB)
          Interrupt:11 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:66 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:66 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:5104 (4.9 KB)  TX bytes:5104 (4.9 KB)

wifi0     Link encap:UNSPEC  HWaddr 00-04-5E-42-6F-F7-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00  
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:21685 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:1200
          TX packets:1547 errors:1 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:199 
          RX bytes:3176964 (3.0 MB)  TX bytes:242157 (236.4 KB)
          Interrupt:11 

iwconfig:ath0      IEEE 802.11b  ESSID:"Linksys"  Nickname:""
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.437 GHz  Access Point: 00:12:13:9E:A9:C1   
          Bit Rate:5 Mb/s   Tx-Power:0 dBm   Sensitivity=1/1  
          Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=46/70  Signal level=-52 dBm  Noise level=-98 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:16582  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

resolv.conf:# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search hsd1.fl.comcast.net


nameserver 192.168.1.1

etc/network/interfaces: auto lo

iface lo inet loopback


I hope this helps, thanks a bunch

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2007-12-29
> **fmbugdadi said:**
> Hi to all:


Looking to disable DHCP and setup my Lan to this computer as static. Not quite certain on how to do this on the client side. I noticed that under System --> Administration --> Network, there may be a way to do this. Under  Wireless settings, Network password. Would this be the password to my router, or the Password to my Encryption scheme? Once I set up static IP, how do I verify from terminal?
If you use a tool called Network Manager for wireless (like most of us do), then there is bad news because it does not support the use of static IP addresses.

By the way... please don't use WEP if you don't have to. It is highly vulnerable and insecure.

Please take a look at my tutorial (signature) for WPA and static IP. Just an offer.

---

