---
title: "HOW TO work with files in Windows Partitions!!"
date: 2007-06-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bradmayne on 2007-06-27
Hey guys! Whats up?? I figured since the machines haven't taken over yet I'd give you n00bies some help accessing your windows partitions.  

;)
1.we gotta use a terminal window (bash shell)

2. We gotta identify the Unique Udev ID (UUID) number of your windows partion. this is a hexadecimal number so do the following: sudo vol_id -u /dev/hda1.

your gonna have to enter your password. the preceding line assumes that your PC has an IDE disk, which will probably be the case if your computer is over a year old.  If your using a SATA hard drive then your gotta do this: sudo vol_id -u /dev/sda1.  (on my computer it was actually sda3 i have vista also) so it might be /dev/hda2 or /dev/sda2 etc etc. I hope your getting the picture.

3. you gotta note the output of the command.  The output will look something like this:D2268991268976EF.  That was on my computer yours is gonna be different this is just to give ya an idea of what im talking about.

4. Now we're gonna make a mount point!! this is easy don't worry.  Do the following: sudo mkdir /media/Windows.

5. Next we are going to edit the fstab file.  from the shell (terminal window) type: gksu gedit /etc/fstab

6 This next part is gonna look hard but trust me it isn't.  Scroll all the way to the bottom and create a new line.  UUID=<UUID> /media/Windows  ntfs default,nls=utf8,unmask=007,gid=46 
0    0                                      After you do this your fstab file is gonna look kinda like this:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=c2cee4e0-3411-4eea-af19-98e9154511a9 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=812ade3c-f107-410e-99be-803ab7352a89 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=D2268991268976EF /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/SQ004286V02 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

once your done remember to click file and the save!!!

Last step: sudo mount /media/Windows

From now on when you start ubuntu you should see an icon on the desktop.
I've also heard good stuff about ntfs-3g if you use it remember ntfs-config. you can get them from synaptic file manager.

---

### Post by speeddemon8803 on 2007-06-28
hehe very simple, great job buddy! You explained it to the letter, I did it the way you stated just to make sure it was all correct, and it was! [COLOR="Blue"]KUDOS![/COLOR]

---

### Post by bradmayne on 2007-06-28
thanks bud! If anyone else is having problems with anything let me know and i'll put up a post!! Whether it's for wireless or anything else give me a shout.  Im usually up at night working on ubuntu.  So if anyone needs me you can catch me online- [email]brdmayne@yahoo.com[/email]  i use the yahoo IM also. brdmayne.  All you n00bies remember don't get frustrated- get help!  Just ask and you will receive.

TUX-THE PENGUIN THAT ROARED!!!!

---

