---
title: ".sh problem"
date: 2007-12-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by shayvasa on 2007-12-08
hey all. i downloaded this game called flying guns and it came in a zip file...so i extracted the files and it had a .sh file, so what i did was i went to the terminal and typed ./FlyingGuns.sh but it says bash: ./FlyingGuns.sh: Permission denied
what can i do?

---

### Post by SpacePilot on 2007-12-08
chmod 755 filenamehere

Some programs require root to install.

Then

sudo ./filehere.sh

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2007-12-08
```
sudo chmod a+x <file.name>
```

---

### Post by Frak on 2007-12-08
```
chmod +x FlyingGuns.sh
```
Assuming it is in your home directory, there is no reason to use sudo.

---

### Post by SpacePilot on 2007-12-08
sudo is not needed to chmod something. The owner of a file can change permitions as he/she please.

---

### Post by shayvasa on 2007-12-08
i get this error:
chmod +x FlyingGuns.sh
chmod: cannot access `FlyingGuns.sh': No such file or directory
and it is in my desktop

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2007-12-08
```
chmod +x ~/Desktop/FlyingGuns.sh
```

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2007-12-08
just so you know, because we all love learning, you are adding execute permissions to the file, so you can execute it.

---

### Post by lamalex on 2007-12-08
```
cd Desktop/ or chmod a+x Desktop/FlyingGuns.sh
```

Make sure you're in the right directory. The trick is to understand what you're doing before you do it.
When you launch the terminal it starts you out in /home/<your name>. This is represented as just ~, so you see "~$". You need to **c**hange **d**irectories to the desktop.
```
cd Desktop/
```. A good trick to know is using the tab key for autocomplete. If you can't autocomplete the name of the file, it's not where you think it is. Start typing FlyingGuns.sh and hit tab a few letters in, if you hit tab twice it should list all of the options that start with the letters you've already typed. if you don't see FlyingGuns.sh there, then you're looking for it in the wrong place.

---

### Post by shayvasa on 2007-12-08
well now i get this error:
shay@shay-desktop:~/Desktop$ chmod +x ~/Desktop/FlyingGuns.sh
shay@shay-desktop:~/Desktop$ ./FlyingGuns.sh
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError: com/flyingguns/app/foo/Client (Unsupported major.minor version 49.0)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClass0(Native Method)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClass(ClassLoader.java:539)
        at java.security.SecureClassLoader.defineClass(SecureClassLoader.java:123)
        at java.net.URLClassLoader.defineClass(URLClassLoader.java:251)
        at java.net.URLClassLoader.access$100(URLClassLoader.java:55)
        at java.net.URLClassLoader$1.run(URLClassLoader.java:194)
        at java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged(Native Method)
        at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:187)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:289)
        at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Launcher.java:274)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:235)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClassInternal(ClassLoader.java:302)
im guessing it has something to do with java :D but i think i already got it installed

---

