---
title: "8.04 bug ?"
date: 2008-03-25
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by southpark61 on 2008-03-25
i have downloaded 8.04 beta and when i run the live cd it runs at 1600 x ? this is too high for my laptop so when i tried to change the resouloution to 1204 x 768 all i got was loads and loads of lines 

I also had this problem with sabayon but that is a different matter 

Any help appreciated 

Owen

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2008-03-25
This should be moved to the Development board since hardy isn't released (read the sticky)

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-03-25
> **southpark61 said:**
> ... when i tried to change the resouloution to 1204 x 768 all i got was loads and loads of lines...
That's a typo, right?  You meant 1024 x 768?

Have you tried editing xorg.conf and selecting some proper resolutions?

---

### Post by southpark61 on 2008-03-25
how do i do that ? and yes it was a typo.  and sorry i didnt read the sticky but this also happened with ubuntu 7 how do i edit it ?

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-03-25
Open a Terminal:```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Using your **Tab** button to move around and **Enter** to select, accept all the default options UNTIL you come to the part (near the end) where it prompts you about screen resolutions.  The low-end resolutions will be selected (480 x 600, 600 x 800, etc.), meaning the selection will look like this: [ * ].

You're going to remove the "*" by using the spacebar since those resolutions suck.

Scroll up the list and, using the spacebar again, enter new "*" in THREE resolutions you find acceptable (3... no more, no less) and bearing in mind that -- THE HIGHEST RESOLUTION YOU SELECT HERE WILL BE THE NEW DEFAULT RESOLUTION.  Capped for emphasis.  :)

You will only see part of the list displayed... The higher resolutions are there, but you have to scroll up the list in order to be able to select them.

Save, okay the file-overwrite, exit and restart.  You should be good to go.

---

### Post by plucky on 2008-03-25
@Therion


> sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst


Shouldn't that be```
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-03-25
> **plucky said:**
> @Therion

Shouldn't that be```
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

No, but it SHOULD have been ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
My previous post has been corrected/updated.  Thanks for catching that... They say the mind is the first thing to go.

---

