---
title: "7.04- Monitor Resolution Issue"
date: 2007-04-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bguy on 2007-04-26
Hi,
Just clean installed feisty and used  automatix to install nvidias driver.  I've been experiencing one small issue with my screen resolution.  I use the nvidia driver to change the resolution of my monitor to 1680x1050 but on reboot the monitor always reverts back to the default resolution which is 1024x768. Does anyone know why this is?
Appreciate any help.
Take care,
B

---

### Post by BillGod on 2007-04-26
can you post the monitor and video card section of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by jaytek13 on 2007-04-26
You have to actually go into the x configuration file and put the default resolution in there manually as root. You'll notice you don't need a password to open up the nvidia x server settings app, so even if you click save to x configuration file in that tool it won't save because you don't have the right permissions (or write permissions, if you will). 

There is a tutorial up here for editing the xorg.conf file

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

---

### Post by zubrug on 2007-04-26
gksudo nvidia-settings

set it in there and hit save to xorg.conf

---

### Post by tman_ubuntu on 2007-04-26
> **bguy said:**
> Hi,
Just clean installed feisty and used  automatix to install nvidias driver.  I've been experiencing one small issue with my screen resolution.  I use the nvidia driver to change the resolution of my monitor to 1680x1050 but on reboot the monitor always reverts back to the default resolution which is 1024x768. Does anyone know why this is?
Appreciate any help.
Take care,
B

You have to run nvidia-settings using sudo.  Once you are in the configuration application, then change the resolution as normal then hit save.  Reason why it is reverting back is because your changes are not being saved to xorg.conf file because you were not saving it with root privileges.

---

### Post by bguy on 2007-04-26
Awesome!!
Thanks so much!!

:) :) :) :)

---

