---
title: "quick 7.10 question on mouse"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Antimatter27 on 2007-11-04
the last version of ubuntu, 7.04 i believe, was great for me except that it did not work with my usb mouse, a problem i know many people had.

has 7.10 corrected this problem?

any information much appreciated. :)

---

### Post by DutyDuty on 2007-11-04
I had the problem on 7.04 that my mouse would cease working until I restarted the system. 7.10 has the freezes, but it restarts the mouse when it "breaks", which I think is what your problem is/was, right?

---

### Post by Antimatter27 on 2007-11-04
for me my mouse would work for about 5 seconds while the operating system was loading. once completely loaded it would cease working. restarting the system always gave that same result, and unplugging/replugging the mouse had no effect.

i read up about alot people having mouse issues and didn't see a fix anywhere so i gave up. im not much of a linux techie. =\

---

### Post by Antimatter27 on 2007-11-04
*bump* :)

---

### Post by rhomp2002 on 2008-02-10
I am having the same problem with the mouse freezing when the system boots in.  

I don't know why it does.  However, if I click with the up and down to the first entry on the left side of the screen and hit enter.  That brings up, for me, the desktop.  I then click down and across the desktop entries and hit enter.  I just do this for a couple of levels and then suddenly the mouse starts working and works fine until I reboot.  

It happens every time I reboot.  It freezes and when I fiddle with the up and down buttons and then enter a couple of desktop levels, it just starts working fine.  Sort of maddening but at least I know how to get it to work.  It does the same thing with Sabayon but not with Slackware.  I run a couple of different distros to see how they all work.  I have absolutely no explanation for why this happens.

I am running Ubuntu 7.10 on an Intel Duo Core 2 E4400 using a USB Logitech Track Marble mouse but the same thing happens with a regular mouse as well.  Would love to get a solution but until I do I will just keep fiddling with the buttons until it unfreezes.:confused::confused::confused:

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2008-02-10
Considering the mouse works and is recognized, Buntu is at least using an approriate driver. It sounds like it may be an issue with the xorg.conf, so post the contents of:

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Im not really too familiar with the xorg.conf in terms of mouse as I have a generic 3 button, but ill try. :)

---

### Post by rhomp2002 on 2008-02-11
Here is a copy of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  I hope you see something that will fix the problem.  It is a pain in the derriere now:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"L204WT"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"L204WT"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

