---
title: "ATI Driver woes"
date: 2007-04-04
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by showty on 2007-04-04
I have a 9600XT video card with 256MB of VRAM

I installed the xorg-driver-fglrx and reset my config (and told it to use fglrx) as this guide said ([https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/graphics-cards.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/graphics-cards.html))

But when I check in terminal for direct rendering it says no, and I can't play 3D games.. whats going on?

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-04
Sometimes (often?) there are issues getting ATI cards going properly.  They run nicely once you do though!  To have an idea as to WHICH issue is stopping you, I need the output from a couple of things typed (or pasted) into your Applications->Accessories->Terminal window:

```
fglrxinfo
```

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Keyboard commands to paste them here from there are <ctrl><shift><c> to pick it up when highlighted and <ctrl><v> to put em down.  Once they are down, highlight them in the message and click on # in the menu bar above.

If you find the instructions too detailed - sorry - but it might be an Absolute Beginner in here!  :D

---

### Post by showty on 2007-04-04
```
Xlib:  extension "XFree86-DRI" missing on display ":0.0".
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: www.mesa3d.org
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.5.1)
```

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI RADEON 9600XT"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Acer FP563"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI RADEON 9600XT"
        Monitor         "Acer FP563"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection


---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-04
OK - I spotted a couple of things that are not in your xorg.conf - and there is another that might also cause a problem.  First off, I will post sections of xorg.conf with BOLDED lines that should be added.  Then I'll describe the other 'fixes' that might be needed.  Here goes:
```

[B]Section "ServerFlags"
        Option      "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection[/B]
```

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier "ATI RADEON 9600XT"
        Driver      "fglrx"
[B]        Option      "UseFBDev" "true"
        Option      "VideoOverlay" "on"
        Option      "OpenGLOverlay" "off"[/B]
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

```
[B]Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection[/B]
```

OK - that's the mods for xorg.conf.  First you back it up"

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup_20070404
```

then you edit it.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and make the changes described above.  Save, and exit gedit.

Now - a couple of more little tweaks.

```
sudo mkdir -p /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/dri 
```<ctrl><alt><backspace>

```
sudo ln -s /usr/lib/dri/fglrx_dri.so /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/dri 
```

and

```
gksudo gedit  /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```

and add in these 2 lines

```
# causes fglrx to fail and mesa drivers to load
blacklist ati-agp
```

Whew!  After all that a reboot is the safest way to be sure that everything gets a fresh start.  If you skip the last one, then just **<ctrl><alt><backspace>** is enough to test it out.

Now for testing:

```
fglrxinfo
```

```
fgl_glxgears
```

```
glxinfo | grep rendering
```

If you could post the output from those, we'll know if it all worked :D

BTW - if it ***IS* **all fixed, then please **EDIT** your first post, choose **GO ADVANCED** from the bottom right of the edit window, and clidk beside **RESOLVED**, then save.  Helps people to know there might be an answer for them in here too!  Thanks

---

### Post by showty on 2007-04-04
I LOVE you, this is what open source is all about - this support is far quicker and friendlier than if I was using a microsoft product.. you've made my day :)

I'm editing the post now to be resolved, thankyou SO much again  :KS

---

### Post by fif on 2007-04-04
Thanks very much Freebird54. This solved my problem too (had this after an upgrade to edgy with a Radeon 9600 Pro and fglrx driver 8.28 ).

I have another question that might also be of interest for others:
Do you have links to documentation that would help me to understand what you propose and why you do it.

TIA

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-05
I could not be described as an expert on xorg by any stretch.  What you see here is a combination of 'building on the work of others' (the open source way! :) ) and the experiences I had getting my card to go the first time..  This link was one of the ones I eventually got to - which had more troubleshooting info on it - although the "why's" are a little thin they do point to further research possibilities...
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#head-02330ccb580b6a9411d32bf617cc5a82116ba6b9](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI#head-02330ccb580b6a9411d32bf617cc5a82116ba6b9)

It gave me some idea of what might be going on in there - and made more sense of what I had run into myself.

As for why I do it?  I got good help here, and it can be fun trying to make things easier and more understandable for others.  If I get a bit more knowledge, I might join the 'Beginner Team as well.  Currently looking for the least 'intimidating' way of presenting the information without overdoing the hand-holding.  There is a *TON* of information available here - and an amazing number of knowledgable people - but getting all the information you are ready for in 1 place is practically impossible.  This problem is hardly unique to Ubuntu though - I found the same thing in Windows.  The difference is that here you don't have to pay for the information before finding out if its useful!

Glad the fixes worked - it seems that they usually do.  The thing I try to do is make the same information a little clearer..and to start at the point where the trouble began, so no 'digging' and interpretation required.

---

### Post by joeashcraft on 2007-04-09
it was these two lines in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist that did it for me:
```

 #causes fglrx to fail and mesa drivers to load
blacklist ati-agp

```thanks!

for the record of what hardware it works on, I have a Dell Inspiron 6400 with the  ATI Mobility Radeon X1300.

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-04-10
Moving bizarrosephiroth's post and Freebird's answer to it to a new thread.

---

### Post by bizarrosephiroth on 2007-04-10
OK --- I'll try to make this quick, clear, and to the point.  I downloaded fglrx and tweaked some files and tests proved positive as follows: 

safer@bisaru:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9800 XT
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6334 (8.34.8)

safer@bisaru:~$ fgl_glxgears
Using GLX_SGIX_pbuffer
safer@bisaru:~$ glxinfo | grep rendering
direct rendering: Yes

After that I downloaded Xgl and tried to run it as a session ---- that did not work, it failed and reverted back to gnome.  I then downloaded beryl to try to see if that would work but when I start beryl nothing  happens.  Beryl runs  but you cannot put it as window manager.  Running beryl-manager from terminal starts the program, then if I try to make it the window manager the screen flickers for 2 seconds  and terminal yeilds: 
safer@bisaru:~$ **************************************************************
* Beryl system compatiblity check                            *
**************************************************************

Detected xserver                                : AIGLX

Checking Display :0.0 ...

Checking for XComposite extension               : failed

No composite extension
beryl: No composite extension

I tried to enable composite under extensions in xorg.conf but that just yeilded another error.  

**For my video card, ATI Radeon 9800 XT, is it possible to run beryl and/or Xgl?  If so how please **

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-10
You can run Beryl with Xgl and fglrx driver  OR
You can run Beryl with AIGLX and ati driver.

Other combinations do not work.  Beryl runs fine on my Radeon 9550 with XGL and fglrx.  That is the setup tha I have managed to get going so far with reasonable results.

In what way did Xgl fail to work?  How was it set up?

Here is the guide that I used to make it go:

[http://wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Install_Beryl_on_Ubuntu_Edgy_with_XGL](http://wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Install_Beryl_on_Ubuntu_Edgy_with_XGL)

The things shown BOLD in these excerpts from my xorg.conf seemed to be important:

```
[B]Section "ServerFlags"
        Option      "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection[/B]

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "ATI Radeon 9550"
 [B]       Driver      "fglrx"
        Option      "UseFBDev" "true"
        Option      "VideoOverlay" "on"
        Option      "OpenGLOverlay" "off"[/B]
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

[B]Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection[/B]
```

As mentioned in my previous post, blacklist the ati-agp module if needed to get rid of mesa drivers.   You appear not to have this difficulty.

Which source do you acquire Beryl from?  The repos?  SVN? the new source as specified at Beryl-Project?  Might make a difference too.

Sorry its so complicated, but until stability has been achieved, its inevitable.

---

### Post by bizarrosephiroth on 2007-04-10
I got the fglrx driver via this link: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)  ----  I then used your suggestion to get the driver fully working.  I then got Xgl via this link using it's method ---- [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl)  ----  I then tested Xgl and noticed that if I chose it to be my session then I would see a grainy gray screen with a cursor in the middle then it would switch/revert back to gnome after like 2 seconds.  ---- I then decided to go ahead and get beryl via this link  ---- [http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon_p2](http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon_p2) ------  I then noticed that if I loaded beryl-manager then there would be a flicker then it would revert back to gnome.  If I then right click on beryl and try to make it my window manager, it would flicker a little more and nothing would happen, it just reverts back to gnome.  I guess this is because if a new session crashes it reverts back to the last working session.  

How can I speak to you more efficiently (if you will)?  My main email is [email]casin0e@hotmail.com[/email] and it is also my MSN messenger passport.  SSephiroth1984 is my AIM id.  Just tell me if it's possible in the next link (tell me if you sent email) and I'll be online in no time.  

I don't know if I got the right beryl.  I don't know if I acquired fglrx the right way.  I don't know if I got Xgl the right way or loaded it the right way either.  Judging from t he fact that I installed fglrx and then Xgl and then Xgl failed to work, I would narrow down my error to those two first.  But even still maybe my  beryl is also wrong on top of something else being wrong.  I'll keep trying until I get a reply.  Thanks a lot.

PS. Any why is it that when I log out, Options don't work or even light up when I click on it?

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-10
I have to go make some dinner (yes, I know it's 23:45 hrs here!) so I won't be back online for a few minutes.  Do you try to start beryl from the terminal?  Sometimes you get a helpful error message - which you could then Google for a solution.

The way Xgl looks before the screen is presented sounds right - a grey moire effect.  Are you using '**exec gnome-session**' or '**exec dbus-launch --exit-with-session gnome-session**' ?

Maybe that'll hold you till I eat :)

---

### Post by bizarrosephiroth on 2007-04-11
OK I started all over from scratch and I just want this to be the last time I reinstalled.  I'm currently trying to get fglrx according to this link [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide#C](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Edgy_Installation_Guide#C)

Now this is a fresh installation of Ubuntu Feisty.  I'm doing the 8.35.5 driver the manual way.  I followed all the directions EXACTLY but build failed once I got to "sudo module-assistant build fglrx".  I probably didn't need to blacklist but I did anyway according to how Freebird54 stated on the first page of this thread.  The following is the part of the build with the first sign of error after "sudo module-assistant build fglrx":

 &#9474; if [ -f /usr/src/modules/fglrx/debian/postinst ]; then \                   &#9646; 
 &#9474;         mv /usr/src/modules/fglrx/debian/postinst                          &#9618; 
 &#9474; /usr/src/modules/fglrx/debian/fglrx-kernel-2.6.20-14-generic.postinst; \   &#9618; 
 &#9474;         fi                                                                 &#9618; 
 &#9474; dh_testdir                                                                 &#9618; 
 &#9474; touch configure-stamp                                                      &#9618; 
 &#9474; dh_testdir                                                                 &#9618; 
 &#9474; /usr/bin/make -C /lib/modules/2.6.20-14-generic/build                      &#9618; 
 &#9474; SUBDIRS=/usr/src/modules/fglrx modules                                     &#9618; 
 &#9474; make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.20-14-generic'     &#9618; 
 &#9474;   CC [M]  /usr/src/modules/fglrx/firegl_public.o                           &#9618; 
 &#9474; /usr/src/modules/fglrx/firegl_public.c:208: error: expected declaration    &#9618; 
 &#9474; specifiers or ‘...’ before ‘mlock’                                         &#9618; 
 &#9474; /usr/src/modules/fglrx/firegl_public.c:208: error: expected declaration  

I don't know what could possibly be the issue here if I'm doing this on a fresh installation.  I didn't skip any part of the instructions.  I started fresh so I can follow the same sets of rules that Freebird54 followed.  Please help me to figure this thing out.  Thanks!

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-11
The repos are reasoably up to date (8.34.8) so I haven't tried the compile version yet on Feisty.  It looks like something was not properly declared in the source code - so I would have to try it - then look in the source to see if Ican spot it/fix it.  3 courses of action remain:
1. revert to something less wonderful (the ati driver perhaps) and wait for the fix to be propagated through AMD/ATI.

2. use the fglrx driver in the feisty repos

3. Hope a more expert user drops in on this thread!

I will be trying some of this later on, on my 'test' Feisty setup - but no guarantees that i'll fare any better than you have!  Good luck! and - happy to help with option 2 should you choose it.

---

