---
title: "6.10 server installation, lamp dns?"
date: 2007-04-03
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by 13ojo on 2007-04-03
hi,

i have a pentium 3 running as 6.10 lamp/dns, i just checked it all, server. I've got a few web interfaces on it, and samba running.

Pc's at home use workgroups, not sure what domains are, how they work, or advantages of it.

But at the very least, i know now, i want LAMP checked, but do i want DNS?. i've never set-it-up before, and never seem to use it in my machine?. i'm also wondering that maybe the DNS option is whats causing this bug i have.

webpages hosted on the machine, are viewable by my "external" ip from any pc not in my house, but if i use the external ip from a local machine, it times out. however local ip and local machine works.

means i have to remember to sets of ips.

also services like no-ip offer redirection, but would it be possible to get some kind of script or timed process, that checks and updates the no ip redirect?. also i'm not really liking no-ip that much, is there any ones that have better services? that will work with this script idea?.

thanks

---

### Post by carlosfocker on 2007-04-03
DNS is  Domain Name Service (which you probably already found out :) ) and allows for user friendly names like google.com to be resolved to an ip address that the  server recognizes.  Its probably not necessary to setup a DNS server if you using a router.  Most home routers act as a DNS server and forward requests to you ISP DNS server and so on.

---

