---
title: ".mkv skipping lagging problems"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-18
whenever i play any .mkv files they skip/lag to the extent that it's very annoying
does anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-10-18
Hi. Which player are you using? Is the .mkv file High Definition?

Totem sometimes chokes on .mkv files encoded with the h264 codec; try installing Mplayer and use it to play the .mkv files. Look for Mplayer in Add/Remove (Applications->Add/Remove) or Synaptic (System->Administration->Synaptic Package Manager); or to install it from the terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal):
```
sudo apt-get install mplayer
```

This problem with Totem seems to be solved in Gutsy. I haven't had that issue yet.

---

### Post by onearmedpanda on 2007-10-18
yeah it's hd
i try to use mplayer but whenever i try a window pops up and says
"Error opening/initializing the selected video_out (-vo) device"
and plus i'm trying to play it with vlc, which i heard is good for .mkv files

---

### Post by erundil on 2007-10-20
> **RomeReactor said:**
> 

This problem with Totem seems to be solved in Gutsy. I haven't had that issue yet.

I actually have the same problem on Gutsy. Clean install too.

Had to use Mplayer instead.

---

### Post by zentsang on 2007-12-11
Yeah ... I'm experiencing the same on a clean Gutsy install.  Foraging through the forums ... there is no real fix for xine (which is my favorite player).  Only responses are to use something else.  MKV's work fine in VLC but I just found out that VLC 0.8.6c is missing lots of options like "only one instance" and "always on top" doesn't always work.  I have a quad-core system with 4 gigs of ram and an nvidia 7950 so it really blows that HD video has issue in anything.  Stoopid techno-progress!

:mad:

---

