---
title: "Modem Driver help"
date: 2006-12-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-16
Hi I'm very new to ubuntu and I like it so  would like to keep it every thing works fine BUT my modem I'm using gnome-ppp but I get a error telling me my modem isnt responding I dont know if i need a driver or not but im usein Ubuntu 6.10 and my modem is a BCM V.90 56K if any one could help me out that would be nice :) 

P.S. I don't know if this is the right place to ask this..sorry.. :-|

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-12-16
Read [linmodems]("http://linmodems.org").

> P.S. I don't know if this is the right place to ask this..sorry

It is the right place to post.

---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-16
I've been to that site before but I really don't get how you would find it on there :???: 
tho i did run into this --> [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/ltmodem/kernel-2.6/Ubuntu/](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/packages/ltmodem/kernel-2.6/Ubuntu/)  but I don't know if thats what i need or not nor do i know what one to get :-k

---

### Post by ardvark71 on 2006-12-16
Hi...

If your system has a serial port, another option would be to buy an external modem on ebay or someplace cheap. You would probably spend a lot less time setting it up than messing with installing a Linux driver. ;) 

Best Regards...

---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-16
> **ardvark71 said:**
> Hi...

If your system has a serial port, another option would be to buy an external modem on ebay or someplace cheap. You would probably spend a lot less time setting it up than messing with installing a Linux driver. ;) 

Best Regards...

I was thinking that but turns out I have no money left after buying a external DVD drive but thats abit off topic Lol so for me right now would be best looking for a driver ;)

---

### Post by ardvark71 on 2006-12-16
> **HybridTheory said:**
> I was thinking that but turns out I have no money left after buying a external DVD drive but thats abit off topic Lol so for me right now would be best looking for a driver ;)

Outside of Linmodems, that might be pretty hard. If they (Linmodems) do have one, you have to pay ($20.00, I think) to have access to the 56k driver. I paid around $6.00 for my old Zoom external and a serial cable.

If you do decide on the driver and are able to find one, I'm sure there are folks here who can help you install it if you need it.

---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-16
> **ardvark71 said:**
> Outside of Linmodems, that might be pretty hard. If they (Linmodems) do have one, you have to pay ($20.00, I think) to have access to the 56k driver. I paid around $6.00 for my old Zoom external and a serial cable.

If you do decide on the driver and are able to find one, I'm sure there are folks here who can help you install it if you need it.

Pay? for a driver? that odd I dont know how to work the site Linmodems so I really don't get what your talking about ](*,)

---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-16
Maybe this could help..

Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
--> Sending: ATQ0
--> Re-Sending: ATZ
--> Modem not responding.

Im pretty sure its a driver thing or something and do you really have to pay for modem drivers? just wonderin :-k

---

### Post by housam on 2006-12-17
> **HybridTheory said:**
> Pay? for a driver? that odd I dont know how to work the site Linmodems so I really don't get what your talking about ](*,)

Go to [linmodems.org]("linmodems.org") and down load scan modem tool, then under ubuntu run it to know which driver you need to activate your modem.

---

### Post by nite owl on 2006-12-17
honestly I believe your best option would be to buy a hardware serial modem(especially since your new to Linux) on somewhere like ebay you can pick them up for around $10 and up depending on the modem.....I tried messing around with my old win-modem trying to get it to work(using the scan modem tool etc..) In the end after researching endlessly I abandoned the whole thing and just bought a hardware serial modem. :)

---

### Post by housam on 2006-12-17
If he prefer not to pay money for a driver , we can help . If his modem is supported ( after a scan modem tool run and get results ) then installing and activating the driver is always possible.

---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-17
Ok wel let me ask you something it pops up in device manager does that mean its working? that I'm just doing something wrong? and also i do would not like to pay cuz I dont do ebay and stuff Lol I would pay if i could tho but i dont buy stuff from the net aslo i can tell you what modem it is cuz i dont see a scan modem download and linmodems 

my mode is a BCM4212 v.90 56k modem  if that helps 

well I'm stupid I didnt see that--> If his modem is supported ( after a scan modem tool run and get results ) well i cant find a link to download the scan thing or last time i did it didnt work maybe i need it for ubuntu 6.10 only or something...? haha... could you give me a link or something?

---

### Post by housam on 2006-12-17
Go for [this link]("http://www.linmodems.org/") . you will find a  [link ]("http://132.68.73.235/linmodems/index.html#scanmodem") to download the scanmodem tool.then read the instructions to install it.

---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-17
OK...I don't know if I did it right but I ran it in the termel and it made a modem file and spit like 8 txt files into it...now what..?

---

### Post by housam on 2006-12-17
OK , post the contents of the file ModemData.txt

---

### Post by HybridTheory on 2006-12-17
Only plain text email is forwarded by the  [email]DISCUSS@linmodems.org[/email] List Server.
 Do use the following as the email Subject Line:
           SomeName, YourCountry Ubuntu 6.10  kernel 2.6.17-10-generic 
 This will alert cogent experts, and  distinguish cases in the Archives.
 YourCountry will enable Country Code guidance.
 Occassionally responses are blocked by an Internet Provider mail filters.
 So in a day, also check the Archived responses at [http://www.linmodems.org](http://www.linmodems.org) .
 Local Linux experts can be found through: [http://www.linux.org/groups/index.html](http://www.linux.org/groups/index.html)
--------------------------  System information ----------------------------
 Ubuntu 6.10 
Linux version 2.6.17-10-generic (root@vernadsky) (gcc version 4.1.2 20060928 (prerelease) (Ubuntu 4.1.1-13ubuntu5)) #2 SMP Fri Oct 13 18:45:35 UTC 2006 (Ubuntu 2.6.17-10.33-generic)
 scanModem update of:  2006_November_07


USB modem not detected by lsusb

Modem or host audio card candidates have firmware information:

 PCI slot	PCI ID		SubsystemID	Name
 ----------	---------	---------	--------------
 02:01.0	14e4:4212	1028:0001	Modem: Broadcom Corporation BCM4212 v.90 56k modem 

 Modem interrupt assignment and sharing: 

 --- Bootup diagnositcs for card in PCI slot 02:01.0 ----
[17179574.436000] ACPI: PCI Interrupt 0000:02:01.0[A] -> GSI 22 (level, low) -> IRQ 169

 === Finished modem firmware and bootup diagnostics section. ===
 === Next deducing cogent software ===

 Completed candidate modem analyses.

 The base of the UDEV device file system is: /dev/.udev

 Versions adequately match for the compiler installed: 4.1.2
             and the compiler used in kernel assembly: 4.1.2


 
 Compiling resources appear complete:
   make utility - /usr/bin/make
   Compiler version 4.1
   kernel_headers base folder /lib/modules/2.6.17-10-generic/build


Checking pppd properties:
	-rwsr-xr-- 1 root dip 260920 2006-07-10 19:13 /usr/sbin/pppd

In case of an "error 17" "serial loopback" problem, see:
    [http://phep2.technion.ac.il/linmodems/archive-sixth/msg02637.html](http://phep2.technion.ac.il/linmodems/archive-sixth/msg02637.html)

To enable dialout without Root permission do:
	$ su - root  (not for Ubuntu)
        sudo chmod a+x /usr/sbin/pppd
or under Ubuntu related Linuxes
	sudo chmod a+x /usr/sbin/pppd

Checking settings of:	/etc/ppp/options
asyncmap 0
auth
crtscts
lock
hide-password
modem
proxyarp
lcp-echo-interval 30
lcp-echo-failure 4
noipx

Read Modem/YourSystem.txt concerning other COMM channels: eth0
Which can interfere with Browser naviagation.

 Don't worry about the following, it is for the experts
 should trouble shooting be necessary.
==========================================================

 Checking for modem support lines:
 --------------------------------------
     /device/modem symbolic link:   
slmodemd created symbolic link /dev/ttySL0:  
     Within /etc/udev/ files:
/etc/udev/rules.d/60-symlinks.rules:# Create /dev/modem symlink
/etc/udev/rules.d/60-symlinks.rules:KERNEL=="ttyLTM[0-9]*",			SYMLINK+="modem"
     Within /etc/modprobe.conf files:
/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base:options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base:options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-modem:# Uncomment these entries in order to blacklist unwanted modem drivers
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-modem:# blacklist snd-atiixp-modem
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-modem:# blacklist snd-via82xx-modem
     Within any ancient /etc/devfs files:

     Within ancient kernel 2.4.n /etc/module.conf files:

--------- end modem support lines --------

---

### Post by housam on 2006-12-17
Normally this analysis gives a diver to be downloaded and installed to activate the modem.
I see no driver given. So, it is either not needed to have a driver (only need some dialing adjustment) or it is not supported at all.
Now you've to post this file to  [email]DISCUSS@linmodems.org[/email]  the way they described in the first lines of the analysis. They are more experts in this field.

Good luck

---

