---
title: "GeForce 8600 gts in Feisty"
date: 2007-05-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ViceAdmiralBondo on 2007-05-24
I am brand new to Linux in any flavor, and I recently forsake my copy of XP and installed Ubuntu on my machine.  It installed just fine, and boots to Xwindows fine, but it doesn't recognize my video card.

I'm running the 64bit version of feisty.  I have an AMD Athlon 64 3800 dual core processor, 1 gig of dual channel DDR2 RAM, and a 256 meg GeForce 8600 GTS PCIe.

Under the device manager, the video card is recognized as Unknown 0x0400 from Nvidia Corporation, so I'm assuming that the machine is using generic video drivers right now.

I can't understand how to install a functional driver manually.  I tried using Envy, which installs a driver, but upon reboot, I get an error message stating something along the lines of "doesn't match kernel." or somesuch, and the X server doesn't load.

So keeping in mind that I am the greenest Linux user ever, and I was raised on DOS, then Windows, does anybody know how I can get my video card functioning?  Thanks.

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-24
Try this Systems>Administration>Restricted Driver Manager this will bring up a window in it there should be an option to enable restricted drivers this may turn on the drivers for your card if not post back.

ayenack.

---

### Post by ViceAdmiralBondo on 2007-05-24
The restricted drivers manager simply pops up a window that states "Your hardware doesn't need any restricted drivers."

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-24
OK that's strange. How new is this card? I'm not up on the latest cards. And can you post the results of this command.

In Terminal. Applications>Accessories>Terminal. Just in case you don't know.
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

ayenack.

---

### Post by ViceAdmiralBondo on 2007-05-24
Well, that command displays that particular file, but it's completely blank.

And a quick Google search tells me that the 8600 gts was released approx. April 17th of this year, so I'd say it's pretty darn spankin new.

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-24
The newness of the card may be the problem. It may not be supported in Ubuntu yet. It's impossible that the xorg.conf file is blank this is the file that tells X how to work. You would not be able to use your mouse or keyboard or all other sorts of devices without it. maybe you should try it again.

If it does not work change gedit to nano

sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

This will open the file in terminal.

ayenack.

---

### Post by ViceAdmiralBondo on 2007-05-25
Ok, I went ahead and opened the file through the GUI.  Here it is:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-25
OK that's fine. There appears to be no restricted nvidia driver installed. I'm not to sure about this but there may be an issue with the 64Bit version of Ubuntu and the nvidia drivers. I'll have to check this. It may be as easy as typing sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new in terminal but not to sure if these drivers are compatable with 64Bit Ubuntu. Don't do this yet because you may be booted down to the command line and this will be no good at all. Let me do a bit of research.

ayenack

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-25
You know what there are no drivers for the 8600/8500 or 7050/7025 series for Ubuntu yet their are for 8800 and all the other nvidia cards both 64Bit drivers and 32Bit drivers. The only thing to do is hassle nvidia to get the drivers finished and out there. Check there [web site]("http://www.nvidia.com/content/drivers/drivers.asp") and take a look.

For the time being your stuck with your system as it is or if you have an old card stick that in your box and use that instead.

ayenack.

[COLOR="Red"]**CHECK NEXT PAGE FOR POSSIBLE FIX**[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ViceAdmiralBondo on 2007-05-25
Ah, well thanks anyway.  Nvidia is usually pretty good about getting drivers out promptly, so the waiting game shouldn't be too bad.

Again, thanks alot.

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-25
[COLOR="Red"]Note[/COLOR] **This post is now defunct there now are NVIDIA drivers for this card.**
[COLOR="Red"]Note[/COLOR] **If you are going to try this print this post.**

[COLOR="Red"]Note[/COLOR] **Please stop GDM before you try this or do it in recovery mode from boot options. To stop GDM follow instructions bellow. Please take a look at Sataniceaden Saklura's post later on in this thread.**

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

**To Restart gdm**

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

[COLOR="Red"]Note[/COLOR]: **If anyone is going to try this make a backup of your xorg.conf before you do. This can be done like this. In Terminal type. Please make sure you use capitol "X" when typing "X11" in all instances.**

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup

[COLOR="Red"]Note[/COLOR]: **If anything goes wrong you can restore your original setup with these commands.**

rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

**This should do it.**

[COLOR="Red"]Note[/COLOR] **You may want to remove linux-restricted-modules & any Nvidia Software from your system to get this to work. As first mentioned by rrohde later on in this thread and picked up by me and added to this post. It worked for him please take a look at his [post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=453942&page=3") It's the sixth post down. To do this follow these instructions. Got to System>Administration>Synaptic Package Manager. When this opens click on search and type linux-restricted-modules then click on the little green square and then Mark for Complete Removal. To remove any Nvidia Software from your system do the same as above but type Nvidia.**

[COLOR="Red"]Note[/COLOR] **This post is for an AMD64 Processor running on the 64Bit Version of Ubuntu if you want to use it for any other combination edit as necessary.**

*_Original Post_*
Wait a minute I think I have an answer this should work but may not and may mess up you system. The Beta drivers list the 8600 series as working with the Beta drivers. If you want to install them follow these instructions.

**Type these commands in Terminal.**
sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list

**Add this line to the end of the file and save it. Close it.**
deb [http://www.albertomilone.com/drivers/edgy/latest/64bit](http://www.albertomilone.com/drivers/edgy/latest/64bit) binary/

**Then type this one line at a time.**
wget [http://albertomilone.com/drivers/tseliot.asc](http://albertomilone.com/drivers/tseliot.asc)
gpg --import tseliot.asc
gpg --export --armor [email]albertomilone@alice.it[/email] | sudo apt-key add -

**Then type this one line at a time**
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
sudo apt-get upgrade

**Then type this**
sudo nvidia-xconfig

**Then type this **
sudo gedit /usr/share/applications/NVIDIA-Settings.desktop

**Insert these lines in the new file and save **

[Desktop Entry]
Name=NVIDIA Settings
Comment=NVIDIA Settings
Exec=nvidia-settings
Icon=
Terminal=false
Type=Application
Categories=Application;System;

**Restart your system and try some screen savers to see if they work.**

Hope this works for you if it does post back here so others can use it if it does not still post so others know not to use it.

Best of luck. ayenack.

---

### Post by ViceAdmiralBondo on 2007-05-25
I did it.  All directions were followed exactly.  Everything seemed to work splendidly, until I rebooted the machine and was greeted with a nice black screen, followed by my monitor turning itself off.

I'm going to try it again and see if it doesn't give me some sort of option to manually change my resolution and refresh rate before I reboot.  I'm booting the live CD right now, and I really didn't have anything on the installation, so I'm just going to start fresh with a new install again.

Here we go.

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-25
It's a shame it didn't work, bit of a bugger as it goes. Well I suppose you're waiting on Nvidia to get their backsides in gear and get the new drivers out. Like you said shouldn't be to long to wait. Ah well, better luck next time. Hope the fresh install works but I'm not hopeful. Post back on what happens.

ayenack.

---

### Post by rrohde on 2007-05-26
Just wanted to chip in; 

I upgraded my system yesterday with new motherboard, CPU, RAM and video card - and that video card happens to  be a MSI **GeForce 8600 GTS** as well. 

And, even after reinstalling Ubuntu from scratch, using various driver installs from the repos and nvidia.com, I gave up because nothing I did ever work. 

Outcomes varied from dropping back to command line or getting  to a black screen and the monitor not being able to display anything, and then the PC completely freezing. 

I am at the point where I just wait for some working drivers for Ubuntu.... until then "vesa" to the rescue. :)

---

### Post by meborc on 2007-05-26
sometimes after nvidia drivers install you need to reconfigure your x```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```so the black screen doesn't always mean you need to do a new install of the system.. it just tells you that there has been a change in the video drivers and the X doesn't know what to do (probably resolution problems)

anyway... this is what i need to do to get my system running after nvidia drivers install (nvidia 7900gs)

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-05-26
His card is an 8600 not a 6800;) The 6800 should work just by going to System>Administration>Restricted Drivers and enable restricted drivers, that should do it. If you haven't already try it see if it works.

Best of luck. ayenack.

---

### Post by rrohde on 2007-05-27
Just a typo, because the card I had until now was a 6800. Now it's a 8600. :D

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-05-27
Incidentally, in case you ever bork your system again, for whatever reason, you can use the LiveCD to restore any backups you made, just by mounting the HDD from the live session with this command from live session terminal:
```
sudo mount /dev/sda
```

Then you will be able to access your install, and restore backup files or whatever. Saved my install so many times, I've stopped counting.

---

### Post by rrohde on 2007-05-28
There is also a nvidia beta driver for Linux that adds the 8600GTS, amongst others,  to the list of supported cards. 

Find it here: 

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=91896](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=91896)


I tried it - still no go! :(

Please post your findings as well!

---

### Post by arloth on 2007-05-29
To get my 8600GTS working I had to use the beta drivers and add 'rmmod nvidia' at the start of the gdm/kdm script.  To install the beta drivers, I've found it's easiest to install them after booting to recovery mode to make sure X isn't running.  It's been working great since.  Hopefully better support will come along soon that doesn't require the editing of startup scripts or using beta drivers.  

Good luck with getting it working! It's an excellent video card once it does go!

---

### Post by rrohde on 2007-05-29
> **arloth said:**
> To get my 8600GTS working I had to use the beta drivers and add 'rmmod nvidia' at the start of the gdm/kdm script.  To install the beta drivers, I've found it's easiest to install them after booting to recovery mode to make sure X isn't running.  It's been working great since.  Hopefully better support will come along soon that doesn't require the editing of startup scripts or using beta drivers.  

Good luck with getting it working! It's an excellent video card once it does go!


Interesting! 

How about nvidia-glx and other nvidia* packages from the repos? Do we need them for the beta drivers or dump them all before using those? 

Furthermore, any specific tips regarding xorg.conf? 

Can you specify what gdm script you're refering to? Do you mean /etc/init.d/gdm? 


Cheers!

---

### Post by arloth on 2007-05-29
The beta drivers here are what i used. The AMD64 ones in my case, [http://www.nzone.com/object/nzone_downloads_rel70betadriver.html](http://www.nzone.com/object/nzone_downloads_rel70betadriver.html) 

And yeah, the script in /etc/init.d/  It's gdm if you're using ubuntu, and for me it was kdm for kubuntu.

I didn't change anything manually in the xorg.conf file.  I've found more often than not if I start messing with that I end up with an unusable screen. #-o

edit: oh yeah, If you've installed the non-beta drivers, etc, you'll likely want to remove them before you do this.  I believe the driver installer program will give you grief about an existing driver if you don't remove them before hand.

---

### Post by rrohde on 2007-05-30
OK.. thanks for the info. Going to try this tonight! :)

---

### Post by Markmiran on 2007-05-31
How it going, can you keep me posted cause I am having the exact same problem with my PCI Express 8500 GT.  Black screen when you load the drivers.  When you run GDM from the prompt, it says it cant find the Bus ID.  Man I have tried every Busid combo.  I put it down to the drivers are stuffed and they just simply don't work.  Nvidia has release a set of drivers that are apparently update to support 8500/8600 GT.  But dont bother with them.  Have to hassle them to get this matter right, cause these cards are supposed to be good.   Let me know if you have any progress.

Marky

---

### Post by rrohde on 2007-05-31
Everything I try ends up with X not starting and an error message like this: "cannot load nvidia module" .

... and that's with the nvidia beta drivers that add support for the 8600GTS. :(

I removed ALL nvidia packages from the system.   I assume that NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.06-pkg1.run is fully self-contained...

---

### Post by rrohde on 2007-05-31
Doh!  Got it working now!

Guess what? RTFM would have helped, hehe!  I was on the right track, but didn't read the last bit of info in nvidia's forum about removing "linux-restricted-modules"!

Once that was gone,  the beta driver "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.06" works perfectly! :D


Short HOWTO: 

-- remove ALL nvidia* packages from the system
-- remove "linux-restricted-modules" from the system

-- install "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.06-pkg1.run" 

Enjoy X on your 8600GTS ... :D

---

### Post by marcozs on 2007-06-09
Isn't any nice guy gonna make a beta nvidia-glx deb pack? :) I remember there was a repo for edgy. It'd be really great...

---

### Post by casi on 2007-06-12
A deb pack would be very nice. I'm not able to install this driver even not with the new 100.14.09 driver. Here's my /var/log/xorg.0.log : [http://www.ubuntuusers.de/paste/11647/](http://www.ubuntuusers.de/paste/11647/) 

Hope, you can help me.

Regards,
 Casi

---

### Post by bldgengineer on 2007-06-12
Same here. Same card with a C2D e6600 and 32bit fiesty. I've followed everyone's instructions and still can't get it to work...

here's my post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=469766]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=469766")

maybe something can help you there

---

### Post by sataniceaden saklura on 2007-06-12
ok so i have tried all of this and still get the x server cannot find kernel 

one other thing i have notice i cant use the drivers you guys/gals are talking about the error i get is cannot run as your system is x86_64 ?????

i have been using NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-100.14.09-pkg2.run drivers insted but it still cannot load xserver

i dont know what else to do :(

****edit*** This has been solved and is now working perfectly this is the thread(sorry don kknow how to link) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2836387#post2836387](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2836387#post2836387)

---

### Post by potnoodles on 2007-06-18
For 2 weeks I followed and tried many of the posts/suggestions concerning 6800gts Ncidia driver and 7.04 both here and at NVnews.I also tried ENVY during this period without success. Another thing not working with Ubuntu was VLC which would not start.
On Saturday morning I installed the updates from the notification icon and then ran ENVY using the following steps.
1-  Uninstall Nvidia driver 
2 - Install Nvidia driver

worked like a charm!!!

I am pretty sure this is what I previously did with ENVY when it failed. So I was convinced it had to be one of (numerous) actions I had taken which made some difference. So I deleted my ubuntu partition and reinstalled ubuntu - did the updates from the notification icon - installed ENVY and ran it 

again it worked like a charm, and after installing VLC - that was working as well.

So perhaps the recent updates fixed something for me. The graphics card is in my signature.

regards,
potnoodles (nube)

---

### Post by ayenack on 2007-06-22
That's good potnoodles lets hope that others get the same results. Brave step to uninstall Ubuntu then reinstall to see how things turned out. Just proves there's a scientist in all of us.

---

### Post by darth rave on 2007-06-27
Envy worked just fine now I have my dual screens working, took me since Friday and finally I have the power of dual screens :)

---

