---
title: "40GB NTFS Slave Hard Drive: Need Read/Write Permissions"
date: 2008-03-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by crushingbutterflies on 2008-03-15
I realize that there are about a million threads about hard drive read/write permissions, but I have tried and tried and tried to remedy this issue myself to no avail. This is not my main computer, but I have installed a 40GB HD into this computer and troubleshooting it has eaten away at the majority of my Saturday.

This hard drive formerly belonged to one of my deceased computers that was running a Beta of Vista, and so the usual "NTFS Configuration Tool" process left me with a message telling me I needed to clean reboot in Windows. Seeing as how I have no access to the computer that did not clean shut down on this HD, there's no way I can do that. So, I opted to mess around on gparted. It's still not working. I don't know what to do now. I believe the HD has files on is from the Vista install, but they are worthless to me. I don't need it formatted in NTFS, and if I could clean format the whole freaking thing, that would be amazing.

Here is a copy of my fstab file:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=ccf4b16b-5087-406e-81b2-16b7fbcf9b5d / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=bf9e78e4-426d-47c5-bed5-429a3bccd113 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Slave\040HD ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```
As you can see, during one of my failed operations, I told Ubuntu to mount it in /media/Slave HD. It shows up there and I can see it when I mount it, but it is read only and owned by root. I would prefer it if it showed up as a hard drive in my computer folder.

I'm running Feisty Fawn 7.04.

Right about now, I'm ready to throw Ubuntu out the window.

---

### Post by herbster on 2008-03-15
So you don't give a flying eff about what's on it, you just want the sucker formatted and cleaned up? I'm guessing you'd like to format it to EXT3 for regular use in linux now?

You should note that you haven't clearly illustrated what specific issues/errors the drive/mount process has given you.

To get it going, first of all, remove the line from your fstab, the whole line starting with "/dev/sdb1" and then do:

```
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
```

Now run Gparted (of course I hope you're running it with gksu/gksudo) and bring up the drive, hit Delete on the partition there, format it to a new one and you should be good. Now if you want to have this drive mounted at every boot just add this line to your /etc/fstab:

```
/dev/sdb1 /media/mountpoint ext3 defaults 0 0
```

---

### Post by Duck2006 on 2008-03-15
This will help with mounting the win drive.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

For read/write you have to install ntfs-3g drivers, witch you find how to install on the link.

---

