---
title: ".run extension"
date: 2007-07-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Demystification on 2007-07-18
I've downloaded drivers for my asus radeon 9550. The drivers has .run extension. How do I install them???

:confused:

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-07-18
Goto System-->Administration-->Restricted Drivers Manager, check the box there, reboot.

or

```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r) # (Okay if it is already installed)
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
sudo depmod -a

```

To use a .run you
```
chmod +x thename.run
./thename.run
```
but you don't want to do that here. You have to be in the directory of the file to do this.

---

### Post by Demystification on 2007-07-18
I have done what you said about &#8220;Goto System-->Administration-->Restricted Drivers Manager, check the box there, reboot&#8221;, when I first installed ubuntu.

The graphic card works fine, but yesterday I tried to install Beryl. When following the instructions the system suggested something like to update the drivers of my card because it didn&#8217;t support accelerator (I don&#8217;t remember exactly). I&#8217;ve downloaded the drivers with .run extension.

Do I have to put the drivers to another location before so they will be found in &#8220;Restricted Drivers Manager&#8221; and do again the same process?

Or if I do the second method:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r) # (Okay if it is already installed)
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
sudo depmod &#8211;a

must I somehow specify the downloaded drivers file?

Or shall I use the third method???

Thank you&#8230;.
I trying very hard to do things with ubutu, but I don&#8217;t want to think that in a few years I will still work with windows&#8230;

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2007-07-18
One way to get beryl to work with ATI graphics card is to use the alternative open source drivers with AIGLX. Check out this guide: [Installing Beryl On An Ubuntu Feisty Fawn Desktop With An ATI Radeon Graphic Card]("http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_beryl_ati_radeon").

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-07-18
If you try that second method I gave you, you just copy and paste it. You don't use the radeon driver you downloaded at all. 

Run this after you do so we can see if it worked:
```
glxinfo | grep direct && glxinfo | grep glx && glxinfo | grep OpenGL
```

It should say "Direct Rendering: Yes"

---

