---
title: "7.10 won't boot after installation"
date: 2007-11-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by christina_svats on 2007-11-15
I used a live cd to install ubuntu 7.10 on my laptop. The installation completed successfully with no signs of something going wrong, but when I reboot in order to start normally the os, I get a black screen. At some time it says that I can press Esc and when I do so, I can select 7.10 or recovery mode, but I still get a black screen after selecting 7.10.
Does anybody know what's wrong? Could I do something in recovery mode to fix it?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-15
Do you mean it doesn't boot or it does boot but you end up with a blank screen instead of a GUI login screen?

What happens if you pick the recovery mode from GRUB menu?  Does it boot into a prompt?

---

### Post by christina_svats on 2007-11-15
I guess the answer is yes in your first question 
As for recovery mode, it looks ok, I can use it.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-15
Then it means there is something wrong with the X server.  You can reconfigure it again after you boot into recovery mode.

```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
If you are not sure about a question, just take the default.  However, try using **vesa** driver for your graphic card for now until you get X up and running,  Then, you can install a driver for it.  What graphic card do you have anyway?

Once you are done with it, restart your machine with

```
shutdown -r now
```

---

### Post by christina_svats on 2007-11-15
I have an ATI Radeon 9700 512 MB
I will try rebooting into recovery mode, use your directions and then I will get back to you with the results
Thanks

---

### Post by christina_svats on 2007-11-15
I mostly used the default answers, but nothing happened...Any other suggestions?

I used to have my laptop on dual boot, but I formatted the disk and installed ubuntu alone.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-15
Boot with the normal kernel.  Wait for it to finish and instead of seeing a GUI login screen, press <Ctrl><Alt>F2 to get to a console.  Log in with your username and password.  Then, at the prompt, type

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
start
```
What is the error message when you run the second command?

p.s.  And the LiveCD runs just fine with your machine?

---

### Post by christina_svats on 2007-11-15
Ok, I could not do what you suggested, I don't know why, but the following happened:
I tried booting the normal kernel, I got the black screen, I waited...nothing...then I pressed <Ctrl><Alt><F2>
I got the login screen, I logged in, everything looks fine. I got the restricted drivers and figured I should reboot to see what happens. Same thing, Black screen. When I pressed <Ctrl><Alt><F2> I logged in without a problem. 
Any ideas?

PS: Live CD is working great, I even got to print from an HP laserjet 1000, no complaints here...

---

### Post by christina_svats on 2007-11-15
I have some more information:

After "stop" I got the following message:

stop: missing job name

Then I rebooted. The situation is as follows:

I get "Starting up..." on my screen and then the usual.
Then, I get the black screen.
Then, I press <Ctrl><Alt><F2> and i get something that starts with "Saving VESA..."
And then I get the login screen and I am in.

---

### Post by HydroModeler on 2007-11-23
Christina - Did you ever resolve the issue you describe?  I seem to be having the exact same problem.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by christina_svats on 2007-11-25
Sorry, I didn't resolve it, but it doesn't seem to be causing any other problems. If I wait long enough (about two and a half minutes), I do get the login screen. 
It turned out to be a known bug: 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/meta-gnome2/+bug/151544](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/meta-gnome2/+bug/151544)

I think I 've read somewhere that this is actually an issue of time needed and it's related to the graphics card. If  remember correctly, if you set some kind of delay in the login window settings it should start normally, but I didn't try it.

---

