---
title: "How do I edit Hz in xorg.conf?"
date: 2006-08-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mojoman on 2006-08-09
Hi!

My autogenerated xorg.conf gives the values of 43-60 for vertical refresh and 28-51 for horizontal sync but according to my computer manual (I have a Toshiba Satellite 1800-504 with a Trident CyberBlade) the rates should be 60/75/85 Hz for vertical refresh and 48,3/60,0/68,7 kHz for horizontal (for 1024x768 ).

How do I change this? I think xorg.conf wants these values to be added as a range, separated by a dash (e.g. 43-60) or as discreet values separated by comma (e.g. 43, 54, 60).

Since the values stated in my manual have comma in them X-server crashes due to unexpected values when I add them in the above form (i.e. as they are stated in the manual)

Can anyone help me out here? How should I add them?

Thanks in advance!
/Mojoman

---

### Post by Ivaldi on 2006-08-09
edit: Sorry, misunderstood the question

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2006-08-09
Hello,
to change these values, you need to manually edit your xorg.conf file I think. First thing I would do so is to make a backup copy of this file, just in case :) 
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.bak
```
Then to edit it : 
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Cheers !

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-08-09
In a terminal:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Eventually you will get to the monitor configuration, and I'm sure you can change those settings from there.

---

### Post by Fondor1 on 2006-08-09
Maybe this is a crazy idea, but have you tried replacing the commas with periods instead?

---

### Post by steve.horsley on 2006-08-09
In english, a dot '.' is used to separate units from tenths, rather than a comma ','. So you could try 60,75,85 Hz for vertical refresh and 48.3,60.0,68.7 for horizontal.

Comment out the old values with a # rather than delete them, so you can easily restore them if you need to.

---

### Post by mojoman on 2006-08-10
Ok, good thinking!

It was period (.) that was to be used instead of comma (,). When I added it in the format 48.3,60.0,68.7 X-server started up smooth and nice. :D Thanks!

However (isn't there always something?) I still get an error output in my xorg.0.log:

> (WW) TRIDENT(0): config file hsync range 48.3-48.3kHz not within DDC hsync ranges.
(WW) TRIDENT(0): config file hsync range 60-60kHz not within DDC hsync ranges.
(II) TRIDENT(0): Generic Monitor: Using hsync value of 48.30 kHz
(II) TRIDENT(0): Generic Monitor: Using hsync value of 60.00 kHz
(II) TRIDENT(0): Generic Monitor: Using hsync value of 68.70 kHz
(II) TRIDENT(0): Generic Monitor: Using vrefresh value of 60.00 Hz
(II) TRIDENT(0): Generic Monitor: Using vrefresh value of 75.00 Hz
(II) TRIDENT(0): Generic Monitor: Using vrefresh value of 85.00 Hz

This tells me that all is not well. Does anyone know what this means and how I can mend it? I still have some serious videoproblems and I figure that it might be connected to this.

Best regards
Mojoman

---

