---
title: "5.1 system+xmms"
date: 2006-10-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by haxer on 2006-10-07
Hello ive got an pretty big 5.1 system how to get it working to xmms?

---

### Post by uk_sphinx on 2006-10-07
you might want to be a bit more descriptive of your problem.
me got 5.1 to get xmms ????
use a bit of comman sense or youl get no help

---

### Post by haxer on 2006-10-07
Ok i have an 5.1 speaker system to the computer and i noticed it isnt doing 5.1 just 2.1 and ill want to get help to install it or just get it working :)

---

### Post by uk_sphinx on 2006-10-07
awwww im getting fed up.

everything i seem to do has errors.
the only thing i havnt had errors on is when i do my programming.
i cant get mine on either.5.1 tthat is.
i have a 128mb graphics card and i installed the latest drivers and i havnt even got a menu for the 3d settings.
im trying to install wine and i cant even get it off the repositorys i specified.
my internets all of a sudden started lagging.
applications are quitting by themselves.
i cant view 40% of pictures on the internet.
i cant view ANY flash movies after installing latest flash plug-in.
evolution pops errors half way through sending or recieving e-mails.

i seem to spend more time fixing errors than doing anything.
i do like it better than windows so its such a shame im considering going back to bill gates pocket.
im trying to decide wiether or not its worth putting ubuntu on a £1000 pc.
i just dont seem to be enjoying the pc.

---

### Post by haxer on 2006-10-07
ah why buy so expencive computer my costs about 800$ And its perfect for me :) a nice 2.8 pentium cpu not celeron and werry good graphic 1024mb ddr2 ram


But please help me fix it :)

---

### Post by aldegaz on 2006-10-07
please people!

Couldnt you guys improve your English? I understand half of what you are saying...

"my costs about"
"werry good graphic"
"me got 5.1 to get xmms"

---

### Post by haxer on 2006-10-07
Ok ive got an 5.1 speaker system with digital sound and i want it to work trough xmms. Becouse I think i would be nice with audio on all of my 5.1 speakers but now it isnt 5.1 its only on 2.1 so please tell me how to fix this little problem so i can listen to my favorit music at [www.neradio.net](www.neradio.net) and i would like it werry much so if someone of you guys or girls could tell me how it works or how to do it or some idea I would love it :)

---

### Post by Shed on 2006-10-07
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=184814&](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=184814&)

---

