---
title: "problem changing permissions on fat32 partition"
date: 2007-03-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by AbsolutIggy on 2007-03-31
hello!

I'm having trouble with permissions of a partition. I made it using Gparted, file format fat32. When I try to mount it (manually), I can only write to it as root. I can not change permissions, or change the owner on it.

The folder I try to mount the partition to has all permissions before I mount. After I mount, the permissions revert (and the date changes).

```

drwxrwxrwx 2 root root 4096 2007-03-31 14:47 share

sudo mount -t vfat /dev/sda4 share

drwxr-xr-x 3 root root 16384 1970-01-01 01:00 share


```

When I try to chmod, nothing happens. No error message, but also no change. chown gives me this:
```

sudo chown martin share
chown: changing ownership of `share': Operation not permitted

```

Any ideas?

(Using Edgy, 6.10.)

---

### Post by Patrick K on 2007-03-31
After fighting with this issue for a while I just edited fstab and gave myself full permissions. 
> gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
Look for the partitions you want to change and change "uid" and "gid" to your user number (most likely 1000, you can check this in 'System > Administration > Users and Groups'). After this you have full permissions and can change the permissions, if you wish. Probably not what the advanced Linux user would recommend but solves the problem.

---

### Post by AbsolutIggy on 2007-03-31
thanks, but then i'll need some help with what to put in fstab

it looks like this:
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=593fc75e-d02b-47ff-a2fc-e10cdbf898ad / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=0ae92b10-8b9d-4888-a2cc-af027d2a5386 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/win2000 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

I tried adding this line:
```
/dev/sda4 /media/share vfat defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8,gid=1000,uid=1000 0 0
```

and then running mount -a, but nothing changed. can anybody help me with what to write in fstab?

---

### Post by alien21010 on 2007-03-31
What you have put in the line should work perfectly.  Type: sudo mount -a (if thats not what you typed already).  The only thing that you might not need in the options is the locale=en_US.UTF-8...  Everything else should be just fine.

---

### Post by AbsolutIggy on 2007-03-31
you where right.. when i took away the part about default, this error went away as well. and now it works.

```
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sda4,
       missing codepage or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

```

thanks for the help!

---

### Post by osofast on 2007-04-08
Hi, I am having teh same problem, my fat32 partition is read only. The funny thing is that it will work for a little bit but then it wont allow me to change my files because it turns into read only.

Heres what i have for my /etc/fstab

> 
#Added by diskmounter utility
/dev/hda4 /media/hda4 vfat auto,fmask=0002,dmask=0000,uid=1000,gid=114 0 0


also i tried this

> /dev/hda4 /media/hda4 vfat auto,uid=1000,gid=114,fmask=0002,dmask=0000, 0 0

and this
>  
/dev/hda4 /media/hda4 vfat auto,fmask=0002,dmask=0000,uid=1000,gid=1000 0 0]

I think my problem is similar to you guys


Any Ideas?

Thanks in advance

PS. Also when i change my Fstab do i have to reboot for the effects to take place?

---

### Post by AbsolutIggy on 2007-04-09
> **osofast said:**
> 

PS. Also when i change my Fstab do i have to reboot for the effects to take place?

I think doing 'mount -a' is enough..

---

### Post by osofast on 2007-04-09
Thanks for the reply.


Just incase anyone else happens to come across this thread and has the same problem as me.

I did the following

backed up my important files on there

then i went to the command line and put in this

> fsck -a /dev/(whatever the harddrive is)

I am not sure what that does but it fixed my fat32 partition.

---

