---
title: "7.10 install never works"
date: 2008-01-30
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Magelico on 2008-01-30
I recently downloaded the 7.10 version of Ubuntu and promptly cloned my original windows install to another drive twice the size with two partitons, one unformated.  Both partions are 159 gb.  Then changed the bios to boot from cd after removing the original hard drive and replacing it with the one with two partitions.

To make a long story short after that I could never get the Ubuntu Live CD to load.  It would always stop at "running local scripts." or stop outputting to the monitor and eventually make a series or beeps through the internal speaker.  I then tried the windows installer that creates grub and then allows a dual boot, same problem.  I tried to check the CD integrity and the computer again stoped sending a signal to the monitor and continued to make a series of beeps.  So I just downloaded another copy, but have had the same problems.

The system I am trying to install to:

AMD 6000+
4 gigs DDR2 800 ram
1 160 gig WD SATA HD - not currently connected
2 320 gig Seagate SATA HDs, one with the two partitions and the other disconnected
2 Lite-On SATA DVD Burners
Asus nVidia 590 SLI ultra motherboard

---

### Post by jcwmoore on 2008-01-30
The first thing that comes to my mind is 64 bit vs 32 bit versions of ubuntu... if you have a 64 bit CPU do you have the 64 bit version of ubuntu, and vice versa....  i'm probably wrong but just a first guess...

---

### Post by emarkd on 2008-01-30
You can install a 32 bit OS on 64 bit hardware.  That's not the issue.  Most of the time this is caused by your video hardware.  I would try the alternate CD, which is a text-based installer.  You can get it at [http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/7.10/).  You would install using this CD and then enable the restricted drivers for your hardware after the installation.

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-01-30
try to install by choosing
"install from safe graphic mode"

~E~

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2008-01-30
if nothing else seems to help;
highlight the first "start or install option" and press F6,
backspace and get rid of the "quiet nosplash" and
add "vga=771 noacpi" and press enter to boot with those options.

---

### Post by Magelico on 2008-01-31
something i have notice with many a different softwares...

I did download the 64 bit software, and I just downloaded the alternate install disc.. if that doesn't work I will try to get the previous release.

BTW I did forget to mention I have a: EVGA 8800 GT 512mb Superclocked Graphics Card

---

### Post by mgranet on 2008-01-31
IIRC, the nv drivers don't support the 8800. You need to run the proprietary Nvidia ones. (164.09, I think.)

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-01-31
Try with just one stick of ram for the install and then put the rest back in once up and running.

I think this is a mb problem, I have a 680i mb that installed with 4GB no problem but others have suffered.

---

### Post by oedha on 2008-01-31
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg from the console
then use vesa at the moment
later on you can set up the 8800

~E~

---

### Post by Magelico on 2008-01-31
Thank you for helping, after some work I got the text only alternate version to load ubuntu.  I did have some problems getting the OS to recognize the 8800 and my viewsonic monitor...

So using the vesa setting I was able to boot and search the forum for a solution, I ended up using a program called envy that worked great.  No problems now on the video end of things... enabled the compiz-fusion manager, everything looks great.

Anybody know how to get my spdif out working?

---

