---
title: "Internet Access (failure in resolving domain names?)"
date: 2006-11-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by thornomad on 2006-11-08
Hi,

I am running Ubuntu Server 6.06 CLI edition.  No GUI.  Seems I can no longer resolve host names when trying to connect.

wget returns "failed: Temporary failure in name resolution."
apt-get update returns multiple: "Temporary failure resolving 'us.archive.ubuntu.com'
boinc-manager reports: "couldn't resolve host name"

I can, however, access my web files on this server from a remote machine and other machines on my local network have net access ... which would seem to indicate that the systems connection to the internet is fine ...

The only changes I made recently were this: Yesterday, I tried to install the "sendmail" package using aptitude.  Afterwards, it wasn't doing what I wanted, so I went ahead and did a "remove" from aptitude.  However, during the remove, there was an error that a few of the repositories couldn't be access due to a "temporary failure resolving" ...

Any ideas ?

Thanks

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-11-08
1.  us.archive.ubuntu.com could be down so have you tried to "ping" it?

2.  Should look at your /etc/resolv.conf to make sure everything is still in order.

3.  Maybe reboot!!!

---

### Post by thornomad on 2006-11-08
1. I get the "couldn't resolve host name" at a number of different addresses; wordpress.org / berkerlab.org as well.  Plus, I can resolve them on my Mac easily enough.

2. my /etc/resolv.conf file says:

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
```

I am not sure if that is what it is supposed to say but ... that's all that's there.

3. I will try another reboot. Can't hurt! (*but it didn't work either!*)

Thanks.

---

### Post by corvy on 2006-11-08
You need to put the ip of your dns server in resolv.conf

Like: 

nameserver 190.100.20.10
nameserver 29.23.199.29

(these are fictive, replace ip with your DNS servers)

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-11-08
There is your problem, /etc/resolv.conf!  It shouldn't be empty at all...  The easiest thing is to boot your machine up with a LiveCD, mount your harddrive where / is, and copy /etc/resolv.conf from your LiveCD to your harddrive...

```

sudo mkdir  /mnt/ubuntu
sudo mount -t  /dev/hda1  /mnt/ubuntu
(assuming / is on /dev/hda1...)
sudo cp  /etc/resolv.conf  /mnt/ubuntu/etc/resolv.conf

```
p.s.  Before you do the copying, see if you can ping those addresses again from the LiveCD...

---

### Post by thornomad on 2006-11-08
Hello - thanks for the reply.  Interesting.

Well, my server doesn't have monitor output -- I run it remotely via SSH -- so I can't run the liveCD; I do have a Ubuntu laptop ... could I just copy the text from that laptop into my server's /etc/resolv.conf file since they are on the same local network?

I will look into that ... thanks.  

I wonder who erased my file!!

---

### Post by corvy on 2006-11-08
Just make sure that the file includes search and domain info. This is exact copy of my file:

```

search barmen.nu
nameserver 195.159.148.229
nameserver 195.159.0.100

```

---

### Post by thornomad on 2006-11-08
That worked !! Thanks.  I just went and copied my info from the other machine ... basically was a call to my comcast domain name server.  Excellent.

HOWEVER!!  When I restart my machine the changes I input are overridden and it is replaced (Again) with:

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

```

Again, the only thing I had installed/removed was the "sendmail" package; I even went back, changed the resolv.conf file to allow access, then removed the "sendmail" package again (said there were four remaining to be removed) and then restarted but, still, looks resolvconf(8) is generating a new file.

Any ideas about how to stop this ?

Thanks,
Damon

---

### Post by corvy on 2006-11-08
Look at this: 
(found here: [http://wiki.vpslink.com/index.php?title=Ubuntu_notes](http://wiki.vpslink.com/index.php?title=Ubuntu_notes))

```
root@vpslink:/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d# cat original 
search spry.com
nameserver 66.249.3.10
nameserver 66.249.3.11
root@vpslink:/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d# nano -w base
root@vpslink:/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d# cat base
nameserver 66.249.3.10
nameserver 66.249.3.11
root@vpslink:/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d# resolvconf -u 
root@vpslink:/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d# cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 66.249.3.10
nameserver 66.249.3.11
root@vpslink:/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d# 
```

Seems you use resolvconf? I never used this myself...

---

### Post by corvy on 2006-11-08
If you dont need resolvconf maybe a little:

```
apt-get remove --purge resolvconf
```

Would be nice?? :)

---

### Post by thornomad on 2006-11-08
> **corvy said:**
> Look at this: 
(found here: [http://wiki.vpslink.com/index.php?title=Ubuntu_notes](http://wiki.vpslink.com/index.php?title=Ubuntu_notes))


Hey! Thanks for that link ... to be honest, I am not sure if I am using the resolvconf or not ... I guess I could try and remove it.  However, all I did was add to the /etc/resolvconf/resolvconf.d/base file the info from the original file.  That is working.

Restarts and all!!  

Thanks so much.

---

### Post by corvy on 2006-11-08
no problem .. dunno why you have it either, you just seem to do :)

Happy bunting!

---

