---
title: "????"
date: 2007-11-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by richtalia on 2007-11-01
How do I access floppy dsk info such as "directory" using ubuntu 7.10?  Many thanks !  Rich

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-01
It depends on where it's being mounted but look in /media/floppy0.

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
ls -la /media/floppy0
```

---

### Post by meanburrito920 on 2007-11-01
I'm sort of confused about what specifically you are asking. if you are looking for the location of the drive, it should be under /mnt if unmounted or /media if mounted. if you are looking for the drive properties, simply left click on the drive and select properties.

---

### Post by richtalia on 2007-11-04
I typed in : ls-la/media/floppyo and the message was : no such directory

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-11-04
> **richtalia said:**
> I typed in : ls-la/media/floppyo and the message was : no such directory

Check your /etc/fstab to see where your floppy is.

cat /etc/fstab

---

### Post by FotoPhocus on 2007-11-04
> **richtalia said:**
> I typed in : ls-la/media/floppyo and the message was : no such directory

Did you type  ls -la /media/floppyo or  ls -la /media/floppy0?  Make sure you type **ls -la /media/floppy0** exactly like that, with the spaces in the correct spot, and a 0 (zero) at the end of floppy, not the letter "O".

---

### Post by Popoi on 2007-11-04
Use a better title to your post, and you will find better replies.

---

### Post by xyz on 2007-11-04
> **richtalia said:**
> I typed in : ls-la/media/floppyo and the message was : no such directory

It's ```
ls -la /media/floppy0
```

and not
```
ls -la /media/floppyo
```

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-11-04
> **Popoi said:**
> Use a better title to your post, and you will find better replies.

Very much so.

---

