---
title: "Wifi questions..."
date: 2007-07-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by User X on 2007-07-08
Hello everyone!  I have installed Ubuntu on my PC and now I am trying to get the internet working.  more specificly my wifi.  I have an Asus A8V-E Deluxe motherboard with built in wireless.  I am a brand new user and do not even know where to start.  I was looking, and I can't even tell if the wireless hardware is seen by ubuntu let alone if its configured correctly.  I do not have another means of communication with my router so I have to get the wireless working without an internet connection.  Just to avoid the obviouse question of how I am writing this message I will let you know I have a laptop as well as my fancy new Ubuntu machine!  Any help would be greatlyappreciated!!

---

### Post by Church.Cameron on 2007-07-08
oh man i am in the same boat man and i can't seem to get any help on this

its a tough one 
good luck

---

### Post by fragility14 on 2007-07-11
bump, I'm going to have the same problem on a 64 bit Kubuntu Machine.

I say going to because I just installed and havnt started trying to make wireless work yet, but it isnt generally in a position where it can be plugged in.

I figured I would ask first instead of frustratedly trying random things...this is the first thread that came up for my motherboard type, same problem...no solution...foreboding

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-07-11
Start with the following in Terminal (find it in Menu):
```
lspci

```
You are interested in the bits that start Network/Ethernet Controller from *lspci*

Then search these forums for what comes out (in the Controller line).

e.g. ```
08:04.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5005G 802.11abg NIC (rev 01)

```
Search for *AR5005G*

Other useful bits of info will be generated by:
```
ifconfig
iwconfig
```

Hope that helps to get you started.  This is obviously assuming it doesn't just work.

---

