---
title: "Common fixes for USB freezing up randomly. Please help!"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-20
My mouse freezes up on me randomly. I'm forced to restart the whole thing 5 minutes or so.

My mouse model is "Genius" or is that the brand. I'm pretty it's the brand.

Well anyway, it's a laser USB mouse. Someone please help, I don't want to leave Ubuntu, but this may push me off to XP again. Please don't let me leave. T_T



EDIT:

I found this:

[I]I know this problem was around with Ubuntu 6, but I figured it would be solved by now. I just installed x64 Ubunutu 7.10 on my Core2Duo machine and after using it for a while, my Logitech MX1000 laser mouse just stopped working. I plugged in an old PS/2 port mouse and it's working fine. Anyone have a fix for this on the new build? Is it the same as before? I really don't want to disable power management if I don't have to.

Everything works fine but the mouse [/I]

What is this "Power Management"?
What are the consequences if I disable it? I really don't know if this will solve my problem, could someone help me out please?

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-20
Come on guys! This really can't be that hard to solve! Help, make me a true believer! :)

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-20
This depresses me.

I really didn't think you guys would let me down like this. :'(

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-20
Dear God please someone help me!

This is the only issue I'm having with Ubuntu. What the hell's the matter with this OS? Sorry if I sound hostile but having to restart your pc more than 20 times in 10 minutes will do that to you.

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-21
Last chance Ubuntu, I really don't know what else to do but return to Windows.


There has to be a solution.

---

### Post by LanDan on 2007-10-21
please, you don't need to call me god, its not needed on these forums ;)

OK, what kind of details you knwo of this mouse? any specific model?
please also post a copy of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file

perhaps dmesg might have something on your mouse as well

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-21
My mouse is Genius, "GM-04003A".

Where can I find the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file? I don't even know what it is.

And what is dmesg?

Thanks for helping me out.

---

### Post by LanDan on 2007-10-21
well..

xorg.conf is a file that has all your specific settings on your monitor keybourd and mouse..

it is located in the folder/etx/X11
just go to file system in your browser and the you go to etc then to X11 and then you see a file called xorg.conf can you try to attach that?

dmesg is located in /var/log/dmesg
please also attach that one

---

### Post by benerivo on 2007-10-21
> **papuccino1 said:**
> What is this "Power Management"? What are the consequences if I disable it? I really don't know if this will solve my problem, could someone help me out please?

Well you could try disabling power management. All it does is turn off them monitor if you don't move the mouse for 10 minutes (or whatever you set it to). After a longer period of time it will then put your computer in standby. It's all about saving energy for people who leave their computers on for long periods when not actually being there using them. To turn off just look for the power management option in the menu and disable the options. You can then go in to 'Sessions' from the main menu and delete the power management services from starting at boot.

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-21
Ok, here's all the text from the file:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7300 GT]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7300 GT]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by LanDan on 2007-10-21
> **benerivo said:**
> Well you could try disabling power management. All it does is turn off them monitor if you don't move the mouse for 10 minutes (or whatever you set it to). After a longer period of time it will then put your computer in standby. It's all about saving energy for people who leave their computers on for long periods when not actually being there using them. To turn off just look for the power management option in the menu and disable the options. You can then go in to 'Sessions' from the main menu and delete the power management services from starting at boot.

didn't see this one, you tried this already?

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-21
Yes, I tried it. The problem is still there.

---

### Post by LanDan on 2007-10-21
what does dmesg say?


you can also type dmesg in a termina land it shows you if something chagnes with your hardware

---

### Post by papuccino1 on 2007-10-21
Well it shows a lot of text, but like I said I really don't know what it all means. :S

---

