---
title: "1000+.avi to dvd?"
date: 2006-08-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by CanonD on 2006-08-26
Hello, my aunt has over 1000 .avi files taken from her digital camera.

she wants me to put them all on DVD so her mother can watch them since it strains her mother's eyes when looking at a computer screen.

She isnt too worried about how pixelated it will look when blown up to a large size.

Is there any way I can do this???

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-08-26
Well first check if the dvd players she is going to watch them will play avi files newer ones do. Then you just organise them into folders and burn as a regular data DVD.

---

### Post by CanonD on 2006-08-26
I already checked that, it doesnt have that capability.

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2006-08-26
I can't try it because it segfaults on my computer for some reason, but this may do the job for you.

[http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=38347](http://kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=38347)

---

### Post by siucdude on 2006-08-26
I preffer a program called DeVeDe  look for it I thinks its one of the easy ones.  also Tovid will do the job.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by LKRaider on 2006-08-26
This means you'll have to transcode them to MPEG2 format.

I found quite a few guides out there (google ;P ), but these seem the best ones:

[VideoHelp::AVI to DVD Encoding and Authoring](http://forum.videohelp.com/viewtopic.php?t=242455) - very GUI oriented, seems pretty easy to follow

[Converting video in linux using ffmpeg and mencoder](http://smorgasbord.net/convert_video_linux) - all is pretty much done on the command-line, which may be useful if you have so many files. Also, all is done on a Breezy install and should work on Dapper aswell.

[Howto author AVI->DVD with menus using Linux only](http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=117709) - a very good guide aswell ! It is very thorough and descriptive.

---

### Post by CanonD on 2006-08-27
using commandline ffmpeg, is there a way to set it to do multiple files, so I don't have to enter each one manually?

$ ffmpeg -i *.avi -target ntsc-dvd /tmp/*.mpg

 i tried that but it doesnt seem to work.

thanks for all the help

---

### Post by toddles on 2006-08-27
tovid has a batch argument. It will convert all of the videos in a directory.

---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-08-27
Please! Please! Let me interrupt by telling you guys about the good news:

I've made a guide on how to do exactly what the OP wants to[SIZE=2], [/SIZE][FONT=Verdana][SIZE=2][here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=183936")[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by CanonD on 2006-08-27
tovid keeps closing on me during encoding, even when I don't do anything.

once from scrolling down the 'output' in encoding

once while doing nothing

and once when it was 7 operations away out of 160 to finish

blah

---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-08-28
> **CanonD said:**
> tovid keeps closing on me during encoding, even when I don't do anything.

once from scrolling down the 'output' in encoding

once while doing nothing

and once when it was 7 operations away out of 160 to finish

blahwhere you using the ubuntu .deb version or some other faulty version?

---

### Post by LKRaider on 2006-08-29
> **CanonD said:**
> using commandline ffmpeg, is there a way to set it to do multiple files, so I don't have to enter each one manually?

$ ffmpeg -i *.avi -target ntsc-dvd /tmp/*.mpg

 i tried that but it doesnt seem to work.

thanks for all the help
Try this:

```
for i in `ls *.avi`; do ffmpeg -i $i -target ntsc-dvd /tmp/$i.mpg; done
```

---

