---
title: "6.06.. how to update?"
date: 2007-06-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by johnnyw on 2007-06-10
Hi there: I Have 6.06 installed and also have received by mail my copy of fesity. I  should do 6.06 ->7.07 right?

should I dod 6.06->6.1>7.07?

If so, how?
(want the easiest whay as I am not a guru :p)

thx

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2007-06-10
You can do both depending on the amount of time you want to spend on the upgrade. 

Personally I feel that a fresh install makes the best result. But if you chose the 6.6 --> 7.04 upgrade I'd say you will save a lot of time. I don't see why ever you want to do a 6.06>6.10>7.04-upgrade??

Otherwise upgrade via the net:

Code:

sudo apt-get update

Sudo apt-get upgrade

sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

Now I do not know if this procedure will make a 6.06>6.10-upgrade but it shouldn't.

---

### Post by MikeDX on 2007-06-10
If you dont mind reinstalling a few programs, then i HIGHLY recommened backing up your user directory to an external hard drive, then perform a clean install, then put your user direc tory back. Make sure you back up EVERYTHING though, including all the hidden .directory files!! (These are actually the most important in a lot of ways).

Clean installs work wonders.. Upgrades never go according to plan and can take FOREVER!

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2007-06-10
> **MikeDX said:**
> Clean installs work wonders.. Upgrades never go according to plan and can take FOREVER!
They do work, but depending on how the user managed its packages and repositories they have very different results...
I'd also advise a clean install, after [making a separate /home partition]("http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome").

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-06-11
>  But if you chose the 6.6 --> 7.04 upgrade I'd say you will save a lot of time.

> You can only directly upgrade to Ubuntu 7.04 ("Feisty Fawn") from Ubuntu 6.10 ("Edgy Eft") 

If you have Feisty live Cd you can not do upgrade with it.If that is a case listen Kobalt advice.

---

### Post by johnnyw on 2007-06-15
so I guess I am pretty ****** up, as my backup disk is an IDE drive and dapper drake won't let me boot it as secondary (when booting from my sata drive).
I ve been told that this issue is pretty usual in dapper...

another alternative could be passing all my data thtough the network to the other computer. the problem is that Ie installed samba and can ping from the other pc to mine but can't have access :S

thanks guys

---

### Post by Seisen on 2007-06-15
> Clean installs work wonders.. Upgrades never go according to plan and can take FOREVER!

I personally have never had a problem with a upgrade, it depends on how you install your software and what type of hardware you have, like graphics cards, wireless cards, etc.. which tend to break and then people complain about them.

---

### Post by johnnyw on 2007-06-15
I would not dare to make an upgrade via ""Live update"" as my connection is really crappy ( 128 k ) and disconnects very often...

can I download 6.1 in a torrent or something similar and make the update manager "look " into my downloaded files ?

---

