---
title: ".deb files."
date: 2006-06-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Somenoob on 2006-06-08
What exactly is a .deb file?

I am not a noob, i'm just a previous windows user, so i'm not used to Linux.

---

### Post by frodon on 2006-06-08
This will help you to start : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=153118](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=153118)

A deb file is a pre-compiled package for debian distributions.

---

### Post by mostwanted on 2006-06-08
A deb is an arcive that looks like a little UNIX file system (if you open it using an archive tool). It has a version number, description and a list of dependencies bundled with it which needs to be installed before tools that rely on APT can install it. If the correct dependencies are installed, installing the deb will copy the files from their respective virtual paths in the deb file system to the real file system. When you need to remove it, APT just reverses this process (removes the same files again).

---

### Post by mjm115 on 2006-06-08
a .deb file is roughly the equivalent of a .exe file in Windows.  It contains a description of all files needed to install you application on a Linux system.

---

### Post by nbv4 on 2006-06-14
could someone tell me what is required to open deb archives? There are some files I need that are included in a .deb file which when I try to open with file_roller (or any otyher archive program) it tells me the archive type is unsupported.

The deb in question is here:

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/download.pl?arch=i386&file=pool%2Fmain%2Flibx%2Flibxxf86dga%2Flibxxf86dga1_1.0.0-0ubuntu3_i386.deb&md5sum=f1f2a20a6db2bf5eb44db45cdb3a1337&arch=i386&type=main](http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/download.pl?arch=i386&file=pool%2Fmain%2Flibx%2Flibxxf86dga%2Flibxxf86dga1_1.0.0-0ubuntu3_i386.deb&md5sum=f1f2a20a6db2bf5eb44db45cdb3a1337&arch=i386&type=main)

---

### Post by mjm115 on 2006-06-14
Since this file is included in the repository, all you have to do is type in a terminal:

> 
sudo apt-get install libxxf86dga1


It will automagically select all needed files and install them for you.  Alternatively, you can search for it in Synaptic (Add/Remove Programs)

---

### Post by TristanMike on 2006-06-14
To install a .deb ```
sudo dpkg -i package.deb
```*where "package.deb" is the actual name of the package, and the "-i" means "tell me what you do".  

Or you can right click on it, and select "Open with GDebi Package Installer" (Only in Dapper) and install it that way, but that's graphical, and you don't want that do you? :p

EDIT: the code from the above post is actually ```
sudo apt-get **install** libxxf86dga1
```

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-06-14
[QUOTE=nbv4]could someone tell me what is required to open deb archives? There are some files I need that are included in a .deb file which when I try to open with file_roller (or any otyher archive program) it tells me the archive type is unsupported.

The deb in question is here:

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/download.pl?arch=i386&file=pool%2Fmain%2Flibx%2Flibxxf86dga%2Flibxxf86dga1_1.0.0-0ubuntu3_i386.deb&md5sum=f1f2a20a6db2bf5eb44db45cdb3a1337&arch=i386&type=main](http://packages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/download.pl?arch=i386&file=pool%2Fmain%2Flibx%2Flibxxf86dga%2Flibxxf86dga1_1.0.0-0ubuntu3_i386.deb&md5sum=f1f2a20a6db2bf5eb44db45cdb3a1337&arch=i386&type=main)[/QUOTE]


Looking at the file, and the question , it may be that you have the amd64 version and want to add the file to your lib32. Its needed to get 32 bit wine working. If that is the case 
```
sudo apt-get install dpkg-dev
```
Will install what you need to let you open the .deb file with your archive program. Unfortunatly the only way to install some 32 bit lib's to a 64 bit system is to do it manualy. Unless you want to setup a complicated chroot jail.

---

### Post by mjm115 on 2006-06-14
[QUOTE=TristanMike]To install a .deb ```
sudo dpkg -i package.deb
```*where "package.deb" is the actual name of the package, and the "-i" means "tell me what you do".  

Or you can right click on it, and select "Open with GDebi Package Installer" (Only in Dapper) and install it that way, but that's graphical, and you don't want that do you? :p

EDIT: the code from the above post is actually ```
sudo apt-get **install** libxxf86dga1
```[/QUOTE]


WHOOPS!  Thanks TristanMike.  I edited it.

---

### Post by nbv4 on 2006-06-14
[QUOTE=Kilz]Looking at the file, and the question , it may be that you have the amd64 version and want to add the file to your lib32. Its needed to get 32 bit wine working. If that is the case 
```
sudo apt-get install dpkg-dev
```
Will install what you need to let you open the .deb file with your archive program. Unfortunatly the only way to install some 32 bit lib's to a 64 bit system is to do it manualy. Unless you want to setup a complicated chroot jail.[/QUOTE]Actually i discovered that installing build-essentials let me unpack the deb.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-06-14
[QUOTE=nbv4]Actually i discovered that installing build-essentials let me unpack the deb.[/QUOTE]
Thats cool, the dpkg-dev is installed then.

---

