---
title: "is it possible?"
date: 2007-11-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by duruttye on 2007-11-27
At home we have two pcs, both running ubuntu gutsy, there is a switch and a speedtouch modem (516... not sure).
Is is possible, that in NTOP and other network sniffers, like wireshark, I can see the other pc's network activities?
Also it is shown in the network manager, firestarter.
I'm curious, because I almost got hacked last week and since than I installed applications for network management, 

Thanx!

---

### Post by DSn0wMan on 2007-11-27
As far as I know you wont see traffic destined for other machines comming from a switch even if they are on the same network. If I remember correctly you can poison the arp table to work arround this. 
If it is a hub instead of a switch you will see all the network traffic as a hub broadcasts all traffic out all the ports and firures that you will only pickup your own packets.

---

### Post by duruttye on 2007-11-27
Okey, so the guy who gave it to me, told me that it is a switch, if it's not, then how can I find out?

---

### Post by roachk71 on 2007-11-28
One way to tell that it's a hub instead of a switch is that a hub limits network speed to that of the slowest device or machine connected to it (ie. all clients have 10Mb/s throughput, although some have 100Mb/s cards.)

Switches have no such limitation.

You could use the Network Tools app to check the speed of all of your clients, and compare the result from that to a report of the network cards installed (generated by ifconfig -a).

Correction: Oops! Network Tools doesn't give as much information as it used to. Try looking up the connection speed through the Network Manager applet (if you have it) on the panel instead. And Ifconfig is of little help...The hardware information app is better.

---

### Post by DSn0wMan on 2007-11-28
I would just do a bit of googling on the brand and model number of the thing to see what it is. If it is a switch there is probably some way to configure it through a web interface, or a terminal.

---

