---
title: "How to: Fix Toshiba Satellite S3000-X4 GUI Problems"
date: 2007-03-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Tomosaur on 2007-03-05
Hello!

Over the weekend, I installed Ubuntu for my parents on an old laptop- a Toshiba Satellite S3000-X4. I used the server installation, because that particular laptop is old and pretty slow, so wanted to build everything up from scratch. Anyway - here's the problems you may encounter:

[LIST]
[*]'Box' display - very small area of the screen is displayed only
[*]No X display -  distorted screen, blank screen, bright patches etc etc
[/LIST]

Now - from what I understand, every one of these laptops suffers these problems. The integrated video card (Intel 830M) takes memory from the installed RAM - but the BIOS that ships with it has a fault in that it doesn't actually allow this 'memory stealing' to take place. This leads to problems with the X server. The box display is easily solved, as it is a simple config problem.

**Fix the boxed display:**
Boot the machine into recovery mode, and type:
```

nano /boot/grub/menu.lst

```

Scroll down to the list definition bit, and add:
```

vga=791

```
to the kernel options for each kernel. You can also put this into the 'kopt' bit if you feel like. Example is shown below:
```

title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.17-11-generic
root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-11-generic root=/dev/hda2 ro quiet splash vga=791
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.17-11-generic
quiet
savedefault
boot

```

Save and exit (Ctrl+x). Next time you reboot- Grub will still be in a small box area, but once you boot into a kernel - the full screen will be used.

**Solving the display problems once X is installed:**
This is also pretty easy, but you need to find a working Windows machine to do it, and a floppy disk. Format the floppy disk, and download this file:
[Toshiba Satellite S3000-X4 BIOS Upgrade](http://support.toshiba-tro.de/tools/Satellite/s3000-ps301e/bios/bios-160.zip).
Extract it, open the directory, and find the Install.exe or Setup.exe from the BIOS folder. Double click it, and it will create a bootable BIOS upgrade floppy. Once it's done, it will assume you're still using the laptop and ask you to reboot with the floppy disk inserted. DON'T - because you're not on the laptop. 
Just take the disk out, and put it in the laptop, then boot. Keep hitting 'Esc' while it's booting, then select 'Removable Drives' to boot from the floppy. It will automatically upgrade the BIOS (it wlll take a few minutes, and beep constantly while it's doing so). Once it's done - reboot the machine, remove the floppy disk, then boot into Ubuntu. Your X display should now be working :).

Hope that helped some people.

---

### Post by david wakelin on 2008-03-06
Hello,
   I followed the procedure outlined here, but while the splash screen/boot looks fine
(1024x768), at login and desktop look dreadful (800x640). Ii am running Ubuntu
version 7.10.  I append my current xorg.conf file. Could anyone tell me what I'm doing 
wrong?

many thanks, 

David


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82830 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	32686
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-33
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82830 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by mikeyphi on 2008-03-06
You should be able to select the higher resolution by opening System/Administration/Screens and Graphics.
You might need to check that the higher resolution is also selected under System/Preferences/Screen Resolution

---

