---
title: "Ubuntu - black screen before loggin - x server warning/ problem?"
date: 2006-09-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
[COLOR="Red"][SIZE="4"]Thread closed - problem solved
[/SIZE][/COLOR]
Hi all,
Started my box this morning, normal startup right until the point that the splash would normally appear, then blam! Black screen and nothing.
I restarted after a few minutes in recovery mode and again just before i would expect to see my loggin, blam! but now with a system prompt.
Tried a 3rd time, also in recovery mode. This time i reached the loggin screen only to see it load, fall out, load and fail (3 or 4 times). Then a blue window with something over the X Server,
"X Window System version 7,0,0
module loader present
markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file....etc"

This asked if i wanted to see "output", hit "ok" twice (didn't see any error message) and then 
"The X Server is now disabled, Restart GDM when it is configured properly"

Clicked on "ok" again and voila, loggin screen and here i am.

Can anyone please, please tell me what the heck is going on?

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
Just turned off and tried again, same happened.
But i paid a little more attention this time ;)

In grub i chose the latest "kerne" 2.6.15.27-386
This fails completely to load, ends in a black / frozen state.

Choosing 2.6.15.26-386 recovery
gets me as far as

"Checking all file systems...
etc

*Setting up general console font...
*setting up per-vc fonts...
* /dev/tty2
* /dev/tty3
* /dev/tty4
* /dev/tty5
* /dev/tty6

BLINK - BLANK SCREEN

Prompt
root@laptop:~#

if i type exit now

then loggin attempts 3times to load before bringing me to 
"Failed to start the X Server"
etc.


Yesterday evening, reinstalled my ATI drivers following guide by Fitzman49 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=204910](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=204910)

Which seemed to work fine, no error messages.

I went on to do a little "tweaking" with XGL
using [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl)

which also seemed to go fine, at least i rebooted sevral times afterwards and had no problems.

Help....please.

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
here's my xorg.conf if this helps at all.


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync    28.0 - 51.0
	VertRefresh  43.0 - 60.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
	Driver      "ati"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
Nobody, nobody at all?

Reinstall - inevetible??? - hours of customizing for nothing? Darn!

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-09-23
When you logged in in tty [black screen] try this,

uname -r 

And make a note of the output.

sudo aptitude install linux-restricted-modules-here the output

This should help you get your X-server responding.

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
> **bulldog said:**
> When you logged in in tty [black screen] try this,

uname -r 

And make a note of the output.

sudo aptitude install linux-restricted-modules-here the output

This should help you get your X-server responding.

uname-r = 2.6.15.27-386

sudo aptitude install linux-restricted-modules-here the output
Something called regina3 (3.14) is now installed and
"the following packages have been kept back
fglrx-control fglrx-kernel-source"


Tried "gdm" by prompt, worked a couple of times but since doing the above i come no further than a frozen black screen. (in recovery mode)
If i type "startx" i come into a "root" desktop with the following warning...
POWER MANAGER
This program cannot start until you start the dbus system service.
It is strongly recommended you reboot your compter after starting messagebus.


ps i reinstalled the ati driver before this (above)
root@laptop:~# fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: MOBILITY RADEON 9700 Generic
OpenGL version string: 2.0.5946 (8.27.10)

which seems to work ok, when i do get into my system everything then works ok including 3d games.

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
Ok, i know i'm slow :) just figured out that "here the output" = 2.6.15.27-386


uname-r = 2.6.15.27-386

sudo aptitude install linux-restricted-modules-2.6.15.27-386
=
nothing installed or modified.

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
Guys,
i can't figure this out myself.
I've read practically everymention of xserver on these forums.
I've Googled it and i've reconfigured what i can, i've redone my ati driver and i've tried using backed up files.
I can get into a "root session" after tty> typing "startx" but can't access my usr sesions. Loggin just crashes and then everything blacks out and freezes.
I'm at the point of uninstalling and trying a reinstall, maybe using kde instead of gnome - just going to hurt like hell, so many hours customizing the look and feel of my first linux system.
Bugger it!!!!
No one at all got a few minutes????

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-09-23
Yep I have a minute to spare :D 

Well I think it's a driver issue,but I see you're booting the new 27 kernel wich is the course of your problem.

Can't you login in the previous kernel?
You should be fine then and you can look why your fglrx and fglrx kernel source  will not be installed.

Looks like an dependencie problem of some kind.
You could try it with synaptic to see what's wrong with your box.

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
Hi again, and thnx.
I can't loggin at all with 27 and with 26 only with the recovery mode and then as i say,
after tty,startx giving me a root session.
tried recompiling and replacing the ATI driver with the previous version but i still get the same thing. Within the root session everything seems to work ok. I just don't know where to look anymore. ???

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-09-23
Did you try 

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh  xserver-xorg

So yo could setup your X-server
Make a copy before altering please.

also you could try to make your driver back to vesa [I'm not familiar with ATI however]


Section "Device"
Identifier "aticonfig-Device[0]"
Driver "vesa" this one *************
Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

I should forget the '27' and focus ont the previous kernel which has worked before.
Try to boot the kernel and not recovery it should work because the new kernel has nothing to do with the old one.

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
Ok,
my last change was in the xorg.conf file, i swapped it for a backup.
see the following...


 ```
/etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option	    "XkbOptions" "altwin:meta_win"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync    28.0 - 64.0
	VertRefresh  43.0 - 60.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 NP [Mobility Radeon 9600/9700 M10/M11]"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

```

This has had the following 2 effects.
1. my driver has reverted from ATI to MESA
2. I just logged in on kernel 26 (non recovery), got to the loggin screen which went white, froze, crashed and repeated this 3 times. Got an error about xserver, but was then able to log in as myself and not as root.

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20060923230955

got an error flashing up "xserver is now disabled, restart GDM..."

---

### Post by bulldog on 2006-09-23
And did you restart GDM?

/etc/init.d/gdm restart  think it was this

But the problem is within your X-server,we only have to find out what coursed it. :mad:

You could even try to uninstall your ATI driver cause we are sure then it's not messing things up anymore.

---

### Post by stoer on 2006-09-23
I've been busy beeting my head against the wall all day, i know darn well that i'm forgetting something basic.
I've gone over every change that i made last night (was very busy trying to rectify a non working ATI driver), which i finally got working.
But, afterwards i took a look at my xgl (optional load choice), which had stopped working due to the ATI problem.
I was busy at...[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl)

and found a few small changes that i could try - funny how it all comes flooding back to me now!!!
Amongst those changes made (done arround 01.00 - my only excuse tiredness)
were the following...

Method A: Xgl Session on Login Window
his will allow you to start Xgl as an option at the login screen. The Xgl server starts on DISPLAY :1 as part of your desktop session and terminates when you end your session. This is convenient route as you can simply select a regular session if Xgl doesn't work. Xorg continues running on DISPLAY :0 since it's needed by Xgl. 
We will need to create two new files: a startup script and a X session file. 
Open up a terminal and create a new script named startxgl.sh: 
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/startxgl.sh
added
#!/bin/sh 
Xgl :1 -fullscreen -ac -accel xv:pbuffer -accel glx:pbuffer &
DISPLAY=:1
exec gnome-session


[COLOR="Red"]Make the script executable with the following command: 
sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/startxgl.sh

Method B: Make Xgl Your Standard Display Server for Ubuntu Users
Another way to run Xgl involves replacing Xorg with Xgl as the standard X display server for use with GDM, the Gnome Display Manager. Xgl will take DISPLAY :0 and start Xorg on DISPLAY :93 since it's needed by Xgl. Switching between X servers will not be as simple as logging out and back in again though; it will require a little bit of file editing instead. 
We'll configure the gnome display manager. In the terminal type: 
gksudo gedit /etc/gdm/gdm.conf-custom
If you have ATI with fglrx drivers
Add a new [server-Xgl] section and change the [servers] section to look like this: 
1=Xgl #Override display 1 to use Xgl (DISPLAY 1 IMPORTANT FOR ATI FGLRX).  

[server-Xgl] 
name=Xgl server
command=/usr/bin/Xgl -fullscreen -br -accel xv:pbuffer -accel glx:pbuffer
flexible=true

[servers][/COLOR]

I somehow missed the  "METHOD B" and carried on making changes thinking i was still in "method A"
So i added the replacement for xorg with xgl!
I've just been back and removed this section, reinstalled my ATI driver and i'm now typing this APOLOGY andreply in kernel 27 with working ATI driver and Xserver.

Bulldog, thank you so very much for giving me your time, without it i'd have given up, stopped worrying and reinstalled (throwing away a perfectly good Ubunt/Gnome.
Fingers crossed that this reboots again ;)
Many Thanks, and again sorry all for the bother.

---

