---
title: "scanModem"
date: 2006-09-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by blendmaster on 2006-09-15
Hi, I've had several issues concerning my modem getting set up (in fact, you guys may even remember some of these earlier threads). If anyone one has set up a dial-up connection, they know the lengthy process involved in finding out about your modem and downloading multiple software. 

     I'm at the point where I've downloaded scanModem.gz and have gotten it to work (thanks to user mitch.c on that one). However, I have no clue as to what I'm supposed to do with these files. I need someone who's done this to help me out here. I'm really close to getting it working, and I cannot wait to see the outcome! Thanks so far to you guys! I wouldn't even be halfway there if it weren't for you!

---

### Post by blendmaster on 2006-09-15
Anyone got ideas? I'm really not sure what to do next.

---

### Post by blendmaster on 2006-09-15
I'm really desperate!

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2006-09-15
You need to read the *read1st.txt* and *modemdata.txt* files generated by the scanModem script.

---

### Post by Omnios on 2006-09-15
ANsering a few questions may help get you help. 

 What kind and model of modem do you have?

 Try running in terminal if you have a hardware modem like my dad it will give you what port it is on and that can be set up easy in networking dial and imputting the port from the output. Otherwise you will probably have to install a driver

```

 $ sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf

```

---

### Post by webofunni on 2006-09-23
hello i thought that you got your modem.txt go througth that what driver software it suggest to you there are sveral one 
slmodem is the one suggest to me hope the same for you if that the case then sure i can help you .Go through your modem.txt and find the driver it say's other wise paste it in the forum so that we can help you

---

