---
title: "Lenovo T42 Projector Trouble"
date: 2007-12-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by renedelagza on 2007-12-26
Hello, i've been trying to fix this for 3 days now and i don't know what else to do. First, i tried to watch a dvd connecting my computer to an epson 50c and i could see with it everything i had on my computer's screen, except for the movie. So, i thought there was a conflict with resolution, and i changed it, but it didn't work.

Next time i turned on the computer i could see with the projector the IBM screen, then the Ubuntu login page, and then nothing, and fn + f7 didn't do anything. I searched through forums until somewhere i found this code:

* sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg*

apparently to get the xorg.conf file the way it was, and it started working fine after a reboot.

Today i turned on the computer with the projector connected, and once again i can't see nothing after the ubuntu login screen (in the projector). and i tried again this code and didn't help.

please, help me.

this is my xorg file:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Standardbildschirm"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]"
	Monitor		"Standardbildschirm"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-12-26
Most projectors (at least the Epson's that I have worked with) only accept 60 Hz refresh rate.  Have you verified that you have 60 Hz refresh set in your Display Resolution.  1024 by 768 is a standard projector resolution.

Try a different movie player, in a terminal:

>sudo apt-get install vlc

>vlc

---

### Post by renedelagza on 2007-12-26
yes, i checked it and it is in 60Hz and 1024 x 768 and i am already using VLC... i had troubles before this to see encrypted dvd's but that's working fine now.

thanks

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-12-27
Try running the video in fullscreen mode.  This uses the framebuffer mode.  Once running on the laptop, then switch to projector output.

I don't think the Radeon 7500 mobility chip has the horsepower to run an embedded video window and run both screens simultaneously.  If you have dual-boot, see if you can do it in Windows.  If so then the reverse-engineered, hey we don't have specs, ati drivers suck compared to the windows drivers.  This fact we have known for a while.

I don't think a restricted/improved driver exists for the Radeon 7500 series.  I believe it is only supported on the 9600 and greater series.  Someone else will have to weigh in on this point.

A laptop is a dumb way to watch a video.  An easier approach is a $29 DVD player with component output and a component-to-VGA adapter (for $35!).  Put the projector in RGB or YPrPb mode and enjoy.  No laptop needed.

---

