---
title: "Dell 9400"
date: 2006-09-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Tattoo on 2006-09-02
Hello,

I am brand new to ubuntu, and i still love it.:D  now to my problem, i am attempting to install ubuntu on a new dell 9400 laptop. when everything gets laoded up, it stops with an error, and the error says screen found no video bios found. could someone possibly help me out with this one? i don't have a clue. thanks in advance for any help. Tattoo

---

### Post by Tattoo on 2006-09-02
Anyone???? I am so ready to use this.:D :D :D

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-09-02
After the error, do you get a command-line prompt? It looks like:
```
user@computer:~$
```

If so, type:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Press Enter, type your password and hit Enter again. And when it asks you if you want to autodetect your video card, tell it "No". When it asks you what video driver to use, select "vesa", and leave everything else at its defaults.

When asked if you want to do monitor autodetection, tell it "No" again. Choose the "Simple" method of specifying the monitor, and then choose whatever size your monitor is. All the other defaults should be fine.

After it's all finished, and you're back at the command-line prompt, type "startx", and hopefully you should have a graphical display.

---

### Post by Tattoo on 2006-09-03
yeah the prompt says ubuntu@ubuntu

---

### Post by Tattoo on 2006-09-03
Hello,

your solution worked just perfect. thank you so much, i am up and RUNNING =D> wooooo hoooooo thanks again:grin: Tattoo

---

