---
title: "7.10 Live CD - can't rotate cube ..."
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2007-10-19
I  am playing with 7.10 Live CD and cannot rotate the desktop cube.  I have enabled the "Extra" effects and get the wobbly windows effect.

Is the cube rotation enabled when one uses the Live CD?

Carl

---

### Post by por100pre1 on 2007-10-19
I didn't worked to me in the Live CD, but it works like a charm in the installed Gutsy system. :)

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2007-10-19
I had to install the advanced compiz settings manager.  I forget the exact name, but if you go into synaptic, and search by name for "compiz" you'll find it.  It's something like "compiz-advanced-settings-manager".  then go to System->Preferences->Advanced Effects Settins (or someting like that, you'll see it after you install the package) and check rotate cube and set up the settings the way you want.

---

### Post by bobpur on 2007-10-19
Rotating cubes???
I'm only showing two work places and they just slide back and forth. I think everything is working OK because they slide with style:)

---

### Post by conjur3r on 2007-10-19
The cube is not enabled by default.  You must install **compizconfig-settings-manager** to obtain the configuration panel.  Once installed, the option is under System > Preferences > Adv Desktop Effects Settings.  From there, you can alter any of the settings to your hearts content.

---

### Post by mahiyar on 2007-10-19
Install the "Advanced desktop settings manager" after doing the same you will be able to do all the settings that you remember in beryl, including cube and hosts of other settings. Somebody should sticky something like this, the answer is not so obvious.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2007-10-19
With the Live CD, I can also get Super + Tab to fold windows in a set back view -- but no rotate cube.

So, I assume the Live CD does not allow us to rotate the Compiz cube?

Carl

---

