---
title: "6.06: &quot;Software updates error&quot;, no indications as to what and which package"
date: 2006-07-07
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-07
5 min ago, I had 3 updates to do. I recall the last 2 about support for English language. First one I don't remember.

SO I hit Install but then a pop-up came up for 1 sec telling there were software updates error. It didn't tell me which package and why.

How can I find out to report the problem ?

---

### Post by spd106 on 2006-07-07
Open synaptic and search for broken packages. It may also have the package that failed in the updates section.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-07
Didn't see any 'b' in any packages. I did a search for 'broken' and found Aptitude. So I tried Aptitude.

Do I have to be in a package section or from the the start list when it Aptitude starts ?

I tried Search + Broken from the menu, but it just beeps once without any results.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-07
Scratch that.  I saw at bottom of the screen, options to go next, previous. I just kept going next on each main selection from the list. 

In the installed packages, it says it found 2 broken.


1B  ubuntu-desktop                    0.119  0.119

Some dependencies of ubuntu-desktop are not satisfied:

 * ubuntu-desktop depends on evince
 * ubuntu-desktop depends on gnome-system-tools


If I try examine on a few things, I find :

--\ Install the following packages:
libxmine-mainl       [1.1.1+ubuntu2-7 (drapper)]

--\ Downgrade the following packages:
evince               [0.5.2-Oubuntu3 drapper-updates, now -> 0.5.2-Outbuntu2 drapper]



Is this a general problem related to the 3 updates I had done 30 min ago ?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2006-07-07
In synaptic go to "Edit - Fix broken packages" and see if that puts thing right.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2006-07-07
I would like to know also if I am the only having this issue.

If not, then something is wrong with those 3 updates I had this morning and that is going to impact just about everyone.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2006-07-07
No problem when I did them.

---

