---
title: "7.10 Still not working with my X1900XT card"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
I had issues with 7.04 with no GUI coming up

I have the ATI X1900XT video card.


now when I do a fresh install of 7.10 it gets to a point where it had an "X" as my mouse cursor and it says "you are running in low graphics mode" I went to configure and I went to choose a drive and went down to ATI then to RADEON and it still doesnt work. It kinda just stops working. nothing loads or nothing... I have even lowered my RES to 640x480




How am I suppose to install this?

I have waited almost 3 months for this release so I can finally try out Ubuntu but now its still not working

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
Any advice? I am a Linux Noob but I reallllly wanna get this to work.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
:confused:

---

### Post by tadada on 2007-10-18
If you could get it back to the desktop in low graphics mode you can try the restricted driver in administration.

---

### Post by theacoustician on 2007-10-18
Could you be a little more specific about your hardware and the point where the freeze occurs?

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
AMD Operation 170 OC'd to 2.8ghz

2gb of OCZ ram

250gb WD HDD

ATI X1900XT

Windows XP and Windows Vista Ultimate dual boot

BENQ DVD burner

Creative XFI


it loads up, goes the Ubuntu loading screen...

does 3 different checks on a text mode and says something like "blah blah....... [OK]"


the screen flickers a few times...


and then an "X" apears and I can move it around its like a mouse cursor.


then a window pops up saying Running in low graphics mode.

I have 3 options... Settings, Continue, and Reboot

I go to settings and I select my ATI Radeon and set the rez to 640x480..

when I contine there is just a flashing cursor in the top left... just blinks... if i press enter the cursor moves down the screen... no dvd reading  and no HDD activity.

---

### Post by KCormier on 2007-10-18
It sounds to me like you should get the alternate install cd which will install in text mode, then look at the thread for installing ati drivers..it's stickied right here in this forum.  Hopefully that'll help you start gnome!

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
no other ways to use the install gui?

---

### Post by kakalaky on 2007-10-18
> I have 3 options... Settings, Continue, and Reboot.

Click continue and it will log you in in low graphics mode.  Then you can use the restricted driver manager to switch to the proprietary ati drivers.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
Well I click on Continue and I clicked on always use low graphics and it just goes to a black screen and i cant type but nothing loads

---

### Post by kakalaky on 2007-10-18
If you have a vga= setting in your menu.lst try removing it.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
the menu where it says istall ubuntu, update and what not?

ya at the bottom it says like F6  VGA


but i really dont understand all this, i have been through the stickies and read but i dont understand all these little line commands.

I am downloading the alternative CD but how hard is it going to be to install without knowing line commands and no GUI?

---

### Post by kakalaky on 2007-10-18
Oops, forgot we were talking about the livecd and not an actual install.  Give me a few to check out how they have the new disc set up.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
Live CD?

I thought this was the full install... I want it on my harddrive.

i have my HDD partitioned to install it


i just clicked download on the front page

---

### Post by JPorter on 2007-10-18
> **xsabrewulf said:**
> Live CD?

I thought this was the full install... I want it on my harddrive.

i have my HDD partitioned to install it


i just clicked download on the front page

He means that you are running into the issue when booting the LiveCD, you haven't gotten to the installation itself yet.

I recommend using the Alternate install CD and installing the proper driver manually, this is a known issue with some ATI cards.  Follow the instructions in the sticky.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
im downloading the alternative cd right now....

im very used to Windows and that is the main reason I want to try something new.


installing drivers can be done through a GUI? or do i need to use command line for the alternative cd?


i have looked for the sticky... its not in the beginners section?

---

### Post by kakalaky on 2007-10-18
What happens if you choose safe graphics mode when booting the livecd?

---

### Post by JPorter on 2007-10-18
Try this 'ol tried and true fix... I'm fairly confident that this will work for you.

> 1. Boot using PC (Intel x86) **alternate install CD** for Ubuntu or Kubuntu.

2. Start text mode installer and install Ubuntu/Kubuntu.

3. Finish Install and reboot.

4. Update package list and upgrade any packages needed.
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

5. Install fglrx closed source driver for ATI video cards.
```
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
```

6. Update loaded modules.
```
sudo depmod -a
```

7. Configure /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
sudo aticonfig --initial
sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv
```

8. Reboot


Ubuntu 7.04 should now boot into GDM/KDM.

The instructions are for Feisty but I think they work in Gutsy too... if nothing else it gets you a heck of a lot closer to where you want to be.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
> **kakalaky said:**
> What happens if you choose safe graphics mode when booting the livecd?



Same thing, I even tried pressing F6 to change the VGA mode to 800x600x16

nothing. I think im stuck with doing the alt install.



How is this going to effect my dual boot with Vista and XP?

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
are those commands like DOS type commands i need to type in?

also, should I download these ati drivers and put them on a flash drive first or anything like that?

---

### Post by kakalaky on 2007-10-18
Yes, you type them in.  The command "sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx" will download and install the driver for you.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
if it can correctly install my network card drivers for my cable internet right?

---

### Post by kakalaky on 2007-10-18
Yeah, that would be helpful.  If it is wired you will most likely be fine.  Wireless can be a pain with some cards, especially if you are new to this and have to get them working without a gui.

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-18
thanks for the help I will probably try this tomorrow.


there is more to Linux than I thought, I just getting sick of Windows and need a change.

---

### Post by barkej on 2007-10-18
Best of luck to you with getting everything working.Getting the ati drivers installed and configured should do the trick for you. JPorter gave instructions that should work perfectly for you.

---

### Post by JPorter on 2007-10-18
> **xsabrewulf said:**
> thanks for the help I will probably try this tomorrow.


there is more to Linux than I thought, I just getting sick of Windows and need a change.

Cool, best of luck to you!  This should be the hardest part of getting up and running... hopefully when ATI gets their stuff together we won't have these issues anymore.

---

### Post by citadelgrad on 2007-10-19
I had a lot of problems with install 7.04 on my Shuttle with an 8800GTS. My suggestion is to try to get into single user mode after you complete the install. How to get into single user mode: [http://www.debuntu.org/recover-root-password-single-user-mode-and-grub](http://www.debuntu.org/recover-root-password-single-user-mode-and-grub)

What worked for me was renaming xorg.conf to something like xorg.conf.old. 
type:  *mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf xorg.conf.old*
Then type *startx* 

The XServer automatically creates a conf file based on what it thinks will be the best values for your graphics card and display. Hopefully after that you should get the normal Ubuntu desktop. Hopefully this will get you to a point where you can install ATI drivers, etc.

Good Luck! Enjoy the new... I know I am.

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2007-10-19
ati X#### is so horrible.

I have a x1800xt and I get the "Ubuntu has started in low graphics-mode" thing myself, but I can only see about 1/4 of the screen.  This means I can NOT see the dialog boxes (thank god I can hit enter/use tab to blindly select) and have NO WAY to change the graphics from the configure menu.

-sigh- nothing ever works with on nix with ati x#### cards

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-19
Ok, I installed the text mode installer...


I got a Ubuntu desktop... crappy res because I had to put it in always use low graphics mode.


anyways i did all those commands that the other post said,

only ones that dont work are the:

sudo aticonfig --initial
sudo aticonfig --overlay-type=Xv




it says an error that is missing /lib or something... i dont remember.


i cant even change my desktop resolution past 800x600

only gives me two options... 640x480 and 800x600



how can i get my screen res and my videocard drivers installed correct?


I did the 

Sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx

and that installed something

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-19
it also has my refresh rate at 73 mhz

i need it to me at 60 because my LCD needs 60...


its really annoying at 800x600 res :P

---

### Post by xsabrewulf on 2007-10-19
I have even went to restricted drivers and when I go to enable, and reboot the message comes up saying "needs to put it in low graphics mode"

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2007-10-19
I am still stuck too.  I dont know what to do.   

When I boot the login screen's text is about size 150 or something enormous.  So large I can not see but a few letters of each word.   I see no button options for the Ubuntu in Low-Res mode and have to hit enter/tab to blindly hope I am not doing something horrible to my machine when I do.

I have 7.10 installed and I am able to get into gnome, but I am stuck at 800x600.  
I have an x1800xt radeon. 
I had 7.4 running just fine and was able to play games in wine.
I have enabled my ATI driver in the restricted-drivers-manager, but it doesn't seem to be liking it.

glxinfo says:
```

name of display: :0.0
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  0 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  8
  Current serial number in output stream:  8

```

What info can I supply to help figure out this problem?  I am only a few weeks into using linux so I am not very good at troubleshooting yet and this is driving me insane.

---

### Post by keefy on 2007-10-19
Maybe the ATI driver doesnt support your card, it says X1900 series in the selection but if u look lower down it says 
X800 series and
X850 series
why would it list 2 cards that are in the same model number?  So maybe the X1900 series and X1950 series are slightly different? Thats what i think. Im probably wrong though.

---

### Post by cdude on 2007-10-19
I'm having a similar problem with my new ATI HD 2900 Pro, Xserver starts but it is all messed up. I tried many guides to install the ati drivers but had no success. no matter how I edited the xorg.cong I keept getting but results or "no screen found error". the last thing I tried is to **remove the xorg.conf file all together and ran xserver** without it it, and **bam!! it worked !!** heh. however I do not think the proprietary drivers are in use but at this point I do not care, I just wanted feisty to work so I can upgrade to Gutsy. When I am done I'll try to enabling the ati driver in gutsy and post my findings here. 

so try yet yourself, remove the xorg.cong file and start x without it ( remember that Xorg-server latest version does not require it anymore) good luck.

---

### Post by Arkanos on 2007-10-20
I have the same problems with ATI Radeon 9600XT.
Ubuntu 7.04 worked great, but when I've done a clea installation of Gutsy Gibbon everything goes bitter.

Low res for my Philips 109E5, Ati driver crashs my system, Compiz doesn't work!
I want MY UBUNTU BACK! :mad:

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2007-10-20
I am having a horrible time with x1800xt and I am getting no help on the forums, so I feel your pain.   I will try this and let you know how it goes.

EDIT: 
Okay, I deleted my xorg.conf file and rebooted and was able to log in-but again with no 3d support.  I also could not enable 3d support through the restricted-drivers-module because it requires that you DO have an xorg.conf file to write to.  So this solution does not work.

---

### Post by BogusJoe on 2007-10-20
I had some problems when trying to install, but after I changed my system back to standard CPU defaults (no overclocking) and was able to install.  This is from a fresh install using Dual Boot.
I will try the overclocking  once I get everything settled down.  Using the 32 bit version of 7.10

Current Resolution is 1600X1200  using dual monitors 1- crt 20"  1 LCD 37"


Currently using:

AM2 X2 4400 AMD
AGP X1950  (HIS X1950 Pro w/512m
X-Fi  Xtreme Gamer

I have yet to get the sound card or Video to work like I want, but the system is up and running Video is working, but no sound.

---

