---
title: "problems with boot"
date: 2006-12-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mbc362 on 2006-12-14
Let me start off by saying that I'm a disgruntled former user of Windows with almost no experience using linux...
I'm trying to make the switch, but am having trouble getting my computer to boot.  I have no problems using the LiveCD with the exception of getting an error when shutting down (something to do with RAID fails to close).  I have no problems with the installation.  However, after I restart my computer all I get is a message saying that there is a problem loading the operating system.  I have tried installing it several times and have checked the disk for errors to no avail.  Any suggestions as to what I should try doing?  I'm using an Athlon 64 4000+ with an Asus A8N32-SLI Deluxe motherboard.  Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by mr_samsonov on 2006-12-14
Any chance you can write what the error message is you are getting? BOth to do with your raid drive and with loading the operating system.

---

### Post by mbc362 on 2006-12-14
When closing the liveCD session it says
"Stopping RAID monitoring device.........FAILED"
I do have multiple harddrives but I am not using RAID
When trying to boot it says,
"Error loading operating system" and the rest of the screen is blank.

---

### Post by oracle5 on 2006-12-14
Are you saying that when you try to boot windows you get the operating system error?

If so that tends to mean that your windows partition is not set to active. I think you can use the livecd and fix it with gparted but I'm not sure since I use the System Rescue Disc for that kind of thing.

oracle5

---

### Post by kebes on 2006-12-14
Can you describe your partition setup? Did you let Ubuntu erase the drive and install itself, or did you do something custom? (Are you trying to dual-boot with Windows?)

Is GRUB (the linux bootloader) installed? During the boot after install do you get a Grub screen? The grub screen looks like this:
[http://yekubuntu.free.fr/warty/images/grub.png](http://yekubuntu.free.fr/warty/images/grub.png)
(or it may simply have a countdown like "Booting Linux in 5 seconds...")

Please try to describe your bootup in a little more detail. Does it just go from the motherboard/BIOS screen straight to the error message, or does something else happen first...?

---

### Post by mbc362 on 2006-12-14
I was pretty pissed at windows so I had Ubuntu erase the entire harddrive when it installed itself.  There is no longer any windows partition on my computer.  My computer POSTS and runs through the motherboard screens and then goes straight to the error message.

---

### Post by oracle5 on 2006-12-14
I've had some computers not want to install from the live cd even with plenty of ram and I used the alternate install cd without a bit of a problem so you might want to try that.

oracle5

---

### Post by kebes on 2006-12-14
Hmm... I'm guessing that the error message "Error loading operating system" is being generated by the motherboard.

One thing to try is to update your motherboard's BIOS, flashing it to the latest version. BIOS bugs are quite common nowadays. The new BIOS and flashing utilities should be available on from the manufacturer website.

You said you had an "[Asus A8N32-SLI]("http://www.asus.com/products4.aspx?modelmenu=1&model=744&l1=3&l2=15&l3=226")" (nice board, btw!), and I see that they list an updated BIOS and flashing util on the downloads page:
[http://support.asus.com/download/download.aspx?SLanguage=en-us&model=A8N32-SLI%20Deluxe](http://support.asus.com/download/download.aspx?SLanguage=en-us&model=A8N32-SLI%20Deluxe)



If that doesn't work (or you know that's not the problem), then the only other thing I can think of is that GRUB didn't install itself properly. Boot from the LiveCD, mount the hard-drive, and look at the file "/boot/grub/menu.lst" (located in the partition you installed to, of course). Have a look at the file and make sure that the settings are correct for your hard-drive. For instance (probably near the bottom of the file), there should be something like:

```

title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-26-386
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-26-386 root=/dev/sda1 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-26-386
savedefault
boot

```

Make sure that the "/dev/sda1" is the correct partition where you installed to and that the (hd0,0) matches. You can post your "menu.lst" here also... but the configuration depends very much on how you have your hardware setup (IDE vs. SATA, partitions, etc.). You may need to check out the GRUB documentation.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by mbc362 on 2006-12-14
Thanks for your suggestions.  I'll try flashing the BIOS tomorrow, right now I need to get an OS to work so I can download it.  I tried checking on GRUB however I was unable to find the file you specified.  I tried to mount the harddrive but I got an error message saying:
" error: device /dev/sda1 is not removable
  error: could not execute pmount"
I looked in the device labeled as "filesystem" however I could not find the grub folder in the boot folder.  What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by kebes on 2006-12-14
What command did you issue to mount your hd? I think it should be something like:

```

$ cd media
$ sudo mkdir hdrive
$ sudo mount /dev/sda1 hdrive

```

In which case you would go looking in the folder "/media/hdrive/boot/" for the file "menu.lst".

You can probably mount the drive with the GUI by opening the Control Panel or whatever. I use Kubuntu so I'm not sure what it would be labelled in Ubuntu/Gnome, but something like:
Control Panel > System > Disk and Filesystem

Then you will see your drives and partitions and can click on the one you want and tell it to mount it somewhere. (You may have to make a directory for it first.) Then you can browse to it with the file manager and go looking for the file in question.


However my gut tells me that it's the BIOS. Anyways, good luck.


Oh, and by the way, the Ubuntu LiveCD typically works pretty well. You can probably use it to surf the web, download the BIOS update, etc.

---

### Post by mbc362 on 2006-12-15
I was trying to use the GUI to mount the harddrive; I'm not familiar at all with terminal commands.  thanks for the help.

---

