---
title: "...absolute newbie needs help"
date: 2007-08-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bravemenrun333 on 2007-08-19
I own a Lenovo R60 9461-DXG notebook and I wish to get into ubuntu Linux.

I've downloaded the 32bit distribution of ubuntu and burned the ISO on a disk. Then I've booted uo from it and it started up, but:

- I could choose any resolution higher than 1024x768
- Sound didnt work (Examples)
- Video didnt work (Examples)

How do I have to go on? Just install ubuntu anyway? :confused:

Thanks for your help...

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2007-08-19
what do you mean video didnt work? explain things in greater detail please.

---

### Post by damansandhu on 2007-08-19
yea just install ubuntu and we will figure out your problems after installation.

---

### Post by bravemenrun333 on 2007-08-19
I meant that the movie files in the examples folder on the ubuntu desktop didnt work. The Player just stayed black. The same happens to sound files.

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2007-08-19
We can fix that if it's installed. Just go on!

---

### Post by mysticmatrix on 2007-08-19
Did you turned on Desktop effects and then played the file?

If yes, try to see if the video plays after Desktop effects are turned off.

---

### Post by bravemenrun333 on 2007-08-19
Ok, I have now installed ubuntu without problems.

The VGA issue is gone, i have all available resolutions to chose from.

Still, I can not play any sound files, even after downloading and installing (automaticly) the GStreamer extra plugin packet... When I open a mp3 file, the player opens up but just does not play the file... What can I do?

Another glitch: How can I make a shortcut to my "File System" on the desktop?

---

### Post by bravemenrun333 on 2007-08-19
...no idea?
I have all updates installed, still no sound...

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2007-08-20
> **bravemenrun333 said:**
> Another glitch: How can I make a shortcut to my "File System" on the desktop?
Just drag&drop. It's easier as you think it is ;).

Maby you should by a cheap realtek soundcart (€10). These thinks just work:)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-08-20
well, I suggest to install VLC (it's in the repos). It has most codecs already in it. If you still can't hear MP3s with VLC or watch videos with it then you may have a hardware problem. Otherwise it's just missing codecs.

---

### Post by bravemenrun333 on 2007-08-20
Sound works now. I needed to enable my modem device in BIOS, this is a known bug with Lenovo R60 Thinkpads...

---

