---
title: "7.04 upgrade stuck during upgrade"
date: 2007-05-10
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by lavikl on 2007-05-10
Hey everyone
I've upgraded my Ubuntu from 6.06 to 6.10. so far so good.
After that i've upgraded 6.10 to 7.04 using the upgrade manager ( using the graphic interface)
it seems that all the files were retrieved and most of the installation went well but almost at the end a bland window appeared and the computer got stuck.
I rebooted and tried to load the safe mode, and the last line that i've recieved was this :
> Waiting for root file system...
and ofcuorse, the computer stopped responding.
finaly i tried to load previous versions that still apear in the GRUB menu but when they load the GUI (i'm using GNU) no menu appeared at all, just the brown background.

p.s : I can get to command line in the older version.

 
any ideas ?

Lavik

---

### Post by lavikl on 2007-05-10
another idea, please tell me if you think it might work :
If i'll run the previous installation (through the GRUB menu), and try to run :
> sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
  sudo apt-get -f install
  sudo dpkg --configure -a 
would it relate to the 7.04 version or the older version ?

Lavik

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-05-10
> would it relate to the 7.04 version or the older version ?

It would relate to 7.04 (Feisty Fawn.)

---

### Post by poppers1957 on 2007-05-10
Is there a way to save the data that you had on previous Linux?  That is if you need it.  I have been running Ubuntu and Fedora for several years now, and the general opinion on installing a new version is to do a clean install, and not an upgrade.  Why this is has not real clear to me.  But every time I install any new distro I do it totally clean, and have not had problems.

---

