---
title: "install options"
date: 2007-03-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-01
hey i am having problems with a new computer that i got (pentium iii compaq desktop)
but when i put in the cd to load xubuntu alternate install it tells me that linux cannot be installed. to check the bios or upgrade and i do not know what this means at all. when i check the bios it says its able to boot from cd. any help would be great full.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-03-01
Is the error message being generated by the Xubuntu installer?  How much RAM does this PC have?

---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-01
the error message comes right after it says uncompressing linux. and it has 256 right now but soon to be more i hope. more on this it happens as soon as the bios is done loading/checking

---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-01
bump sorry but i need some help

---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-01
bump sorry again

---

### Post by spoot on 2007-03-01
What exactly is the error message you get? I don't think I can be of much help here, but perhaps someone else can if you be a little more specific :)

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-03-01
What program did you burn the image with?  Did you burn at a slow speed (4x)?

---

### Post by igknighted on 2007-03-01
Sounds like you might need to add a noapic option at boot, or something along those lines.  If you could give more info about the error message and when/where you see it that would be helpful.

---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-02
ok guys first thanks for the help you guys kick a** but i have been trying to duplicate the problem and can't. i've reburned the image on a new disc at 4x twice and nothing. instead of giving me the error it boots strieght to windows (which is the current os). i don't know what is going on. when i am in windows the cd shows up but not when i try to boot.  i even changed the boot sequence to only boot from the cd and nothing happened it just tried to read the cd and stay at the black screen.  please anymore would be great,

if that is not enough info i will try to be more detailed

---

### Post by ramjet_1953 on 2007-03-02
Two things.

1. Have you set your bios to boot from the CD ROM first?

2. Did you burn the image as an iso, not just an ordinary data disk?

Regards,
Roger 8)

---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-02
to the question of cdrom boot i had it try to boot from just that and shut down the floppy and hard disk and i used nero burning rom i works with other computer but i don't want linux on that one

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-03-02
> **ramjet_1953 said:**
> Two things.

1. Have you set your bios to boot from the CD ROM first?

[COLOR="Red"]2. Did you burn the image as an iso, not just an ordinary data disk?
[/COLOR]
Regards,
Roger 8)

My next question as well?

Here is a guide for burning the iso: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto)

---

### Post by Mets on 2007-03-02
if you feel gutsy you could try a network install.  I tried that, but couldn't get it to work, so I eventually just borrowed a working Live CD.

---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-02
i was checking it again and it still goes straight to windows and acts like the cdrom is not there.

i think it might be the cd rom not fully fuctional as it is pretty old.

---

### Post by Maestro23 on 2007-03-02
> **ktusyn said:**
> i was checking it again and it still goes straight to windows and acts like the cdrom is not there.

i think it might be the cd rom not fully fuctional as it is pretty old.

If the drive is old, it might be having trouble reading the newer media type.

---

### Post by ktusyn on 2007-03-02
yeah that's what i'm starting to think.  and thanx for all the help guys.

---

### Post by NeilE888 on 2007-03-02
I too had an older pc which didn't boot from the cd drive, although it had one. I found the info at : 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SmartBootManagerHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SmartBootManagerHowto) really helpful 

I used rawwritewin.exe (quick download) to create a boot floppy and that started the cd ok (after a couple of attempts)

as I write it is starting Ubuntu on the other pc.

hope this helps you

N

---

