---
title: "i386 and i686"
date: 2008-02-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Julita on 2008-02-29
Is there any difference between these architectures? I have read wikipedia article, but, in fact, understood only a few things... The basic question is: Ubuntu is made for i386, but my type of processor is i686. Should I compile myself the kernel for my type of arch.?... :(

---

### Post by herbster on 2008-02-29
You don't have to worry about that, the issues on install choice/kernel compiling arise when considering 32-bit vs 64-bit. Compile your own kernel as you desire, but if you've got a Pentium/AMD 32-bit, I'm pretty sure you just install as normal.

---

### Post by Tom--d on 2008-02-29
Whats the difference?

---

### Post by Vadi on 2008-02-29
I think Ubuntu is already made for i686.. check your "uname -a" in the terminal.

---

### Post by herbster on 2008-02-29
> **Tom--d said:**
> Whats the difference?

Without being too technical, it's basically a convenient means of naming the architecture.

---

### Post by Tom--d on 2008-02-29
i686 = 64-bit?

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-02-29
there isnt really, i386, i486 and 686 are all practically the same... they are all 32 bit and share a lot of similarities.
You dont have to worry really as most of the packages you will find are universal.
The only time you will encounter issues is if you use 64 packages, now there is something completely different.
> **Tom--d said:**
> i686 = 64-bit?
No, usually intel 64 bit processors are marked by a _64 and that is not one of them

---

### Post by herbster on 2008-02-29
Yeah, you'd be checking for x86 vs x64, the former being 32-bit and the latter of course 64-bit.

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-29
i386 and i686 are both part of the x86 family of architectures. i386 includes everything in the x86 family up to and including the intel 80386 processor, the 80386 was the last intel processor not to implement any extensions to x86 op codes. i686 is the modern x86 variant designed for Pentium chips that includes mmx, 3dnow, sse, and all those other fun extensions people have come to rely on. i386 code will certainly run on i686 hardware (but obviously not the other way around), a large portion of precompiled binaries are built i386 simply to allow them to run on older hardware. If you're interested in see what you're actually running, you can run:
```

uname -m

```
which will tell you what architecture you're current kernel was built with.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-02-29
Maybe Ubuntu should call it x86 instead to prevent confusion.

---

### Post by az on 2008-02-29
By default you get the generic kernel.

The 386 and 686 kernels are packaged and you can install them, but for the past few years there has not been any point.  The generic kernel detects the CPU options at boot time.  Specifying the 386 or 686 CPU type at compile time is not necessary anymore, which is why the generic kernel is used.

---

### Post by Julita on 2008-02-29
Thank you very much, guys! Now the picture is clear ))

```
uname -a

Linux moi-meme 2.6.24-10-generic #1 SMP Fri Feb 22 19:08:18 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux
```

---

### Post by Tom--d on 2008-02-29
Whats the difference between 32 bit and 64 bit? any advantages? Disadvantages?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-29
> **Tom--d said:**
> Whats the difference between 32 bit and 64 bit? any advantages? Disadvantages?

The size of the hardware registers in the processor, a 64 bit processor has twice the register size of a 32 bit processor. A 32 bit processor can address 4 Gb of ram, while a 64 bit processor can address up to 16 exobytes (~17 billion Gb). 64 bit hardware also gets a bit better throughput because it can fetch twice as much in a single operation. 64bit systems are generally newer and faster just by virtue of that.

---

### Post by herbster on 2008-02-29
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=368607](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=368607)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-02-29
> **PeterJS said:**
> i386 and i686 are both part of the x86 family of architectures. i386 includes everything in the x86 family **up to and including the intel 80386 processor**, the 80386 was the last intel processor not to implement any extensions to x86 op codes.
..........

"**down** to and including the intel 80386 processor" thank you very much.

The 80386 was a step **up** from the 80286, as the 80486 was a step up from the 80386 etc. etc.

---

