---
title: ".mp3 converter"
date: 2007-02-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by firebirdworks on 2007-02-01
I need a audio converter that will convert a song to a .mp3.  Thanks ubuntu community.

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2007-02-01
The title obscures your question.  What you are looking for is an MP3 Encoder, not converter.  What format are the originating files?

Have you thought about Ogg?  Nice open source lossless option there.

"LAME" will encode the audio for you if you need it.

---

### Post by firebirdworks on 2007-02-01
To be very specific, I want to change a .wav into a .mp3.

---

### Post by bruenig on 2007-02-01
soundconverter should do it.

---

### Post by IYY on 2007-02-02
```
sudo apt-get install lame
```

Then...

```

lame myfile.wav myfile.mp3

```

Of course, I'd suggest using OGG instead unless it's for an iPod or something that only plays MP3s. The same command for OGG is:

```

oggenc myfile.wav myfile.ogg

```

---

### Post by Macdelaney on 2007-02-08
What about converting .ogg, .flac and .mpc to .mp3? I need it for my iPod :P

---

### Post by shortbus on 2007-02-09
I'm having an issue installing lame it would seem. here is the output I get when I use 
"sudo apt-get install lame"

> slick@slick-desktop:~$ sudo apt-get install lame
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Package lame is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package lame has no installation candidate
slick@slick-desktop:~$ man lame
No manual entry for lame
slick@slick-desktop:~$ sudo apt-get install lame
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Package lame is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package lame has no installation candidate


I am trying to go from a .m4a format to .mp3 format for use with a SHOUTcast server I am testing. Any help would be great.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2007-02-09
> **Macdelaney said:**
> What about converting .ogg, .flac and .mpc to .mp3? I need it for my iPod :P

Sound Converter handles at least ogg and flac, I'm not sure about mpc.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-02-09
> **Macdelaney said:**
> What about converting .ogg, .flac and .mpc to .mp3? I need it for my iPod :P

You could install a different software on your ipod... rockbox can also play .ogg files

[http://www.rockbox.org/](http://www.rockbox.org/) --> However before you replace the firmware be carefull and have a good read... replacing firmware may render the device unusable...

---

### Post by surxain on 2007-02-22
soundconverter with gstreamer library is very nice.

---

