---
title: "Is my video card able to dual monitor???"
date: 2006-09-05
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by charles.g.moore on 2006-09-05
I recently bought a nvidia GeForce6200 because I couldnt get my ATI card working right with ubuntu

Today I bought two new LCD monitors and wanted to run them simultaneously.

I looked all over the new vid. card box but could see nothing about dual monitor support, even checked the website.

My question is: if I have one monitor plugged into the regular monitor port can I buy a converter for the other longer white port on my nvidia card and just plug the second monitor into that?

Hate to sound like such a noob, I just dont want to buy another vid. card...

---

### Post by comppsyco on 2006-09-05
Yes, you can buy an adapter. The longer port is called a DVI port, and the short (and probably blue) one is VGA. If you go to a new electronics store it might cost you twenty or twenty-five bucks, but if you find one at a used store, it could be two or three. Also, don't worry if it's missing a couple of pins, they probably aren't actually used (depending on which are missing).

---

### Post by charles.g.moore on 2006-09-05
so as long as i have the DVI port then does that automatically mean that I can use a dual monitor setup???

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-09-05
charles.g.moore The card should support nView=Multi-Display. 

If the lcd's have a dvi and vga port on them then you should not need an adapter. you could run one  on the  on the dvi,and the other on vga.

---

### Post by comppsyco on 2006-09-05
Possibly. I don't know a huge amount about it, though. Check out this tutorial: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174)

---

### Post by charles.g.moore on 2006-09-05
Cool thanks for the help

SD-Plissken I think I may be forced to buy an adapter, the only cables that came with the monitors are the ones that plug into the VGA port.

Either way buying an adapter is cheaper than buying another video card...

---

### Post by b_martinez on 2006-09-05
Check the box again. Every card I bought came with an adapter.After you read the link posted by cpmppsycho, then this may help you out.
My xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon May 15 13:23:42 PDT 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option "TwinView" "True"
    Option "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"
    Option "UseEdidFreqs" "True"
    Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024; 1024x768,1024x768"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

hth
Bill

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-05
Yea what's up even my fx5200 came with the adapter to allow me to hook up to monitors.

Also check lcd monitor boxes my friend had an adapter in his box.

---

### Post by charles.g.moore on 2006-09-05
Thanx guys, but its a no go on the adapter.

Checked the box for the vid. card and the LCD.

Either way I'm sure youll see me tomorrow posting cause I cant get that dual monitor how-to to work...

---

