---
title: "USB drives don't show up anywhere"
date: 2007-09-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Halifax on 2007-09-13
I feel bad asking so many questions here and not being able to answer any...

Well, my USB drives don't show up. ANYWHERE. Well, flash drives are okay, but external HDDs just don't show up. IF the autorun comes up, I can't even get it to open the drive in a new window.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=211afe98-a0e8-4ef5-9db4-8d3e9396dca8 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=06980E90980E7E85 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=f1963deb-fb26-40d7-9620-33b9c05effd6 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

/dev/sda is my internal, and that's showing up correctly (though the icons on the desktop for it are missing...). I need my externals working so I can use the files on there to help me fix my OTHER problem of video files not displaying correctly. >_<

---

### Post by Paul133 on 2007-09-13
USB should be plug and play. How are the hard drives formatted? Are they FAT32, ext3, NTFS?

---

### Post by Halifax on 2007-09-13
> **Paul133 said:**
> USB should be plug and play. How are the hard drives formatted? Are they FAT32, ext3, NTFS?

Both 250 GB NTFS partitions. They worked fine before I reinstalled Kubuntu 7.04.

---

### Post by Paul133 on 2007-09-13
Not sure if this will work, but try this ```
 sudo mount /dev/sda1 /home/external
``` That should mount the drive in a folder called /home/external. Does it work?

---

### Post by Halifax on 2007-09-13
sda is fine. all I need to do for that is find out how to make a shortcut for it on the desktop. /dev/sdc and /dev/sdd aren't mounting properly. And that command for both of those just says "mount: mount point /home/external does not exist". It says the mount point doesnt' exist regardless of what mount point I specify.

I only even found the /dev/whatever from the Disk & filesystem Settings page, and I can't change anything in there even in Admin mode - it just doesn't seem to want to work at all.

I know it's not a hardware problem, because the drives still work in Windows.

---

### Post by Paul133 on 2007-09-13
THe problem seems to be that they're NTFS. You said you reinstalled Kubuntu. Why? DId you lose any programs you had installed or upgrade? Obviously, they worked before and now don't. It must have something to do with NTFS support/software in Kubuntu Feisty.

---

### Post by Halifax on 2007-09-13
> **Paul133 said:**
> THe problem seems to be that they're NTFS. You said you reinstalled Kubuntu. Why? DId you lose any programs you had installed or upgrade? Obviously, they worked before and now don't. It must have something to do with NTFS support/software in Kubuntu Feisty.

No matter what I did before I reinstalled, I couldn't get video files or DVDs to play properly. I thought I'd try reinstalling the OS in case I messed something up along the way, and it turns out I'm having tons MORE problems, along with the same problems I had before.

Also, my internal NTFS partition is showing up fine - I can read and write to it.

---

### Post by Paul133 on 2007-09-13
Before you reinstalled, you had Kubuntu Feisty, right? And had you could easiloy mount these drives? Nothing should have changed. 

The following may not be legal. All well. You make the call. Here's how you can get most music/video files to play: 
```

sudo apt-get install gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg libxine1-ffmpeg gstreamer0.8-lame libdvdread3

```

n order to get DVD's to play, you need to get libdvdcss2 from the Medibuntu repo; here's how to do that:

To add the repo:
```
sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/feisty.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
```

Then add the key that authenticates the repo:
```
wget -q http://packages.medibuntu.org/medibuntu-key.gpg -O- | sudo apt-key add -
```

The reload the your sources to add Medibuntu:
```
sudo apt-get update
```

Then in order to play encrypted DVDs download this package:
```
sudo apt-get install libdvdcss2
```

Note: All taken from here:[http://ubuntu1501.blogspot.com/2007/08/codec-cheatsheet.html](http://ubuntu1501.blogspot.com/2007/08/codec-cheatsheet.html) and here: [http://ubuntu1501.blogspot.com/2007/06/medibuntu-how-to-install-dvd-codecs.html](http://ubuntu1501.blogspot.com/2007/06/medibuntu-how-to-install-dvd-codecs.html)

---

### Post by Halifax on 2007-09-13
Reinstalled Ubuntu and installed KDE on top of that. Installed codecs with the commands given here (thank you very much, BTW) and installed ATI driver with Envy and now I can watch videos.

...KDE still can't mount the USB drives, though. Gnome did it fine last time I was in it, but KDE used to do it fine before I originally reinstalled to Kubuntu.

---

### Post by Paul133 on 2007-09-16
Maybe you should use Gnome then. It's not an ideal solution, but if it works, just use Gnome until you figure it out. You can use all your KDE apps in Gnome (this is coming from someone who rips DVD's and transcodes them into Xvid with K9copy in Gnome), so it hopefully won't be that bad. Good luck.

---

