---
title: ".htaccess path include probs?"
date: 2007-07-11
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-07-11
I'm following instructions from this book.
**The PHP Anthology OOP PHP Solutions Vol.1, by Harry Fuecks**
And I'm having trouble on this section.
**page .15 - Path Finding**

The Sitepoint re-usable codes catalog is located in this adress on my machine.
**/var/www/sp/SPLIB/**

My .htaccess file only contain this line.
**php_value include_path ".:/var/www/sp/SPLIB/"**

When I test my webpage through the web browser all I get is a white BLANK screen.
For a 192 lines Class file I'm expecting to get error messages if database connection failed or if it succeded.  But the screen is totally blank.
[http://localhost/sp/3.php](http://localhost/sp/3.php)

Can you help me make it work?  I'm suspecting that my paths attempts are all wrong. :confused:

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2007-07-11
have a look here:

[http://www.webhostingtalk.com/archive/index.php/t-15161.html](http://www.webhostingtalk.com/archive/index.php/t-15161.html)

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-07-11
From that link I found this.  But I'm not sure where exactly in my httpd.conf file that I should copy and paste all those lines?  It kind of looks different on Ubuntu which by the way uses the filename apache2.conf.

> **-x - Ed - x-**
07-11-2001, 07:13 PM
Place this in your httpd.conf file between the virtual host container you want to allow .htaccess to:

# Allow .htaccess in web directory
<Directory /home/sites/THE_SITE_NUMBER/web>
Options All
AllowOverride All
<Limit GET>
order allow,deny
allow from all
</Limit>
</Directory>


My apache2.conf file looks something like this in the middle of the file.  So do I just copy and paste everything from above except the path adress between my #Directory and #</Directory> part?  Or can I just copy and paste all the above command lines at the bottom of my apache2.conf file?

> #<Directory /home/*/public_html>
#	AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
#	Options Indexes SymLinksIfOwnerMatch IncludesNoExec
#</Directory>

AccessFileName .htaccess

<Files ~ "^\.ht">
    Order allow,deny
    Deny from all
</Files>

---

### Post by jingo811 on 2007-07-12
I gave up on the .htaccess php_include method. And went back to the good old full path include method.
**include_once('/var/www/sp/SPLIB/Database/MySQL.php');**

And intentionally wrecked the variables systematically on **3.php** to see if I would get any relevant errors.

> <?php
// Include the MySQL class
// require_once('/Database/MySQL.php');
include_once('/var/www/sp/SPLIB/Database/MySQL.php');

$host='localhost'; // Hostname of MySQL server
$dbUser='harryf'; // Username for MySQL
$dbPass='secret'; // Password for user
$dbName='sitepoint'; // Database name

// Connect to MySQL
$db = & new MySQL($host,$dbUser,$dbPass,$dbName);
?>

It seems like I did get the relevant errors when testing. And it seems like the Sitepoint MySQL.php class file won't give you any feeback if things are OK so the blank screen was intended I guess.



I added this to my 3.php file all seems well now.  So it's time to hit the books for me 	:-({|=
> echo $dbName;

if ($connectError) {
	echo "Bad";
	} else {
	echo "Good";
	}

---

