---
title: ".deb Packages"
date: 2006-03-21
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by tommy1987 on 2006-03-21
I'm new to linux and am having some difficulty installing .deb packages, I have a few to install but am unsure of how to go about it, can someone enlighten me please?
Have downloaded opera and aMSN in this way and the files are sitting on my desktop awaiting install!

Thanks very much

---

### Post by TTT_travis on 2006-03-21
[QUOTE=tommy1987]I'm new to linux and am having some difficulty installing .deb packages, I have a few to install but am unsure of how to go about it, can someone enlighten me please?
Have downloaded opera and aMSN in this way and the files are sitting on my desktop awaiting install!

Thanks very much[/QUOTE]

you would normally install with

```
dpkg -i packagehere.deb
```

and if it gives you errors about missing stuff install them manually or type 

```
apt-get install -f
```

---

### Post by tommy1987 on 2006-03-21
Thanks very much, its these basic commands that Im not aware of,,

---

### Post by Sandlst on 2006-03-21
Installing things through Synaptic Packagae Manager is far easier, access from (System/Administration/Synaptic Package Manager)  If however, the package you want doesnt show up after a search, open a terminal (Applications/Accessories/Terminal) and, assuming the .deb files are on your desktop, type in ```
cd Desktop
```then ```
sudo dpkg -i NAMEOFFILE.deb
```  If you start typing the file sometimes you can finish it by pressing TAB if its the only file that begins that way.  Hope this helps!
*EDIT* BAH, should have refreshed.....

---

### Post by Princey on 2006-03-21
[QUOTE=tommy1987]I'm new to linux and am having some difficulty installing .deb packages, I have a few to install but am unsure of how to go about it, can someone enlighten me please?
Have downloaded opera and aMSN in this way and the files are sitting on my desktop awaiting install!

Thanks very much[/QUOTE]
I'm not sure which desktop you're using and I'm more familiar with kde, however, both should work fine. There are two ways:
1. Right click on one of the package and chose kubuntu/ubuntu (which one you're using should appear) package installer, and chose install from the sub category or
2. Open the terminal, menu, system, terminal or press ALT + F2 and type the following:
> cd Desktop press enter followed by > sudo dpkg -i name_of_your_package of course, you substitute name of your package with the actual name. One trick to avoid typing long names is to type the first few letters of the package followed by pressing the tab key(auto completes for you). Press enter. Type in your password when it prompts. Note...You won't see anything being typed but that's just a security measure. Press enter when you're done typing your password. It should run then return to the prompt when you're done.

---

### Post by tommy1987 on 2006-03-21
Selecting previously deselected package opera.
(Reading database ... 58094 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking opera (from opera_8.52-20060201.6-shared-qt_en_etch_i386.deb) ...
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of opera:
 opera depends on xlib6g (>= 3.3.6) | xlibs; however:
  Package xlib6g is not installed.
  Package xlibs is not installed.
 opera depends on libqt3-mt (>= 3.3.4) | libqt3c102-mt (>= 3.3.4); however:
  Package libqt3-mt is not installed.
  Package libqt3c102-mt is not installed.
dpkg: error processing opera (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 opera
 

im now getting this, i would assume from this that the problem is that I dont have   xlib6g package which i cant find anywhere, please help me install my first program in ubuntu as i havent managed to install anything successfully yet,,

Thanks

---

### Post by Sandlst on 2006-03-21
Try this: open a terminal and do ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` or kedit if using kde.
In the file, you will see a bunch of lines starting with #-if there are 2 of these, i.e. a line that looks like```
## somthing goes here
``` leave it alone.  The lines with a single # followed by deb, like ```
# deb something
``` delete the # so that it now looks like ```
deb somemorecrap
```after finished, save and close the file, next put this in :```
sudo apt-get update
``` after doing this try to install the package again following the above method.  Hope this helps!

---

### Post by Mustard on 2006-03-21
I would have a read over this link below, as it seems the version you have chosen has its own set of issues with regards to installing.  I've never installed Opera myself, but its seems the choice of which .deb you use is critical to how the installation will proceed.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperaBrowser](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperaBrowser)

---

### Post by Princey on 2006-03-21
Opera is my default browser on Kubuntu. There's a thread dealing with that which includes some of the problems I got and how I got through it. I suggest you take a read at this thread  [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=82522]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=82522")

---

