---
title: "7.10 upgrade error"
date: 2007-10-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by spasmoid on 2007-10-28
My upgrade to 7.10 was about three quarters of the way through the configuring process when there was a few file IO errors in the terminal view and a dialog came up and said the upgrade could not complete and that the system might be unstable.

So I launched a terminal window and ran apt-get update followed by apt-get dist-upgrade
This was of no consequence. It just exited saying there was nothing to do.

I know the upgrade has not completed configuration. How do I force it to pick up where it left off?

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2007-10-28
Not sure but I would go to system/software sources/third party software/ then uncheck everything and proceed to upgrade. Other wise I would just do a clean install. Gutsy is
worth it.

---

### Post by spasmoid on 2007-10-30
Thanks for your response.

OK. So if I am understanding you correctly, I should download the gutsy ISO image, burn it to disk, then boot off it and install over the top?

Is that correct?

If so, are all my existing apps that I have instalelled going remain unchanged?

Do I need to format and start again (with gutsy disk)?

---

### Post by Steve1961 on 2007-10-30
Is your gutsy upgrade actually working OK?  I upgraded when the beta was released and had a similar error message.  I then continued manually with aptitude dist-upgrade and apt-get -f install and was told there was nothing to do.  As far as I can tell, and despite the error messages, everything is working fine and the upgrade succeeded.

---

### Post by spasmoid on 2007-10-30
I don't think everything is fine. Under cirtain conditions, my computer seems to thrash (HDD light goes crazy and everything takes a very long time to respond (appears to freeze)).

This mainly happened while firefox was running.

The thing that scares me is those IO errors and the fact that the installation of the packages only got three quarters of the way through.

---

### Post by Steve1961 on 2007-10-30
In that case maybe a clean install is the best way to go

---

### Post by spasmoid on 2007-10-30
It's probably safest :/

Although,  I just did apt-get remove firefox followed by apt-get install firefox, and now things seem to be working OK again.

There still seems to be a fair bit of HDD activity even when I'm not running many desktop applications. I dunno what that's all about but there is no more responsiveness issues in the UI.

I'll give it a day or two before deciding to do a fresh install.

Thanks for your help.

---

