---
title: "7.10 sluggish"
date: 2007-12-29
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by dezbomgorel on 2007-12-29
Hi 

I have been using the auto update and am running 7.10 on an older Compaq laptop everything works I have managed to get all the bugz out, but everything is sluggish. Is 7.10 to much for the PIII 800 and 256 Mb of RAM with 700 Mb swap? :confused:

I don't remember it being this slow before!

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2007-12-29
Hi. You seem to have  a similar system to the one discussed in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=652792"); I would say that, yes, your system specs are a little low for Ubuntu. You can try installing xubuntu-desktop, which is a less resource intensive desktop environment. Otherwise, as others pointed out in the other thread, if you can afford more RAM for your system it would be a worthwhile investment.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-12-29
> **dezbomgorel said:**
> Hi 

I have been using the auto update and am running 7.10 on an older Compaq laptop everything works I have managed to get all the bugz out, but everything is sluggish. Is 7.10 to much for the PIII 800 and 256 Mb of RAM with 700 Mb swap? :confused:

I don't remember it being this slow before!

HI and welcome, I my opinion yes it is to much for that amount of ram. I have installed on some low memory systems and 7.04 Feisty works well on the memory.

---

### Post by eolson on 2007-12-29
256 is marginal.  It's probably sluggish because it's forced to use the swap alot.  I'm pretty sure there are some things you can do that will help a little.  How much?   Somebody should be along with proper knowledge soon.

---

### Post by jas0 on 2007-12-29
You could in theory streamline your installation of Ubuntu to perform well on this hardware. But you will have to stop many daemons and stop using applications like amaroK and Firefox. The reason why 7.10 feels a bit slower is probably because of feature creep.

---

