---
title: "*.gz file problems"
date: 2007-02-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by CC_machine on 2007-02-13
I've noticed linux liveCDs seem to often freeze when loading/extracting the *.gz file after linux, and sometimes the linux kernel loader itself.

its just really annoying the crap out of me because im trying to get used to linux without installing, yet i have to reboot my machine ~5 times to get it to work! lol >_<

anyway, suggestions? i know i could install, but im scared of resizing and doing things to my NTFS partition...

 oh and ubuntu also doesnt seem to like my data mediums, my NTFS partition(s) and usb drives simply do not show up in /media... but knoppix 5.1 can see and write to them fine.

my system: aries 5563n, some ATi motherboard, amd sempron, a caviar 120gb hd, geforce 6600 gfx, 1gb ddr1400 ram.

thx in advance, sweet OS :)

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-02-13
> **CC_machine said:**
> I've noticed linux liveCDs seem to often freeze when loading/extracting the *.gz file after linux, and sometimes the linux kernel loader itself.

Hard to know for sure, but sounds like a bad burn. Did you check the md5sum ?

> its just really annoying the crap out of me because im trying to get used to linux without installing, yet i have to reboot my machine ~5 times to get it to work! lol >_<

anyway, suggestions? i know i could install, but im scared of resizing and doing things to my NTFS partition...

 oh and ubuntu also doesnt seem to like my data mediums, my NTFS partition(s) and usb drives simply do not show up in /media... but knoppix 5.1 can see and write to them fine.[quote]

Ubuntu should work with you other partitions, the live CD does not automatically mount them.

[quote]my system: aries 5563n, some ATi motherboard, amd sempron, a caviar 120gb hd, geforce 6600 gfx, 1gb ddr1400 ram.

thx in advance, sweet OS :)

---

### Post by highneko on 2007-02-13
> **CC_machine said:**
> anyway, suggestions? i know i could install, but im scared of resizing and doing things to my NTFS partition...

Could you get a second hdd maybe?

---

### Post by CC_machine on 2007-02-17
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> Hard to know for sure, but sounds like a bad burn. Did you check the md5sum ?
urm, it's happened with all the distros ive tried, so i'm pretty sure it's not.

> Ubuntu should work with you other partitions, the live CD does not automatically mount them.

ahh i see :) ok so ive backuped up my files and want to resize my NTFS partition, a friend tells me i need
a ~5gb ext3 formatted partition for linux and installing new packages on
a ~500mb SWAP partition
can anyone confirm? i currently have a 115gb NTFS partition(30gb free), and a 4.8GB fat32 that doesn't show up under windows.

oh and also: how risky is resizing my NTFS partition? i want to try it because new hard drives are kinda expensive :S
(i'm defragmenting it at the moment before anybody tells me to do that... :))

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-02-17
Well, first if you have a problem booting multiple distro's look at them to get an idea of the problem. Take a look at the boot options noacpi [acpi=off] for example ...

Your partitions for Ubuntu seem fine to me, they may seem small but they will work for now ...

finally, yes Gparted will resize a ntfs partition ;)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2007-02-17
you don't even need gparted (or any other separate program) as Ubuntu's installer handles resizing partitions just fine.

The trick is to boot windows into safe mode first, and run defrag there (running in normal mode windows defrag is not able to move some files).

After that resizing NTFS is as safe as anything (meaning if you have anything really important you should have a backup, but then again if you have anything important you DO make regular backups anyway ;) )

5GB is not much, but it's enough to test Linux a bit. Swap partition should be 1.5 to 2 times your RAM, but more than 1GB of swap is usually useless.

---

