---
title: ".iso"
date: 2006-09-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by PietreWitobi on 2006-09-19
So I downloaded the Windows Vista RC1 as an .iso (Trying it on my Windows partition).  When I tried to burn it, I got an I/O error.

Ubuntu 6.06 Dapper Drake
K3b 0.12.14 (Using KDE 3.5.2) to burn

Drive: HL-DT-ST DVDRAM GSA-4083N

Alleged Capabilities:  Play Audio, Write CD-R, Write CD-RW, Read DVD, Write DVD, Write DVD-RAM

Disk:  imation DVD-R 8x   4.7 gb

A little Help?  I don't know if the problem is in my hardware or software.

Thanks

---

### Post by nudnik on 2006-09-19
I vaguely recall having the same problem once. Under K3b you must select the "burn dvd iso" option, otherwise havoc ensues. Once you have given the location of the ISO, things should go smoothly. 

It might also be good to check that you are not using + format media in a - format burner and the reverse. I beleive the majority of burners are multiple format these days as they should be, but one never knows.

Let us know how Vista is faring these days, last I checked it was extremely slow and annoying](*,)

---

### Post by PietreWitobi on 2006-09-19
We'll see

---

### Post by PietreWitobi on 2006-09-19
Damn keyboard so oddly spaced.  I used the Burn DVD iso option, and I'm pretty sure this is -R, so I can't see what else the problem might be.

---

### Post by nudnik on 2006-09-19
Try using the default Ubuntu burning program which responds when you load the media. If all else fails you could always burn it under Windows :biggrin: (waits for beating)

In all seriousness, if all else fails, someone more familiar with your burner might be able to shed some light on the situation.

---

### Post by David Corrales on 2006-09-19
Did you get a coaster or you couldn't burn even a bit? If the later happened, it's because of problems on the device file.
Type **sudo chmod 666 /dev/dvd** (I assume you're using the /dev/dvd device). It'll make the driver available for r/w to everyone.
I know that the proper way is to add yourself to the cd-rom group but that doesn't seem to work. At least it didn't on my 2 dapper installations.

---

### Post by crispy_420 on 2006-09-19
Try gnomebaker.

I have almost the same burner. No failed burns yet. Mine is listed as:

HL-DT-ST DVDRAM GSA-H10N

I have burned RHEL beta (DVD iso) with no errors so far.

How did you get Vista to download? It always fails for me at 78%. I just want to see how it has come along out of curiousity.

---

### Post by PietreWitobi on 2006-09-19
I got a coaster with a read-me file on it...  so pissed.

Yeah I think I will try windows.... after gnomebaker

I dunno, I just left he computer, and it ran on its own.  No error messages so I assumed everything went fine.

---

### Post by David Corrales on 2006-09-19
Don't they publish the MD5 or SHA-1 sum for the file?
If they do (and they should...) you can calculate it, to check that the file was downloaded correctly, by typing:
**md5sum name_of_the_iso.iso**
**sha1sum name_of_the_iso.iso**
Inside the directory with the downloaded file.

---

### Post by PietreWitobi on 2006-09-19
It was the burner I was using, New Disk and GnomeBaker worked fine.

Thanks for your help all.

---

