---
title: ".htaccess problems."
date: 2008-01-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by e1ektrob0y on 2008-01-02
I have my web server working and can access it from outside the network. I tried to protect the contents of the server with .htaccess but nothing happens.

I followed [this]("http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/howto/auth.html") guide but nothing actually happens, i can still access everything...

The guide refers to /usr/local/apache/passwd/passwords but i do not have this directory...the only directory's i can find that are similar is /etc/apache2 and /usr/lib/apache2. So, i put the .htaccess file in /var/www and also the .htpasswd file that i made using "htpasswd -c" in /var/www...but nothing happened?

any ideas what I'm doing wrong?

here is what my .htaccess file looks like...
```
 AuthType Basic
AuthName "Restricted Files"
AuthUserFile /var/www/
Require user guest
```

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2008-01-02
Did you place the  **AllowOverride AuthConfig **entry in the Directory section of your site file in /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default file (or the file you are using)?

The Default looks like this:

    <Directory /var/www/>
                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
                **AllowOverride None**
                Order allow,deny
                allow from all
                # This directive allows us to have apache2's default start page
                # in /apache2-default/, but still have / go to the right place
                #RedirectMatch ^/$ /apache2-default/
        </Directory>

You need to change the bold type and restart apache.

---

### Post by e1ektrob0y on 2008-01-02
ok , i tried that and now i get the password prompt. after the password is entered i get this 
```
Internal Server Error

The server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request.

Please contact the server administrator, webmaster@localhost and inform them of the time the error occurred, and anything you might have done that may have caused the error.

More information about this error may be available in the server error log.
```
what have i done wrong now?

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2008-01-02
Look at:

tail /var/log/apache2/error.log

After you get the error, it may give you more information.

---

### Post by bindatype on 2008-01-02
Now is probably a pretty good time to get acquainted with the /var/log/apache2 log files---start by looking at error.log.  Happy hunting!

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2008-01-02
Now is a good time to mention that the process of debugging such things involves a good bit of testing/looking at logs/adjusting and repeat.

Even in my days as a windows sysadmin the process was the same.  Part of setting up a server is having a mastery of:

-how to start and stop processes
-how to configure them
-where to look for their errors 
-how to interpret those errors so that you can make meaningful changes to step 2 above

It is an iterative process, but it is ripe with what an old professor of mine called "incidental learning".  You can't short circuit the process and would not want to rob yourself of the knowledge you would get.

---

### Post by e1ektrob0y on 2008-01-02
cool, thanks guys. I realized that .htaccess was looking for /var/www/htpasswd/passwords. i needed to make a .htpasswd file and place in in /var/www and amend .htaccess to:
```
AuthType Basic
AuthName "Restricted Files"
AuthUserFile /var/www/.htpasswd
Require user guest

```
is this now secure? or do i have to place a .htaccess and and .htpasswd file in every directory on the site?

oh, and now that i have the encrypted contents of the /var/www/htpasswd/passwords file in a .htaccess file, can i delete that directory?

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2008-01-02
Your authuser file is where ever you want it:

AuthUserFile /var/www/.htpasswd

Here it is in www and is typically populated with the following examples out of the MAN page:

             htpasswd /var/www/.htpasswd jsmith

       Adds or modifies the password for user jsmith. The user is prompted for the password. If executed on a Win&#8208;
       dows  system,  the  password will be encrypted using the modified Apache MD5 algorithm; otherwise, the sys&#8208;
       tem’s crypt() routine will be used. If the file does not exist, htpasswd will do nothing except  return  an
       error.

             htpasswd -c /var/www/.htpasswd jane

       Creates  a  new file and stores a record in it for user jane. The user is prompted for the password. If the
       file exists and cannot be read, or cannot be written, it is not altered and htpasswd will display a message
       and return an error status.

Each directory entry in your site config file secures a specific directory.  I am not certain if the effect is recursive, but you could test it by creating a subdirectory under /var/www and seeing if it prompts you for the password (sorry, it has been a few years since I set such a site up).

If you have added the user accounts to the .httpasswd file then you can delete the /var/www/htpasswd/passwords file.

---

