---
title: "512MB + 2GB. Bad?"
date: 2008-03-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by paker on 2008-03-16
My laptop has 2x512MB memory. Can I replace one of the 512 with 2GB? Is it a bad practice? I can put 2x2GB, but only 3GB will be used. It seems to be a waste.

---

### Post by dokdoom on 2008-03-16
I wouldn't mix two differnt RAM sticks even if they were both 2GB. That's just me and how I always told so take it with a grain of salt. I'm curious though, why don't you just use a 64 bit *buntu?

---

### Post by freebios on 2008-03-16
you most likely have dual channel memory and by using 2 different size sticks your computer cannot reference both sticks at the same time this can actually result in performance loss.  also if you are using a 32 bit install your right your computer can only reference 3 gigs if you use 2 2 gig modules.  your best bet is to use 2 identical 1 gig sticks if you really have to upgrade.  hope i helped.

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2008-03-16
You will get somewhere between 3 and 4 gig depending on your video card, and if you shadow the video bios and stuff like that. You have 4 gig of addressing in the 32 bit system, and some amount is taken by hardware.  I have gotten up to 3.65 gig or ram in some systems.  Get the 4 gig.  You will get it back when 64 bit becomes viable.

---

### Post by paker on 2008-03-16
Thanks for the explanation. I will get 2 x 2GB and havethe memory underused. Maybe I will switch to 64 bit ubuntu down the road.

I had some trouble with 7.04 64-bit ubuntu. My older Samsung printers didn't work well. I will try 64 bit again when 8.04 is released.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-03-16
> Thanks for the explanation. I will get 2 x 2GB and havethe memory underused. Maybe I will switch to 64 bit ubuntu down the road.

I had some trouble with 7.04 64-bit ubuntu. My older Samsung printers didn't work well. I will try 64 bit again when 8.04 is released.

32-bit systems can use only about 3.7 GB of ram.  64-bit systems can use up to [16.8 million terabytes]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/64-bit") of ram.

Sometimes for peripherals, the best thing to do it get a new one.  But I do hope that yours works with Hardy.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-03-16
> **paker said:**
> ........
I had some trouble with 7.04 64-bit ubuntu. My older Samsung printers didn't work well. I will try 64 bit again when 8.04 is released.

Lots of people had issues with early releases of 64 bit, lots more are now happily using the current Gutsy 64 bit release and those that still hold onto the (now) out of date experiences are missing out.

If Hardy 64 bit is an improvement on Gutsy (maybe native Flash & Java - I can't think of anything else), then there will be no excuse for anyone with the right hardware not to use it.

---

