---
title: "./Configure problem (Solved)"
date: 2006-10-13
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Kreg on 2006-10-13
Hey i am having trouble installing a program in the config log this error is listed

configure:7387: checking how to run the C preprocessor
configure:7422: gcc -E  conftest.c
configure:7428: $? = 0
configure:7460: gcc -E  conftest.c
conftest.c:15:28: error: ac_nonexistent.h: No such file or directory
configure:7466: $? = 1
configure: failed program was:
| /* confdefs.h.  */

in the treminal this was shown

checking for struct pst_processor.psp_iticksperclktick... no
checking for suitable m4... configure: error: No usable m4 in $PATH or /usr/5bin  (see config.log for reasons).
kreg@kreg-laptop:~/dls/gmp-4.2.1$ make#
bash: make#: command not found
kreg@kreg-laptop:~/dls/gmp-4.2.1$ make
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.  Stop.

what should i do now?

kreg

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2006-10-13
You have build-essential installed? What about m4?

---

### Post by Kreg on 2006-10-13
hey thanks for the tip

i havent installed it individualy.

how do i get it?

I just tried sudo apt-get m4 but it didnt work.

kreg

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2006-10-13
```
sudo aptitude install build-essential m4
```

---

### Post by Kreg on 2006-10-13
brilliant!! that seems to have sorted it thanks so much...

Kreg

---

### Post by songlj on 2008-05-16
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> ```
sudo aptitude install build-essential m4
```


it's dose not work. The result is following:

Couldn't find package "m4".  However, the following
packages contain "m4" in their name:
  libxpm4 
No packages will be installed, upgraded, or removed.
0 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 0B of archives. After unpacking 0B will be used.

when i ./configure the GMP , there is still the error message.

---

### Post by co30cl on 2008-06-30
> **songlj said:**
> it's dose not work. The result is following:

Couldn't find package "m4".  However, the following
packages contain "m4" in their name:
  libxpm4 
No packages will be installed, upgraded, or removed.
0 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 0B of archives. After unpacking 0B will be used.

when i ./configure the GMP , there is still the error message.

Same problem here, any other suggestions?

---

