---
title: "Do 2 1.8 Ghz processors = 3.6 Ghz total speed?"
date: 2006-08-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-08-27
I just don't know about this one....

(and yea im talking about an intel core duo processor)

---

### Post by GuitarHero on 2006-08-27
No they aren't usually compared like that.  Also GHZ isnt everything.  Im sure the dual core processor would be much faster, due to it being a newer processor and it having two cores, which does wonders for multi tasking and multi threaded programs.  Definatly go dual core if you are looking for a new computer or processor.

---

### Post by jISh on 2006-08-27
Two cores = two channels for data to go through instead of a single one.
Does NOT double speed, but is a great performance boost.

---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-08-27
okay, thanks for the knowledge gained

---

### Post by MrHorus on 2006-08-28
It's like if you have two trucks that both go at 90mph.

It doesn't mean that you have 1 truck that does 190 but you CAN shift twice as much cargo (data) around and be twice as productive.

You could do load balancing or you could do something intensive on one core (like encoding video files) whilst doing something equally productiv on the other, such as playing Quake 4...

---

### Post by tappad on 2006-08-28
However, if the program is built with multi-threading then you can use both cores at the same time..

Witch does mean that 2 1.8Ghz allmost = 3.6Ghz, more and more programs will support this.

---

### Post by Mandoscottie on 2006-08-28
when it is a multithreaded application it is still not the same as a 3.6ghz cpu it will just use both cores mate at a clock speed of 1.8ghz. the throughput of data processed will be up to 2x more but the clock speeds remain 1.8ghz.

so technically it will still be 1.8ghz regardless if you have 10x 1.8ghz cpus the total speed still remains 1.8ghz.

think of it like you may have two or more engines in a custom car but only 1 drive-train to put it through.

CPU clock speeds arnt necessarily a measure of performance of the chip tself, if you look at the AMD chips the clock speeds arnt as high as the intel P4s but outperform the P4 equivelent. The same can be now said of the Conroe 2 CPUS which in turn outperform the P4/AMD64/FXs yet have a lower internal clock speed.

---

