---
title: "IRQ, Com (ttyS) ports at boot"
date: 2007-01-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2007-01-06
Trying to fix my modem's inability to have GnomePPP find it, I came across:

 There are several options.  One method is going to the /etc/rc.d/ 
    directory, and using an editing program such as "jed" edit the 
    rc.local file, and insert 
    setserial /dev/ttyS3 uart 16550A port 0x6400 irq 11 
    as the last line.

([http://linuxmafia.com/faq/Hardware/PCImodems.html](http://linuxmafia.com/faq/Hardware/PCImodems.html))

And is that the correct file for Ubuntu? 
However, where in rc.local do the additional lines go? That is: I show two rc.local in my filesystem:

/etc/rc.local
/etc.init.d/rc.local

what is the correct place or places for those extra lines?

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2007-01-06
I don't quite understand what you mean about making Gnome-ppp find it.

I have Dell 4100 like you but 1 GHz.

What I did was run **sudo wvdialconf**. It told me which ttyS port it found my modem.
I then just selected that in Gnome-ppp. And then set up all the other parameters for my ISP, and I was good to go.

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2007-01-07
Too many problems with the modem to detail at first.

WvDial sets modem at /dev/ttsS4, but GnomePPP "sees" only ttyS0,1,2, and 3 NOT 4. Hence I get WvDial log info of "cannot set serial port". I also believe that due to ttyS4, the IRQs are getting misset by setserail and "lose" the pppd

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2007-01-07
I don't use the Detect feature in gnome-ppp.

Since wvdialconf found your modem at ttyS4, just type **/dev/ttys4** in the modem box.

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2007-01-15
I think I didn't provide enough information at first, because I didn't want to needlessly complicate the process of finding a solution.

wvdialconf does find a pci (controller based hardware) modem and writes /etc/wvdial.conf as /dev/ttyS4. GnomePPP does set the modem as /dev/ttyS4, BUT, when GnomePPP is invoked, it returns odd messages in the Log, to wit:

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.55
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 L1 M1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 L1 M1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L1DT3932021
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L1DT3932021
CONNECT 50666 V42bis
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
** O1 Communications TermServ **
Login: 
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: rlnielsen
rlnielsen
Password: 
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
    Entering PPP Session.
    IP address is 66.81.28.27
    MTU is 1524.
--> Looks like a welcome message.
--> Starting pppd at Mon Oct  9 17:45:47 2006
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 5203
--> Disconnecting at Mon Oct  9 17:45:48 2006
--> The PPP daemon has died: No root priv error (exit code = 3)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> I guess that's it for now, exiting
--> The PPP daemon has died. (exit code = 3)

---

