---
title: "Problems loading glx module"
date: 2007-06-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by tsouza on 2007-06-19
Hi ppl,

    I just installed ubuntu feisty and upgraded everything. When I tried to enable the nvidia-glx, X server failed to load saying that there was an api version mismatch between nvidia kernel and nvidia driver (or something like that). Then I removed nvidia-glx and installed nvidia-glx-new. Now X server loads but the glx module isn't loading with the following errors:

[PHP]
(II) LoadModule: "glx"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libglx.so
dlopen: /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libglx.so: undefined symbol: _nv001462gl
(EE) Failed to load /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libglx.so
(II) UnloadModule: "glx"
(EE) Failed to load module "glx" (loader failed, 7)
[/PHP]

 My graphics card is a GeForceFX 5600XT and my xorg.conf is:

[PHP]
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"intl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"False"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
[/PHP]

  Any clue anyone?

Thanks in advance,
Thiago Souza

---

### Post by wonk-o-matic on 2007-06-19
This is an answer, really, not a cop out!  I've been down this road, and searching on nvidia got me a how-to that worked flawlessly.  As always, nvidia drivers are a bit different to get installed, and there are lots of posts.  

If you've already searched tirelessly for the answer, my apologies.

---

### Post by cdyson37 on 2007-09-08
Exactly the same problem here. Feisty, 8800GTS, nvidia-new drivers. I thought it was a screw up on my part, since the default drivers didn't work, I tried installing NVIDIA's own drivers from their website (which conflicted with the already installed kernel modules) then I tried nvidia-new.

The drives appeared to work flawlessly apart from the GLX module failing to load because of this undefined symbol (_nv001462gl). I have reinstalled packages to make sure that I hadn't overwritten the .so file but could someone check this checksum so I can make sure?
```

40b92b80b1bdccd4885162a18fbac825  /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libglx.so

```

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by murri on 2007-10-24
Exactly same problem here.

I also have Geforce 8800GTS and 7.04 Feisty. When I tried nvidias own drivers I got
```
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
Error: API mismatch: this NVIDIA driver component has version 100.14.19, but the NVIDIA kernel module's version does not match.
```
And couldn't start X at all. After a while I gave up and went for the nvidia-glx-new ones, and now I get this:
```
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libglx.so
dlopen: /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libglx.so: undefined symbol: _nv001462gl
(EE) Failed to load /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libglx.so
```
And GLX isn't enabled at all.

cdyson37: I checked my libglx.so's md5sum and got the same - 40b92b80b1bdccd4885162a18fbac825.

I got an incredible amount of help from this forum, for grubgfx, driver installations, dual-screens and much much more, without having to post a single post myself. But unfortunately it stopped here :/

Please, does anyone know what the cause of this is?

---

### Post by cdyson37 on 2007-10-25
Argh! Just managed to loose my carefully typed out reply somehow...

In short: In Gutsy everything works fine so if I were you I'd just format+install gutsy.

I did get it working in Feisty by removing any and all glx related packages that weren't required by the restricted drivers package, then compiling my own vanilla kernel and running the latest nvidia installer from their website.

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by murri on 2007-10-28
Thanks cdyson37,
I finally got myself to backup my stuff, format and install Gutsy and as you said, everything works great here.

---

### Post by cdyson37 on 2007-10-28
My pleasure.

Old tip: Put /home on its own partition (you'll have to partition manually). Then when you format+install your stuff's still there :-)

Charlie.

---

### Post by actionix on 2008-02-15
Hi Guys,
I solved this problem just making newly the right symbol links.

You just need make this library pointing to right files:
/usr/lib/libGLcore.so.1
/usr/lib/libGL.so.1
/usr/lib/tls/libnvidia-tls.so.1

The error happen when you this to install a driver directly from NVIDIA web site and it don't works. Even removing the Ubuntu nvidia-glx-new and installing newly the symbolic link is not created correctly.

You don't need reinstall your system because this :-), remember it is now "windoze".

---

