---
title: "Help me understand my file system and access my CD ROM Drives"
date: 2007-08-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-08-06
Hej.

I have a wee bit of a strange problem that is probably (hopefully) the result of my limited understanding.  

When I go to Places > Computer I see the following icons listed in my "Computer - File Browser" window:

1) Floppy 1

2) Floppy Drive

3) CD-ROM 1

4) CD-ROM/DVD ROM Drive

5) CD-RW Drive

6) 78.1 GB Volume: hda1

7) 9.8 GB Volume: hda5

8 ) Brother DCP-110C 

9) Filesystem

Now, I have one floppy drive, one DVD drive, and one CD-RW Drive.  My DVD is  currently on the blink (physically), I can't access my CD-RW with any of the icons, and Brother DCP-110C is the name of my printer. If I click on any of the icons for external media (except the DVD) I get the following error message, in descending order:

1) mount: /dev/ is not a block device

2) mount: /dev/fd0 is not a block device

3) mount: special device /dev/hdd does not exist

4) (Ignore until I install a new DVD)

5) There is probably no media in the drive (even though there is)

6) Shows all the files on Windows partion

7) lost+found folder

8 ) There is probably no media in the drive 

9) My file system.

Do I need all of these icons?  Can I safely remove them?  How can access my CD-RW drive?

---

### Post by southernman on 2007-08-06
> 
Do I need all of these icons?
I can not answer this definitively, but my instinct is to say yes. In my opinion, they (the links) are there for a convienent way to gain access to different filesystems on your system. For now, just leave them be unless someone else states otherwise with absolute certainty.

> Can I safely remove them?
See my above opinion.

> How can access my CD-RW drive?
Either through the command line, or nautilus (if using Gnome). You say there is media there, but what type of media is it? 

To better know how to answer the latter question you ask, please post your /etc/fstab file. You can get the file in gedit by doing:
> 
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab


It's probably clear as mud right about now, eh? ;)

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-08-07
**southernman**:

By "media", I mean there's a CD in the drive but Ubuntu doesn't seem to be able to detect it.

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=2b8c820d-18db-445d-816d-32cd66866963 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=5E54A59E54A57A03 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=a716116c-e769-44a9-a352-8da066b4c346 /media/hda5 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=d77927d1-a2f3-44f0-862c-b4c68b5bc87d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

There ya go.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-07
The floppy 1 and CD ROM 1 are what is called as Phantom Drives. They arent really there.  To get rid of them simply comment/remove the respective lines from fstab.

They are removable media so they should auto mount anyway

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-08-07
What's a Phantom Drive?

Is it useful?

I don't know...sounds kinda spooky to me.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-07
> **Mr. Svinlesha said:**
> What's a Phantom Drive?

Is it useful?

I don't know...sounds kinda spooky to me.
no when a new kernel update was released, it changed the way removable drives were recognized. therefore, you see a drive which is not really there. you cannot access those drives. they are just icons sitting on your places menu, nothing else.

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-08-07
It's early here in Sweden, but still: I only see one entry for CD ROM 1 in my fstab file, and none for Floppy 1.

Which lines should I comment out?

Also, why don't I see entries for my other media?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-07
> **Mr. Svinlesha said:**
> It's early here in Sweden, but still: I only see one entry for CD ROM 1 in my fstab file, and none for Floppy 1.

Which lines should I comment out?

The last three lines in your fstab. Comment them by putting a # sign ahead of them

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-08-07
Thanks muchly!

That solved at least part of my problem.

Any advice regarding the printer icon, or the problem I'm having accessing my CD-RW?

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-08-07
Hang on: I seem to have gotten the CD-RW to work now.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-08-07
> **Mr. Svinlesha said:**
> Hang on: I seem to have gotten the CD-RW to work now.
yes it was probably those pesky phantom drives causing you so much grief :)

---

### Post by Mr. Svinlesha on 2007-08-07
They're probably cursing those meddling kids and their dog, even as we speak.

;)

---

