---
title: "Difficulty setting up dualboot (GRUB error 18)"
date: 2006-09-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-09-01
I did a Google Search and saw a fix over on gentoo's forums, but it didn't seem to work. I'm attempting to dualboot Xubuntu 6.06 and Windows XP Professional from the same hard drive. I installed Windows first, then Xubuntu. After fixing the problem of where GRUB was installed (it seemed to install to some other place instead of /dev/sda), I was able to boot Xubuntu from GRUB. However, I get a GRUB error 18 when I attempt to boot WinXP.

My disk setup is as follows:

An IDE hard disk used for backup purposes (comes up as /dev/hda1)
A SATA hard disk used for WinLinux (comes up as /dev/sda, and is where GRUB is installed)

/dev/sda has 3 partitions: #1 is Windows, #2 is Xubuntu, and #5 is swap.

Here are the contents for WinXP in /boot/grub/menu.lst:

> 
title		Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map		(hd0) (hd1)
map		(hd1) (hd0)
chainloader	+1

I'm positive it's supposed to be hd0,0 because Xubuntu boots from hd0,1 and Windows is in the first partition. I'm fairly sure the problem lies with a line in GRUB somewhere. Is there anything I can do to get back into my Windows system?

---

### Post by kidders on 2006-09-02
Yup, I can sympathise with your initial problem! Grub can be confusing when you're using both IDE and SATA disks.

Grub error #18 is **very** nasty ... so hopefully it's just a configuration problem!

Can I ask what the "map" lines are doing there?

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-09-02
kidders is right, you can remove the mapping lines:

map (hd0) (hd1)
map (hd1) (hd0)


The mapping commands are just for booting Windows on a 2nd hard drive.

---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-09-02
kidders: I have no idea what they were doing there. It was all automatically generated by GRUB when I installed it. I'll try removing just the two map lines and see if stuff works.

EDIT: Removed the two map lines and still received an 'error 18'.

---

### Post by NetworkGuy on 2006-09-02
I helped out an identical post like this earlier this week and did some research as to what error 18 meant.

What I found by google'ing and checking the grub website was your BIOS can not boot from any bootable sector past cylinder 1024 on your hard drive.  This normally only happens on older hardware as most of the newer BIOS versions can boot from any partition on the hard drive.

I'm not sure why you are getting this however since as you stated above Windows is on your first partition and then should be under that 1024 limit.

---

### Post by acx4 on 2006-09-02
Hi, I had the same issue, it has to do with the BIOS and how the computer looks at the hard disk.  

I used LVM when going though the partition and all was fine.

LVM made a small partition at the beginning of the hard disk and that fixed the issues with the BIOS and bigger hard drives.

Let me know if this is helpful.

---

### Post by xpod on 2006-09-02
I reinstalled after losing both XP and Ubu but eventually realised that the
"/" partition needed to be smaller as i too kept getting "error 18".

I settled for 15g but you can always steal it back ONCE your up and running

---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-09-03
> **acx4 said:**
> Hi, I had the same issue, it has to do with the BIOS and how the computer looks at the hard disk.  

I used LVM when going though the partition and all was fine.

LVM made a small partition at the beginning of the hard disk and that fixed the issues with the BIOS and bigger hard drives.

Let me know if this is helpful.
What is LVM and how can I use it to check things out? My hard drive is rather large: 250 gB to be exact. Windows is using the first 127 or so gigs.

---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-09-15
I'm sorry to double-post, but I'm still clueless as to how to fix my problem. How do I use LVM? I don't even know what to do to load it to see what to do.

---

### Post by kidders on 2006-09-15
> **NetworkGuy said:**
> your BIOS can not boot from any bootable sector past cylinder 1024 on your hard drive.

This is exactly the problem, but how to fix it is not easy to figure out :-(

One thing you *could* try is to set up a tiny little partition at the **beginning** of your disk ... say around 32M ... and mount your /boot there. It's quite possible someone will post back and say "What sort of stupid idea is that?!", but perhaps you could give it a go in the meantime?

It looks as though you have a funny BIOS that isn't terribly future-proof.

Incidentally, system configurations with a separate /boot are quite common, and have the added advantage of protecting critical boot-related files somewhat. The /etc/fstab line for it would be something like:

```

/dev/sda1 /boot ext2 noauto 0 0

```

That way, you would have to explicitly mount your /boot to get access to it. Also, it *might* correct this darned cylinder numbering problem you seem to be having.

---

### Post by catlett on 2006-09-15
The issue may be your swap parttition. The swap may be before windows and it is causing windows to be outside your boot sector.
Right now check the makeup of your partitions. Boot into xubuntu and enter this in the terminal ```
sudo fdisk -l
```Then cut/paste the output here.
Just so you know what the error is, 
```
Error 18: Selected cylinder exceeds max supported by BIOS
```
Solutions
```
Try an update for your BIOS and/or move your boot partition to the front (or at least into the appropriate range).
```
Moving the boot folder is an option for a linux install but not a windows install. If you were getting the error when booting to xubuntu, all I would say is make a small boot partition at the front of the drive but this won't work for windows.
Start by posting your partitions.

---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-09-16
Here's the output of "fdisk -l":

> Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       15935   127997856    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           15936       30026   113185957+  83  Linux
/dev/sda3           30027       30401     3012187+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           30027       30401     3012156   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/hda: 20.4 GB, 20416757760 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 2482 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1               1        2481    19928601    b  W95 FAT32

/dev/hda1 is my backup drive and doesn't have any OS installed. My motherboard is an Nvidia nForce 4 series, I believe.

---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-10-23
Sorry to double post, but it's been around a month, and I still haven't been able to figure out how to get back into Windows.

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2006-10-23
remember..... with grub all numbering starets with 0 (ie:hd0,hd1,hd2,hd3 would be the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th harddrive, this goes for partiton numbering too.)

i don't know how long i toiled over my grub problem without thinkin of that.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-10-23
> **MysticAurora said:**
> Sorry to double post, but it's been around a month, and I still haven't been able to figure out how to get back into Windows.
You could try the Super Grub Disk(see the link on this website):
[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/)
There's also a link to repair your Windows mbr on this page("Uninstall Linux") and a link that explains grub.

You could also try reinstalling grub to the mbr, using the live cd:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351)

---

### Post by adrian15 on 2006-10-24
Try with this:
```
 
title Microsoft Windows XP Professional
rootnoverify (hd0,0)
makeactive
chainloader +1
boot

```

and tell us if it has worked. I think that you do not need that little partition at the beginning I think it is all a problem of root. You should use rootnoverify because Grub cannot mount ntfs partitions.

Some old versions of Grub did not have this problem when root was used this way (without trying to see any file of the disk) but newer versions need to use rootnoverify for sure.

adrian15

P.S.: If it does not work remove the makeactive line.

---

### Post by gn2 on 2006-10-24
While not exactly a cure to your current problems, this thread may interest you: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=275728](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=275728)

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2006-10-24
I got that on edgy i just reinstalled again and it was gone.

---

### Post by ragnar_123 on 2006-10-24
a freind of mine did get the grub error 18, and the only ting who was wrong, was that his hdd's (sata) were at port 3-4, and not 1-2, maybe that your problem too.. his computer went fine with winxp, on sata port 3-4

sorry for the bad english here..

---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-10-25
> **adrian15 said:**
> Try with this:
```
 
title Microsoft Windows XP Professional
rootnoverify (hd0,0)
makeactive
chainloader +1
boot

```

and tell us if it has worked. I think that you do not need that little partition at the beginning I think it is all a problem of root. You should use rootnoverify because Grub cannot mount ntfs partitions.

Some old versions of Grub did not have this problem when root was used this way (without trying to see any file of the disk) but newer versions need to use rootnoverify for sure.

adrian15

P.S.: If it does not work remove the makeactive line.
I tried what you suggested, adrian, and got "GRUB" as my output, with a blinking underscore cursor. I wasn't able to enter any text or use any keystrokes to get out of it; I had to manually turn the computer off. I did some tinkering of my own and received error 8 ("Kernel must be specified before booting" or something similar).

EDIT: I tried without "makeactive" as well.

---

### Post by adrian15 on 2006-10-26
> **MysticAurora said:**
> I tried what you suggested, adrian, and got "GRUB" as my output, with a blinking underscore cursor. I wasn't able to enter any text or use any keystrokes to get out of it; I had to manually turn the computer off. I did some tinkering of my own and received error 8 ("Kernel must be specified before booting" or something similar).

EDIT: I tried without "makeactive" as well.

If you see GRUB that means you have done an setup (hd0,0) in the past and that means that stage1 or stage1_5 has been installed on your windows ntfs description table and thus YOU HAVE LOST ALL YOUR DATA. Or at least it seems it to me.

I suppose that there are methods for reconstructing the ntfs description table that grub has overwritten but I'm not expert on this area. If FIXMBR, FIXBOOT, BOOTCFG did not work you will have to buy this rescue utilities that they shell.

adrian15

---

### Post by gn2 on 2006-10-26
Have you tried fixmbr yet?

You can always get back into Ubuntu with super grub disc.

Can you copy the data you want to keep off the Windows partition into the Ubuntu partition and copy the data off the IDE drive as well?

If you can you could re-install Windows on the small HDD using the technique in the thread I mentioned in a previous post.

Here it is again: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=275728](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=275728)
.

---

### Post by MysticAurora on 2006-10-31
Where do I attempt to use the commands you guys suggested? I just tried using them in my terminal and they aren't commands. Is there a way to get into GRUB's console from the OS?

---

### Post by confused57 on 2006-10-31
> **MysticAurora said:**
> Where do I attempt to use the commands you guys suggested? I just tried using them in my terminal and they aren't commands. Is there a way to get into GRUB's console from the OS?

This guide should explain how to use fixmbr:
[http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p18.htm](http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p18.htm)

Here's the homepage of the above site, lots of excellent info concerning grub and configuring your system:
[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/)

---

### Post by rumli on 2006-11-03
I had a similar problem (except that it was Ubuntu, not Windows, that gave me error 18) and commenting out all "savedefault" lines in /boot/grub/menu.lst resolved the issue.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2006-11-03
"fix mbr" is a Windows function.  [http://askbobrankin.com/fix_mbr.html](http://askbobrankin.com/fix_mbr.html)

The MBR will be over-written the way Windows wants it to be.  Your Linux install will still be there but not accessible automatically.  GRUB modifies the original Windows MBR so that Windows tolerates the changes and you get your pathway to your Ubuntu install.
If you have a genuine Windows CD (not one of those phony "Recovery CD's) and you run the steps to fix the MBR, at least you'll have Windows back.
Then all you have to do is find some instructions for re-installing GRUB.  Lots of those.  GRUB will again tweak the Windows MBR and hopefully you'll have a functional dual-boot.

---

### Post by gn2 on 2006-11-03
> **Bartender said:**
> 
If you have a genuine Windows CD (not one of those phony "Recovery CD's) and you run the steps to fix the MBR, at least you'll have Windows back.


fixmbr can also be run from a Windows 98 boot floppy, and I believe Super Grub Disk can re-instate the MBR as well.

---

