---
title: "Mounting 2nd HD NTFS"
date: 2007-11-22
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Maupertus on 2007-11-22
Hey guys,

I tried mounting my 2nd HD in Ubuntu with ntfs 3g installed and running.
The main HD that has XP installed on it's first partition is perfectly mounted and I can read/write in it. My 2nd HD that has all the doc's and music I want to share between Windows and Ubuntu is mounted, accesable, but write only.

I've copy-ed my fstab here, but I'm to inexperienced to know what the problem could be.
Can it have something to do with the parts I've put in bold?

Thanks for helping!

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=2cfd5e33-64d9-4d6c-aaf2-48503c03693e / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=420C2ECD0C2EBC33 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g **defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1**
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=AA8884F48884C075 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g **umask=222,utf8 0 1**
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=ae478c52-25c8-4cd2-8bd3-9f5116c4ca9c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-11-22
Why don't you make your /dev/sdb1 to look like /dev/sda1?

```
UUID=AA8884F48884C075 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 **[COLOR="Blue"]0[/COLOR]**
```
And by the way, I recommend you change the last digit from 1 to 0 for both /dev/sda1 & /dev/sdb1 because you don't want Linux to scan your ntfs filesystem.  Bad things can happen.

---

### Post by Maupertus on 2007-11-23
> **taurus said:**
> Why don't you make your /dev/sdb1 to look like /dev/sda1?

```
UUID=AA8884F48884C075 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 **[COLOR="Blue"]0[/COLOR]**
```
And by the way, I recommend you change the last digit from 1 to 0 for both /dev/sda1 & /dev/sdb1 because you don't want Linux to scan your ntfs filesystem.  Bad things can happen.


Thanks Taurus, that was what I wanted to do, but I chickened out and wanted someone on the forum to tell me I could...(I always do everything the forums tells me to do) It worked like a charm, and I´m now such a very very happy camper. 

I found a thread on `getting to know your HD' but could you tell me what I just altered?

Cheers,

---

