---
title: ".deb repository updates"
date: 2006-08-31
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by cosgrove on 2006-08-31
I used debian for about two years back around '99/'00 ish, and the thing that made me switch to gentoo was that I didn't have to wait extended periods of time for new packages to be updated (new X version with cool features comes out?  oh sorry .deb files will be ready in a month stand in line plz)

How soon after a semi-popular project gets a release out are the ubuntu .debs updated?

---

### Post by spin2cool on 2006-08-31
Somebody's usually got a deb posted here within days (see Gnucash 2.0 threads for an example).

The repos are updated fairly frequently too.

---

### Post by Toxicity999 on 2006-08-31
You'll find that the repos are updated prettttty slowly and selectively for regular software. Important drivers and such usually a matter of days. But for reference major important updates usually just have any security fixes backported as in many cases tossing in a new major version of something could cause breakages, save the 6 month release cycle for hardcore testing of new major versions. Like Gnome, X, and what have you. Non system critical software is updated often. Though the default software like Openoffice and such worms in quickly you might find your favorite game or software frozen at an old version for awhile. You have to realize... people go through this by HAND poking for new file versions! By all means petition on the forums or what have you for new versions of minor software (assuming it's stable!) but don't expect too much just yet! Every major release we merge with the debian repos which seem to handle minor software more efficiently. I think I saw somehting about the edgy repos even having the newest Wine :)

---

### Post by cosgrove on 2006-08-31
thanks for the info guys, i think i'll stick with gentoo ^_~

---

### Post by Paul133 on 2006-08-31
To each their own.

---

### Post by Toxicity999 on 2006-08-31
Well isn't gentoo all compile it yourself crazy too? People are always helpful and post atleast checkinstall debs here. That's the whole thing with ubuntu anyway, community! Half of the usefulness of it all is within the forums. I'm not trying to keep you here against your will as long as your with linux your on the right team! One user at a time we slay the beast that is... well you know... so it's all good!

---

### Post by LKRaider on 2006-08-31
Well, if you are going to compile it all yourself, you can do that on Ubuntu too (jk) :P


But, yeah, the repos don't update all its software that frequently. You can count on the 6 month release cycle for it, or come to the forums and ask people to deb package it for you (which is, afterall, just a more involved compile procedure).

---

