---
title: "Can't move swap partition - need adviese please"
date: 2007-08-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by skyttan on 2007-08-24
Hello!

I recently changed the hard drive in my laptop and made an hard drive image of it before and restored on the bigger, new one. Now my swap partition is located on the middle of the drive. I can't move it with Gparted, even if I "swapoff" it... :S

Any help how I can move it? Or may I delete it and create again at the end of the disk? Do Ubuntu recognize it?

thankful for answers :)
skyttan

P.S. Use Ubuntu 7.04

---

### Post by shof2k on 2007-08-24
Should be fine to move swap to the end of the drive.  In fact it should make the system a little bit faster.  If you do that, you will need to edit you /etc/fstab file to show the new location of swap.

Let us know if you need any more help.

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2007-08-24
*did you run gparted from within ubuntu or from the livecd?  i'm not sure there's a way of unmounting a swap partition if you're in ubuntu, so if that's what you tried, just download the gparted [livecd]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php") and go with that...*

---

### Post by skyttan on 2007-08-24
Very grateful, you to, but I think I would need a little more help about the fstab thing - I manage to open it and write to it but I don't really understand it :S Perfect way to mess up my system. Here's the /etc/fstab:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=0f9e3e1a-b204-4a87-b5b5-68b140edbf75 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=cc0d2170-e5e7-4a17-9e4d-c5fa2f30c345 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
```

(Maybee you can while you're at it edit something in fstab so /dev/sda3 mounts automaticly (who isn't on the list even) - the partition I created on the new free space on my new hard drive)

I tryed Gparted on RescueCD wich contained Gparted and I'm sure /dev/sda1 wasn't mounted.

Thanks again, :)
skyttan

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-08-24
> **skyttan said:**
> 

(Maybee you can while you're at it edit something in fstab so /dev/sda3 mounts automaticly (who isn't on the list even) - the partition I created on the new free space on my new hard drive)

I tryed Gparted on RescueCD wich contained Gparted and I'm sure /dev/sda1 wasn't mounted.

Thanks again, :)
skyttan

you'd better post your fdisk:

**sudo fdisk -l** (that's a lowercase L)

---

### Post by skyttan on 2007-08-25
okey, here's my fdisk:
```
Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        9327    74919096   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            9328        9729     3229065    5  Extended
/dev/sda3            9730       19457    78140160   83  Linux
/dev/sda5            9328        9729     3229033+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
```
As you see, /dev/sda3 is on the end of the disk just after my swap partition. My goal is to move the swap to the end so I can resize sda1 & sda3.

Thanks again,
skyttan

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-08-25
> **skyttan said:**
> okey, here's my fdisk:
```
Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
**/dev/sda1   *           1        9327    74919096   83  Linux**
**/dev/sda2            9328        9729     3229065    5  Extended**
/dev/sda3            9730       19457    78140160   83  Linux
**/dev/sda5            9328        9729     3229033+  82  Linux swap / **Solaris
```
As you see, /dev/sda3 is on the end of the disk just after my swap partition. My goal is to move the swap to the end so I can resize sda1 & sda3.

Thanks again,
skyttan

Your swap is a logical partition inside an extended partition (sda2), which are not as easy to work with.  Like the guy above said, you need to use the ubuntu live cd or gparted live cd. 

Using either live cd **delete** the extended paritition (sda2).  (Or delete the swap first and then the extended)

Expand sda1 into the empty space.

Shrink sda2 to make room for swap at the end, either as a primary partition or logical parition within an extended.  If you do the latter, create the extended first, then the swap inside.

After that's done you'll then need to edit fstab, replacing the swap partition UUID with the new one (or just deleting it) and adding entry for sda3.  The easiest way is to leave out the UUID's altogether.  

To edit from the live cd, mount root/sda1 by clicking on it in left pane of nautilus browser.  It should mount at '/media/disk'.

Then,
[B]sudo cp /media/disk/etc/fstab /media/disk/etc/fstab_backup

gksudo gedit /media/disk/etc/fstab[/B]

Add entries:

> 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
**/dev/sda1 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1**
[B]/dev/sda5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/sda3 ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 2[/B]
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

Now you need to create the mount point specified above for sda3:

[B]cd /media/disk/media

sudo mkdir sda3[/B]

This creates a folder 'sda3' inside the media dir on root (sda1).

Note: you can always add UUID's back to fstab later by running:

**ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid**

and copying numbers to fstab. 

You might consider [converting sda3 into your /home]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome").

---

### Post by skyttan on 2007-08-31
Thanks! :D

---

