---
title: "Trying to get Desktop Effects on old laptop"
date: 2007-12-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-17
I am working with an old Compaq Presario 722US with an S3 Twister-K graphics card in it.  I can use the hardware to run my graphics (at least I believe I am), but I cannot get the desktop effects to work on it.  Here is the information on my settings, any help would be appreciated.

darknyht@Ubuntu-Home:~$ lspci -v | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Inc. VT8636A [ProSavage KN133] AGP4X VGA Controller (TwisterK) (rev 01) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
darknyht@Ubuntu-Home:~$ 

darknyht@Ubuntu-Home:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "altwin:meta_win"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "MaxTapTime"            "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "MaxTapTime"            "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "S3 Inc. VT8636A [ProSavage KN133] AGP4X VGA Controller (TwisterK)"
        Driver          "savage"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "S3 Inc. VT8636A [ProSavage KN133] AGP4X VGA Controller (TwisterK)"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    16
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

Once again, thanks in advance for any help that can be provided.

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2007-12-17
Try running this in the terminal.```
compiz --replace
```But I'm guessing that it's just too old to run Desktop Effects.

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-17
Gave that command a try and got the following

darknyht@Ubuntu-Home:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

I thought I had correctly installed xgl, but I may have not done it correctly.

---

### Post by Seisen on 2007-12-17
Compiz only works with nvidia, ati and intel cards as of right now.

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-17
I was getting ready to post that I just found the same thing.  Some S3 cards are supported by xgl, but not very well.

Stinks, but I guess that it just part of the price of having such an old laptop.  I will have to keep that in mind when I go shopping for the next one.  

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by EnergySamus on 2007-12-17
Yes, Compiz Fusion only works with Intel, NVidia, and ATI cards. You can try installing Ubuntu on a desktop computer with a dual-boot. A dual-boot can be helpful in certain situations, and your desktop graphics card is probably better than the laptop's (if you even have a desktop:lolflag: )

EnergySamus

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-12-17
yeh getting effects working on older computers is a toughie...
but hey its worth a try eh?

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-17
I don't own the desktop.  I just upgraded the memory in this laptop high enough to run Gnome.  I had been using Xfce before and wanted to see as many bells and whistles as possible with it.

---

### Post by EnergySamus on 2007-12-17
You can still enjoy Ubuntu without the bells. It does look better with them though...
Xfce is still a nice desktop. Of course, not as nice as Ubuntu!:(
Good Luck:KS

EnergySamus

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2007-12-17
I haven't tried it myself, but you could try using E17. 
It's supposed to have quite a bit of eye-candy without the bloat.

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-17
It looks interesting.  I might try downloading it at some point to try it out.

---

### Post by Ptero-4 on 2007-12-17
I don't think you can get compiz (the desktop effects) running on such old and crappy chipset.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-12-17
> **DarKnyht said:**
> It looks interesting.  I might try downloading it at some point to try it out.

Yeh E17 is promising, though it has its flaws I do like it for the most part

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-18
> **SunnyRabbiera said:**
> Yeh E17 is promising, though it has its flaws I do like it for the most part

As much as I appreciate the open source movement and it's goals are I am finding that your statement applies to a large number of the applications out there.

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2007-12-18
> **DarKnyht said:**
> As much as I appreciate the open source movement and it's goals are I am finding that your statement applies to a large number of the applications out there.You are correct.
The flawless program does not exist in any OS.

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-18
Ah, but I remember the time when software that was version 1.0 was tested as throughly as possible, but you are right most software is rushed out the door and patched later.  

In Linux based software I tend to see this happening more often however, because of the reality of the situation the OS and it's applications develop in.  There are very few corporations putting applications out like there is for mac/windows, and the people working their tails off to create similar on Linux have no where near the resources that the mega-corps do.  I also understand that in a lot of instances it is figuring out how to do something without infringing on some patent troll's stack of paper, or tripping over bad laws created by those who do not understand the technology being used.

I think this issue is a tough one for those programmers to solve, and in my opinion it boils down to at what point do you make your potential users wait on a more completed version of your software versus getting what you have to out to meet the demand?  There is a lot of factors that play into that also, but I think that this is the base question that everything else is built on.

But again, this is only my opinion and I know it is just one of many.  I did not intend to turn this into an argument over the pros and cons of open-source software.

As a side note I looked at the Geubuntu distro and it might be worth checking out when they don't have all the warnings about the stability of the thing.

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2007-12-18
> **DarKnyht said:**
> Ah, but I remember the time when software that was version 1.0 was tested as throughly as possible, but you are right most software is rushed out the door and patched later.  

In Linux based software I tend to see this happening more often however, because of the reality of the situation the OS and it's applications develop in.  There are very few corporations putting applications out like there is for mac/windows, and the people working their tails off to create similar on Linux have no where near the resources that the mega-corps do.  I also understand that in a lot of instances it is figuring out how to do something without infringing on some patent troll's stack of paper, or tripping over bad laws created by those who do not understand the technology being used.

I think this issue is a tough one for those programmers to solve, and in my opinion it boils down to at what point do you make your potential users wait on a more completed version of your software versus getting what you have to out to meet the demand?  There is a lot of factors that play into that also, but I think that this is the base question that everything else is built on.

But again, this is only my opinion and I know it is just one of many.  I did not intend to turn this into an argument over the pros and cons of open-source software.

As a side note I looked at the Geubuntu distro and it might be worth checking out when they don't have all the warnings about the stability of the thing.Usually, the reason open-source software is released before it is stable is because that's just how it works. 

It would be impossible for one coder to perfect his application and have it stable on every machine just by himself. So usually he'll get it working fairly well on his machine, then he'll release a alpha/beta version for other developers or adventures users to test and fix. By doing it that way, the orrigional coder doesn't have to do all the work, and most everyone gets relatively stable and cool and new software. 

Also remember that originally Linux was just a project of Linus Torvalds and he released on the internet for others to play with, but those coders hacked and improved it and wrote applications for it making it what it is today which is an impressive feat.

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-18
To get back on topic.  I think I found a way to solve my problems.  I have switched from metacity to xfwm4.  This allows me to have my drop shadows that I am seeking while not having the problems with Compiz.  Everything seems to be running wonderfully.

Now I just need to figure out how to start the Xfce windows manager to change themes in Gnome.

---

### Post by DarKnyht on 2007-12-19
Just figured out how to get into the xfce-settings needed to adjust xfwm4.  I just created a command with the following:

```
xfce-setting-show
```

So now I have my desktop compositing with the nautilus file system I prefer.  It's so nice to have some depth to my windows.  Makes it easier to tell things apart.

---

