---
title: "5.1 Samba File Mounts- where located?"
date: 2005-10-27
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by mfblankenstein on 2005-10-27
Where are the remote mounted Samba Directories located. I am trying to open some remote files with OpenOffice and I can find them in the open dialog file finder.

The text editor works fine. Thanks in advance...

---

### Post by TimonVO on 2005-10-27
You have to mount your samba directories. You need smbfs for it.
[B]sudo apt-get install smbfs
sudo mount -t smbfs //home/e /mnt/home_e -o username=your_username, password=your_password[/B]
or you can put it in /etc/fstab with the username and password in the options and filesystem smbfs.

**Note:** replace your_username and your_password with the username and password that can acces the remote machine.

---

### Post by wylfing on 2005-10-27
I don't know if you understood what TimonVO was saying (he's not wrong, just...terse) you can look at this thread for someone with an identical problem, and all the stuff he did to get things working for him:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=74705](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=74705)

---

### Post by mfblankenstein on 2005-10-27
Thanks, Gentlemen. This seems a little harder than it should be.

I have been using Mepis and SMB4K with little problems and without digging around on the command line as root.

Even the LinNeighborhood solution seems a little under the covers.

If I can mount the remote file systems (windows) and they appear on the desktop then all applications shoudl see them as well. I am still surprised that they don't show up somewhere as a result of the mount.

I do, by the way, like Umbutu a lot. It is very polished...

Michael B...

---

### Post by wylfing on 2005-11-02
The only reason it's difficult is that some applications use old APIs. If you look at an up-to-date application like gedit, there's no problem using Samba shares transparently. 

So really we're coming up with workarounds for applications that need to be updated. It's not Ubuntu's fault :)

---

