---
title: "Minor prob - opera crashes"
date: 2007-04-01
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-01
I usually spend more time answering than asking here - but I *AM* wondering what goes on with a couple of things.  First off - I installed opera to test it out on a 'secondary/test' install of Edgy - and this is the result:

```
freebird@nest:~$ opera
ERROR: ld.so: object 'libjvm.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded: ignored.
ERROR: ld.so: object 'libawt.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded: ignored.
Floating point exception (core dumped)

```

I installed it from Automatix2 - so I thought it all would be there.  Anyone know if the missing lib references are the likely cause??  Or- where would LD_PRELOAD be found - i don't think opera comes with source....  Or - well you get the idea.

Not too tragic because Swiftfox runs fine, but I wanted to see if Opera had grown up!

---

### Post by dreadlord_chris on 2007-04-01
I'm running the latest Opera here - but I downloaded & installed from the Opera site.

And yes, Opera has grown up - IMHO it's still the best browser out there...

---

### Post by Colonel Kilkenny on 2007-04-01
Two first errors come from Opera not founding Java. But those errors have nothing to do with the crash. 
You could try [http://my.opera.com/forums](http://my.opera.com/forums)

Edit. There are ways to debug opera as well. Check out opera --help and my.opera-forums.
You could also try the new 9.20beta which is available from labs.opera.com or my.opera.com/desktopteam

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-01
I guess I'll unistall it, and try direct from the website.  That *IS* why I'm running a secondry system after all - in case of gotchas :)

Don't understand why it didn't find Java either....(sigh)

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-04-01
Install Opera from synaptic.it have some bug that telling you that Opera crashed even if it is not runing.JUst ignore it .This is how to install java plugin in Opera
[http://www.opera.com/support/search/view/459/]("http://www.opera.com/support/search/view/459/")

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-02
Still at the same place - with variations.  I uninstalled (completely) and installed from Synaptic.  Same crash.  uninstalled completely, tried 9.20b.  Claims there is something still around and conflicting.  Uninstalled completely.  Searched drives - no sign of it.  Re-installed 9.20b - Conflict claims.  Uninstalled completely - tried 9.10 from Opera website - same crash.  Tried another version of Edgy - same crash.

BTW - the Launchpad isn't accepting bug reports at the moment!

I guess I have to suffer with Swiftfox for the moment (as if that wsa suffering!)

Thanks anyway - some other day I guess...

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-04-02
For Opera crashes you have to report to Opera.But if you decided to swich browser,you probably don´t need that information.

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-02
Yeah - I was just trying to gather all the crash info I could beforehand.  Tried installing the 'older' one from the website, and waiting - the repos for Ubuntu updated it - thought it might help (no errors)...... but same old same old...

Guess I don't get to switch yet!

---

### Post by unikuser on 2007-04-05
This is problem with libx11-6.
See this for more information. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libx11/+bug/102851]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libx11/+bug/102851")

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-05
I am not sure that bug matches my experience.  Here is little excerpt from the 'crash' file - that I couldn't get sent to Launchpad as it couldn't find the page...

```
Core was generated by `/usr/lib/opera/9.10-20061214.6/opera -style plastik'.
Program terminated with signal 8, Arithmetic exception.
#0  0xb79a7ac0 in QPaintDevice::~QPaintDevice () from /usr/lib/libqt-mt.so.3
``` 

I had hopes that the recent updates might have done something - but no luck yet!  

BTW - no help at MyOpera.com yet either - though they're trying...

---

### Post by dreadlord_chris on 2007-04-05
> **freebird54 said:**
> I am not sure that bug matches my experience.  Here is little excerpt from the 'crash' file - that I couldn't get sent to Launchpad as it couldn't find the page...

```
Core was generated by `/usr/lib/opera/9.10-20061214.6/opera -style plastik'.
Program terminated with signal 8, Arithmetic exception.
#0  0xb79a7ac0 in QPaintDevice::~QPaintDevice () from /usr/lib/libqt-mt.so.3
``` 

I had hopes that the recent updates might have done something - but no luck yet!  

BTW - no help at MyOpera.com yet either - though they're trying...

I started having the same problem this morning. I followed the that link, ended up at the Opera forums. I downgraded libx11-6 from 1.1.1-1ubuntu3 to 1.0.3-0ubuntu4 and Opera once again works.

I also added a **forbid-version** flag for the 1.1.1.-1 ver - hopefully the following version won't brake Opera too...

---

### Post by chaosxxl on 2007-04-05
> **dreadlord_chris said:**
> I started having the same problem this morning. I followed the that link, ended up at the Opera forums. I downgraded libx11-6 from 1.1.1-1ubuntu3 to 1.0.3-0ubuntu4 and Opera once again works.

I also added a **forbid-version** flag for the 1.1.1.-1 ver - hopefully the following version won't brake Opera too...



Hi. The "force version" option in synaptic is grey for me and in the Properties->Versions of the package I can see only the newest version of libx11. Can I download and install the older version without braking my dependencies anyway?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-04-05
If you didn´t clean your var/cache/apt/archives you still have old version.If the only thing you have is upgraded version I´m sending you version you need.Just put it in the var/cache/apt/archives and after that go to the  synaptic mark latest version and do the force vesion.

---

### Post by chaosxxl on 2007-04-05
> **zvacet said:**
> If you didn´t clean your var/cache/apt/archives you still have old version.If the only thing you have is upgraded version I´m sending you version you need.Just put it in the var/cache/apt/archives and after that go to the  synaptic mark latest version and do the force vesion.

Thank you very much! Actually I did clean my cache recently, so there really was only the newest version. A good lesson for the future. Opera works fine now so thank you again.

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-05
I still have no idea what is going on with my setup.  As far as I can tell with Synaptic, the version (and latest version) are both shown as   2:1.0.3-0ubuntu4  .  There is nothing in my /var/cache/apt/archives starting libx11 - and I have never cleaned it out.  Is there some reason that I wouldn't get the update?  Who knows - maybe it would HELP me??

Oh well - I did call it a minor problem - 'cos SwiftFox does work OK.

---

### Post by domwise on 2007-04-07
Rather than installing alternative libraries, if you are running X with colour depth > 16, you could try changing it to 16 ('DefaultDepth 16' in /etc/X11/xorg.conf). I found this tip on a web site that I can't seem to find again, but it definitely worked for me.

Anyway, hope this helps.

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-07
I may try that - but I think it would be too high a price to pay for a smaller/faster browser :)

---

### Post by Colonel Kilkenny on 2007-04-08
There is already two Opera builds released which both fix this problem!
No need to do fool around with libs or settings, just fetch the newest build from [http://my.opera.com/desktopteam](http://my.opera.com/desktopteam)

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-08
Hasn't touched my problem yet.  Still goes down on a floating point exception immediately.  Then again - the fix was a lib file update that i didn't have anyway!

Thanks for trying.... (sigh)

---

