---
title: "x86 = 32bit?"
date: 2007-05-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by PartyTaco on 2007-05-14
I am going to download Kubuntu, but the only versions are for x86 and 64bit. So would I download the x86? 

I am also downloading it for the KDE.  I am messing with Ubuntu just for Beryl. So is KDE better than Gnome for beryl?

---

### Post by viciouslime on 2007-05-14
Yup that's right. If you read the bit at the top of the download page it says:

PC (Intel x86) desktop CD
    For almost all PCs. This includes most machines with Intel/AMD/etc type processors and almost all computers that run Microsoft Windows, as well as newer Apple Macintosh systems based on Intel processors. Choose this if you are at all unsure.
64-bit PC (AMD64) desktop CD
    Choose this to take full advantage of computers based on the AMD64 or EM64T architecture (e.g., Athlon64, Opteron, EM64T Xeon). If you have a non-64-bit processor made by AMD, or if you need full support for 32-bit code, use the Intel x86 images instead. 

Which pretty much sums it up :)

As for beryl I would say it works equally well on both, but I find ubuntu to be a far better distro overall. Kubuntu just doesn't feel as polished. But i'm not a big fan of KDE polished or not...

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2007-05-14
> **PartyTaco said:**
> I am going to download Kubuntu, but the only versions are for x86 and 64bit. So would I download the x86?
Do you have a 64bit or a 32bit processor ?  

> I am also downloading it for the KDE.  I am messing with Ubuntu just for Beryl. So is KDE better than Gnome for beryl?
It's actually up to your taste, but beryl is running just fine either on KDE or Gnome.

---

### Post by Cypher on 2007-05-14
That's right, I wonder who decided to go with this scheme as opposed to X86-32 and X86-64 or something. Cuz 64-bit is still X86..oh well..

---

### Post by PartyTaco on 2007-05-14
> **Kobalt said:**
> Do you have a 64bit or a 32bit processor ?  



I have a 64bit. But I can't figure out  how to get flash running on a 64bit. And some other applications. I have heard 32 has better support though. And since I am a fresh noob at linux I figured I should go with something that works the best for now. 

I'm off to work, so I won't be replying for some time.

---

