---
title: ".bash_profile question"
date: 2007-05-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BHelts on 2007-05-17
Hello,
I'm trying to learn more about the terminal.  I know how powerful scripts can be from using backup and login scripts in Windows.  I'm trying to learn how to do the same thing in linux.  I'm sure I'll have a lot of questions, but my first question is this:  in my home directory, I do not have a .bash_profile file, is this because there isn't one by default because it's only used if needed?  Or should there be one present already, and since there is not, is there an explanation?  Thank you in advance.

I'm trying to learn a bit through [Linux Command]("http://linuxcommand.org") but got stuck on the first lesson LoL because of the .bash_profile problem.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-17
You don't really need it.  Instead, use ~/.bashrc.

---

### Post by BHelts on 2007-05-17
very well, thanks taurus.

---

### Post by JReagan1990 on 2007-05-17
In Ubuntu, you do not have a profile file in the home folder... truth to tell, I am not sure where it is, if there is one, but I would imagine that it is a hidden file in the home directory.

The scripts that can do all sorts of great stuff are .sh files. .sh files are simply text files, that you can make in Gedit, or any other text editor or word processor.  They run in the terminal much like a DOS .cmd file.  You simply type in the name of the script, if you saved it in your home folder, and it will run. (e.g. /home/yourusername/foo.sh)

---

### Post by BHelts on 2007-05-17
the the case of ~/.bashrc, it doesn't run at login, but every time you open up a terminal.  do i understand that right?

---

### Post by Delkster on 2007-05-17
> **BHelts said:**
> the the case of ~/.bashrc, it doesn't run at login, but every time you open up a terminal.  do i understand that right?

Yes. The profile file (.bash_profile or .profile, in that order, whichever exists) is actually run on every (console) login, and .bashrc is run every time you start a new bash shell.

---

### Post by BHelts on 2007-05-17
thanks a lot for the information.  LoL, i found this two pages later in what I'm reading:
> 
.bashrc

Though placing your aliases and shell functions in your .bash_profile will work, it is not considered good form. There is a separate file named .bashrc that is intended to be used for such things.

LoL.... i'm such a noob.  thanks again for all of your help.

---

### Post by Pollywoggy on 2007-05-17
> **taurus said:**
> You don't really need it.  Instead, use ~/.bashrc.

I checked /etc/skel/ in Feisty and I have a .bash_profile there but it is possible that I put it there, I do not recall.  I believe my Debian systems all have one by default but all I have in my ~/.bash_profile is this:

 # ~/.bash_profile: executed by bash(1) for login shells.
# see /usr/share/doc/bash/examples/startup-files for examples.
# the files are located in the bash-doc package.

# include .bashrc if it exists
if [ -f ~/.bashrc ]; then
    . ~/.bashrc
fi


I move all the aliases to ~/.bash_aliases and I source that file in ~/.bashrc:

if [ -f ~/.bash_aliases ]; then
    . ~/.bash_aliases
fi

I put my functions in ~/.bash_func (I created this file) and also source it in ~/.bashrc:

# Function definitions
if [ -f ~/.bash_func ]; then
    . ~/.bash_func
fi

I just do it this way to keep things organized.

---

### Post by wheezer on 2007-05-22
Each time I restart, and run terminal, .bashrc has executed as it should, but .bash_profile does not.  I have to manually source it to make it load my aliases.  

Any ideas? How do I debug this.,

Still ver much a linux noob.

---

### Post by Delkster on 2007-05-24
> **wheezer said:**
> Each time I restart, and run terminal, .bashrc has executed as it should, but .bash_profile does not.
That's normal behaviour. The xterm sessions don't count as normal console logins so .bash_profile isn't run in that case.

> I have to manually source it to make it load my aliases.
Well, I'd suggest you put your alias definitions in .bashrc instead.

I have almost nothing in my .bash_profile. Most of the stuff that would go there is more appropriate in .bashrc anyway.

---

