---
title: "screen refresh rates...."
date: 2007-05-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bdraft on 2007-05-06
Having a problem adjusting the refresh rate on "Fiesty".

Hardware:
                    Monitor:  Compaq FS7600 (17") (NOT an LCD, is a CRT)
                    Card     :  XfX 7600GT, 256MB (resolution set to 1024x768)
Software:
                    Driver   :  latest restricted driver that "add/remove" could find.

Problem:
Lowest refresh rate available is 50Hz, highest available is 56Hz.  The 56 option flickers more than the 50Hz option does (strange).  I usually run 85Hz in WinXP Home.  (Note: I got this when I tried to set the refresh rate like the directions on the website said.)

Question:
How can I get the refresh rate up to something decent before my eyes are ripped out of my head??  I'm sure there is an easy way that I'm missing somewhere....

thank you for your time;
bdraft

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-05-06
First run
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Next get your monitors manual, and you can use this sample xorg.conf as a guide.

Here's a sample xorg adjust as needed. the items in bold should get you going.

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL M782"
	Option		"DPMS"
        [B]HorizSync       30.0-80.0
        VertRefresh     56.0-75.0
      # 1280x1024 @ 75.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 80.17 kHz; pclk: 138.54 MHz
  Modeline "1280x1024_75.00"  138.54  1280 1368 1504 1728  1024 1025 1028 1069  -HSync +Vsync[/B]
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"DELL M782"
	DefaultDepth	24 [COLOR="red"]you may have to change this to 16[/COLOR]
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		**"1280x1024_75.00"** "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
	        Modes	      "1280x1024_75.00"	"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"            
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		      "1280x1024_75.00"	"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		      "1280x1024_75.00"	"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes	      "1280x1024_75.00"	"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"	
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		      "1280x1024_75.00"	"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Here's a modeline generator [http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php](http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php) use this if you need to adjust for other resolutions.

---

### Post by sliPrix on 2007-05-06
Thank you soo much SD!  I was about to rip out my eyes, and format my harddisk if I couldn't figure out why these black lines that were about 1 inch apart were invading my screen.  They would show up if I bumped my resolution past 1024x768, no matter what the refresh rate would be.  I was having this problem, and thought it would be something to do with my refresh rate, but was pointed into this direction (changing the default depth), but couldnt find a good tutorial online.  Long story short I changed my default depth to 16, and the lines disppeared leaving me free to choose whatever resolution I desired.   This was straight to the point and simple.  Thanks again.

---

### Post by yakkeh on 2007-07-10
Really great, thanks for sharing this info.
I have a laptop with a 1440x900 resolution screen, but after installing ubuntu I got stuck on 1280x1024, even though my xorg.conf file said to use a default 1440.
After reading your post, I checked if there was a modeline and it was missing in my config. Quickly tried the modeline generator link you gave, added the line to my config, rebooted and everything was fix immediately. Sweet!
You saved me a lot of frustration, thanks.

Maybe ubuntu should put up a link themselves to such a generator or even implement that in the installation process if they want everything to work out of the box.

---

### Post by MasterRoshi on 2007-09-14
it didnt work for me...i still have a refresh rate of 56 on 1024 x 768. This is my xorg file after editing( i have a backup also):

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:20 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
  # 1024x768 @ 75.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 60.15 kHz; pclk: 81.80 MHz
  Modeline "1024x768_75.00"  81.80  1024 1080 1192 1360  768 769 772 802  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1024x768_75" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1024x768_75" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1024x768_75" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1024x768_75" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1024x768_75" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768_75" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


did i do something wrong? i tried to go as "To the Prompt" as possible...but i may end up also tearing out my eyes lol. my laptop is good, but this desktop is...well bad. it has an Nvidia GeForce 6600GT in it i believe.

thanks!

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-09-14
For 50hz refresh rate issues with "nvidia based gpu's". You can disable Dynamic Twin View in /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Add the below option to xorg's Section "Device" to turn it off.
```
Option "DynamicTwinView" "False"
```

---

### Post by MasterRoshi on 2007-09-20
alright thanks a lot!

i have a refresh rate of 85hz at 1024x768! you guys are miracle workers lol.

thanks again!  :)

---

