---
title: "7.04  versus 7.10"
date: 2007-11-28
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by serhito on 2007-11-28
Hi,

I have recently installed 7.10 and had a fairly good idea of what it can do or not do. I find it amazing, however my biggest issue is that there are too many problems. I would not dare to criticize the hard work that was put into it. I really want to stick with it because i find it fast and efficient when it works. I do not have the knowledge or time to invest trying to fix it constantly. I am just looking at a practical point of view for my usage. I can live without all the 3D effects, but i need to be able to use email, internet (wireless), connect usb devices such as PDA, and have some windows application to run as well.

My question is, could 7.04 offer this kind of reliability ? I have a Dell Inspiron 710m notebook.

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by master_kernel on 2007-11-28
7.04 is more reliable and secure and is probably better for the simple things that you have mentioned. 7.10 has better, faster, buggier programs, desktop effects, and much more, but the problems seem to overwhelm the pros, especially in the setup. I don't mean to criticize the developers, but you should try to stabilize it more next time.

---

### Post by Grey Box on 2007-11-28
If you want a very stable version of Ubuntu then you should go for the LTS version. It will be less cutting-edge but is given a longer lifespan and will be more mature. You would expect it to be less buggy. 

That being said you might find less support for new gadgets, but PDA syncing is nothing new.

---

### Post by Dark_X on 2007-11-28
I have no problems with 7.10.  Its weird because I had no problems with Vista either.  I guess I am just a lucky person.

---

### Post by noisygecko on 2008-02-01
> **serhito said:**
> Hi,

My question is, could 7.04 offer this kind of reliability ? I have a Dell Inspiron 710m notebook.

Thanks for your help.

Back to the original question...  

Would 7.04 be better on a Dell Inspiron 710m?  I have the same system and can't get it to shutdown or reboot properly, let alone hibernate or suspend with 7.10.

I do get wireless to work (no status light), and other things seem OK.

-Sim

---

