---
title: "windows sudden crushed"
date: 2008-03-20
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
Hi
I was working in windows and for some odd reason it crush in a very peculiar odd way. I had a completely blue screen showing some kind of error and the memory was dumped. Whatever it was that could has been because of my rushing actions to find an odd noise in my system.  Well, the odd noise is due to the fan of my video card ATI radeon 9600xt (I know, it  is a pain of a video card). I think the fan is about to die. It is still working though...

However, when I try to restart my computer in the grub menu I choose Windows and it displays an error

Error 21
Drive not found...

What would be the best way to try to solve this problem from linux to try to recover and get windows running again?
I would like first to check the hard drive and then to be able to access windows files from ubuntu if possible or to check the validity of the windows hard drive. 

Thank you,

kris



%_______________________________________________________-
cristian@NARUTO:~$ sudo fdisk -l
[sudo] password for cristian:

Disk /dev/hda: 200.0 GB, 200049647616 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24321 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x12799728

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        8052    64677658+  83  Linux
/dev/hda2            8053       24321   130680742+   5  Extended
/dev/hda5           23971       24321     2819376   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda6            8053       23970   127861272   83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order
cristian@NARUTO:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=601d89de-166e-485f-bd7f-9464a7586628 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=15d9b8bd-c34f-477a-87b8-a54400855074 /export/home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=C800E53F00E534DA /media/hdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=43628781-6785-4072-8766-2ec290bbd01a none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
tmpfs /dev/shm tmpfs defaults 0 0
cristian@NARUTO:~$

---

### Post by uberlube on 2008-03-20
The fan could be shorting out the motherboard.

---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
I still have access to ubuntu but not to windows. Could that be the case? Does winodws have some kind of protection system that checks for such a thing as a short circuit (I dont know if there is any yet...). Now I have to figure how to get the reference for that fun.

Kris

---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
when it reboots, I notice that the grub maps hda0 into hda1 and the next line it does a mapping from hda1 to hda0. Could that be the reason why it does not seen my windows partition which I think it is in hda1???

This is my menu.lst
%______________________________
cristian@NARUTO:~$ cd /boot/grub/
cristian@NARUTO:/boot/grub$ cat menu.lst
# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not change this entry to 'saved' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default         saved

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout         10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title         Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root          (hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader   +1
#
# title         Linux
# root          (hd0,1)
# kernel        /vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=601d89de-166e-485f-bd7f-9464a7586628 ro

## Setup crashdump menu entries
## e.g. crashdump=1
# crashdump=0

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,0)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=true

## ## End Default Options ##

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=601d89de-166e-485f-bd7f-9464a7586628 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet
savedefault

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic (recovery mode)
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=601d89de-166e-485f-bd7f-9464a7586628 ro single
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=601d89de-166e-485f-bd7f-9464a7586628 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
quiet
savedefault

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic (recovery mode)
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=601d89de-166e-485f-bd7f-9464a7586628 ro single
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic

title           Ubuntu 7.10, memtest86+
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title           Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/hdb1
title           Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition
root            (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map             (hd0) (hd1)
map             (hd1) (hd0)
chainloader     +1

---

### Post by uberlube on 2008-03-20
Did you resize your windows partition to make room for linux?

---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
yes, I think I did. It has been a while ago since I did it. I partition a 200 Gb drive. The only reason I am doubting about it is that I have a second HD in my pc... it has been a while since I have work with this computer. Do you notice anything strange in the HD configuration files? I cant still explain why I get error 21 when it try to runs the windows menu option.

K.

---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
when I run fdisk -l I get

Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System
/dev/hda1 * 1 8052 64677658+ 83 Linux
/dev/hda2 8053 24321 130680742+ 5 Extended
/dev/hda5 23971 24321 2819376 82 Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda6 8053 23970 127861272 83 Linux

should hda1 be some kind of windows partition like ext3 (?) or ntfs?
I will try to see if I can detect the second HD in my bios.

K.

---

### Post by Jimmyfj on 2008-03-20
Seems to me that you just lost you Windows partition, possibly to a virus of some kind. Any way it seems as if your FAT-table has gone walkabout. There's is no way, to my knowledge, that you can restore any Windows partition from within Linux. But you could try to save some of your Widows files from a Live Cd session, or if you are able to boot up your system from Ubuntu. Then you need to re-install Windows and then Ubuntu so make sure that you make a hard copy of the files before you restore the system.

---

### Post by uberlube on 2008-03-20
I think what your problem is, is that you resized your windows partition without defragmenting the HD. The purpose of that is to bunch all of the used sectors together, so when you resize, you are not writing over data from windows. So if you didnt defrag, then you most likely damaged windows and it will not be able to boot. Not all is lost though, you can grab PartedMagic from their website (just google) and burn it to disk and then boot it like a liveCD. Once in it you can mount the windows partition and use the file manager to save all your important data to another medium. Then format the NTFS partition and do a clean install.

---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
thxs for the help. Actually now everything makes sense. I did partiotion my HD into two partitions but both were for ubuntu. It happens windows was in the second HD and that the HD was not receiving power. Now everything seems to be back to normal.

This just made me think about having a system backup... 

Kris

---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
I will be looking in the future how to get access to ntfs partitions in the future from linux. At the moment I have to go to bed, I have to go to work in less than 5 hours plus I have to travel for another 16 hours... ouch!

---

### Post by krisfrajer on 2008-03-20
Thxs for the replies guys,
K.

---

### Post by uberlube on 2008-03-20
np, glad you figured it out :)

---

### Post by linuxtoindia on 2008-03-20
go and search for the best boot repair cds..
here is the thread and is solved

---

### Post by uberlube on 2008-03-20
> **linuxtoindia said:**
> go and search for the best boot repair cds..
here is the thread and is solved

Did you even read the whole thread before you posted?

---

