---
title: "Wide screen resolution unselectable"
date: 2007-04-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Bobtheknight on 2007-04-08
My betters,

I bought Acer's 22" office line screen (AL2223W) and I can't select the correct resolution (1680x1050) on my machine.  Here is what I did.

I used safemode and did dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg.  It correctly identified my screen resolution and v-h syncs.  (well I think so anyway, 1680 x 1050) is one of the astrik'd ones.  But when I log back into my Xwindows the max selectable remained, stubbornly, 1280x1024.  The xorg.conf is appended at the end.

I tried hooking up my screen onto my sister's computer and selected the max Windows XP settings (some high number like 2000 x something) windows then correctly displayed 1680x1050, and used that as the max setting.  This signal comes from her HP computer's motherboard, which sports intel integrated 3d or something.

I tried to select the right resolution on WINXP as virtual OS in Ubuntu, no success.

I read my ASROCK motherboard (which is where I'm hooking up my video output, no graphics card) is kind of crappy (that's it, I'm not dealing with factory direct if it's the last place on earth selling computers).  I'm suspecting it doesn't sport widescreen outputs?

Looking at a square resolution on widescreen is hurting my brain, help?

Thanks in advance.

Bob

***xorg.conf***

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"AL2223W"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	31-82
	VertRefresh	59-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"AL2223W"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-08
Are those HorizSync and VertRefresh number correct for your monitor?  They look awfully low to be capable of the resolution you are after.

I couldn't find the exact numbers but here are a couple of things that might help.
I saw it listed with  VertRefresh 56 - 75 elsewhere. and I saw this Modeline suggested for use with this monitor.

Modeline    "1680x1050" 146.2 1680 1784 1960 2240 1050 1053 1059 1089

This would make your monitor section like this:

```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "AL2223W"
HorizSync 31 - 82
VertRefresh 56 - 75
Option "DPMS"
Modeline    "1680x1050" 146.2 1680 1784 1960 2240 1050 1053 1059 1089
EndSection
```

Hope this helps!

EDIT:  Also noticed an example for another xorg based system - and it also suggested that Display params include Viewport 0 0 like so:

```
Subsection "Display"
       		Depth       8
        	Modes       "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        	**ViewPort    0 0**
EndSubsection
```

---

### Post by Mellon on 2007-04-08
i have a widescreen too

make a backup of your xorg file before play with it

try to change this part

Depth 24
Modes "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection


to


Depth 24
Modes "1680x1050"
EndSubSection
EndSection

it works to me.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2007-04-08
I wonder if your current videocard **driver** (i810) supports widescreen. You can try to install the driver for your videocard; you need to do some research for the how.

---

### Post by Bobtheknight on 2007-04-08
I now suspect strongly because my driver i865g does not support widescreen.  My driver is reported by i915resolution.

I tried i915 resolution, but results are crappy.  Is there anyone whom used i915resolution to get i865g to display widescreen?  

That's kind of specific but yeah.  

Edit:  after a while, I am able to get the system->pref->res to display the resolution 1680x1050.  However the pixel remained at the 4:3 screen stretched to fit widescreen size.  As a result, they're fatter than they should.  So the new "correct" screen size is too wide (and big)  

I hope that made sense.

Bob

---

### Post by Bobtheknight on 2007-04-08
bump

---

### Post by freebird54 on 2007-04-08
Have you tried any other numbers - like 1440 x 800 - to see if the ratio can be gotten better?  I gather the modeline wasn't enough?

---

### Post by Bobtheknight on 2007-04-08
After 2 days of zealous fiddling, a upgrade to feisty beta and using experimental driverse I can finally see 1680 x 1050 resolution.  Here is what I had to do.

Upgrade to Feisty.  Remove with synaptic drivers xserver-xorg-video-i810, download from packages.debian.org xserver-xorg-video-intel, and xserver-xorg-core.  Removing the conflicting packages again with synaptic.

After installing xserver-xorg-core and xserver-xorg-video-intel, my screen displays at full capacity.

yay!

Thanks VERY MUCH for all that helped (especially he who doubted my original driver i810 is capable of displaying widescreen)

Bobtheknight.

---

### Post by awiggin on 2007-04-09
You wrote:

[COLOR="Navy"]"Upgrade to Feisty.  Remove with synaptic drivers xserver-xorg-video-i810, download from packages.debian.org xserver-xorg-video-intel, and xserver-xorg-core.  Removing the conflicting packages again with synaptic.

After installing xserver-xorg-core and xserver-xorg-video-intel, my screen displays at full capacity."[/COLOR]

Can this be done in edgy?  I looked on the synaptic manager and those same files were present and could be deleted and the others added.  But when I marked them for removal, the syn mngr wanted to remove ALL xserver-xorg-video-xxx .  That seemed a little over the top.

I am really tired of looking at my widescreen monitor stretched to a non-widescreen resolution.  Certain things (like photographs) look ridiculous.  I have tinkered with xorg.conf and other stuff, but nothing has worked.

Hope you can help.

Peace,
L in AZ

---

### Post by Bobtheknight on 2007-04-10
It's strange you can find the files that needs to be downloaded in the Edgy repository, because I couldn't :P  But it's perfectly reasonable that things had changed.

I heard that if you use  xserver-xorg-video-i810-modesetting (which at the time only exist in Feisty Universe) in Edgy you get dependency issues.  Because xserver-xorg-video-intel is a integration of all "ixxx" series, including modesetting, I don't know if it can be done.  

When I uninstalled xserver-xorg-core I did have to uninstall xserver-xorg-video-voodoo and xserver-xorg-video-v4l or something with it.

Although I did end up having to install xserver-xorg-core from package.debian anyway, so I might be reinstalling the dependency (I don't know if it's ALL the dependencies).

The way I see it, you can try it without upgrading to Feisty.  Just write down all the things you uninstalled, and if things fail, reinstall them using 

```
sudo apt-get install *uninstalled files here*
```

Oh, very important thing I forgot.  If you did get everything to install properly, you have to change the driver from "i810" (doesn't exist anymore) to "intel" in xorg.conf.  That's 1 replacement to be made for me.

---

### Post by awiggin on 2007-04-11
I will re-read your post carefully when I get home.  I'm so new to Ubuntu that I am afraid I will mess something up.

Also, I'm not sure I fully understand your instructions.

Have you found Feisty to be stable?  I might just upgrade to that and see what happens.

Thanks,
Lance

---

### Post by Bobtheknight on 2007-04-11
I found Feisty to be stable.  However the bandwidth for updates is kind of low, it range about 50kb/sec for update using that orange button.  But the cd image download is not slow.  I will post step by step instructions to the best I can when I get home of what I did.  Now I don't have the files.

Okay here is the things I did:

1.  Back up ALL MY FILES
2.  Clean install of Feisty beta
3.  Download : [http://packages.debian.org/experimental/x11/xserver-xorg-video-intel](http://packages.debian.org/experimental/x11/xserver-xorg-video-intel) choose i386 down at architecture (for me)
4.  Attempt to run the package (error: conflict with xserver-xorg-video-i810)
5.  Open Synaptic and remove video i810
6.  Attempt to run the package (error: unsatisfied dependencies xserver-xorg-core)
7.  Open Synaptic and remove xserver-xorg-core (also had to remove xserver-xorg-video-voodoo, xserver-xorg-video-(something else)
8.  Download : [http://packages.debian.org/experimental/x11/xserver-xorg-core](http://packages.debian.org/experimental/x11/xserver-xorg-core) choose same architecture.
9.  Install downloaded xserver-xorg-core.
10.  Install xserver-xorg-video-intel
11.  Open /etc/X11/xorg.conf with sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf, supply password when prompted.
12.  Change Driver "i810" to "intel" under Device, snippit provided below
        Section "Device"
	Identifier	"AL2223W"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
        EndSection
13.  Press Ctrl+Alt+backspace to restart xwindow.

Done!

I hope this helps

---

### Post by Tulsapoke on 2007-05-28
I pasted in the sections that freebird54 recommended as well as Mellon (for good measure) in to my xorg.conf and all seems to work wonderful with this monitor.  This monitor looks great at the rated resolution.  Thank you for the tips.

---

