---
title: "7.10 crashing"
date: 2008-02-02
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Jonathan.Simpson on 2008-02-02
Hi. I'm new to Linux. I began trying to install Ubuntu on Thursday. I started by trying 7.10 64bit LiveCD, it didn't work and I decided since I'm new to this I'll just go with 32bit for now. So, I tried 7.10 LiveCD. It wouldn't load even in safe graphics mode. So, I then tried the alternate iso. It installed but the system would crash randomly. Also, just for a note, I was dealing with setting up my wireless adapter during all of this as well.. It actually works when the system is up.

Anyway, I ended up getting 7.04 to be semi stable.. GNOME Settings Daemon times out on login causing the system to hang for ~5 minutes after logging in.. And it is preventing me from using any resolution above 1024x768 on a 22" widescreen (really annoying). That was enough for me to want to upgrade to 7.10. I had a thought that maybe my iso's of 7.10 were corrupted somehow (even though I downloaded torrents, checked the md5sum, burned them at 4x and let them check themselves). 

So, I updated 7.04 and then started to upgrade 7.10 through the Update Manager. Everything went -flawless- ... Until I logged in after I enabled the restricted NVIDIA driver. It occurred to me that the restricted NVIDIA driver might actually be the culprit. But I've got no clue on where to go from here.. And I really have no evidence of that being true. So, does anyone have any advice? Anything? I really want to ditch Windows for Ubuntu but it's just not working. Thanks in advance!

My specs:

GIGABYTE PC35-DS3R
Intel core2quad Q6600
NVIDIA 8800GTS 640MB

edit/ I also meant to add: I've stress tested my system w/in the last 48 hours. Prime95 for a full hour on all 4 cores, my temps never broke 48C and I let memtest run for 3 passes.

---

### Post by Moop on 2008-02-02
Have you tried using envy to install the nvidia driver? It looks like your hardware is pretty new and envy will let you install the latest driver. 

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

---

