---
title: "Installing XScreensaver-4.14"
date: 2007-06-15
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by ForzaItalia250 on 2007-06-15
Hello, I just installed Ubuntu yesterday after long being tired with windows, and intrigued by a Ubuntu/Beryl demonstration on youtube.

Anyway, I've been trying to install XScreensaver-4.14, but I'm not very used to using a command line and have not been successful in my attempts to install it according to the file that came with it.

The instructions were as follows:

"The simplest way to compile this package is:

  1. `cd' to the directory containing the package's source code and type
     `./configure' to configure the package for your system.  If you're
     using `csh' on an old version of System V, you might need to type
     `sh ./configure' instead to prevent `csh' from trying to execute
     `configure' itself.

     Running `configure' takes awhile.  While running, it prints some
     messages telling which features it is checking for.

  2. Type `make' to compile the package.

  3. Optionally, type `make check' to run any self-tests that come with
     the package.

  4. Type `make install' to install the programs and any data files and
     documentation.

  5. You can remove the program binaries and object files from the
     source code directory by typing `make clean'.  To also remove the
     files that `configure' created (so you can compile the package for
     a different kind of computer), type `make distclean'.  There is
     also a `make maintainer-clean' target, but that is intended mainly
     for the package's developers.  If you use it, you may have to get
     all sorts of other programs in order to regenerate files that came
     with the distribution."

I typed in `cd' /home/Documents/xscreensaver-4.14

Then pressed enter, and there was  a ">" So I figured I'd just continue following what it said

I typed in `./configure' and pressed enter

It says it should print out things saying what it is checking for but nothing happens, so I went onto the next step and again with the ">" on the screen I typed

`make'

and when I did this, I got this message:

bash: command substitution: line 1: unexpected EOF while looking for matching `''
bash: command substitution: line 2: syntax error: unexpected end of file
bash: ./configure
`make: No such file or directory

I also then tried the `./configure' as just `configure' as it was listed that way later so I followed the same steps only the first time the ">" appeared I typed in `configure'

Again, nothing happened when I did that, and I then proceeded to type in `make' which again came out with the same message.

I also tried the using `make check' as described by step 3 and I recieved a similar error message.

I'm not quite sure what I'm not doing right. I've had trouble using this to install programs before and it's come down to me not correctly entering the commands due to in experience.

Could anyone point out where I'm going wrong?

---

### Post by ForzaItalia250 on 2007-06-15
I've solved part of my problem after reading some more on how to use the terminal, but now I've encountered a new problem

I get this message:

"*****@*****-laptop:~$ cd /home/*****/Documents/xscreensaver-4.14
*****@*****-laptop:~/Documents/xscreensaver-4.14$ sh ./configure
[COLOR="Red"]current directory: /home/*****/Documents/xscreensaver-4.14
command line was: ./configure 
checking build system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking host system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output... configure: error: C compiler cannot create executables[/COLOR]
See `config.log' for more details.
*****@*****-laptop:~/Documents/xscreensaver-4.14$ 
"

What does this mean?

---

### Post by ForzaItalia250 on 2007-06-15
It said to check the log file.. I don't know what any of this means so any help would be appreciated

It says that the directory or file /usr/bin/ld but I checked and it does... anyone have any ideas?

This file contains any messages produced by compilers while
running configure, to aid debugging if configure makes a mistake.

It was created by configure, which was
generated by GNU Autoconf 2.57.  Invocation command line was

  $ ./configure 

## --------- ##
## Platform. ##
## --------- ##

hostname = *****-laptop
uname -m = i686
uname -r = 2.6.20-16-generic
uname -s = Linux
uname -v = #2 SMP Thu Jun 7 20:19:32 UTC 2007

/usr/bin/uname -p = unknown
/bin/uname -X     = unknown

/bin/arch              = i686
/usr/bin/arch -k       = unknown
/usr/convex/getsysinfo = unknown
hostinfo               = unknown
/bin/machine           = unknown
/usr/bin/oslevel       = unknown
/bin/universe          = unknown

PATH: /usr/local/sbin
PATH: /usr/local/bin
PATH: /usr/sbin
PATH: /usr/bin
PATH: /sbin
PATH: /bin
PATH: /usr/games


## ----------- ##
## Core tests. ##
## ----------- ##

configure:1580: checking build system type
configure:1598: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:1606: checking host system type
configure:1620: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:1675: checking for gcc
configure:1691: found /usr/bin/gcc
configure:1701: result: gcc
configure:1945: checking for C compiler version
configure:1948: gcc --version </dev/null >&5
gcc (GCC) 4.1.2 (Ubuntu 4.1.2-0ubuntu4)
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

configure:1951: $? = 0
configure:1953: gcc -v </dev/null >&5
Using built-in specs.
Target: i486-linux-gnu
Configured with: ../src/configure -v --enable-languages=c,c++,fortran,objc,obj-c++,treelang --prefix=/usr --enable-shared --with-system-zlib --libexecdir=/usr/lib --without-included-gettext --enable-threads=posix --enable-nls --program-suffix=-4.1 --enable-__cxa_atexit --enable-clocale=gnu --enable-libstdcxx-debug --enable-mpfr --enable-checking=release i486-linux-gnu
Thread model: posix
gcc version 4.1.2 (Ubuntu 4.1.2-0ubuntu4)
configure:1956: $? = 0
configure:1958: gcc -V </dev/null >&5
gcc: '-V' option must have argument
configure:1961: $? = 1
configure:1985: checking for C compiler default output
configure:1988: gcc    conftest.c  >&5
[COLOR="Red"]/usr/bin/ld: crt1.o: No such file: No such file or directory[/COLOR]
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status
configure:1991: $? = 1
configure: failed program was:
| #line 1964 "configure"
| /* confdefs.h.  */
| 
| #define PACKAGE_NAME ""
| #define PACKAGE_TARNAME ""
| #define PACKAGE_VERSION ""
| #define PACKAGE_STRING ""
| #define PACKAGE_BUGREPORT ""
| /* end confdefs.h.  */
| 
| int
| main ()
| {
| 
|   ;
|   return 0;
| }
configure:2030: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.

## ---------------- ##
## Cache variables. ##
## ---------------- ##

ac_cv_build=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_build_alias=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_env_CC_set=
ac_cv_env_CC_value=
ac_cv_env_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CPPFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CPPFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CPP_set=
ac_cv_env_CPP_value=
ac_cv_env_LDFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_LDFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_build_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_build_alias_value=
ac_cv_env_host_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_host_alias_value=
ac_cv_env_target_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_target_alias_value=
ac_cv_host=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_host_alias=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_prog_ac_ct_CC=gcc

## ----------------- ##
## Output variables. ##
## ----------------- ##

ALLOCA=''
ALL_DEMO_PROGRAMS=''
APPDEFAULTS=''
CATALOGS=''
CATOBJEXT=''
CC='gcc'
CFLAGS=''
CPP=''
CPPFLAGS=''
DATADIRNAME=''
DEFS=''
DEPEND=''
DEPEND_DEFINES=''
DEPEND_FLAGS=''
ECHO_C=''
ECHO_N='-n'
ECHO_T=''
EGREP=''
EXEEXT=''
EXES_OSX=''
GETTEXT_PACKAGE=''
GLADE_DATADIR=''
GLE_EXES=''
GLE_KLUDGE=''
GLE_LIBS=''
GL_EXES=''
GL_KLUDGE=''
GL_LIBS=''
GL_MEN=''
GL_UTIL_EXES=''
GMOFILES=''
GMSGFMT=''
GNOMEHELP_N=''
GNOMEHELP_Y=''
GNOME_DATADIR=''
GNOME_PANELDIR=''
GTK_EXTRA_OBJS=''
GTK_LIBS=''
HACKDIR=''
HACK_CONF_DIR=''
HACK_LIBS=''
INCLUDES=''
INSTALL_DATA=''
INSTALL_DIRS=''
INSTALL_PAM=''
INSTALL_PROGRAM=''
INSTALL_SCRIPT=''
INSTALL_SETUID=''
INSTOBJEXT=''
INTLDEPS=''
INTLLIBS=''
INTLOBJS=''
INTLTOOL_CAVES_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_DESKTOP_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_DIRECTORY_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_EXTRACT=''
INTLTOOL_KEYS_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_MERGE=''
INTLTOOL_OAF_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_PERL=''
INTLTOOL_PONG_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_SERVER_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_SHEET_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_SOUNDLIST_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_UI_RULE=''
INTLTOOL_UPDATE=''
INTLTOOL_XML_RULE=''
JPEG_EXES=''
JPEG_LIBS=''
LDFLAGS=''
LIBOBJS=''
LIBS=''
LOCK_OBJS=''
LOCK_SRCS=''
LTLIBOBJS=''
MEN_OSX=''
MKINSTALLDIRS=''
MOTIF_LIBS=''
MSGFMT=''
NEED_SETUID=''
OBJCC=''
OBJEXT=''
PACKAGE_BUGREPORT=''
PACKAGE_NAME=''
PACKAGE_STRING=''
PACKAGE_TARNAME=''
PACKAGE_VERSION=''
PASSWD_LIBS=''
PASSWD_OBJS=''
PASSWD_SRCS=''
PATH_SEPARATOR=':'
PERL=''
POFILES=''
POSUB=''
PO_DATADIR=''
PREFERRED_DEMO_PROGRAM=''
RANLIB=''
SAVER_GL_LIBS=''
SAVER_GL_OBJS=''
SAVER_GL_SRCS=''
SAVER_LIBS=''
SCRIPTS_OSX=''
SETUID_HACKS=''
SET_MAKE=''
SHELL='/bin/bash'
USE_NLS=''
XDPMS_LIBS=''
XGETTEXT=''
XML_LIBS=''
XMU_LIBS=''
XMU_OBJS=''
XMU_SRCS=''
XPM_LIBS=''
X_CFLAGS=''
X_EXTRA_LIBS=''
X_LIBS=''
X_PRE_LIBS=''
ac_ct_CC='gcc'
ac_ct_RANLIB=''
bindir='${exec_prefix}/bin'
build='i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1'
build_alias=''
build_cpu='i686'
build_os='linux-gnulibc1'
build_vendor='pc'
datadir='${prefix}/share'
exec_prefix='NONE'
fortune_tmp=''
gdk_pixbuf_config=''
glib_config=''
gnome_config=''
gtk_config=''
have_gnome_help=''
host='i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1'
host_alias=''
host_cpu='i686'
host_os='linux-gnulibc1'
host_vendor='pc'
includedir='${prefix}/include'
infodir='${prefix}/info'
libdir='${exec_prefix}/lib'
libexecdir='${exec_prefix}/libexec'
localstatedir='${prefix}/var'
mandir='${prefix}/man'
oldincludedir='/usr/include'
pkg_config=''
prefix='NONE'
program_transform_name='s,x,x,'
sbindir='${exec_prefix}/sbin'
sharedstatedir='${prefix}/com'
sysconfdir='${prefix}/etc'
target_alias=''
xml_config=''

## ----------- ##
## confdefs.h. ##
## ----------- ##

#define PACKAGE_BUGREPORT ""
#define PACKAGE_NAME ""
#define PACKAGE_STRING ""
#define PACKAGE_TARNAME ""
#define PACKAGE_VERSION ""

configure: exit 77

---

### Post by ForzaItalia250 on 2007-06-16
I've gotten ./configure to work, but now I receive this message

    Warning: The GTK libraries do not seem to be available; the
             `xscreensaver-demo' program requires them.

             You can use Motif or Lesstif instead of GTK (use the
             `--with-motif' option) but that is NOT recommended.
             Though the Motif front-end to xscreensaver is still
             maintained, it is no longer being updated with new
             features: all new development on the xscreensaver-demo
             program is happening in the GTK version, and not in the
             Motif version.  It is recommended that you build against
             GTK instead of Motif.  See <http://www.gtk.org/>.

       Note: The JPEG library was not found.
             This means that it won't be possible for the image-manipulating
             display modes to load files from disk; and it also means that
             the `webcollage' program will be much slower.

       Note: The OpenGL 3D library was not found.

             Those demos which use 3D will not be built or installed.
             You might want to consider installing OpenGL and
             re-running configure.  If your vendor doesn't ship
             their own implementation of OpenGL, you can get a free
             version at <http://www.mesa3d.org/>.  For general OpenGL
             info, see <http://www.opengl.org/>.

I've tried installing first GTK and its dependencies, but while attempting to install ATK-1.9.1 I receive this message

checking for GLIB - version >= 2.5.7... 
*** 'pkg-config --modversion glib-2.0' returned 2.12.0, but GLIB (2.12.11)
*** was found! If pkg-config was correct, then it is best
*** to remove the old version of GLib. You may also be able to fix the error
*** by modifying your LD_LIBRARY_PATH enviroment variable, or by editing
*** /etc/ld.so.conf. Make sure you have run ldconfig if that is
*** required on your system.
*** If pkg-config was wrong, set the environment variable PKG_CONFIG_PATH
*** to point to the correct configuration files
no
configure: error:
*** GLIB 2.5.7 or better is required. The latest version of
*** GLIB is always available from [ftp://ftp.gtk.org/](ftp://ftp.gtk.org/). If GLIB is installed
*** but not in the same location as pkg-config add the location of the file
*** glib-2.0.pc to the environment variable PKG_CONFIG_PATH.

I've already installed glib-2.12.0, and I followed the instructions by typing in

pkg-config PKG_CONFIG_PATH /home/*****/glib-2.12.0/glib--2.0.pc

I than re-ran ./configure and received the same message

I don't know what this message means, or how I would do anything about it.

You may also be able to fix the error
*** by modifying your LD_LIBRARY_PATH enviroment variable, or by editing
*** /etc/ld.so.conf. Make sure you have run ldconfig if that is
*** required on your system.

Also, in terms of the other two error messages with xscreensaver regarding jpegs and OpenGL, how do I go about fixing that? Is it something to do with my videocard (OpenGL) (ATI Mobility 9600)?

Any input would be appreciated

---

### Post by dhasenan on 2007-06-17
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential xserver-xorg-dev libgtk1.2-dev libgtk2.0-dev libjpeg62-dev libgl1-mesa-dev
``` should take care of the listed dependencies.

However, a more recent version of xscreensaver (4.24) is available in Edgy's repositories. You should be able to issue the following command to install all parts of xscreensaver:
```
sudo apt-get install xscreensaver xscreensaver-gl xscreensaver-gl-extra xscreensaver-data xscreensaver-data-extra
```

If you take note of the other packages that this installs, you should be able to install the development versions and then build whichever other version of xscreensaver you want.

---

