---
title: "5.10 install problems"
date: 2006-05-16
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bmarilena on 2006-05-16
Hi everybody

I come again with a problem in installing 5.10.

It starts ok but on detecting hardware gets stuck at 86% detecting atapi ide cdrom. what should I do or check in order to install breezy in my acer travel mate 520?

Thanks alot for any answer

Marilena

---

### Post by Sef on 2006-05-16
Get the live cd and see if you have the same problem.  If you do, then there is a problem with the hardware.  If not, then redownload Ubuntu and don't forget to md5sum it.  Did you md5sum your current download?

---

### Post by bmarilena on 2006-05-16
[quote=Sef]Get the live cd and see if you have the same problem. If you do, then there is a problem with the hardware. If not, then redownload Ubuntu and don't forget to md5sum it. Did you md5sum your current download?[/quote]

Is the install cd delivered by canonical. So .... no md5sum needed.

---

### Post by Klaidas on 2006-05-16
md5sum is always recommended to check.

---

### Post by mority on 2006-05-16
I remember that when I had problems with the CDROM detection in debian-installer it always helped to start the installer with the "noapic" boot option. Could be that it helps in your case cause Ubuntu uses the debian-installer, too.
To use the boot option boot from the install CDROM and do NOT just press ENTER at the boot prompt but type "linux noapic" or something like this. Look in the help screens (with F1 or F2) to find out which command starts the default Ubuntu installation.

---

### Post by bmarilena on 2006-05-16
[quote=mority]I remember that when I had problems with the CDROM detection in debian-installer it always helped to start the installer with the "noapic" boot option. Could be that it helps in your case cause Ubuntu uses the debian-installer, too.
To use the boot option boot from the install CDROM and do NOT just press ENTER at the boot prompt but type "linux noapic" or something like this. Look in the help screens (with F1 or F2) to find out which command starts the default Ubuntu installation.[/quote]

OK, I will try this too, with the livecd is exactly the same ... it gets stuck. :((

---

### Post by mority on 2006-05-16
Let me know if it worked, please.

---

### Post by Sonofmoog on 2006-05-16
It wouldn't hurt to re-burn the CD.  I had a similar problem: install was failing at the same point each time.  The issue was a bad CD burn, not the installer.

HTH

---

### Post by mority on 2006-05-16
I don't know, he or she wrote that the error occured when *detecting* the CDROM, not when copying files or something. I had this CDROM detecting error pretty often with the debian-installer and the noapic boot option always fixed it (even if I have no idea why to be honest).
But burning a new CD wouldn't hurt, that's true.

---

