---
title: "7.10 dual boot (XP) partition resizing error"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by -Morgoth- on 2007-10-19
On my pc i have an old win xp install running and now i decided to install the new ubuntu 7.10. I want to dual boot it with XP. When i get to the "prepare partitions" step in the installation process, i get a problem. I have a 200gb HDD split into 3 partitions (10gb, 52gb and 137gb). The 10gb one is for XP, the other two are for all the applications, but i have over 50gb free on the 137gb partition. So I wanted ubuntu to resize that partition to 100gb so i can use those 37gb i have free'd for ubuntu. Then I click on the resize button and the resizing is about to start. Then the following error pops up: 

'An error occured while writing the changes to the storage devices. The resize operation is aborted.'

Anyone have a solution to this?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2007-10-19
you can only upto 4 primary partitions to a hard drive. The problem is that Linux kinda needs at least 2. (  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_partitioning](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_partitioning) )

A way to make a drive more usab;e  is to create an Extended Partion that can be divided into more logical partitons. Basically a Partition for partitions.

---

### Post by -Morgoth- on 2007-10-19
The error occures when im about to make the fourth partition, so the limit shouldn't be the problem.. or?

---

### Post by ronmarley1 on 2007-10-19
Also, you may want to run a defrag on XP before using the partitioner during install.  We installed Gutsy on my school lab yesterday and had a few machines bail out during partitioning.    We got the same error you did, although the cause may be unrelated.  We ran a defrag in Windows and the install ran fine after that.

---

### Post by Duck2006 on 2007-10-19
> **LowSky said:**
> you can only upto 4 primary partitions to a hard drive. The problem is that Linux kinda needs at least 2. (  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_partitioning](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disk_partitioning) )

A way to make a drive more usab;e  is to create an Extended Partion that can be divided into more logical partitons. Basically a Partition for partitions.

Yes the only partition that has to be a priary partition for the OS to boot is windoze. Linux will boot from a extended partition quit happyly.

You can try to partition your drive from a gpart live CD and see if that works any better for you.

[http://supergrub.forjamari.linex.org/](http://supergrub.forjamari.linex.org/)

---

### Post by -Morgoth- on 2007-10-19
Defragmenting now, reporting back if it works or not ;)

---

### Post by mridkash on 2007-10-19
also do a chkdsk /f in windows to fix errors beforehand.

---

### Post by -Morgoth- on 2007-10-19
Defragmenting made it work just as it should. Thanks for the help :)

---

### Post by ronmarley1 on 2007-10-19
> **-Morgoth- said:**
> Defragmenting made it work just as it should. Thanks for the help :)

No worries.  Glad I could help.

---

