---
title: "7.04 Locks up at log-in and other shinanigans"
date: 2007-07-06
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by woohhaa on 2007-07-06
Hello all! I'm a total noob in linux and know only what I have learned thus far in my week long struggle to get Feisty Fawn running on my old junker. 

Specs:

AMD Duron 600Mhz
156MB RAM
MSI K7 Pro Ver. 1
ATI Radeon 9600XT 128MB (out of my old gaming machine, the one that came with HL2 :p)
20.4 GB IDE HD

The only way I could get my old Frankenstein to take Feisty Fawn was through the use of the alternate instillation CD as I had problems with the live CD. I installed for the 3rd or 4th time this morning but I haven't hooked it up to the network to get the updates. It seemed to be running alright. I logged in and opened Firefox then checked out the hardware manager. Basically just testing out the OS. I enabled desktop effects, but only the cube one not wobble. Once I enabled desktop effects everything seemed OK, I didn't get a prolonged white screen like allot of people complain. However, I tried to change my background immediately after that and in the 'task bar' at the bottom it said something to the tune of 'starting desktop background ' (not sure exactly what it said but it looked normal) but after a minute the background manager never opened and the message in the task bar went away. I then tried to open it again, it said  'starting background manager' in the task tray again and opened the window. At that point the system totally locked up, the caps lock or number locks  lights wouldn't respond, so I powered it off. Powered it back up, got to the log-in screen, keyed in my un/pw and it acted like it was loading the desktop but then the desktop disappears and  I have a off white blank screen with a mouse cursor and the caps lock/ num lock lights respond. Power off again go through the log in and now it gets to the desktop, ALRIGHT! I open firefox, no problem asks if I want to restore sesssion, SWEET! I do and it opens like a charm, but then I try to disable desktop effects and it does the 'starting desktop effects' thing but never opens. It has been hit or miss, with some applications opening flawlessly and some not at all. 

From the research I've done it seems like this community is very willing to help the noobs. I have no idea where to start, so any help is appreciated. I apologize in advance for the total lack of real technical information on these issues. Tell me where to look and I will happily provide what information needed to trouble shot. 

Thanks in advance

Micheal

---

### Post by moredhel on 2007-07-06
I guess to remove desktop-effects you could uninstall them, then reinstall them and they should be turned off

---

### Post by woohhaa on 2007-07-06
Thanks for the quick reply, I tried to uninstall the Window Effects piece but I didn't see it in the list. 

After multiple power cycles I was finally able to log in and disable the Window Effects. So far so good, I am downloading 72 updates through the update manager.

---

### Post by moredhel on 2007-07-07
Sorry, I should of mentioned it would be compiz that would have to removed.

---

