---
title: "refresh rate changes when I log on"
date: 2008-03-26
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by eyeJ on 2008-03-26
I tried several guides on how to set the resolution you want but I am still geting this problem.
When I installed the nvidia drivers first time everything was fine and it worked nice at 1280 x 1024 @ 85 hz. One day I needed to change the screen resolution and I didn't use nvidia settings, I used the System > Preferences > Screen Resolution utility. Since I used it when I log on resolution and refresh rate change to lower values. And updating the xorg.config with sudo nvidia-settings doesn't fix it, just sets the current resolution.

After regenerating the file with nvidia-settings without merging the file and tweaking some things as other posts suggest I managed to get the resolution to stay at 1280 x 1024. The refresh rate still resets to 75hz. So I have to press Ctrl+Alt++ every time to get 85hz. The logon screen seems to use the correct setting, only when I log on the refresh rate changes.

I also tried reseting the whole xorg.config file. (but no luck)

How can I get the settings to load correctly? Is there an user level setting that needs to be changed since I used the System > Preferences > Screen Resolution utility?

Here is my current xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:53 PDT 2007


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 96.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Modeline       "1280x1024" 185.64  1280 1376 1600 2024  1024 1024 1028 1079
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6800 Series GPU"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_85 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
	Modes      "1280x1024"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2008-03-30
If you comment on the next two lines from your screen section, does that help on reload of x-windows ?

#Option "TwinView" "0"
#Option "metamodes" "1280x1024_85 +0+0"

Just a thought, as I saw the TwinView options in another xorg.conf file under the device section.

---

### Post by eyeJ on 2008-04-09
I reinstalled ubuntu today but didn't remove my user settings from /home and it still changes the resolution when I log on. So I guess it must be some cind of user level setting but I don't know where to find it. Any ideas?
And I'l try what u suggested thanks for your response ;)

---

