---
title: "7.10-- Hang on startup"
date: 2008-01-17
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by pkbc on 2008-01-17
Hey,

I'm new to the Linux/Ubuntu thing, and I really wanted to give it a try, so I decided to dual boot Ubuntu 7.10 with Vista.  I tried out the live CD for a little bit, and it worked great, so I just recently installed Ubuntu on the computer.  Fyi... I have an HP dv9500 laptop.

So, everything went fine with the install (as far as I could tell).  I then booted up the computer, started Ubuntu, and it began starting all the different services.  When it got to "Starting Bluetooth services..." it got 'stuck', for lack of a better term.  So then I have to restart the system, and every subsequent time that I have booted Ubuntu, it gets stuck at the same point.  I searched around the forums a little bit for a solution, without much luck.  I can push CTRL+ALT+F1, which brings up the login and command prompt, but being completely new to Linux, I have no idea what to do.  Vista still works on my system, btw.

Hopefully there is a really easy workaround for this... I am really excited to try out Ubuntu, and I really hope that I can get it to work.  Thanks for your time!

---

### Post by Fleece Flamingo on 2008-01-17
If the terminal show up thats a good thing, you will need it later when the smart people come in to help you (too complicated for me).
Was this after the installation completed? Oh and BUMP

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-01-17
It might be the Bluetooth module is not working correctly. You can disable it using the command line. See [this]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/11/24/disable-bluetooth-on-ubuntu-710/"). If you are not used to the vim text editor, use nano:```
sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```After editing the file, enter ctrl-X to quit, answer yes, and try to reboot.

---

### Post by pkbc on 2008-01-17
Thanks for your help... but here's what happened.

I tried to blacklist the bluetooth using the link that you gave.  I booted up, went to command prompt, logged in, and opened that file.  At the bottom of the file, I added the code that was in the link.  I saved the file, then restarted... and it still hangs on "Starting Bluetooth Module..."

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by Fleece Flamingo on 2008-01-17
Bump, this guy need help! :-D

---

### Post by pkbc on 2008-01-17
Well, made some progress... I found that if I got into the command script (while the boot process was stuck on "Starting Bluetooth..."), I could just use "startx" to bring up the graphical interface.

I would still like to know why this happens, as I would rather not have to go through this process every time... any other ideas?  Btw, thanks a lot for all the help already.  I'm really excited that I got this to work, so now I can start playing with Ubuntu.  And I'm sure I'll be back with more questions within 24 hours.

---

### Post by MasterAslan on 2008-01-26
Hi,  

I have the same problem.  I have found that my bluetooth actually seems to work it's just hanging at this point.  Also lsusb hangs.  I find that if I disable bluetooth in the services menu under administration that I can get it to startup with out this freeze.  I can always enable it when I need bluetooth so there is a workaround.  However it is very frustrating that I can't get this to work normally.  Also I don't know if it is related but I can install ndiswrapper and get it to work but ndiswrapper -l hangs also.  pkbc have you tested your BT also? Does it work?  If so try my workaround.  Hope that helps

I have also attached output files of
 ```
 dmesg |grep usb >> outputfile
cat /var/log/messages |grep usb >> outputfile
lshal |grep usb >> outputfile
 
```
any other output needed?

btw pkbc is it an HP laptop?

---

### Post by MasterAslan on 2008-01-26
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/163256](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/163256) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				Also there is a launchpad bug URL which is now added.  Please add yourself and anyone else experiencing this to the bug report.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/163256](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/163256)

---

