---
title: "Resolution Fix..."
date: 2005-05-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by bigbadblo on 2005-05-23
Ok... now we're getting somewhere (thx Mez).

So on to the next problem.  And let me preface this by saying that I am trying to determine solutions on my own by browsing the web, tinkering etc.  I appreciate these forums, the people who take time to respond, etc.  And don't want to just abuse them by always asking first and looking later.

That being said, I am currently unable to change my screen resolution.  By following Mez's advice, I've been able to reconfigure xserver-xorg.  Throughout the process, it does a remarkable job ID'ing my components, etc.  It finds the right video card, it finds the right monitor, so on and so forth.

However, I'm limited to 640x480 at 60hz.  Always.  I've tried to manually set resolutions, I've listed acceptable resolutions, I've even setup appropriate refresh rates that the monitor+video card can handle.  Afterwards, it states that the config files have been updated, but upon reboot -- no luck.  Back to the same old 640x480.

Anyone with any creative solutions?  What is it that I'm missing...?!

Thx,

blo

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-05-24
What video card do you have?

---

### Post by bigbadblo on 2005-05-24
ATI Radeon 7200

Check it here:  [http://www.ati.com/products/radeon7200/](http://www.ati.com/products/radeon7200/)

Any thoughts?

blo

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-05-24
[QUOTE=bigbadblo]
Any thoughts?

blo[/QUOTE]


Yep. The problem is that the xconfig tool has given you the wrong refresh rates I believe. Let me study a little more, and I'll have solid acvice.

---

### Post by bigbadblo on 2005-05-24
Thanks --

If its any help, I booted up from an old V3.3 Knoppix Live CD.  It apparently had no problems, as the display came right up at 1280x1024, 24bit color.  Go figure!

blo

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-05-24
What's your etc/X11/xorg.conf file look like?

---

### Post by poofyhairguy on 2005-05-24
[QUOTE=bigbadblo]Thanks --

If its any help, I booted up from an old V3.3 Knoppix Live CD.  It apparently had no problems, as the display came right up at 1280x1024, 24bit color.  Go figure!

blo[/QUOTE]

Then here is what you do. I've done it. Boot with some Live CD that uses Xorg (not knoppix, like a Mandrake, SUSE, or Fedora based Live CD). Then copy the xorg config.

THATs the ticket. Thanks for the idea. I've done it before, but I forgot about that trick.

---

### Post by Mez on 2005-05-24
I had the problem before.

It was to do with the vertical and horizontal sync rates of my monitor being set wrong.

Did you set them correctly when you were runnign 

dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

? if you guessed at the figures or used the "max resolution" thing then the figures are probably wrong (as they were for my monitor) and I was stuck on 800x600 max for a long time until I figured out the right settings

a warning for you aswell - READ the top of your xorg.conf before changing it manually! It gives you instructions on how to restore it if you do edit it wrong!

and make sure you make a backup!

here is the top of the xorg.conf file - read it before you edit anything!

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

---

### Post by bigbadblo on 2005-05-24
Ok...

Upon manually setting up the horizontal and vertical refresh rates, Ubuntu correctly identified what my monitor was capable of...  I didn't need to change what it discovered on its own.

Went through the setup again and entered all areas manually.  Upon reboot, still good ole 640x480!  (seriously, can you imagine working all day on such a small screen!)

So, I then tried to manually edit the xorg.conf file.  As I'm parsing through the file however, I see the "Screen" section, which includes all of the different screen setups, aka "Subsection Display", and they all look correct.  At a screen depth of 24, for example, it has 1600x1280, 1280x1024, 800x600 and 640x480 listed!?

The only thing I don't see is anything having to do with refresh rates...?  Do I need to manually enter info into this file, or should it be pre-existing and I merely need to change it?

(I'm currently downloading a PCLinuxOS Live, as it was one of the only Live distros I found with a xorg package included... once burned I'll try your suggestion hairguy)

thx for helping

blo

---

### Post by Mez on 2005-05-24
have you tried changing your resolution?

System-> Preferences -> Screen REsolution

and you know when your screen changes resolution, and it makes that "noise" (assuming it's a CRT) that it makes when it changes resolution....

If when first loading up to X - it makes that noise more than once, then it's tried the top resolution and found it not to work, then tried the other resolutions and found one that works...

If it's just doing it once then it just sounds like you need a resolutuion change (ir there's a bigger problem)

---

### Post by bigbadblo on 2005-05-24
Ok -- I tried loading up a LiveCD version that had xorg running in order to copy it's working conf file and replace the not-working xorg.conf file in my Ubuntu setup.  But guess what?  The LiveCD didn't setup my monitor with anything other than 800x600 -- virtually the same problem.

So... can anyone post up what the refresh rates section looks like in their xorg.conf file?  Maybe then I could piece together something by looking at your working example, with what resolutions I know my monitor works at, and get something to work.

Just grasping at ideas now...

blo

---

### Post by bigbadblo on 2005-05-24
Alright!

Got it working by tossing in the refresh rates below the Monitor ID.  Looked around for xorg.conf online for an example to go from.

Thanks for all of your help with this...

blo

---

