---
title: "7.10 loads from Live CD but not after Install"
date: 2007-11-08
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by isey78 on 2007-11-08
I have lots of problems.  The only thing so far going for me, is that I can load from the 7.10 Live CD, takes awhile, but it loads (I assume cause its reading from the CD).

After I install from the Live CD successfully, and reboot, I just get a plain black screen with the cursor blinking in the top-left corner.  No keys work, I have to actually power off the PC to get it to boot back up (which left me with a WinXP OS missing half the drive space that was partianed by Ubuntu for the install)

Another issue, I cannot load the gparted Live CD...I get to the menu, select the first option (auto-config), and hit enter, then it just freezes up (so I can't partitian the drives manually using that method)

I have tried to install using the ubuntu partitioner.  I have reformatted, and used the Windows partitoner, and I was going to try gparted, but that didn't work, and I tried Partitian Magic from the Windows end, but that totally screwed things up (which lead to the first of many reformats).  So needless to say, if I have to, completely wiping my system isn't an issue.

My goal is dual boot, Winxp and Gutsy.  Here is my system

XP Pro SP2
Intel P4 3ghz
Dell OptiPlex 320
1GB DDR
ATI Radeon Xpress 1100 (128 MB)
Dell E173FP 17" LCD
160 GB Seagate SATA


Sorry if my info is scrambled, I'm very frustrated with all this.  Perhaps something isn't compatible on my system that I'm missing?  I read so many different issues and tutorials, video tutorials.  RAWR!

Thanks anyone willing to help
isey

---

### Post by atlascomplete on 2007-11-08
I know you have probably read, make sure the cd you burn is the slowest possible. I burned mine at 32x once.... didn't work out too well.

Also, make sure that you are installing on the correct partition. I know this may sound stupid, but it may be easier said then done, especially if you are partitioning using the Ubuntu partitioner.

---

### Post by TadH on 2007-11-08
the only thing i can suggest is to check the  CD for errors upon loading it if it checks out it is something you did

---

### Post by isey78 on 2007-11-09
I did burn the disk slow, and verified at the boot menu.  About the 2nd time i reformatted the drive, I used windows partitioner to make 100GB NTFS, and left the other 60GB free, then when I installed Gutsy, I did it the manual way (the first time I used Guided), where I made a swap for 1012MB, and the other was my 59GB for the ext3  (I'm not concerned w/ NTFS compatability, although I think I read somewhere Gutsy can r/w NTFS).

Bleh, neither way worked, both times I just end up w/ the damn black screen.  Now I have another PC w/ some minor diffs


XP Pro SP2
Intel 82915G/GV/910GL Express Chipset Family
Dell OptiPlex 210L
1GB DDR
[COLOR="Red"]Onboard Video 128MB[/COLOR]
Dell E173FP 17" LCD
[COLOR="red"]160 GB Western Digital SATA[/COLOR]

I've seen a lot about video issues.  It baffles me that the onboard video works over the ATI ?

Thanks again guys and(or) gals

---

### Post by isey78 on 2007-11-09
Well, I moved fwd with the Dell 210 and installation was a breeze.  Must have somethin to do w/ the ATI card.

---

### Post by ebente on 2007-11-13
I had the same problem on Dell optiplex GX 260 and did this:
1. At boot up>>hit F2
2. set videomemory at 8MB
3. At Ubuntu installshield>>hit F4
4. change VGA to 1024x768x16
5. choose to install in safevideomode
5. ignore any errormessage during install.
Everything works fine. Only at bootup there is a message for some seconds that the screen is not recognized.
Hopes this helps.

---

