---
title: "LxD problem"
date: 2008-02-14
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by BackBack on 2008-02-14
I can't seem to install LxDream to install and work:/  Here's what it tells me at the end of the ./configure:
```

No package 'gtk+-2.0' found

Consider adjusting the PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment variable if you
installed software in a non-standard prefix.

Alternatively, you may set the environment variables GTK_CFLAGS
and GTK_LIBS to avoid the need to call pkg-config.
See the pkg-config man page for more details.

```
Then it says to use make install, and here's the message I get for that: make: *** No rule to make target `install'.  Stop.

Needles to say, it doesn't appear under Applications>Accessories, nor anywhere else for that matter.  How would I go about getting it to work?

Oh, and LxD is a DreamCast emulator for Linux, and can be found [http://www.lxdream.org/download.php](http://www.lxdream.org/download.php)

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-14
To fix the configure error install *libgtk2.0-dev*. The reason make install failed is because it's config file telling it how install works (the Makefile) is generated by ./configure, since configure failed no Makefile was generated. Also there's typically a make step between configure and make install. And lastly I would reccoment installing and using checkinstall instead of make install as it will build a deb package for you, and make it easier to uninstall/update.

---

### Post by BackBack on 2008-02-15
Well it looks like after that the installation went without problem, but  I still can't find the program itself.  What would be the command to look for something called lxdream?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-15
Locate is a good way to find things because it's really fast, the reason it's fast is because it uses an index to find things, so locate can't find things newer than it's index, which is rebuilt nightly at some off hour, 3am I think?

Good news is you can manually force locate to rebuild it's index with:
```

sudo updatedb

```
Once the index is up todate, you can run:
```

locate *filename*

```

---

### Post by BackBack on 2008-02-15
Thank you, that did the trick, but sadly it turns out that the only place it actually finds lxdream is the directory I have on my desktop which was used to install the thing in the first place :/ I'm assuming the installation went wrong, since I can't find it anywhere?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-02-15
Well lets see if you hit all the bits of the build process:
```

./configure
make
sudo make install

```
Or you can replace the sudo make install with
```

sudo checkinstall

```

---

### Post by BackBack on 2008-02-15
I did everything, except checkinstall, for whatever reason did the trick.  It works fine now, just doesn't play very many games, but that's a client issue, and a whole different story there ;) Thank you

---

