---
title: "6.10 My ext2/3 drives won't mount...HELP!"
date: 2007-03-23
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by keef247 on 2007-03-23
well as the name suggests really.just done a reformat with 6.10 this time.
I go to computer and click on any of the drives and it says for example...
error: device /dev/hdb2 is not removable
error: could not execute pmount

basically says this for all of them.
2 on a sata card.
1 on ide...
1 of the satas is ext2 as i formatted it in partition magic as ext2 instead of ext3... (will i loose any preformance from this?which is better for ubuntu?)

what do i do i don't want to muck up my fresh install.
please reply asap as i want to start my setup.
cheers people:)

EDIT: TURNS OUT ITS 6.0.6 even though i swear i downloaded the right one. CAN i update it to 6.10? is it worth it?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-03-23
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountlinux)

---

### Post by mac.ryan on 2007-03-23
> **keef247 said:**
> I go to computer and click on any of the drives and it says for example...
error: device /dev/hdb2 is not removable
error: could not execute pmount

pmount is in fact the "version" of mount that only works with removable media, so it is normal it doesn't work on non-removable HDs like yours. You should mount them with "mount" instead.

Anyhow, if you are having this problem from your live CD, then just know that during the installation of ubuntu, you will be able to tell if and where to mount all the HD that gparted will be seeing. Then they will work "normally" in the installed ubuntu.

> 1 of the satas is ext2 as i formatted it in partition magic as ext2 instead of ext3... (will i loose any preformance from this?which is better for ubuntu?)Ext3 is better. I don't really know in terms of performance (although it is probable), but in terms of safety definitively yes, as ext2 miss journaling.

---

### Post by keef247 on 2007-03-23
that would explain me loosing ALOT of files in the copying... anyway i can convert to ext3?

---

