---
title: "6.06 Partitioning on 30 GB"
date: 2007-07-12
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2007-07-12
I haven't started and I'm stuck...

I've read a lot about Ubuntu over the past few days, installing, partitioning, lots of post, etc. I know so little about computers I can't figure it out. 

What I am trying to do is put Ubuntu 6.06 LTS into an older XP Home (Sager) with Pentium IIII CPU 2.0 GHz and 224 MB of RAM, 30 GB HD. This computer has been stripped and the wanted data installed on a new  machine. There is data on a third laptop (year 2000 Inspiron 3800, Win 98se) that I need to put on the Ubuntu machine (pictures, Word.docs, .pdf's, FireFox bookmarks). 

I think I understand the benefit of partitioning Ubuntu with "root", "swap", "home" (or just "root", "home") but I don't know what sizes the partitions should  be for each on a 30 GB HD.

I don't know if I can move the data from the 98se machine after or before installing Ubuntu 6.06 LTS. Most of the data is in one giant folder (bookmarks are in FireFox).

So far, I've run the Live CD and the desk top is functional, the sound works, the wireless card and plug-in function (Linksys), FireFox works. I assume the machine will except the install and work but if it doesn't, I'm going to be in a lot of trouble. I don't know if you ever met anyone here as far down on the learning curve as I am. 

If I could get some ideas about process and procedure, I'd appreciate it.

Mike

---

### Post by simonn on 2007-07-12
Rule of thumb on swap is double your RAM size (although once you have 1Gb of RAM you probably do not need any swap).

Personally I would use 10Gb /, 512Mb swap and the rest on /home. You could probably get away with 4 or 5Gb on /, but as you are new to linux it is probably easier just to use 10Gb.

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-07-12
> **simonn said:**
> ... use 10Gb /, 512Mb swap and the rest on /home.... with 4 or 5Gb on /,..
Dittos to somonn, I have Dapper on an old P2  400 30gig drive.  5 - 7 gig is plenty for /.    

> I don't know if I can move the data from the 98se machine after or before installing Ubuntu 6.06 LTS. Most of the data is in one giant folder (bookmarks are in FireFox).

Move it after. share the folder on the win98 machine. then on Dapper go to Places  Network Servers... Can't remember exactly how but just do a search on **samba   **and copy the folder over.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2007-07-12
Thank you both...

I left out two things in my post:

Should I print out the machine data (motherboard, card, driver specs., etc.) before I install Ubuntu 6.06 LTS?

The intent is to have no MS on the Ubuntu machine. Does that fact change the following?

> Move it after. share the folder on the win98 machine. then on Dapper go to Places Network Servers... Can't remember exactly how but just do a search on **samba** and copy the folder over.
If not, would you tell me what "share the folder" is? I was intending to get a storage device and put the 98se machine data on it and then download from it into the Ubuntu machine, but if other ways are better, they are better.

Mike

---

### Post by Espreon on 2007-07-12
Use Feisty, and during installation you automatically import FF bookmarks TB/OLE/OL E-mail and your My Documents folder, but I would recommend putting this on a thumbdrive before wiping!
Since I used this feature but nothing was imported (unluckiness I guess)

---

### Post by dolphin_oracle on 2007-07-12
probably the easiest way to to do this is to allow the install routine to take over the whole drive.  There is an option for this.  You will need to put your data on the computer AFTER the installation, since the data is coming from a third computer.

I've used a 512 mb swap partion and put everything else in one partition.  It works fine for me, and the whole drive is available to both your home folders and the system (like windows would be setup).  I believe there may be a default option in the ubuntu installer for this, buts its been a while, so I could be wrong.

After your install, the wireless may or may not work out of the box.  If it doesn't, the forums most likely have the info to get it running.  You shouldn't have any trouble with the other hardware.  

I would use either a thumbdrive or burn a CD with the files you want to move.  That way if you have troublet getting file sharing on your network running you've at least got your files in an accessible format.

---

### Post by louieb on 2007-07-12
> **Mike Krall said:**
> Should I print out the machine data (motherboard, card, driver specs., etc.) before I install Ubuntu 6.06 LTS?
If you want. Since the live CD works probably won't need it. Linux has it ways of getting the same info.  
> **Mike Krall said:**
> 
.... would you tell me what "share the folder" is? I was intending to get a storage device and put the 98se machine data on it and then download from it into the Ubuntu machine, but if other ways are better, they are better.
When you network using MS workgroups  Sharing a folder simply means its ok for other computers to read and maybe write to that folder over the network. 
(You go to networking in the control panel to set up the workgroup, then you go into explorer and right click on the folder and select sharing) 

If you plan to network your PC together the data can be move from one computer to the other over the network. If not copying to an external storage device and moving it that way  will work just fine. 

On a note about networking. It's pretty easy to network computers if there all running the same OS. XP to XP or Linux to Linux. Can be done in couple of minutes per machine. MS to Linux in theory is simple also but in practice I always had to do some tinkering to get data flowing both ways.

---

### Post by Mike Krall on 2007-07-12
Thank you, thank you, and thank you...

Mike

---

