---
title: "Internal Hard Drive Permissions Problem"
date: 2007-06-24
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2007-06-24
I have an internal NTFS hard drive, which appears on the desktop. I have NTFS configuration tool installed, which I think is operational, although I can't find where to check its settings!

The drive USED to allow read/write access, but this has now stopped. I can read using password but cannot write. It is owned by the root. My fstab settings are:  

michael@michael:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=5c65bb97-cf0a-42b1-a6bb-f46e10927171 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sdb1
# /dev/sda1
UUID=902fe557-0f58-47aa-ac01-8cc3fcd1d2e1 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hdb1   /media/hdb1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
michael@michael:~$ 

I would like to change ownership to my sign on and preferably remove it from the desktop. I don't want it open to all users. 

I'm afraid I need line by line help as I'm new to Linux: "update fstab file with xxx" doesn't really help as I've no idea how to update a file in terminal!

Any help much appreciated

Thanks

Michael

---

### Post by benerivo on 2007-06-24
Open a terminal and type
sudo nautilus
In the nautilus window, go to /etc and open the fstab file. You will be able to edit and save the file so be careful. Change your hdb1 line so that it reads...

/dev/hdb1 /mnt/hdb1 ntfs-3g gid=1000,umask=007,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

Then save and exit. In the nautilus window, go to the /mnt folder and create a new folder called hdb1. Right click on this new folder and go to properties>permissions. Make the group yourusername and set the folder access as 'create and delete'. Give no access to 'Others'. Keep 'root' as 'create and delete'.


For your info...
gid refers to the user id. The initial Ubuntu user is given the value 1000, so i'm guessing that you are 1000, but check in System>Administration>Users and Groups from the main menu. 

umask 007 will give that group full access but nothing for anyone else.

by putting it in to /mnt/hdb1, it will not appear on the desktop

---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2007-06-29
Hi

Thanks for your help - I've only been using Linux a few weeks and have made 3 posts and you're my first reply!! I'm so excited (simple things...)!!

Your post has really helped my understanding (especially the explanation) and IMHO using Nautilus in root is far better that reams of typo-prone terminal entries (this is the first post I've seen do that)

BUT

it hasn't solved the problem (as I misunderstood it).

Please see screenshot

The disk I'm concerned with is "Music 1B" which I **thought** was hdb1. This appears not to be the case.

Please note I only have 1 linux formatted drive (filesystem?), 1 NTFS drive (Music 1B) and 1    
USB memory stick (Easydisk) attached to the computer. I deleted the hdb1 folder I created in mount (after checking it twice after rebooting) as it did not work.

It appears that the disk is read-only, and I could not change that while in root-nautilus.

How can I solve the original problem for this disk?
Why does Music 1B not appear in fstab?
What do hdb1, sdb1, sda1 refer to?
Why can't I rename drives while in root-nautilus (and how can I do that)?

Thanks (very much) in advance

Michael

---

### Post by benerivo on 2007-06-29
I'm not sure why your Music 1B drive does not show up in fstab, and yet you can still read the contents in /media/Music 1B. Is it a usb connected drive, or an internal one?

hda1, sdb2, etc are device names. The h and the s are not important but you will need to know which one yours is when modifying the fstab. The a and the b tell you what disk it is. a is the main / primary / master hard disk in your pc. b is a secondary / slave hard disk. The number tells you what partition on the disk it is. For example, someone with two hard disks in his pc, with only one partition on the main disk and three partitions on the second would have...
hda1
hdb1
hdb2
hdb3
(or maybe an s instead of the h)

You don't really want to rename drives in nautilus. The folders that are in your picture, are better off being called mount points. They are essentially containers that you have set up in fstab, which hold the contents of a physical (or network) disk.

To try to fix your problems, we need to check some things.
1. Are any of your drives other than the usb stick, connected through USB, or are they both internal.
2. Go to /dev/disk/by-uuid and look at the properties of each. This will tell you what UUID goes with each device name, and so help fix your fstab file.

I think your fstab file is slightly odd as you have /dev/sda1 both as a swap partition and as a vfat data drive mounted on to /media/sda1. Other members may be able to help you better than i can as most of what i know is from my own trial and error. If it were my problem, i would make a list of all UUID and corresponding device names, then delete all of the Automatix entries in fstab (inc. the # /dev/sdb1 line), then reboot. On reboot i should only have my root filesystem, my usb stick and my swap partition mounted. I would then make a new folder in /mnt called Music, and change the fstab file so that it had a new entry...

# /dev/????
UUID=???????????? /mnt/Music ntfs-3g gid=1000,umask=007, 0 0

(where ? = whatever you found in /dev/disk/by-uuid)

I'm pretty sure someone else can help you better than i can but what you are trying to do  is not that unusual. It basically involves having the ntfs-3g driver installed, then creating an empty folder, then changing the fstab so that a drive may be contained within that folder.

---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2007-07-04
Thanks - it worked like a dream, and I was able to "rename" the disk, because fstab and mnt don't care what the disk is called, they just look at the numbers, so I used "Documents" in both instead of "Music".

Thanks again

Michael

---

### Post by telegram.sam on 2007-08-09
Following on from previously:

I have two internal drives. I wish to use one for linux and one for data for several users and want to keep respective users data private). 

At present I use the second disk for the data of one user.

Can I just add "gid-1XXX" entries into the appropriate line for multiple users separated by commas (I know how to find gids - see previously)?

OR

As was said above: "What you are trying to do is not that unusual. It basically involves having the ntfs-3g driver installed, then creating an empty folder, then changing the fstab so that a drive may be contained within that folder."

Can I create several folders to use the same physical drive - the folders won't overwrite each other on the drive?

Present fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=5c65bb97-cf0a-42b1-a6bb-f46e10927171 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sdb1
UUID=24BC334DBC3318AE /mnt/Documents ntfs-3g gid=1000,umask=007, 0 0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=902fe557-0f58-47aa-ac01-8cc3fcd1d2e1 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0


Thanks in advance

Michael

---

