---
title: "Automount problems in Kubuntu Feisty"
date: 2007-09-09
forum: Absolute Beginner Talk
---

### Post by iopo on 2007-09-09
Hi!

I'm having some issues with automounting in Kubuntu Feisty.

If I insert a DVD or a cdrom it will not be automounted. I'll have to open the terminal and mount it manually. After that, I can access the disk with applications (like Kaffeine), but they will not work properly. In addition, there is no icon on the desktop.

I'm also having issue with a LACIE external hard drive (it's formatted as NTfS but I have the driver installed). When I plug it in it says "external bla bla bla detected: what do you want to do? open in a new windows, etc". I chose open in a new window and nothing happen. I check, the volume is unmounted and if I mount it manually it will be "read only".

Finally,  I have a cruzer flash drive that is working without any problem. 

I'm not sure these events are related!

Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by Bothered on 2007-09-09
Could you give some more details?

EDIT: Ignore me, I posted too soon :-)

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-09-09
....and..... what is your problem? You can't just say "Automount problems in Kubuntu Feisty" and expect us to read your mind and magically suggest a fix. We are only human. 

What are you trying to mount? Did it work before and now it doesn't? What's the backstory here?

---

### Post by iopo on 2007-09-09
Sorry guys, I just hit "enter" by mistake. I edited the post with some more details.

---

### Post by theredcross on 2007-09-09
Please post your fstab, ```
kdesu kate /etc/fstab
```
This is what your computer will look to when decided what to mount, why, how, and when.

---

### Post by iopo on 2007-09-09
Hi theredcross!
Here is the /etc/fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=4ef3833a-fc57-4706-b60a-61b5b50467ac / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=aea79556-b948-a4b4-ef98-6db9c64414ea none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

Thanks!

---

