---
title: "7.10-Desktop CD results in complete crash and total embarrassment"
date: 2008-02-22
forum: Development CD/DVD Image Testing
---

### Post by Hilko on 2008-02-22
I just downloaded and burned the 7.10-Desktop install/Live CD. Of course I checked md5 sums before and after burning. No errors found.
Now when I boot from the CD and open F-spot photo manager from the applications menu it asks to import fotos. Whenever you close this import fotos dialog, having imported any fotos or not, it results in a complete system crash. Mouse and keyboard freeze, and do not respond. There is nothing left to do but physically reboot your machine using a reboot button.

This is a serious problem. It means that the default install CD originating from ubuntu.com/getubuntu has a serious bug.

I've happily been using ubuntu since 2006. I tried to show off how nice this system is for my friends and family by demonstrating it on their own machine, using the live CD. But I totally embarrassed myself, when the system completely crashed. It made ubuntu look like some crappy amature system, that crashes at the first program you open.
Not funny, not good.

There are more problems with F-spot in 7.10. In F-spot I can view my fotos fullscreen or in a (fullscreen) slideshow. However the moment I press the 'leave fullscreen' button, again my system completely crashes. I believe this bug is already reported, but I think it deserves very high priority.

As for the install CD, in my opinion F-spot should be completely removed from the live CD until it is fixed. People tend to remember only bad experiences and will not recognize Ubuntu as the great operating system it is.

---

