---
title: "2007-01-27 amd64 LiveCD"
date: 2007-01-27
forum: Development CD/DVD Image Testing
---

### Post by chalex on 2007-01-27
Doing regular install on one of my spare AMD64 boxes.

HW:
Athlon64 3400+
2GB RAM
ATI XPress200 onboard video
onboard eth
onboard audio
40GB ATA100 HD
DVD burner

Problems:
1)no usplash screen, just black screen with some console messages until X starts
[quote]PCI:BIOS Bug: MCFG area at e0000000 is not E820-reserved
PCI: Not using MMCONFIG.
bogl_init failed: setting screen size: Cannot allocate memory
ACPI: getting cpuindex for acpiid 0x2

[/code]
3)I went into System->Control Panel->GNOME Partition Editor, deleted all partitions on the disk, hit Apply, it did it, said "successful" but then an error box popped up, something about "Gnome... Freedesktop...Device...HAL", I didn't write it down, I'll have to try it again to reproduce it.
3) started install, went through the dialogs, just after I hit Install in ubuquity, the screen went blank.  I switched to console (Ctrl-Alt-F1) then back (Ctrl-Alt-F7). Everything came back normal, but a new nautilus window popped up with "/target" I guess just when /target gets mounted by the installer.
4) on shutdown, there were a bunch of debug statements from NetworkManager that scrolled by, looked like it crashed. 
5) same as 1, no usplash, but I know to close CD tray and hit Enter to reboot.

After the reboot everything is peachy except update-manager craps out (bug 81802 in Launchpad).

I really like the new Control Panel.

---

### Post by UBfusion on 2007-01-28
20070128 (today) that i just installed successfully must have fixed the problems (but not update-manager)

---

### Post by briansavka on 2007-01-29
I had the same problem, usplash wasn't loading.  I looked into the problem and found out that the usplash theme was corrupted.  To fix it. Do the following
```
sudo apt-get install usplash-theme-ubuntu --reinstall
```

I hope this helps your problem.

---

### Post by pochu on 2007-01-29
If that fix the problem, then the next daily build should have the fix included.

Regards
Pochu

---

