---
title: "herd 5 20070301?"
date: 2007-03-02
forum: Development CD/DVD Image Testing
---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2007-03-02
Somehow the 20070301 CD image has moved again, no longer in daily-live/current.. The sticky post says use [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/feisty/herd-5/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/feisty/herd-5/) which doesn't work for rsync, so I guessed [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/releases/feisty/herd-5/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/releases/feisty/herd-5/) which did.

Well, Feisty Alpha is an alpha, users beware.  We the users don't know the status of what is/isn't planned for beta, so I checked some things a "normal user" might run across with CD Live:
1. After booting, Network Manager said "No network connection" on one of my systems even after a connection is established.  I've had a bug on launchpad for some time now on this.  Edgy and Dapper don't have a problem with the network connection.
2. sudo dhclient results in a number of error messages complaining about garbage.  I've had a bug on launchpad for this too.  dhclient does establish the connection O.K.
3. shutdown doesn't eject the CD like the message would indicate.  It's a problem in the casper script which has been identified but no fix in any of the downloads.
4. persistent doesn't work.  It used to on early Herd 3 but has failed on every build since.  There's a bug on launchpad for that, no reply.
5. A recent bug I've put on launchpad is that two "casper-rw" icons appear on desktop even though there is only one pen drive.
6. On one of my systems, shutdown doesn't power off while Edgy and Dapper do.  I've a launchpad bug on that, no response.
7. Normal CD Live boot on this IBM Net Vista with Hanns.G 17" LCD comes up in 1024x768 mode and xorg.conf thinks the monitor is an Elographics touch screen?.  Puppy Linux, DSL Linux, and Simply Mepis all come up with 1280x1024x24 recognizing the monitor's capabilities so I know there is open source code available.  

If I boot in safe graphics mode, ubuntu correctly identifies the LCD, comes up in 1280x1024x24, screen runs a bit slow, and has the oddity of going black on shutdown.  I sit there wondering what's going to happen, assume that after a while it might be asking to press Enter, so I do, and it does power off  I don't know if the text is black on black or what..  

So it seems to me that the developers must be doing a lot of hard work adding on new packages and features, but I wonder who is thinking about getting ubuntu to "just work" for an increasing number of users?

Cheers, Jerry

---

### Post by Kateikyoushi on 2007-03-03
Write bug reports on launchpad what doesn't work, on our machines it runs out of the box, even the net. There is still plenty of time to iron out the bugs.

---

