---
title: "8.04 Will Not Install On My Dell!"
date: 2008-03-21
forum: Development CD/DVD Image Testing
---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2008-03-21
Ubuntu 8.04 Official Beta Will Not Install On My Dell Inspiron 530N Computer, Just FYI.

---

### Post by Brunellus on 2008-03-21
I am moving this to the Hardy Development forum.  

Please remember that you are dealing with a BETA.  If you want a usable system, use the latest release--currently that's Ubuntu 7.10 ("Gutsy Gibbon")

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2008-03-21
Update: I Fixed The Problem By Turning On RAID In The BIOS, Just FYI.

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2008-03-21
P.S. It Would Appear That Ubuntu 8.04 Official Beta Does Not Like IDE BIOS Mode Interfacing With An SATA Hard Disk Drive,

---

### Post by the_fonz_e on 2008-03-27
Just letting you know I upgraded with a 530 and it is up and running.  Sound isn't working currently, but everything else appears to be.

---

### Post by John L on 2008-03-28
Hi folks

I've had difficulties installing beta as well.  Will enabling RAID effect the system in other ways?  I'm in work now and tonight I'll change the setting and see if it will load.

John

---

### Post by Zyphrexi on 2008-04-04
ah that sounds strikingly like my issue, though mine came about during the resizing of the partition.
I will try enabling RAID as well, however I also have an IDE drive, I hope that doesn't interfere.

---

### Post by mrbean71 on 2008-04-08
I'm using kubuntu here but the effect is pretty the same many boot failure on a Ispiron 530.
It seems a bug:

[bug #153702]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.22/+bug/153702?redirection_url=https%3A%2F%2Fbugs.launchpad.net%2Fubuntu%2F%2Bsource%2Flinux-source-2.6.22%2F%2Bbug%2F153702")

Anyway I have changed bios from eide to raid yesterday, in next days i'll discover if problem is solved.
P.S.:
New inspiron 530 formatted, then 7.04, then 7.10 then 8.04 beta updated daily.
I've sensation problem started with 7.10 but i'm not sure.
Kind regards.

---

