---
title: "10.10 on latitude e6410 NVS 3100M"
date: 2010-10-07
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by remi_2 on 2010-10-07
Hi all, 

I just received a new laptop at work today, 

dell e6410 with both i915 and NVS 3100m graphics, core i7.

I first tried 10.04 x86_64 and ran into the blank screen after boot issue. 

I directly went for the 10.10 RC x86_64 today, it installed fine, but I still have a few issues, one of them being major :

first, I have an error message at boot : 

- "failed to load i915 symbols, graphics turbo disabled."
- when docked with lid closed, the laptop screen does not shutdown and the desktop screen does not power up, I have to manually configure the screens using nvidia-settings each time
- after a finalizing my install (all extra packages installed) i get a white screen after entering my gnome session, whic makes it unusable.

Have any people out there been sucessfull in configuring this laptop in 10.10?
My computer definitely has two graphics chips, could it be the cause of the mess?

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-07
Yes,  its most likely due to having 2 videocards. You may need a newer kernel with support for VGA switcheroo:
[http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9826436](http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9826436)

This is bleeding edge, beware if this is a production machine.

---

### Post by remi_2 on 2010-10-07
Thanks pman,
indeed it is a production machine and I've already lost precious time on it :(

I went back to 10.04.1 and got it sort of working after fiddling with nomodeset and the like.

Yet I still have random disconnection issues with the wireless, and the trackpad and trackpoint are not properly reckognised so I have no middle click with two buttons pressed, no scrolling, and no click on the trackpoint.  


Also, the battery was supposed to last 7 hours on a full charge, yet under ubuntu the fan is constantly on and my session last only 4 hours.

And they dare advertise these machines as being "Ubuntu Certified", what a joke.

Isn't dell releasing its own customised Ubuntu LTS iso?

Cheers

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-08
> **remi_2 said:**
> Thanks pman,
indeed it is a production machine and I've already lost precious time on it :(

I went back to 10.04.1 and got it sort of working after fiddling with nomodeset and the like.

Yet I still have random disconnection issues with the wireless, and the trackpad and trackpoint are not properly reckognised so I have no middle click with two buttons pressed, no scrolling, and no click on the trackpoint.  


Also, the battery was supposed to last 7 hours on a full charge, yet under ubuntu the fan is constantly on and my session last only 4 hours.

And they dare advertise these machines as being "Ubuntu Certified", what a joke.

Isn't dell releasing its own customised Ubuntu LTS iso?

Cheers

Dont know about the custom iso. They had a customized one for 8.04, but for 10.04 I have no idea.

About the battery life, if you are using the nvidia card instead of the IGP, then that might explain the decreased battery life. Im not sure how to switch to the IGP.

For the touchpad and stick, try installing "pointing device" and see if you can configure the missing features.

For wireless, we need more info. What card and what drivers are you using?

---

