---
title: "8.10 on Latitude D630...fan going crazy"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by entire_owl on 2008-10-31
Greetings all---

Did a fresh install of 8.10 on my Dell Latitude D630 yesterday afternoon...all is working great, except after a few minutes' use the fan(s) keep coming on and going off abruptly.  Sort of annoying, as everything else works great!  Any insight or thoughts into this annoyance would be appreciated..

Thanks!

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-10-31
NVIDIA?

If so, 177 driver?

If so, try the 173 driver if your card supports it.

---

### Post by entire_owl on 2008-10-31
Reverted to the 173 NVIDIA driver and the fan is behaving now.  Thanks for the quick response ... and contributing to the best O/S available!

---

### Post by wbrendel on 2008-10-31
Using the 173 nVidia driver is a workaround, but the real fix might be a simple BIOS update. I was experiencing the exact same problem on my Dell XPS M1330 using the A11 BIOS revision. The 177 driver made the fan loud, and the 173 driver quieted it down. Upgrading to A12 made the fans behave normally, even with the 177 drivers. Hope that helps!

-Will

---

### Post by waffen on 2008-11-08
With the upgrade on 11/07 you can use the 177 Nvidia driver version, its fix the problem.

---

### Post by stephanecharette on 2008-11-10
> **entire_owl said:**
> Did a fresh install of 8.10 on my Dell Latitude D630 yesterday afternoon...all is working great, except after a few minutes' use the fan(s) keep coming on and going off abruptly.  Sort of annoying, as everything else works great!  Any insight or thoughts into this annoyance would be appreciated..

I was experiencing this as well immediately after installing 8.10 on my Latitude D630.  Then for the past week the fan was on max, and wouldn't step down even when the laptop was idle for several days.  Here is how I fixed it:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=977347](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=977347)

Stéphane Charette

---

### Post by zigx on 2008-11-21
stephanecharette  worked perfectly.  thank you so much for this fix!

---

### Post by nphocus on 2009-02-18
> **stephanecharette said:**
> I was experiencing this as well immediately after installing 8.10 on my Latitude D630.  Then for the past week the fan was on max, and wouldn't step down even when the laptop was idle for several days.  Here is how I fixed it:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=977347](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=977347)

Stéphane Charette

Thank you!  Your solution worked perfectly!

---

