---
title: "Resolution problem with ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty.. Please Help.."
date: 2009-05-28
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Noctis BR on 2009-05-28
Hey im new to Ubuntu and am having problems setting my resolution to 1920x1200..
Im using an Alienware m15x with a 8600 Nvidia GeForce..
The max resolution im getting shown is 1440x900..

I've tried a few things so far but, I hear I need to create a x_modeline, my current xorg is...

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

I really Enjoy Ubuntu and want to learn/use it as much as I can..
Please help with this problem and thanks in advance :o

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2009-05-28
I wish I had a good answer for you.  I'm not seeing any video problems here with my Intel and ATI video chipsets.  I do have a friend who upgraded to 9.04.  He has a nVidia 7600 card.  He had resolution problems with the default driver and with the activated nVidia driver.  We worked on a solution for a couple of days but he had to get the system going again before he got behind on work so he wiped and installed 8.10.  All worked perfectly again.

If you look around the forums there are a lot of video problems with this release.  You might want to consider going with 8.10 until 9.10 comes out.

---

### Post by Blue Sassley on 2009-05-28
Have you looked into installing envyng?

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

Its pretty nice, it finds the correct nVidia driver and complies the newest one for you, I've found this the best for those damn crappy ATI cards, but also works ready well of the nVidia cards too.

Blue

---

