---
title: "32-bit 8.04 on XPS m1330"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ethanay on 2008-04-28
C2D 1.5ghz
2gb RAM
DVD +/- RW
Integrated Intel graphics
3945ag wireless

The good:
1) Sound support is overall much more solid than it was for me in Gutsy
2) Programs that crashed in Gutsy (Audacity...) are now stable, and in general applications seem to be maturing.
3) Suspend/Hibernate now work "out of the box"
4) Video drivers are no longer blacklisted, and compiz w/tasteful effects levels is enabled by default.
5) Medibuntu and restricted extras seem more organized and accessible.

The bad:
1) Hard disk load cycle count is still an issue -- and this time, nothing I do persists after resume from suspend! See [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=772159").  This one's really eating at me.

2) One CPU core seems alternatingly locked at max or completely missing after resume from suspend.   adding the following to /etc/acpi/resume.d/72-acpi-pain.sh appears to work as a fix.
```
modprobe -r acpi_cpufreq
modprobe acpi_cpufreq
```

3) Powertop suggests changes that have already been made (hal-disable-polling; polling is already disabled!  vm dirty writeback_centisecs, etc)

4) Ubuntu ghost-clones a mounted USB drives after resume from suspend.  So there are two mounts where there is actually only one device plugged in.  One is functional, and the other is persistent.  Weird.

5) Tracker gives no search results until ```
killall trackerd
``` after indexing is complete.  On the plus side, e-mail integration w/Thunderbird now appears to be flawless (install a 3rd party plugin for tracker to index T-bird e-mails)

6) the iwl3945 driver still sucks.  it fails to recover after resume from suspend.  additionally, the network manager for some reason detects wireless connections as wired connections after resume.  right now i am manually disabling networking via the nm-applet (right click...), and then i modprobe -r iwl3945 and add it back, and then re-enable networking, and type iwlist wlan0 scan.  some combination of the above usually does the trick. 

7) With bios version A09, screen brightness keys (fn + up/down) malfunction and move in 4-5 step increments, skipping a lot of usable brightness settings.

Hopefully some of this is helpful -- and if anyone has any suggestions or feedback, or especially fixes please let me know!

thanks,
ethan

---

### Post by pormogo on 2008-04-29
> **ethanay said:**
> C2D 1.5ghz
4) Video drivers are no longer blacklisted, and compiz w/tasteful effects levels is enabled by default.
7) With bios version A09, screen brightness keys (fn + up/down) malfunction and move in 4-5 step increments, skipping a lot of usable brightness settings.


Have you noticed that video playback when using glx effects in applications like VLC is... buggy. Anything I use a glx effect on a screen with video (like task switcher or expose desktops) the video drops out and turns blue. In addition playing video always alters the brightness of my backlight. If brightness was full it drops to a very low level, if it was low it goes all the way to the brightest level.

Have you found any fix to 7. This is really annoying :( Perhaps dell will provide us with a new bios? None of the fixes here on the forums have worked for this issue for me.

---

### Post by amoniak on 2008-04-29
I also upgraded recently..dell xps m1330.. from gutsy to hardy

problems:

-no sound at all (most annoying) 
tried all stuff I found in the forums here - no success. sound card is seen by the system, just cant get any sound out of it!

-brightness keys (annoying, but no big trouble)

..

---

### Post by eamonireland on 2008-04-29
I have the same problem with no sound on my laptop. Also touchpad isn't working

---

### Post by pormogo on 2008-04-29
> **amoniak said:**
> I also upgraded recently..dell xps m1330.. from gutsy to hardy

problems:

-no sound at all (most annoying) 
tried all stuff I found in the forums here - no success. sound card is seen by the system, just cant get any sound out of it!

-brightness keys (annoying, but no big trouble)

..

It looks like dell has the no sound after upgrade documented in their wiki have you checked out the link below yet?

[http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_8.04/Issues/No_Sound_After_Distribution_Upgrade](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_8.04/Issues/No_Sound_After_Distribution_Upgrade)

I didn't have a no sound issue however I am having sound problems that I remember from OLD versions of ubuntu (around 5.xx). When I have one application open it "steals" sound from my other applications. For example if I have VLC open and then I pause the video to watch a video in swiftfox off you tube I don't get sound on my browser until after I close the other application... This is sort of annoying.

---

### Post by eamonireland on 2008-04-29
That Dell post didn't work for me. I don't think it's for the M1330, it didn't seem to recognise any of the commands

---

### Post by eamonireland on 2008-04-29
[This thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=616845") worked for me in sorting out my sound problems. You have to use it to identify which command to use.

For me, I needed to 

sudo gedit **/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base**

and add the following line

options snd-hda-intel model=dell-3stack

And the world is perfect again!

---

### Post by amoniak on 2008-04-29
nope, the audio fix from the DELL wiki didnt help..

I got a new fancy problem now: all videos I play are messed up by color - blue most of the time..

I really wonder what is going on...?!

---

### Post by ethanay on 2008-04-29
i haven't noticed anything wrong with video playback yet, but i don't really use any glx applications.

sound appears to be working well on my laptop, which is nice.

has anyone found a way to get the APM setting 254 or 255 for the hard disk to persist after resume from suspend/hibernate?  that sure would be nice...

---

### Post by pormogo on 2008-04-29
Well I was going to make my own thread but there is no sense in posting issues in another thead when there is already one pertaining to my install and hardware up. While I do agree that various gnome elements are "snappier" and overall support seems to have improved I am having a few fairly crippling issues on my m1330n since upgrading as well.

**1)** First off (and worst off) the sudo command doesn't seem to work when I have no network connection... I checked the sudoers file and there doesn't appear to be any options pertaining to this. Why would it not be able to look up my local hostname without a network conneciton?

[i]darthbator@Fenrir:~$ sudo -i
sudo: unable to resolve host Fenrir[/i]

**2** The second most annoying issues has to be the reliability of the iwl3945 module. It's pretty pitiful. Randomly it seems to just stop connecting. On many occasions I can't get the module to "live" again. Reloading it doesn't seem to help, it never gets signal again. Sometimes it appears to have full signal and it just stops routing traffic. I have tried both the initial version of the module as well as the one included in linux-backports-modules-hardy-generic (which is newer) and both exhibit the same behavior. 

I am not having any issues with the wireless module recovering from suspend my only issue is that with persistant connectivity eventually it will screw up badly enough that it requires a reboot. The following line in dmesg appears to signal the kiss of death

*[ 1006.820733]** iwl3945: Microcode SW error detected.  Restarting 0x82000008.*** 

other common errors seem to include

[i][ 1006.820752] iwl3945: Error Reply type 0x00000005 cmd REPLY_TX (0x1C) seq 0x0273 ser 0x0000004B
[ 1007.812750] iwl3945: Can't stop Rx DMA.
[11476.207299] eth1: RX disassociation from 00:10:18:90:20:db (reason=7)[/i]

**3.** My Fn+Up/Down no longer correctly adjust the brightness on of my backlight. It adjusts in large chunks skipping tons of useable brightness levels. I have tried 2 fixes that replace the shell scripts in /etc/acpi/ for brightnessup and brightnessdown. Neither have worked. 

**4.**Anytime I use compiz effects while playing video in VLC (or any other video player) it causes the video to turn pure blue. So anyime I zoom out my desktops, or expose all my individual windows the video that should be playing in the video player is replaced by a pure blue area. This is a minor annoyance and I would imagine is due to my GMA video chips poor support in compiz.

**5.** Applications appear to "steal" my sound. For example if I watch a video in VLC (or any other player) and then want to pause that video and then start up firefox and watch a youtube video the video in the second application will have no sound until I close the first application. This only seems to be happening with "media" applications. For example sounds from IMO conversations or the Gnome system are never "lost" because something else is "holding" onto the sound (if that makes any sense).

I think that just about covers all of the issues I have been having with this newest version of ubunutu.

---

### Post by ethanay on 2008-04-30
is this from an upgrade or a clean install?

have you tried enabling the backports repository?  there's a wireless driver update there that fixes some issues for people.  seems to make it overall more reliable

i don't know what to say about the video issues -- up until this point i hadn't had any, but i just checked now and the color balance is for some reason horrible.  i swear, i didn't change a damned thing since the last time i played a video...now it looks horrible, with this orangeish glow and washed out, overly bright colors.> update: i fixed this by going into multimedia systems selectors and changing the video out to X (no Xv) -- it seems to work perfectly fine w/all the normal desktop effects (including zoom)

as for the "sound stealing" have you tried system > preferences > pulse audio preferences, and check the box on the "simultaneous output" tab?

> i would agree that sound system is a mess -- mic recording finally works, but now for the life of me I can't get internal sound capture to work!! and why are there three capture/three mux devices and 5 total sound devices?? that is ridiculous

---

### Post by pormogo on 2008-05-02
> **ethanay said:**
> is this from an upgrade or a clean install?

have you tried enabling the backports repository?  there's a wireless driver update there that fixes some issues for people.  seems to make it overall more reliable

i don't know what to say about the video issues -- up until this point i hadn't had any, but i just checked now and the color balance is for some reason horrible.  i swear, i didn't change a damned thing since the last time i played a video...now it looks horrible, with this orangeish glow and washed out, overly bright colors.

as for the "sound stealing" have you tried system > preferences > pulse audio preferences, and check the box on the "simultaneous output" tab?

My issues are all coming from an upgrade from the dell installed version of 7.10 that came with this laptop. I am using the newest version of iwl3945 from the backports repository. It does seem to work better then the other driver however that's still a long way from being good. 

I used to use the noXV video setting to get video to play when my video driver was blacklisted in 7.10 it worked but the video quality doesn't seem as good as when you use the normal rendering option. 

I checked my settings and there doesn't appear to be any option for "Pulse Audio". I do have it installed I started it and it started some services. The man page is a little less then descriptive.

---

### Post by ethanay on 2008-05-02
> **pormogo said:**
> My issues are all coming from an upgrade from the dell installed version of 7.10 that came with this laptop. I am using the newest version of iwl3945 from the backports repository. It does seem to work better then the other driver however that's still a long way from being good.

I used to use the noXV video setting to get video to play when my video driver was blacklisted in 7.10 it worked but the video quality doesn't seem as good as when you use the normal rendering option. 

I checked my settings and there doesn't appear to be any option for "Pulse Audio". I do have it installed I started it and it started some services. The man page is a little less then descriptive.

1) Might try a clean install and see if that fixes some stuff.  I completely agree about the iwl3945 driver, and am miffed about ipw3945 being completely deprecated -- that driver was pretty solid.

2) The Xv setting makes my video look like crap -- the colors are all screwed up, bleeding into each-other and overlapping.  I haven't noticed anything bad about video quality with the "no Xv" setting, and the colors look fine.  I'll take what I can get there :)

3) I've checked, and there are a couple things for pulseaudio: make sure that there isn't any unchecked menu options (right click on ubuntu menu or system > preferences > main menu).  you might need to install padevchooser, paman, paprefs, and pavucontrol to get access to the options i'm looking at.

---

### Post by pormogo on 2008-05-02
I don't see why I would need pulseaudio to do something simple like this on my local machine. Pulseaudio is a sound server correct? My undersatanding was that pulse is used for like transporting sounds between machines etc. Like for serious sound stuff not just changing basic options.

I have no issues going to back to no XV, the video and sound issues are minor annoyances. I was more concerned about my wireless driver, and back light. I think the back light might have something to do with the dell BIOS version.

---

### Post by amoniak on 2008-05-08
still no sound on my XPS 1330 - this really sucks and I have no idea what else to do (tried a LOT of stuff I found in forums)

---

### Post by HanZo on 2008-05-08
I'll add my own problem to the list, and see if I can suggest some fixes for the problems mentioned:

Don't know what to say on the nosound issue, I went straight to hardy with my xps 1330, and it all worked mostly out of the box, apart from the microphone, which still won't work.

Sound in flash seems to be taken straight to alsa, as it won't play as long as there is an other app using the output.

I had the wireless showing up as wired too, but it did never bother me too much, as the connection seems to work anyway. More problems I had with ubuntu not connectin properly to the wireless sometimes. I'll explain it better: I hit choose the connection, the icon spins I get the window where I can insert the password (WPA personal) and then nothing happens until the window pops up again asking me again for the password. So I have to delete the entry with the wireless network I want to connect to in the "Edit Wireless Networks" panel (right click on the network icon), then do an X reload (CTRL+ALT+BSPC) then connect again, and it works.

My other, unresolved problems are: microfone still not working, neither the built in, nor the connector on the front side.
My dvd-drive stopped reading audio cds... like I insert them and they won't start, nor can I play them using any of the software I have tried. Interestingly data cds work, they won't autoplay and ubuntu does not pop up with the icon on the desktop as long as I don't click on the dvd-rom icon in "places". Unfortunately the same procedure does not work with audio cds. Well... if anybody has a clue on this, it would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by nightfrost on 2008-05-09
It seems to some of the problems posted in this thread are m1330-specific, whereas others are general ubuntu bugs (like the flash-alsa problem, for which the fix is to install libflashsupport). 

With regards to a couple of the other problems:

blacklisting the 'video' module and rebooting solves the problem concerning brightness settings with the fn-keys. Just add "blacklist video" to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

The hard drive issue is solved for me by adding the proper /etc/pm.d/ scripts (I think I found them on the wiki or the forums).

I'm not sure about the iwl3965 driver, since I use the 4965 myself. However, installing linux-backports-modules-2.6.24-17-generic got me nice and updated iwl4965 that worked better, for example the wi-fi led is turned on when the wifi is active.

By the way, if some of these things work out, perhaps the OP could update the the first post?

EDIT: By the way, forgot this: The problem with acpi-cpufreq not taking care of the second core after resume, was not solved for me usin the work around suggested in the first post, simply because  CONFIG_MODULE_FORCE_UNLOAD is not set. Could you double check that it works for you? If it doesn't I have recompiled kernel packages with that change only that might be useful for you.

---

### Post by HanZo on 2008-05-09
I don't remember ever having noticed the CPU2 problem some of you here have reported... could it have somthing to do with having dells kernel modules installed?
I have applied a fix for better resume, it might also have to do with that... it's something I have found here in this section of the forum, though I cannot remember which thread it was exactly

---

### Post by HanZo on 2008-05-09
Ladies and Gentleman, I have the fix for the MICROPHONE PROBLEM, many of you are (probably) having with the 1330 and the 1530.
The solution is easy, you have to open volume control (make sure it is HDA intel: ALSA) and click edit>preferences in the menu. From the list of controls to show choose: Digital and Digital Input Source, then quit.
Now, go to the Options (which will now have appeared) tab in "volume control" and choose "Digital Mic 1" as your input source. In the recording tab you can set the volume (it's the "Digital" fader).
The mic will now work in gnome, yeah!!!
(credits for this solution goes to Marco "Neffscape" Boneff ([http://marco.boneff.ch](http://marco.boneff.ch)))

---

### Post by nightfrost on 2008-05-09
> **HanZo said:**
> I don't remember ever having noticed the CPU2 problem some of you here have reported... could it have somthing to do with having dells kernel modules installed?
I have applied a fix for better resume, it might also have to do with that... it's something I have found here in this section of the forum, though I cannot remember which thread it was exactly

Really? Do you mind posting the output of 
```
cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep MHz
```

After a suspend/resume cycle?
Thanks!

---

### Post by HanZo on 2008-05-09
apparently I got something wrong. I mistook cpu load with cpu frequency scaling.
the output is:

cpu MHz		: 800.000
cpu MHz		: 1995.020

in fact it does not scale I tried the code several time and it stays on full frequency all the time.

---

### Post by nightfrost on 2008-05-09
> **HanZo said:**
> apparently I got something wrong. I mistook cpu load with cpu frequency scaling.
the output is:

cpu MHz		: 800.000
cpu MHz		: 1995.020

in fact it does not scale I tried the code several time and it stays on full frequency all the time.

Yep, that's the problem we're talking about :-)

Take a look at this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/183033](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/183033) and its comments. In my last comment there I've linked to the recompiled packages I mentioned earlier in this thread.

---

### Post by ethanay on 2008-05-10
I will try to update my original post with various fixes this weekend once I can verify a couple more and have time to organize my messy setup notes :)

I must say, first time I've been on battery since installing hardy, and I'm getting much lower power consumption, and what seems like around an hour more battery life! (about 2-5 w/hr less than gutsy!)

UPDATE: I recommend AGAINST blacklisting "video" -- at least on my machine it causes more problems then it fixes, and the settings were irreversible until I reinstalled (which I was going to do anyway).  issues it caused: flickering screen, disappearing mouse pointer, disabling lcd powermanagement (dim lcd/turn off), black screens and delays on boot and resume.

---

### Post by matyasfalvi on 2008-10-24
Thank you for this useful post!

---

