---
title: "10.10 doesn't recognize plugged in monitor"
date: 2012-03-19
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by scribbleD on 2012-03-19
Hey folks,

Running a 10.10 on a Dell Latitude laptop.

It has an Intel Core i7 2720QM Cpu and an Nvidia Quadro NVS 4200M graphics card. It is also docked into a station, which provides several connection features. One of these is a DVI cable, which is connected to an ASUS MW221u monitor. If I run Windows, it recognizes the monitor without a problem, however, when Ubuntu is running, the monitor says "No signal" then goes into sleep mode.

The Display section in the preferences only see the laptop's screen, and doesn't detect the monitor when I click "Detect Displays".

the "sudo apt-get install nvidia-current" returns the following line:
> nvidia current is already the newest version.

if I run nvidia-xconfig:
> 
Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Device section "Default Device" must have a Driver line.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as blah blah
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'


I've tried various methods, like installing the latest driver from nvidia. The problem was that I had to kill x-server, and after the install, the graphical interface didn't start, and there was nothing I could do (except if I used the old, backed up xorg.conf file). I've tried everything, really.

As for the Nvidia X Server settings:
When I start it, it gives me the following error message:
> You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run 'nvidia-xconfig' as root), and restart the X server.
(I even get this error if I run it after running the nvidia-xconfig as root).

The only thing I can change in the Nvidia X Server settings is the nvidia-settings Configuration...

Whatever I try, I either kill the GUI beyond repair, or nothing happens at all.

Can anyone help in this?
Thanks in advance.

---

