---
title: "9.10 update on Inspiron 1440. Lagging problem."
date: 2010-02-08
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by samuel.faith on 2010-02-08
Hi folks,

Once again I am seeking for help from the community. I should have done this earlier but was attempting to resolve the problem on my own, only to fail.

I upgraded my Jaunty installation on Dell Inspiron 1440 two months ago. Since then, I notice that the performance is noticeably degraded, especially the interface is getting laggy from time to time.

When I said performance is degraded, it doesn't happen all the time. But when it happens, it is obvious since the login.

My laptop has ATI graphic card, and I had installed latest Catalyst driver from ATI website since I thought the drivers that came with Karmic are buggy. I noticed slight improvements in "occasional lagging" but not drastic difference.

Whenever it gets lagging, one thing I notice is GNOME DO would be buggy. Usually, I use GNOME DO to launch my applications. But whenever the "occasional lagging" problem happens after logging in, GNOME DO will not detect any applications I typed in, instead it appears as just plain text in GNOME DO panel.

I am also using Cairo-Dock, and whenever that lagging happens, it also lags (in animations when I run my cursor on it). Well that is obvious as the whole interface is lagging! And also, any application launch will take some times, and I feel like I'm using rootkits and trojan horses infected Windows. Heck, even launch of Pidgin and Firefox lag and take time!

I have considered installing fresh copy of Karmic but I ruled it out since I already have a lot of customized configs, and installed applications. On top of that, my tight schedule simply doesn't allow me to do such time consuming task. Yup, fresh installation of Ubuntu doesn't take much time but re-installation of all my applications and configuring them will take a long time.

Yet, if there is any way to backup all my application settings, if possible list of my applications (or applications themselves), then restore them after fresh installation is done, I'd be happy to try that. Hope it won't be too time consuming.

Hoping forward to get solutions on this!

-- Samuel Faith

---

### Post by samuel.faith on 2010-02-08
C'mon people. No replies!? :(

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-02-08
Have you tried running 'top' in Terminal while experiencing a lag? You can also check the system monitor, both to determine what's eating up the resources.

---

### Post by samuel.faith on 2010-02-09
Well I noticed one thing that after I uninstalled GNOME Do, partially because it was not recognizing any applications' names I typed in, the performance issue is totally gone.

It is weird that since I have been using GNOME Do for a long long time since it's out. And my version is from Ubuntu repositories, and it seems to be latest version from GNOME Do website as well.

I tried reinstalling it back after a few restarts and I noticed performance degraded again. Now I am in dilemma, GNOME Do is one hell of a useful application and I am addicted to it.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-02-09
Try using one of the previous versions if available. Newer software is not necessarily better, usually, bugs get fixed and introduces at the same time.

---

