---
title: "10.04 Wireless Suddenly Stopped"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by moffattsam on 2010-05-10
Have had 10.04 installed for over a week now with no problems. However today the wireless just stopped working. 

Checked that driver was installed and it said it was but not in use. Tried re-booting but nothing changed. 

Tried re-installing driver and no luck. 

Can't find anything else that helps as it all refers to other peoples machines/wireless cards/drivers.

Any help would be much appreciated. 

Thanks
Sam

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-11
What are you running?

```
lspci | grep -i net
```

---

### Post by moffattsam on 2010-05-11
09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller (rev 13)
0c:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)

Sam

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-11
Try:

```
sudo apt-get install bcmwl-kernel-source
```

Then reboot.

---

### Post by moffattsam on 2010-05-11
Thanks but I tried that yesterday but did not sort it. 

This is what came up when in terminal


bcmwl-kernel-source is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  linux-backports-modules-alsa-2.6.32-21-generic
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-11
That's what had worked for me. There's this thread as well [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1266620](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1266620)

---

### Post by moffattsam on 2010-05-11
Thanks for your help. That still doesn't seem to work. 

Can't even activate broadcom driver now, an error message pops up. 

Looks like might have to go back to windows. 

Thanks

---

