---
title: "Xps m1730"
date: 2009-03-12
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by amirage on 2009-03-12
Hi All

I have installed Ubuntu 8.1 on my rig - XPS1730 with Dual Sli Nvidia 8700gt, 2GB DDR2 Ram, T8300 Intel Chip, etc. Although the compiz was choppy initially with the recommended driver 177. I upgraded to 180glx, and now everything is running really smooth...

However, I haven't been able to get my microphone to work. Has anyone been successful on this front? Although the gaming panel and the LEDs are not working, but that's alright as I'm not interested in there. I would like to have the mic working.

Awaiting your help.

Amit

---

### Post by ksnyder on 2009-03-30
I have an M1730 and I have never been able to get the front Mic to work.  The only mic that works is the one built into the webcam.  I have scoured the web and have even tried different configurations, through configuration files and the UI and still no luck.  I could use some help as well.

---

### Post by Irishpolyglot on 2009-04-23
[This thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=563031") seems to solve a lot of the main issues. I have the mini screen above the keyboard working great; instead of looking through the thread (which gives download links that aren't necessary), just go to Synaptic and install libg15 and g15daemon (presuming you have enabled all the usual repositories) and when you reboot the PC you can press the buttons like in Windows to see the date/time in lots of lovely formats (no memory stats though); it's a huge improvement over constantly seeing XPS, and I'm sure it's easy to tweak to get more info displayed.

Most other things just worked out of the box for me (even the remote control!) - webcam is working fine in Skype for example. But I also can't seem to get the front microphone working (a lot of M1730 users say the same thing).

I am in 9.04RC. Hopefully someone has some ideas!! This computer has been on the market for a while, I'm surprised this issue doesn't have simple solutions yet. I'm otherwise glad everything else is working

---

