---
title: "10.10 netbook"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by mvelte54 on 2010-10-20
Hi all,
Here is my question:
I have a Dell Inspirion mini 10 that came with XP. I was not happy with it and installed Ubuntu 9.10 netbook remix. Still not happy I installed Karmic desktop on it. I couldn't be happier but now I want to try netbook 10.10. 
As it doesn't have a disk drive I have been using unetbootin and also usb creator with my desktop and creating a bootable usb. When I plug either version in I get the same results. Something about initramfs__________ and that's all she wrote nothing after that. I still have 133g of free space on the drive.

Now I have seen that you cannot skip an upgrade for example 9.04 to 10.04 while skipping 9.10 altogether. Is this true, do I need to update to Lucid then to Maverick netbook? 

Just to reinterate I am running Karmic desktop version on my netbook now, is it even possible to upgrade from a desktop version to a netbook version? Do I need to wipe the hard drive clean and start over, if so I have never done that and any information would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by serdarhappy on 2010-10-21
Hi,
I am using Kubuntu 10.10 and that's awesome. First I installed Ubuntu desktop edition, then switched to netbook edition. both were not what I want. Now I know, this is great, and I haven't used KDE before. I just love it. It automatically detects that this is netbook and changes its desktop environment accordingly. Plasma desktop rocks.
You can download USB version from the site and install clean version of Kubuntu 10.10. You won't regret it.

---

### Post by mvelte54 on 2010-10-21
Thank you for your reply serdarhappy I have been using Ubuntu for over a year now on two of my desktops and on my netbook. I too love Ubuntu. Hopefully I get my problem resolved and continue down the path of enlightenment.

---

### Post by K-Sub on 2010-10-22
> **serdarhappy said:**
> Hi,
I am using Kubuntu 10.10 and that's awesome. First I installed Ubuntu desktop edition, then switched to netbook edition. both were not what I want. Now I know, this is great, and I haven't used KDE before. I just love it. It automatically detects that this is netbook and changes its desktop environment accordingly. Plasma desktop rocks.
You can download USB version from the site and install clean version of Kubuntu 10.10. You won't regret it.

I'm using Ubuntu 10.10 on my Netbook and I'm pretty happy with it, but always looking for something better.  Are there any advantages to Kubuntu over Ubuntu?  Can I run it off a thumb drive to see if I like it before installing?  Thanx!

---

### Post by mvelte54 on 2010-10-23
Well after not getting any satisfactory replies to my quest I took matters into my own hands. As I stated earlier I had read you can not skip upgrades, i.e. 9.04 to 10.10 it just doesn't work. At least not in my house. So I downloaded 10.04.1 and used UNetbootin created a bootable usb. Rebooted the netbook and viola! I went from running Karmic Koala _Desktop_ Edition on my netbook to running Lucid Lynx _Netbook_ Edition. Very nice I must say... 

:guitar: [SIZE=4]UBUNTU ROCKS![/SIZE]

---

### Post by viant on 2010-10-28
Hi,

Lucid Lynx is not 10.10 yet. Have you managed to install 10.10?
I tried to install straight from USB with Windows 7 dual boot, and my netbook is freeze.

Anyone knows how to solve this?

---

