---
title: "Sound help with a dell inspiron duo in ubuntu 10.0"
date: 2011-02-07
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by FinalLight on 2011-02-07
Ok, I'm ready to bash my skull in because of this problem, I'm using a dell inspiron duo and whenever I plug in my perfectly fine x11 turtle beach headset, sound keeps playing through the speakers.... and not the headset, the headsets fine, I can use it on my other computer perfecty, Please help! I'm kind of a new person to ubuntu but I'm quick to learn so please help!!!! Godspeed please...

---

### Post by trozamon on 2011-02-07
Go to System>Preferences>Sound. Click on the output tab, and you should see two choices: the speakers and the headset. Choose the headset, and sound should play.

---

### Post by FinalLight on 2011-02-07
[http://img146.imageshack.us/img146/8055/soundhelp.png](http://img146.imageshack.us/img146/8055/soundhelp.png)
Its not there, Might I  add I'm running netbook remix, I used to be able to use my headphones, I think We might have to do some terminal work to fix this,

---

### Post by trozamon on 2011-02-08
I believe that the current kernel has a bug that sometimes ubuntu won't recognize usb accesories unless said accesories are plugged in when ubuntu boots. 

I'm assuming that headset is a usb headset, right?

---

### Post by FinalLight on 2011-02-08
> **trozamon said:**
> I believe that the current kernel has a bug that sometimes ubuntu won't recognize usb accesories unless said accesories are plugged in when ubuntu boots. 

I'm assuming that headset is a usb headset, right?
Sort of, usb with an audio jack.... It uses the usb for power,

---

### Post by trozamon on 2011-02-08
Alright, try booting with the headset plugged in. That worked for me when I got a headset.

---

### Post by FinalLight on 2011-02-12
Tried, no luck, can we get a official in here plz?

---

### Post by trozamon on 2011-02-13
Alright, what we're gonna do is see if your headset gets connected to ubuntu.

Open a terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal) and run:

```
sudo apt-get install hwinfo
```After hwinfo is installed, run:

```
cd $USR/Desktop
hwinfo > hwinfoResults.txt
```Those three commands will install HardWareINFO, then change the directory to your desktop and run hwinfo while saving all its output in hwinfoResults.txt.  Now all you'll need to do is copy and paste the contents of hwinfoResults(which is on your desktop) into a reply so I can see it.

---

### Post by FinalLight on 2011-02-13
hardware info installed fine, but when I run the second command this flashes up bash: 

cd: /Desktop: No such file or directory

---

### Post by trozamon on 2011-02-13
Try:

```
cd $USR
cd Desktop
```cd is a command that means change directory. $USR is just a system value for your home directory.

The only reason you need to change the active directory to the desktop is you can easily find hwinfoResults.txt on your desktop.

---

### Post by paulomuggler on 2011-05-11
No luck with this yet? I'm running into the exact same problem on my Duo, Ubuntu 11.04 vanilla here (32-bit). Attached is the output generated by running hwinfo as a normal user. Also, the hwinfo command threw up a bit over the shell :P, here's what it looked like:

> 
process [FILTERED]: arguments to dbus_move_error() were incorrect, assertion "(dest) == NULL || !dbus_error_is_set ((dest))" failed in file dbus-errors.c line 280.
This is normally a bug in some application using the D-Bus library.
libhal.c 3483 : Error unsubscribing to signals, error=The name org.freedesktop.Hal was not provided by any .service files


---

### Post by DrHannibal on 2011-10-05
having the same issue here(with the same netbook)! any luck on getting it fixed?

---

