---
title: "useless huawei e169"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by robihatewindows on 2009-04-25
im am running ubuntu 8.10 intrepid ibex released in october 2008 on a relatively new comp. (using my old hard drive and ... windows vista:lolflag: to compose my plea for help.) i have a huawei e169 usb modem from dodo on the optus network in australia and have spent countless hours reading forum posts and trying everything from command lines to downloading usb modeswitch coupled with libusb and nothing seems to work. The thing that ... upsets me the most is that i am still using vista (the most flawed OS ive seen in my 25 years) to write this. there seem to be no drivers for linux for this modem and modeswitch wont even register on my system. Ive rung dodo and they told me to contact huawei for drivers. NO response thus far. Please for the love of all that is good and holy HELP me. I am not the most computer liturate person in the world but im not stupid.

---

### Post by kingswood71 on 2009-04-26
Hi mate, I am using the H169 to write this, also on the Dodo network.
I agree it is hard to get it to work, but is possible.

1. use network manager.
2. it will say some other (E622) but use that.
3. go into edit connetions
4. the APN is dodolns1
5. select Pap
6. delete all DNS numbers.
7. Open terminal. Type sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
8. change the numbers to: 208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220.
9  save and then you should be able to connect thru firefox.

also, disable ipv6. in terminal type, sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/aliases.
type off befofe ipv6.
then, in terminal type sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
then in blacklist, type blacklist ipv6

hope that helps
Rohan

---

### Post by kingswood71 on 2009-04-26
and dont forget the space between gedit and /etc :)

---

### Post by robihatewindows on 2009-04-26
im not sure why but the resolv.conf file is empty do i need to create it? thank u for your help

---

### Post by kingswood71 on 2009-04-29
mmmmm...not sure on that one!!
are you sure you have got the usb connected to the net??
also, are you sure its the /etc/resolv.conf file??

it should say something like:

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

---

