---
title: "Vostro 3400 + 10.04 64-bit = CPU Fan Does Not Turn Off"
date: 2010-10-24
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by machinezilla on 2010-10-24
Hi,

I recently purchased a Dell Vostro 3400 and I installed 10.04 64-bit on it. Everything works great except that the CPU Fan does not turn off once it turns on. The machine boots and after a minute or so the CPU fan just kicks on and does not stop. Does anyone know how to get the fan under control for this machine?

thanks

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-25
First you could try a clean install of 10.10 and see if it helps.

If the CPU is still overheating, you could take a look at **top** to see which application is pushing the CPU (press q for quitting top).

---

### Post by machinezilla on 2010-10-27
Hi mörgæs,

Thanks for your suggestion.

I tried installing 10.10 but still had the same issues with the fan. After reaching 40C the fan would just start and never stop again. I tried to use the i8k module for the inspiron/latitude laptops but it was not reliable. The sensors reported incorrect information. I attempted to configure the i8kmon script but I kept getting erratic behavior from the fans--the fans which start and stop every couple seconds.

Also there were issues with the broadcom wireless which I did not report. The broadcom 4353 is absolutely horrible; the wireless speed was totally unreliable even after disabling the power management mode as suggested in another forum thread. 

To make matters worse this morning the laptop wouldn't even boot and I got an LED error code indicating that the SODIMMs had failed.

Sadly, I had to request a return from Dell which they gave me without hesitation--along with a full credit.

I was a little disappointed by the laptop. I have another Dell at work, an older Latitude 6500 and it works 100% under Linux (using Ubuntu). I was hoping for the same experience with the Vostro 3400 especially since it is listed as certified ubuntu hardware from the ubuntu homepage.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-10-28
Too bad it didn't work. Here is more on the overheating matter, just in case other people are following the thread: 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1532949](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1532949)

---

### Post by krowa on 2011-01-04
See follow this link:
[http://en.community.dell.com/support-forums/laptop/f/3518/t/19331269.aspx?PageIndex=1](http://en.community.dell.com/support-forums/laptop/f/3518/t/19331269.aspx?PageIndex=1)

---

