---
title: "10.04 on Dell Studio 15 w/Core i7 - noisy fan."
date: 2010-08-11
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Aybara on 2010-08-11
I have done a fresh install of 10.04 on a Dell Studio 15 with a Core i7 processor and installed the proprietary graphics driver. Even in idle I think the fans are way too noisy. It doesn't seem very hot, and the warmest area is at the bottom left, near the audio jacks.

Is there anything I can do about this? Any known configurations/fixes that needs to be done for this laptop, or maybe some improved methods/apps for controlling fanspeed?

Please help me get my silent office back ;)

---

### Post by patatas on 2010-09-26
I just installed ubuntu 10.04 on my vaio f series, I also noticed that the fan runs like 30%-40% compared to when im using windows (fan running like 5%)

stated percentage is just an estimate, i checked the load, its minimal and close to zero

---

### Post by dgaviola on 2010-09-26
I'm experiencing similar problems. I have a Dell 580s with a i3-530 processor.

Not only I see that the fan is a lot noisier (compared to Windows 7), but also my computer shouts down when doing some "normal" stuff... For example, opening 3-4 videos in YouTube for more than 5 minutes shuts down my computer. The same happens when I tried to synchronized my iPhone music collection with Rhythmbox after 3-5 minutes of copying the files.

I understand that it is a security check to prevent damaging the CPU, but it seems to me unacceptable that I cannot open 3-4 videos on YouTube or synchronize my music collection. Windows 7 manages it just well, so I guess there is something wrong with my Linux configuration or a bug somewhere.

I have tried both, 10.4 32-bits and 64-bits versions and I had the same problem.

I would appreciate any help or recommendation on this.

Thanks!

---

### Post by dgaviola on 2010-09-26
I've been digging a bit more in this issue and it seems to be related to this bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/524281/+index?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/524281/+index?comments=all)

While I'm writing this, my powertop output is:

Wakeups-from-idle per second : 274.6    interval: 10.0s
no ACPI power usage estimate available

Top causes for wakeups:
  24.9% ( 96.1)   [kernel scheduler] Load balancing tick
  18.2% ( 70.0)   USB device 2-1.2 : USB2.0-CRW (Generic)
  15.0% ( 57.9)   [rtl8180] <interrupt>
  13.4% ( 51.6)   [ehci_hcd:usb2] <interrupt>
  10.1% ( 38.8)D  firefox-bin
   2.6% ( 10.0)D  ubuntuone-syncd

But I haven't been able to fix it. Will post in case I do.

---

### Post by dgaviola on 2010-09-28
I was able to fix my problem with the following kernel options:

acpi.power_nocheck=1 acpi_osi=Linux

Also I updated to Ubuntu Maverick, which has the 2.6.35 kernel.

Hope that helps!

---

