---
title: "8.10 - Desktop not loading."
date: 2008-11-06
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by kerpow on 2008-11-06
System: Dell Dimension 2400

Hi, I have had the previous two versions of Ubuntu running on my system with no problems, but when I went to upgrade (clean install) to 8.10 I became unstuck.

Here are my symptoms:  

When I boot up the LiveCD with all default options, the system stops with the ‘skin’ coloured background (no wallpaper image), nothing else on the screen except the mouse pointer (that still moves).  The keyboard lights for CapsLock etc don’t work. I have left the system running for a while and there is no change, its crashed.  

If I just go for an install without booting the LiveCD, the install process works, looks great, I see all the new graphics etc, then when the system does its final reboot, I get a login screen.  Once I login I get the same as when I boot the LiveCD. It’s crashed.

OK, yes it all works in safe graphics mode.  But the part I don’t understand is why can I get the installer and the login screen to work in ‘non-safe’ mode (full res) but not the regular desktop?

So why is this a problem with 8.10 and none of the others?   I am using a Dell Dimension 2400 with a built in Intel graphics chip.   It obviously has the capability to work, its just not with 8.10 :(

I am willing to put the hard yards in to fix this problem, but I am a little stumped where to start.  I have played around with xorg.conf but have to confess to not knowing what I am doing or why :)!

Cheers

---

### Post by kerpow on 2008-11-07
POSTED INTO main section:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6123466#post6123466](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6123466#post6123466)

---

### Post by Kholdstate on 2008-11-23
I had an issue with installing Ubuntu 8.10 Server on my Dell Dimension 2400. Starting the installation process would seem to take insanely long... however I got it to work just fine with a different dvd-rom. Perhaps this will help you?

:popcorn:

---

### Post by billyboy1995 on 2009-06-20
i know for a fact that lots of people are haveing problems like your...i have always said the same thing...i have a 2400 without any changes to it and i can run 9.04 perfectly...try 9.04

---

