---
title: "10.4LTS install doesn't output to VGA"
date: 2011-02-09
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by chinarut on 2011-02-09
Hi! I had Ubuntu 8 running on an old Inspirion 700m whose LCD was busted connected to an HDTV via VGA.   I went to upgrade the system to 9 and Firefox didn't seem to happy so I went ahead and started the update to 10.4 and it hung and froze during the install.

I was hesitant to turn off the system in the middle of the install and I figured worst case, I'd do a clean install.

I tried to boot the system and sure enough, it won't boot.

So I downloaded the 10.4LTS release and burned it onto a CD-RW.

I booted off the disk and can see the purple Ubuntu logo with the red and white dots below it loading...

eventually the install gets to a point where it no longer outputs to the external monitor so I can't see anything.

pushing the "CRT/LCD" button (F8 while holding Fn) doesn't seem to help.

I realize I'm salvaging old hardware and would like to know if anyone has any ideas on how to force the output to go to VGA and/or if there is a clever way to remote shell into the install right now?

---

### Post by chinarut on 2011-02-09
quick update: I downloaded 9.10 and the desktop boots fine and I am now installing off the LiveCD.

If anyone has any insight on how to troubleshoot why 10.4 doesn't work, I still have the 10.4 CD to boot off if anyone would like me to try anything.

---

### Post by JohnMorrow on 2011-02-11
I'm no expert, but I ran into a similar problem while trying out an Ubuntu 10.4 derivative distribution called Pinguy. You need to play around with the boot options within the installer. I general guide can be found here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions")

The two options listed in the article are using <F4> Modes > "Safe Graphics Mode", and adding vga=771 as a boot parameter. There are other display-related boot parameters not listed in the article. You could also try "nomodeset" which worked for me.

In my case, once the install completed I could boot from the hard drive just fine, so you just have to find the right display option for the install process itself.

---

### Post by chinarut on 2011-02-14
hey thanks for the input - the catch in my situation is I'm squeezing every little bit of my lil bro's laptop whose LCD is shot so i don't have access to boot options :/

we're up and running with 9.10 so this is more feedback to the Ubuntu team to consider what change was made to the installer that doesn't allow it to proceed relatively unattended.

---

