---
title: "Boot Problem (and some others)"
date: 2010-01-03
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Char47 on 2010-01-03
Please excuse double post - did not at first notice there is a Dell Ubuntu section which is probably where this belongs, rather than in general section.
 
Relatively beginner level with Ubuntu and Linux. Currently can only **[COLOR=#ff0000]boot[/COLOR]** my Dell Mini 9 with Ubuntu in gnome failsafe session. Otherwise get "Your session only lasted less than 10 seconds. If you have not logged out yourself, this could mean that there is some installation problem or that you may be out of diskspace. Try logging in with one of the failsafe sessions to see if you can fix this problem." Interestingly, behind the dialog box with this error message, I see the Dell simplified Desktop configuration, rather than the Ubuntu classic configuration. When I re-log in in the failsafe gnome mode, the Ubuntu classic desktop does show up. (Incidentally my free diskspace is 5.3 GB) History, in case this leads to any clues as to the problem: Worked yesterday on a) trying to install Open Office 3.1 to replace the 2.4 that came with my system and b) getting my Dell mini to print directly to my wireless printer (I do not think the printer stuff contributed to my problem and that seems to work fine). The Open Office took a lot of messing around and I am suspicious that's where my problem comes from. Followed instructions that I found on ubuntu forums and on open office site to install 3.1 parallel to 2.4, since I wanted to have 2.4 available if I had trouble getting 3.1 to work. Indeed i did have trouble getting 3.1 to work, with the installation repeatedly aborting and pointing to errors of architecture incompatibility (i386 vs lpia). Played with various suggestions off the forums for this problem. Eventually wound up with trying to get updates to happen and getting messages that the updates were failing and only getting "partial updates". Got lengthy error messages that I did not fully copy about "failed to fetch http://dl.google.com/linux.deb/dists/stable/release" and "unable to find expected entry main/binary-lpia/packages in meta-index file (malformed release file?)" and "some index files failed to download" and "E: couldn't configure pre-depend open_office.org_core from openoffice.rog.filter.binfilter" with some mention of problems with dependencies. Eventually got updates to happen, but had to de-select "openoffice.org-config" and "openoffice.org.filter.binfilter". After I had done that, much to my surprise, starting OpenOffice in normal fashion (i.e. the way that had opened 2.4), I had v. 3.1 running. I had thought the installation would be in parallel, but I can't find any sign of 2.4. In addition, there is some weirdness to 3.1: When I go to open files from within 3.1 , it only shows me my *.pdf files and when I click to open those, I get a dialog box asking about ASCII - whatever I choose, it brings me to a blank OpenOffice document rather than the PDF file. If instead of opening the files from inside office, I go via the file system, I can find all my files and I can click on them and they will open properly in V 3.1! Looking for solutions I found and tried these instructions in the forum: **[COLOR=#ff0000]boot[/COLOR]** into recovery mode and run apt-get -f install apt-get install ubuntu-desktop If that does not work, reinstall libgnome2-0 apt-get install --reinstall libgnome2-0 But they did not seem to help. (They ran OK, but the problem is still present) Obviously a case of a beginner getting in over his head!! There maybe some other things I have done in the past 24 hours that have contributed to the problem, but I've given you what I think are the major potential problems. At this point, I need some outside help!

---

