---
title: "Mini 10v with 1510 802.11n wireless not working"
date: 2009-07-22
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by MartynT on 2009-07-22
Hi,

I've just taken delivery of a Dell Mini 10v running 8.04 with the Dell Wireless 1510 Half Mini Card (802.11n) - I notice that this is now the default option, not a £10 upgrade !

The wireless can detect all my neighbours routers (all 802.11g) but it can't even see my Draytek 2820n router.

I tried manually configuring but to no avail.
I also tried enabling the non-free driver, that didn't work either.

Wired ethernet just works with no problem.
My wife's Vista laptop connects wirelessly without any problem, so I don't think there's anything wrong with the router (it's also very new).

Any suggested plan of attack ?
I haven't tried disabling WPA2 yet.
I was planning to upgrade to UNR 9.04, but I'd like to make sure that there isn't a hardware fault before I make it easy for Dell to not support me.
I haven't upgraded the bios, but I have changed the boot order to put usb before hdd (that shouldn't affect the wireless - right !).
I haven't done much messing with drivers, other than enabling the proprietary one via System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers.

All help greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by dk06 on 2009-07-22
What I would do:

download ndisgtk or ndiswrapper and download the driver directly from dell. (use the .inf out of the wifi driver package)

I'm thinking that you may be currently using a generic driver w/out 'n' support

---

### Post by MartynT on 2009-07-22
Thanks, I'll give that a try.

---

### Post by MartynT on 2009-07-26
OK, my situation is much improved so I thought I'd report back for anyone else with similar problems.

Basically, I changed channel from 13 to 8 and upgraded my router's firmware.

I did several things, so I'm not 100% certain which actions fixed what but here's what happened.

On delivery of the 10v I activated the "Broadcom STA Driver" via Adminstration->Hardware Drivers.

That allowed me to see all my neighbour's routers (all 'g'), but I couldn't even see my own.

I took my 10v to work where it was able to connect to my work's 'g' wireless via WPA2.  I was told that the Broadcom STA driver has a region bug, where it only supports channels 1 - 11, which is what's used in the USA (I don't know if any of this is true, but it's what I was told).

On getting home I changed my router from using channel 13 to use channel 8.  That allowed my 10v to "see" the router but it still couldn't connect.

I Installed ndiswrapper but didn't manage to find the required driver files.

I tried configuring the router (a Draytek Vigor 2820n) to use only 'g' and only 'b' and even to not use any encryption.  Nothing worked.

Finally I upgraded the router's firmware ...
[http://www.draytek.co.uk/support/download/readme_v2820.txt](http://www.draytek.co.uk/support/download/readme_v2820.txt)
That fixes ...
24. Fixed: Problem that wireless clients are unable to get IP address from DHCP

Initially this had no effect, but after rebooting the router and making several connection attempts (under 8.04 the first attempt usually fails but the 2nd suceeds), it connected.

I now have the router configured for 'g' and 'n'.  My wife's Vista laptop connects at 'n' speeds (144Mb/s), my 10v connects at 'g' speeds of 44 - 50 Mb/s.  This is true for the 8.04 that came with the 10v and for 9.04 UNR running "live" off a thumb drive.

For the time being this will do me.  I'll cross my fingers and hope that 9.10 or 10.04 adds 'n' support.  I'm grateful for what I now have.  Over the past few days the expressions "As much use as a chocolate teapot" and ".... as an ashtray on a motorbike" where on my mind.  "As much use as a netbook without a wireless connection."

Now it's working :P

---

### Post by wackodraco on 2009-08-04
Is there a way to change the channel setting of this card through Linux?
I'm having the same problem, but it's not at all possible to update the firmware on the card- it's a work network and the IT guys are not interested.
Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-08-05
I think you got a few things confused. First, the OP upgraded the router's firmware, and not that of the wireless card. Second, the channel change mentioned also applies to the router, since the wireless card will try to use whatever channel your router is set to.
Now, if you don't have access to your work's router to change the channel, there isn't much you can do about the problem.

---

