---
title: "10.10 64bit latitude E5410"
date: 2010-11-14
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Mikecore on 2010-11-14
I installed 10.10 64bit on my new E5410. Everything went relatively well. I do have two issues. One is when I try to use my external monitor Ubuntu hard freezes, the other is the scroll bar on my touch pad is not working. I did a little research and it seems that the monitor issue is probably a intel driver or BIOS issue. The touch pad seems to be an issue with it not being recognized correctly. So far I have updated the BIOS from 05 to 06. Both issues are still here.

---

### Post by duckys on 2010-11-18
I have reported the same thing for the Dell E6410 and no one seems to take interest...

---

### Post by kamohammed on 2010-11-18
I dont think its because of lack of interest. Its maybe that no one knows how to rectify it...
wrt to monitor I can only suggest graphics drivers (not much help there)

wrt to touch pad. I know there is an option somewhere to adjust mouse settings and touch pad. If I am not mistaken (only recently installed 10.10) there are options to tweak and adjust the scroll area of the touchpad... 

-not much help, but couldnt left this post ignored -

---

### Post by duckys on 2010-11-18
I don't like to sound negative. But, this issues with the Intel Drivers for Dell is a bit harsh since the issue was in version 10 as well. 

About the scrolling on the touch-pad. I have spent many hours trying to fix this issue, with all the troubleshooting techniques and nothing seems to work. 
Also, what i have seen as well is that the SD card is also not working. 

So, I am really baffled on how Dell says that they are Ubuntu ready when a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.10 64bit has so many issues?

If you look through the forums you would see the three main issues include:

Intel Driver issue with the docking station

SD card slot not working

Touch-pad of scrolling not working


It does not matter which version of Dell you have these three items are occurring and more attention should be made available.

If you would like to see proof of all the troubleshooting that has gone into these subjects... please take a look at the bug report as there is many included....


I just hope soon that these issues are fixed... It is just annoying!


Sorry for the Rant.... It had to be said...

Ducky

---

### Post by snevs on 2011-02-14
Hey guys,

Did anyone managed to dual boot with windows 7? 

I do not intend to remove windows7 completely due to some business applications that won't run on Linux.

The problem is that the laptop provides advanced UEFI boot options which I don't seem to handle. 

The Ubuntu disc will see the HDD as a single Free partition. Like no other OS is installed.

---

