---
title: "Need driver for Dell 1320c for pc running 64 bit U10.04"
date: 2010-06-27
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Randy Schilling on 2010-06-27
System:  Dell EM64T Pentium D with Dell 1320C printer connected directly to it.

I was running U8.04 (32 bit).  The driver that worked then was the linux driver for the FujiXerox
Docuprint C525A.  What you get, after downloading and unzipping, is the file 
    Fuji_Xerox-DocuPrint_C525_A_AP-1.0-1.i386.rpm
which has to be converted to a .deb file using a package called alien.  That conversion fails on my newly installed U10.04 (64bit) with a long list of errors, the revealing part of that message I think is this: "current host architecture 'amd64' does not appear in package's architecture list ."

Is there a driver that will run my Dell 1320c printer under 64 bit U10.04?

Here is the complete error message generated by the command 
    alien -d Fuji_Xerox-DocuPrint_C525_A_AP-1.0-1.i386.rpm
which is suppose to convert the rpm file to a deb file.
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
error: incorrect format: unknown tag
Warning: Skipping conversion of scripts in package Fuji_Xerox-DocuPrint_C525_A_AP: postinst postrm
Warning: Use the --scripts parameter to include the scripts.
Package build failed. Here's the log:
dh_testdir
dh_testdir
dh_testroot
dh_clean -k -d
dh_clean: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dh_installdirs
dh_installdirs: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dh_installdocs
dh_installdocs: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dh_installchangelogs
dh_installchangelogs: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
find . -maxdepth 1 -mindepth 1 -not -name debian -print0 | \
        xargs -0 -r -i cp -a {} debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap
dh_compress
dh_compress: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dh_makeshlibs
dh_makeshlibs: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dh_installdeb
dh_installdeb: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dh_shlibdeps
dh_shlibdeps: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dpkg-shlibdeps: error: couldn't find library libcups.so.2 needed by debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_HBPL (ELF format: 'elf32-i386'; RPATH: '/usr/lib').
Note: libraries are not searched in other binary packages that do not have any shlibs or symbols file.
To help dpkg-shlibdeps find private libraries, you might need to set LD_LIBRARY_PATH.
dh_shlibdeps: dpkg-shlibdeps -Tdebian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap.substvars debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_PM2FXR debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_HBPL debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_ALC debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_PR debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_MF debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_PF debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_CC debian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap/usr/lib/cups/filter/FXM_SBP returned exit code 2
make: [binary-arch] Error 9 (ignored)
dh_gencontrol
dh_gencontrol: Compatibility levels before 5 are deprecated.
dpkg-gencontrol: error: current host architecture 'amd64' does not appear in package's architecture list (i386)
dh_gencontrol: dpkg-gencontrol -ldebian/changelog -Tdebian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap.substvars -Pdebian/fuji-xerox-docuprint-c525-a-ap returned exit code 255
make: *** [binary-arch] Error 9
find: `Fuji_Xerox-DocuPrint_C525_A_AP-1.0': No such file or directory
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

---

### Post by epix_ian on 2010-08-20
Did you resolve this problem? I am having the exact same issue.

Thanks

Ian

---

### Post by Brunost on 2010-08-31
I spend the entire afternoon trying to install a printer Dell V313 on a pc running Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit.

In the Dell`s website they have the drive only for 32bit versions. When I use this version appears an error like:

dpkg: error processing dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb (--install):
 package architecture (i386) does not match system (amd64)
Errors were encountered while processing:
dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb

I would be glad if some one could help me.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Baji P. on 2010-08-31
I am really disappointed with the way 64-bit Ubuntu is crashing and burning all over the place.

You would think AMD could spend a few resources to work with package maintainers to ensure better 64-bit compatibility.

I couldn't get 64-bit 10.04 or 9.10 to install on my system, yet 9.04 installs fine.

Sorry I don't have a solution for your problem.

---

### Post by jack24 on 2010-10-28
You should be able to force the deb with:

sudo dpkg --force-architecture -i PackageName.deb

so, in your case, it would be:

sudo dpkg --force-architecture -i dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb

Can I ask where you   the deb? I'm trying to install the driver too and I've only found a script for running it and I can't get it to run.  It's saved in encrypted form so I can't open the sh and make changes.

---

### Post by bcooperb on 2011-01-12
This is what has worked for me! Hope it helps!

I have a Dell 17" Studio Laptop, Ubuntu 10.10 64bit


[http://zoffix.com/other/Installing-Dell-1320c-Color-Laser-Printer-on-Ubuntu](http://zoffix.com/other/Installing-Dell-1320c-Color-Laser-Printer-on-Ubuntu)

---

### Post by reica on 2011-03-11
> **Brunost said:**
> I spend the entire afternoon trying to install a printer **Dell V313** on a pc running **Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit.**

In the Dell`s website they have the drive only for 32bit versions. When I use this version appears an error like:

dpkg: error processing dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb (--install):
 package architecture (i386) does not match system (amd64)
Errors were encountered while processing:
dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb

I would be glad if some one could help me.

Thanks.

**I am having the same problem. Did you find a solution?**

---

