---
title: "10.4 won't print over LAN on canon lbp-800"
date: 2010-07-25
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by itsols on 2010-07-25
My laptop (Inspiron 1150) runs Ubuntu 10.4.
My Desktop has Windows XP. The laser printer is on the XP box.

I used the graphical interface under Administration menu and installed the printer on my laptop as a network printer. It was detected and over the LAN and setup went off smoothly.

Then the problem... I tried printing a test page. It never came.

Then after a while I noticed the message on my screen that said "connecting to the printer" and after a while, it gave an error saying that the connection failed.

Can someone advise please?

---

### Post by phoenix1/4 on 2010-07-31
Hi there,

I'm having similar troubles, though I'm using 10.04 on both laptop and desktop. -thanks

At present I have the following configuration in the printing options:
 
Device URI: ipp://192.168.1.1:631/printers/PSC-1600-series

Im obviously using an HP PSC 1600 Series, but Im not sure why its connecting through port 631. These settings were automatic, and the printer was detected over the network. After that though, all it says is that it is unplugged or turned off.

---

### Post by itsols on 2010-07-31
Are you really using 10.10 or 9.10?
Anyway, this printing issue is in my opinion disaster for us on Ubuntu. And I can't even plug my printer to the laptop locally since the ports are dfferent - printer: LPT, laptop:USB.

I'm going to first see if i can configure my Ubuntu server to work with the printer and then (at least) get printing. As it is, we drag documents to the Windows box on a shared folder and print them locally on Windows. This is very non-productive and silly though.

If you happen to find a solution, please let us know.

Thanks!

---

