---
title: "9.04UNR Mini-9 SD and MIC problems"
date: 2009-05-02
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ww9rivers on 2009-05-02
I installed the 9.04UNR on my Mini 9. I have a 16GB SD card in the slot which has worked with the original 8.04 with all the updates. The card stopped working under 9.04UNR -- It is not recognized as being there.

I also noticed that the microphone does not work any more. First I noticed that in Skype that I installed from Medibuntu. Then I found out that it does not work in the Sound Recorder utility either.

By the way, why is the Netbook Remix released for i386 rather than the lpia architecture? I thought all the networks are using the Atom chip.

Help and pointers are greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by ytsejam1138 on 2009-05-02
Not sure about your MIC problem, but the SD card is a known bug.  Here is the workaround that will work for most cards:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7162860&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7162860&postcount=2)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-05-03
> **ww9rivers said:**
> 
By the way, why is the Netbook Remix released for i386 rather than the lpia architecture? I thought all the networks are using the Atom chip.


Lots of netbooks don't have Atom chips (like the original Asus eee pc) so Canonical chose to release NBR as i386 (which runs fine on on Atom and non-Atom alike). 

Ubuntu NBR is also available for the lpia architecture, but it is a little trickier to install: you have to install a command line only system using the lpia alternate install CD, then install ubuntu-netbook-remix.

---

