---
title: "9.04 Dell Optiplex 320 Graphic driver problem"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by aimjay123 on 2009-04-28
Hey all! after alot of reading i could manage to install ubuntu 9.04 and make it boot right with grub2
The thing is that now works, but without any hardware acceleration, i cant use any visual effects and apparently theres no graphic driver installed. I Tried with Envy with no luck, and many other guides i searched in inet.
someone can help me?
Thanks a lot in advance, sry for my english im from Argentina.
cya.-

PD: I have a Ati radeon Xpress 200

---

### Post by slyron on 2009-07-07
I have this problem too. I've got a Dell Optiplex GX270. I no longer can use compiz, and ubuntu doesn't recognize my graphics card

---

### Post by jig36 on 2011-01-19
this system uses the open source graphics driver for ati the catalyst driver i belive isnt compatible with the integrated graphics chipset the key is more than enough ram with this system originaly they only come with 256ms of ram and the system take 64mbs and everything eles for system use and it is possible to add a Pci Express 16x card, i would recommend doing both but 512mbs will make the system respond well but you will still notice lag on this system with that much memeory

---

### Post by smetlydc2 on 2011-08-13
I have the same pc with the same video card running 11.04 Natty and it  works great for about a week and then the video display goes haywire.

very frustrating.

so you are suggesting more RAM?

---

### Post by smetlydc2 on 2011-08-16
I still think it's a driver issue

---

