---
title: "9.04 Inspiron 1525 no sound"
date: 2009-07-07
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by opprobrium on 2009-07-07
Hi!

I'm running 9.04 on a Dell Inspiron 1525 (which came pre-installed with 8.04 which I've upgraded from myself).

When I initially upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04 I thought I was having some issues with sound but these seem to be mostly related to the fact I hadn't got a sufficiently up-to-date issue of Flash and incorrectly changed the settings in my attempt to fix it. While the sound was working for a while there is now nothing (I've tried it using flash videos and Rhythmbox to try and make sure it's not a programme specific issue).

If you open the volume control the only options are "Playback: Null Output (Pulse Audio Mixer)" and "Capture: Monitor of Null Output  (Pulse Audio Mixer)". Both are turned up as high as they'll go. I'm sure previously there were more options available here.

I'm not really sure what I'm doing and may well have broken something myself (it's happened before in my limited time with Ubuntu), but any guidance would be great. Please keep it very simple. Assume I know nothing. It's not a million miles from the truth.

Thanks.

---

### Post by wgarider on 2009-07-07
A couple of thoughts......

I did a clean install of 9.04 and started mucking with the sound settings and broke it. I started over and did  another install and that time, I left well enough alone and all works good.

I seem to remember a few other having issues with sound after an upgrade and a few ended up doing a clean install. I that's an option for you, it might be the path of least resistance.....

---

### Post by opprobrium on 2009-07-14
Turns out reinstalling isn't necessary. I happened - almost immediately after posting the above query - into someone who worked out what was wrong in about two minutes. (After I'd spent hours looking into it.) What happened was that, via the Upgrade Manager I installed a new version of the kernel which turns out not to be compatible with my sound card.

To get around this I have to hold escape down when I switch on and select an older kernel. Just need to work out how to do that automatically... (I guess this is easy, but haven't had a chance to look yet.)

---

### Post by grikdog on 2009-08-01
I don't have NO sound, but the sound I do have is a bit scratchy and hesitant, especially on YouTube under Shiretoko/Firefox 3.5.  Is there something I need to fix or change?  Complete newbie, here, at least at the driver level.

---

