---
title: "XPS m1530 10.10 install"
date: 2010-12-15
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by killercoconuts on 2010-12-15
Hey there, this is my first experience with Ubuntu and I'm having some issues installing Ubuntu 10.1 to my laptop. I followed all directions from Ubuntu's website for creating the usb stick. First though let me start from square one.

Laptop was running windows vista ultimate, using Avira free antivirus, and of course i got a virus. I remembered a friend of mine had shown me Ubuntu about 3 or 4 years back, and how it was so great and free. Remembering this i promptly went to ubuntu's website and created usb drive (yadda yadda). Formatted the laptop and reinstalled windows. popped in the usb and booted from usb. 

I'm able to run Ubuntu just fine, but when I click the "install ubuntu 10.10" select english, get to the "preparing to install ubuntu" screen, select download updates while installing and install 3rd party MP3 software, and click forward. That's where its stuck. It just loads and loads and loads. What could be wrong? Is it really that long of a process? I let it go overnight and still nothing. Please help. Sorry for the lengthy, and probably useless back story.):P

---

### Post by yfjyb on 2010-12-16
I'm able to run Ubuntu just fine, but when I click the "install ubuntu 10.10" select english, get to the "preparing to install ubuntu" screen, select download updates while installing and install 3rd party MP3 software, and click forward. That's where its stuck. It just loads and loads and loads. What could be wrong? Is it really that long of a process? I let it go overnight and still nothing. Please help. Sorry for the lengthy, and probably useless back story

---

### Post by killercoconuts on 2010-12-17
Bump!

---

