---
title: "11.10 upgrade on Dell Poweredge 1850 Problems"
date: 2011-10-24
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Zewtastic on 2011-10-24
I am a relatively new Ubuntu user, but have had a 11.04 install running for about 6 months.

I decided to go for the 11.10 upgrade using do-release-upgrade.

But I seem to have hit a snag.

How long should this upgrade take?
And when do I know the upgrade has locked up/frozen?
And what do I do if it has locked up?
Can I recover or continue the upgrade?
Or can I revert back to 11.04, and how?

---

### Post by tartalo on 2011-10-24
It should take a couple of hours. 

Under normal conditions, if you cancel the upgrade, the update manager might be able to revert everything and let the system as it was.

If you get stuck in the middle and the update manager doesn't work as expected you might be able to complete the upgrade manually if the system has at least a working shell and Internet connection. (with apt-get)

If your mirror is not working properly switch to another mirror (The main one usually works). If you don't know how your sources list should look: [http://repogen.simplylinux.ch/](http://repogen.simplylinux.ch/)

No, you can't revert an upgrade, you need to reinstall.

---

### Post by Zewtastic on 2011-10-24
When you say it should take hours, does that mean for the download? Or the actual install process.

I was attempting it and the process seemed to get hung on a step and did nothing for about 30 minutes.

I then just restarted with no apparent ill effects.

My concern is how to know if it is actually hung up, or simply processing. This is not a dog system, so I would not expect any one step to freeze for 30 minutes.

Please let me know if I am wrong on this.

---

### Post by Boogerhead on 2011-10-24
> **Zewtastic said:**
> When you say it should take hours, does that mean for the download? Or the actual install process.

I was attempting it and the process seemed to get hung on a step and did nothing for about 30 minutes.

I then just restarted with no apparent ill effects.

My concern is how to know if it is actually hung up, or simply processing. This is not a dog system, so I would not expect any one step to freeze for 30 minutes.

Please let me know if I am wrong on this.

I wonder if there might've been a little window hiding somewhere asking for your input on something. I'm inexperienced, but that's happened to me at least twice -- maybe asking me to confirm I want to replace a file, or telling me it can't do something with Firefox because I still had it open.

If you think you're upgraded, you can probably run another update and find out.

apt-get update
apt-get upgrade

---

### Post by Zewtastic on 2011-10-24
I am running a server. It's all command line stuff. No gui interace. So no pop-up windows.

---

