---
title: "dell m5030"
date: 2012-03-11
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by fred0843 on 2012-03-11
Tring to install Ubuntu on a Dell m5030

AMD Athlon II P360
Ati Radeon 4250 Video Card
4GB memory

Can not install any verion Ubuntu.Gets to backround Screen and stops.

Kubuntu will install Ok

---

### Post by n0wje on 2012-03-16
I have a Dell M5030 running Ubuntu 11.10, when you install ubuntu hit and hold shift key to get menu then hit F6 I think to set boot options to nomodeset. This will allow you to install Ubuntu 11.10. Do not set auto login you have to set login to 2d to get a desktop. I am not quite sure if it is F6 or F5 but a menu will let you set nomodeset. Now after you log in to the desktop go ahead and do update install all drivers need for video. Once done reboot and make all change you want to spice up your machine. I hope this helps and sorry for the poor typing and spotty tech help not too goood at it.

---

### Post by ecolom1269 on 2012-05-01
> **fred0843 said:**
> Tring to install Ubuntu on a Dell m5030
 
AMD Athlon II P360
Ati Radeon 4250 Video Card
4GB memory
 
Can not install any verion Ubuntu.Gets to backround Screen and stops.
 
Kubuntu will install Ok
 
glad to help a fellow m5030 user
 
just use the (e)dit option at bootup and replace "quiet splash" with nomodeset
hit f10 and you are set.
 
try it.
thanks

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2012-05-15
Thanks all,

I had the same problem - boot to hung screen.
My fix was to edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg to add nomodeset. I left quiet splash there.  Now I boot from grub with no manual edits.

Beware if you do this.  The next kernel update will rewrite grub.cfg.  You will have to tweak this every kernel upgrade that affects the version number.

Looks like the correct fix is to edit /etc/grub.d/10-linux
I tried this and it worked for me.
Add this code around line 73 after the $vt_handoff loop:
```
for word in $GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT; do
  if [ "$word" = splash ]; then
    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="$GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT nomodeset"
  fi
done
```
Then # update-grub2
Each new kernel will run a new update-grub2 which now adds nomodeset to each menuentry in the 10_linux section, not elsewhere.

---

