---
title: "9.10 vs. 8.10 on Latitude D400"
date: 2010-03-26
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by allaboutsam on 2010-03-26
Thinking about upgrading from 8.10 to 9.10 on my Latitude D400 and wondering what to expect.

I've seen a couple of threads re trouble getting wireless working, but it's not clear to me if this is anything different from the mild hell I went through getting it going in 8.10.

Also, I'm wondering how processor-intensive 9.10 is compared to 8.10. With many speed optimizations, 8.10 runs a bit slower than XP on my D400, and I wouldn't want it to get any slower than that.

Any feedback would be welcome.

---

### Post by coffeeaddict22 on 2010-03-28
Hi,
Last question first: check the phoronix site for comparisons.  That's what they do.
Generally, newer kernel = better.  With a couple of caveats. 
First, I keep forgetting I'm using proprietary video drivers, and Gnome spits the dummy on upgrade.  Turn the proprietary video driver off, and compiz, and you should be right.

Wireless has improved substantially.  The biggest issue I had with upgrading from about that kernel(8.10) was that ndiswrapper keeps it's scripts in your /home directory, so on booting into your new OS you get a conflict, and all sorts of fun figuring it out.  A heap of work has gone into wireless drivers, so ndiswrapper is not needed for most cards now.  I've taken to keeping a separate /data partition to stop an upgrade messing up (it's good for multiboot scenarios too).  A separate /home partition is recommended, but I had repeated trouble with user settings in there conflicting across an upgrade (as above).

Good luck!

---

### Post by Mazlaghan on 2010-04-16
I'm running 9.10 since january on a d400. i upped the ram to 1gb though'. i get the odd problem with the mouse jumping but this is a problem with the hardware i believe (touchpad).

i recommend upgrade ram, then it's safe to do. 

otherwise runs like a dream!

:guitar:

---

### Post by Unicast on 2010-04-17
LucidLynx (10.4) beta2 runs like a dream on my D400 - specs in sig.

Video and wifi worked without a hitch on first boot - which I thought was pretty impressive.

---

### Post by Tiribulus on 2010-05-10
I just upgraded to Lucid Lynx on a D400. Already had whatever the last one was and had it running fabulously before the upgrade (web). It blew up in my face. No display. Won't even boot to the new CD. Wind up with a black screen. I tried to do a manual safe start or whatever it;s called and it died on the startx command so probably X not starting. No idea how to fix it.

---

### Post by Tiribulus on 2010-05-10
If I go to kernel version 31.21 instead 32.22 after using the escape key to get the boot options it starts :(
BTW, if anybody has any ideas on how to get it running with the newer kernel that would be perfectly splendid and much appreciated.
Thanks

---

### Post by ahickey on 2010-05-14
I was running Xubuntu 9.10 on my D400. All worked well (I use a USB Wifi card)
I then did a clean install of Lucid Lynx (10.04) and it failed completely.
Gave me an error saying there was no such command Terminal.
Kind of a big one to miss – reminds me of McAfees recent disaster on XP.

From here it looks like a Kernel issue, so probably noy going to be fix this week.

I installed Ubuntu 9.10 on it and that worked perfectly.

So, it’s back to 9.10 for me.  Pity as I tried 10.04 in a VM on a different computer and I liked it.

---

### Post by tmugan on 2010-05-23
I resolved a lockup issue on the D400 related to VGA by following the comments in this link.

Checkout comments #6 and #7.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/577444](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/577444)

---

