---
title: "10.04 no 3d grafix on dell m1530 with nvidia geforce 8600m gt"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by pitbullthe1st on 2010-04-30
I have just updated my laptop with a new install of ubuntu 10.04 but now I don't seam to be able to use any compiz settings.  I have tried the hardware detection and there is a driver there but it dose not seam to make a difference and I still cant use the compiz settings.

I have also tried to install the nvidia drivers from nvidia.com but they failed to install correctly and therefore did not work and make several other problems so I had to remove them. 

Please help I can provide any logs that are requested (as long as I can find them ;-) ).

Thanks

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2010-04-30
Can you post the output of the terminal command
 
```
lshw -C video
```

---

### Post by pitbullthe1st on 2010-04-30
It asked for elevated privs so I obliged not that it seamed to change the result much.

>   *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: G84 [GeForce 8600M GT]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nouveau latency=0
       resources: irq:16 memory:f5000000-f5ffffff memory:e0000000-efffffff(prefetchable) memory:f2000000-f3ffffff ioport:df00(size=128) memory:f4000000-f401ffff(prefetchable)


---

### Post by Peter09 on 2010-04-30
Just to check, you have gone to preferences->appearance->settings and tried to enable effects?
 
Sorry not at my machine at the moment so some of the menu options will be worded differently.
 
Also can you check in Admin->hardware-> that your driver is active.

---

### Post by pitbullthe1st on 2010-04-30
Hi

Thanks yes I have tried activating the driver and turned on the effects but that did not work. 

When I first did it, it was trying to install 173 driver but when I was on 9.10 I was using the 195 driver which I bleave is now named 185 how ever in looking for a fix I have removed all the nvidia drivers > sudo apt-get purge nvidia* and tryed to install just the one I need > sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-185 but when I used > sudo modprobe nvidia all I keeped getting was > FATAL: Module nvidia not found.  Now when I goto the hardware detection it only gives me one option and that is > Nvidia_current but when I activate it its still the same I can't activate compiz.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2010-04-30
Does this link help
 
[http://duopetalflower.blogspot.com/2010/04/installing-and-running-nvidia-inside.html](http://duopetalflower.blogspot.com/2010/04/installing-and-running-nvidia-inside.html)

---

### Post by pitbullthe1st on 2010-04-30
No it dose not seam to but then I can't seam to boot in vesa mode I don't know where to find the the menu file. but I followed the rest but it just keeps saying no device fatal error.

---

### Post by MooseSG on 2010-04-30
This sounds a little like my experience and I believe getting the nvidia driver off the Dell Linux Drivers site resolved my issue.

---

### Post by pitbullthe1st on 2010-05-01
I don't suppose you have a link to that do you please?

---

