---
title: "Current input timing not supported"
date: 2012-05-05
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Skullalive on 2012-05-05
Hello,

I have a problem with my Dell (IN1910N) screen. Actually, I've just installed Ubuntu 12.04 on my PC. Everything went well, including the nvidia driver installation. 
Except that when I reboot my PC I have a message telling me that the current input setting is not supported, then I have to set it to 1366x768@60hz. I've been stuck on this for days whithout finding any clues... Maybe someone has already encoutered that problem.

Any help would be appreciated

Thanks!!

---

### Post by Skullalive on 2012-05-05
Here below is my conf

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 295.33  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Mar 30 15:25:24 UTC 2012
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 295.40  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-06.nvidia.com)  Thu Apr  5 22:40:54 PDT 2012

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL IN1910N"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1360x768_60 @1366x768 +0+0; 1360x768_60 +0+0"
    # Removed Option "metamodes" "1368x768 +0+0; 1360x768 +0+0"
    # Removed Option "metamodes" "1360x768 +0+0"
    # Removed Option "metamodes" "1360x768_60 +0+0; 1360x768 +0+0"
    # Removed Option "metamodes" "1360x768_60 @1366x768 +0+0; 1360x768 +0+0"
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    # generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6100 nForce 405"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

---

### Post by shivaprasadp on 2012-06-23
I had same issue where, after installation of Ubuntu 12.04 on a PC with Dell 19" LCD monitor, I was seeing this message. However, the system would boot fine and display would look fine. It is only during the grub loading time that I see "**Current input timing not supported' **error[B].

[/B]In order to fix this, I had to edit the file /etc/default/grub once Ubuntu boots up and uncomment that following line:

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

and now I see boot loader menu just fine and I can select between various kernels and OSs.

---

### Post by jackharvest on 2012-09-03
> **shivaprasadp said:**
> I had same issue where, after installation of Ubuntu 12.04 on a PC with Dell 19" LCD monitor, I was seeing this message. However, the system would boot fine and display would look fine. It is only during the grub loading time that I see "**Current input timing not supported' **error[B].

[/B]In order to fix this, I had to edit the file /etc/default/grub once Ubuntu boots up and uncomment that following line:

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

and now I see boot loader menu just fine and I can select between various kernels and OSs.

THANK YOU. Exactly what I was suffering from.

---

