---
title: "Swap space hardly used  in Hardy"
date: 2008-06-12
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by analyzer123 on 2008-06-12
I am using Hardy on dell e1405. I have a swap space of about 500 MB but it never seems to be used, even when I am doing intensive tasks. My fstab/uuid info seems fine:

$ sudo vol_id /dev/sda4
ID_FS_USAGE=other
ID_FS_TYPE=swap
ID_FS_VERSION=2
ID_FS_UUID=85f1f111-0482-492f-8dfc-8c983136b3fd
ID_FS_UUID_ENC=85f1f111-0482-492f-8dfc-8c983136b3fd
ID_FS_LABEL=
ID_FS_LABEL_ENC=
ID_FS_LABEL_SAFE=

$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=5ebd7687-8622-40b1-b7c3-b9e756b67a97 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=85f1f111-0482-492f-8dfc-8c983136b3fd none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Sujay ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

The swapon -s gives:
Filename	Type		Size	Used    Priority
/dev/sda4       partition	514072	396	-1

The swap space is not used much (0.07%). Is this normal?

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-06-12
Yes, that's normal.  If you have 1G or more of RAM, most users will find that they rarely, if ever, use swap (it will depend on what you do with the machine of course).

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-06-12
> **vor said:**
> Yes, that's normal.  If you have 1G or more of RAM, most users will find that they rarely, if ever, use swap (it will depend on what you do with the machine of course).

Ditto here. You will however need swap space larger than RAM to hibernate.

---

### Post by analyzer123 on 2008-06-13
Ya the swap space requirement for hibernation seems wierd to me. Even if swap space < RAM, why cant linux just use the root or home partition to save hibernate information? I think windows saves hibernate info in the same partition...plus is so happens that I have 2 gigs of ram, but it is used substantially only when running 3-d games or some other intensive tasks. Most of the times when I hibernate, the ram usage is less than 512MB. So a >2GB swap space is wasted IMHO.

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-06-13
Hibernating to swap space was most likely a security decision. Depending on the platform you have suspend is another option that uses no disk but will consume power. When I look for good examples of system design, Windows isn't on my list of places to look.

---

### Post by sam_delta on 2008-06-14
> **fragos said:**
> hibernating To Swap Space Was Most Likely A Security Decision. Depending On The Platform You Have Suspend Is Another Option That Uses No Disk But Will Consume Power. When I Look For Good Examples Of System Design, Windows Isn't On My List Of Places To Look.

+1

thats the diference from suspend and hibernate... suspend do not use swap, instead it keeps the memory on the RAM, but in order to keep that info in the ram, it needs power (low power mode). in hibernation, it moves the info to the swap and cuts ALL power

that makes hibernation more power saver, but a little bit slower than suspend

sam

---

