---
title: "9.10, Dell mini 9 wireless, when will it be fixed?"
date: 2009-12-08
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Arndtwe on 2009-12-08
I was wondering if anyone knows when Ubuntu 9.10 will have the Broadcom wireless driver problem fixed by default. I would like to install 9.10 on my mini 9 but I want the wireless fixed OOTB before I do. I have not had success installing the driver on a persistent USB live install.

When this issue is fixed, I will clean install 9.10. What's the timeline?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-12-09
Not quite sure what you mean by 'fixed by default', but the answe is probably no. In order to do that, they'd have to update the iso, which is probably not worth the trouble. Have you tried installing bcmwl-kernel-source? It's an easy work around that reportedly work for other broadcom users.

---

### Post by VladCE on 2009-12-09
> **Arndtwe said:**
> I was wondering if anyone knows when Ubuntu 9.10 will have the Broadcom wireless driver problem fixed by default. I would like to install 9.10 on my mini 9

I am not sure what you mean. I have 9.10 on Dell Mini 9 with Broadcom driver working fine. It always worked, at least since 8.04LTS which came preinstalled. 
But "Network Manager" does not. I use 'wicd', works fine now, though had beenbroken by the original 9.10.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-12-09
> **VladCE said:**
> I am not sure what you mean. I have 9.10 on Dell Mini 9 with Broadcom driver working fine. It always worked, at least since 8.04LTS which came preinstalled. 
But "Network Manager" does not. I use 'wicd', works fine now, though had beenbroken by the original 9.10.

Same here, and I am on Dell mini 10 with BCM4312. Wireless would die unexpectedly with the network manager, and I had to reboot. Wicd solved that once and for all.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-12-09
> **Arndtwe said:**
> When this issue is fixed, I will clean install 9.10. What's the timeline?

Never.

The iso for 9.10 will never change.  You will have to wait til 10.04, and even then it may not work OOTB, since I suspect that it was an active decision not to ship the proprietary firmware rather than a bug per se.

Nevertheless, the wifi does work with the addition of a cheap ethernet cable: [http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/11/broadcom-wireless-driver-fix-in-karmic.html](http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/11/broadcom-wireless-driver-fix-in-karmic.html)

Although, I'm still using 9.04 on mu Mini 9, which works perfectly well.

---

### Post by Ginsu543 on 2009-12-12
I have Karmic running great on my Dell Mini 9 and Vostro A90. Both did require the workaround found on the ubuntumini.com website, but once I installed bcmwl-kernel-source, the wireless worked without a hitch.

---

