---
title: "12.10 - Black screen D610"
date: 2012-10-31
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by aboatwri on 2012-10-31
I have a Dell D610. It was running 12.04 LTS and it was doing so without any issues. I then proceeded to upgrading to 12.10 and now I cannot boot up. Well more specifically it sometimes boots straight into a black screen and dies and sometimes I get the grub menu. If I go into the 3.2.0-32 generic I can sometimes boot into the menu but the resolution is very low..unusablly low. 

I have read a lot and it seems to be something to do with graphics support but much of it is not specific and noob-proof for me to implement. 

What I can say is: 
- when I do manage to logon I get: Could not apply the stored configurations for monitors.
- many point to Nvidia and ATI support. They mention going into software center and tick everything I still see nothing in the proprietary drivers - nothing. 
- the screen resolution is so low I have no access to any of the buttons in the software center to do any updates. So probably need some kind of command line instructions
- have seen there is a bug logged about black screen issue and it mentions nomodeset but there are no noob proof instructions that I could implement. 
- I can only logon also if I go via GNOME. 

Any and all help welcome. Please make it noob-proof though. I am not totally a npob but am no pro so the simpler the more likely it is I will be able to implement. 

Thanks loads!!!!!!!

(*) More information. I have n Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics controller.
(*) More information. The Nvidia X server Settings progam is installed and I can access it. It then tells me: you do not apprat to be using the NVIDIA X Driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run 'nvidia-xconfig' as root) and restart xerver. I do both and keep going into the tool and get the same message. I then reboot. -> black screen. Have to reboot again to 
(*) More Information. I have gone into X Diagnostic settings and "view Errors". There are none. 
(*) More information. I have run xrandr and see VGA1 disconnected, DVI1 disconeected, TV1 Disconnected.
(*) More information. I used "xrandr --output VGA1 --mode 1024x768" and it says - Cannot find mode 1024x768
(*) More Information - followed addmode instructions here [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#Adding_undetected_resolutions](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#Adding_undetected_resolutions). Still no joy

---

### Post by gsaggior on 2012-11-12
I'm eperiencing the same issue. It starts only if selecting the kernel 3.2.0-32-generic-pae.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-11-13
> **aboatwri said:**
> - the screen resolution is so low I have no access to any of the buttons in the software center to do any updates. So probably need some kind of command line instructionsWhile press and holding 'Alt' key, left-click anywhere in a window to drag it. This way, you don't have to depend on a window's Titlebar to drag it.

> **aboatwri said:**
> - have seen there is a bug logged about black screen issue and it mentions nomodeset but there are no noob proof instructions that I could implement.  Please follow this guide to temporarily set 'nomodeset' option and let me know if you need further elaboration : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
(scroll to "How to temporarily set kernel boot options...." in the first post.)
Hope it lets you boot into safe graphics mode from where you may proceed to fix any driver or configuration issues.

---

