---
title: "nvidia x server and 1080p"
date: 2009-08-05
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by westie420 on 2009-08-05
alright, first post here. linux users from another forum referred me to here since none of them knew what to do. searching didn't turn up much either, even though this seems to be a common issue.:???:

my xps has an evga geforce 7300 card in it and runs 9.04. i just recently bought a samsung 2333hd and hooked it up using the dvi cable. it's a fantastic picture....when it works. every time i reboot the computer, the nvidia x server manager (version 180) sets the display to 800x600. i have to manually set it back to 1080p and then fix the icons on my panel (due to them shifting around with the resolution change) after each and every restart. whenever i try to save my settings to the xorg.conf file using the nvidia manager, i get the message:

Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'.

apart from editing the xorg.conf file manually (which i really do not care to attempt), what in hell can i do? i've seen a lot on manually editing the file, but even that doesn't seem to be the universal fix.

---

### Post by westie420 on 2009-08-13
an update on the sitution:

i managed to get the nvidia x server xorg.conf file to properly save when i opened the settings panel as root. however, i still get lousy 800x600 upon logging out and logging back in. even with the xorg.conf listing 1920x1080? you've got to be joking.



in case you want to see the file:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by vendortrash on 2009-08-15
Try running Nvidia settings from terminal
```
sudo nvidia-settings
``` then uncheck merge with existing file should work

---

### Post by westie420 on 2009-08-15
just tried it. logging out and logging back in sent me back to 800x600. i've even got a copy of the xorg.conf file in my home folder now, but of course it's no help.

---

### Post by mikehattingh on 2009-09-29
I had this same problem I think. My TV tells me the resolution of the signal it's getting, and in my case the signal was correct after restart, but the desktop area was resetting to some low value. Anyway it turns out there is some kind of conflict between nvidia-settings and the Screen resolution utility that belongs to Ubuntu.

When I set the resolution in System > Preferences > Screen resolution and in System > Administration > Nvidia X server settings the resolution held. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by pbrane on 2009-09-30
try running 

  nvidia-settings --load-config-only

as a startup program. Thats what I do. Be sure to setup the correct settings and save them in nvidia-settings first.

System > Preferences > Startup Applications.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2009-09-30
I am not a 9.04 user, but doesn't 9.04 use a different system the old xorg.conf file?? I thought it used a slightly different named file. It may well be that nvidia-settings may not have been updated for this little change. Not sure, maybe some of the experts here with 9.04 can chime in.

---

