---
title: "Dell Mini 10 (1366x768)"
date: 2010-06-23
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by TakeLifeEasy on 2010-06-23
Hi, just brought the following Dell and it specifies a display of 1366x768 but Ubuntu 10.04 only uses 1024x768.  I resurrected the post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1210236](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1210236) but not sure if this is still a problem relating to the new version Ubuntu and the new Dell.

Inspiron Mini 10(N00M1001)
Intel® Atom™ Processor Z520 (1.33GHz, 533MHz), Genuine Windows® XP Home - English

Item		Description
Base		Intel® Atom™ Processor Z520 (1.33GHz, 533MHz)
Memory		1024MB 533MHz Dual Channel DDR2 SDRAM
Video Card	Integrated Intel® Graphic Media Accelerator
Hard Drive	160GB (5,400rpm) SATA Hard Drive
LCD		10.1” HD 16:9 Screen (1366 x 768)

Any help gratefully received.
Mark

---

### Post by TakeLifeEasy on 2010-06-24
Just to add some further information.  Video playback in Firefox is unbelievably slow and moving the mouse while playing videos in Firefox judders across the screen.  Slightly better in Chrome but still unusable.  Video capture using the webcam in Cheese is just too slow to use.  Ubuntu seems to have assigned the wrong driver to the video but not sure how I go about changing this?  I do not have a /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?  Will do some further digging.

---

### Post by TakeLifeEasy on 2010-06-24
Just a quick update, found the answer here but looks like the driver does not support hardware acceleration so fingers crossed it will soon 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#lucid](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#lucid)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-06-24
Hi there and welcome to the forums. The situation with gma500 (aka Poulsbo) is absurd, to put it mildly. The driver for modern Linux distros is unavailable, the one that works is from 2008, and it's been ported ever since to each Ubuntu release by volunteers with variable success. 
I wouldn't hold my breath for hardware acceleration. Frankly, if you planed on running Linux on that machine, it's a bad choice.
That said, if there is no other choice, here is a list of the best working distros:
Karmic Koala - supported till Apr 2011, need to manually install the driver
Mandriva 2010 - released Dec 2009, out of the box support
Jolicloud - to be released yes, out of the box support

---

### Post by lucazade on 2010-06-24
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Hi there and welcome to the forums. The situation with gma500 (aka Poulsbo) is absurd, to put it mildly. The driver for modern Linux distros is unavailable, the one that works is from 2008, and it's been ported ever since to each Ubuntu release by volunteers with variable success. 
I wouldn't hold my breath for hardware acceleration. Frankly, if you planed on running Linux on that machine, it's a bad choice.
That said, if there is no other choice, here is a list of the best working distros:
Karmic Koala - supported till Apr 2011, need to manually install the driver
Mandriva 2010 - released Dec 2009, out of the box support
Jolicloud - to be released yes, out of the box support

:D fully agree with mikewhatever!

---

### Post by TakeLifeEasy on 2010-12-11
Just an update, things are getting better for the gma 500 chip these netbooks run -
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#lucid](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsPoulsbo#lucid)

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2010-12-11
Yes, yes. By running this script from the link you mentioned, running 10.10, and downloading gnome-mplayer, everything works:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:gma500/ppa && sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install poulsbo-driver-2d poulsbo-driver-3d poulsbo-config
```

I have no issues with speed or anything.

---

