---
title: "8.04 on DELL T7400"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by dufferz on 2008-05-06
I am trying to install 8.04 on my T7400.  The install appears to go fine, but when directect to restart, it hangs on the Ubuntu Splash screen.  I power off and on and all seems to be okay.  Then I run the updates and install the restricted non-free (i.e. Flash, JRE, etc) and restart,  again hangs. 

Power off and back on, now no sound. 

This is a clean install on a new drive WD Raptor WD 1600ADFS. 

 

Any ideas?

---

### Post by fikusplyne on 2008-11-21
Hi everybody,
 i have the same problems on identical configuration.
Probably the kernel is not able to manage the power off of the mother board, could anybody help me?
Moreover , i have X-fi Xtreme PCI audio card, i tried to install the new driver, but i discovered that they doesn't work on 8.04. So i upgraded to 8.10 and now my X server is died....
Poor man

---

### Post by dvdcupgo339 on 2008-11-22
[font=Arial][size=10pt][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][font=Times New Roman][size=3]**where can i[[color=#0000ff] buy cheap videos or dvds Online[/color]](http://www.dvdcup.com/catalog_15.html) **[/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman]In other words, the following sources can help you buy DVDs at a time, and often pay less than even the wholesale price.[/font][/size][/size][/font][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman]DVD #1[/font][/size][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman][color=#800080]eBay.com[/color] [/font][/size][font=Verdana][size=9pt]An obvious choice, but definitely the place where you can always score some really great deals on both new and used movies.[/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman]While it might not simple to return a DVD bought on eBay, you can verify the condition and get a good feeling about the seller by checking out his feedback.[/font][/size][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman]DVD #2[/font][/size][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman][color=#0000ff]Amazon.com[/color][/font][/size][font=Verdana][size=9pt]One of the most popular places to buy DVDs online, of course, but there are often many bargains to be found here &#8212; sales, discounts, etc.[/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman][/font][/size][size=3][font=Times New Roman]DVD #3[/font][/size][size=3][font=Times New Roman][/font][/size][size=3][font=Times New Roman][[color=#0000ff]dvdstrom.com[/color]](http://www.dvdstrom.com/)[/font][/size][font=Verdana][size=9pt][color=#0000ff][/color][/size][/font][font=Verdana][size=9pt]The DVD section of this complete online store  is top-quality,[/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman][/font][/size][size=3][font=Times New Roman]DVD #4[/font][/size][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman][[color=#800080]dvdcup.com[/color]](http://www.dvdcup.com/)[/font][/size][font=Times New Roman][size=3][/size][/font][font=Times New Roman][size=3]A good website to shop for the latest and popular DVDs online, free shipping,[/size][/font][size=3][font=Times New Roman]good quality,pay less than even the wholesale price, you can find all DVDs you need, [[color=#800080]dvd wholesaler and dropshipper[/color]](http://www.dvdcup.com/)[/font][/size]

---

