---
title: "8.10 kills media keys for XPS m1210"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by budde on 2008-11-01
I just updated from 8.04 to 8.10 and suddenly my mediakeys (hotkeys or whatever) got all messed up.

Mute, Volume Down and Volume Up works fine, but Play/Pause, Prev, Next and Stop have stopped working.

The weirdest part is that when I'm in System > Preferences > Keyboard Shortcuts, Stop registers as Volume Down (XF86AudioLowerVolume).

I can set all the values in Keyboard Shortcuts correctly (except for Stop) but they don't make any difference.

xmodmap -pke | grep XF86Audio results in:

```
chr@laptop:~$ xmodmap -pke | grep XF86Audio
keycode 121 = XF86AudioMute NoSymbol XF86AudioMute NoSymbol XF86AudioMute
keycode 122 = XF86AudioLowerVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioLowerVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioLowerVolume
keycode 123 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioRaiseVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioRaiseVolume
keycode 144 = XF86AudioPrev
keycode 153 = XF86AudioNext
keycode 160 = XF86AudioMute
keycode 162 = XF86AudioPlay
keycode 164 = XF86AudioStop
keycode 171 = XF86AudioNext NoSymbol XF86AudioNext NoSymbol XF86AudioNext
keycode 172 = XF86AudioPlay XF86AudioPause XF86AudioPlay XF86AudioPause XF86AudioPlay XF86AudioPause
keycode 173 = XF86AudioPrev NoSymbol XF86AudioPrev NoSymbol XF86AudioPrev
keycode 174 = XF86AudioLowerVolume
keycode 175 = XF86AudioRecord NoSymbol XF86AudioRecord NoSymbol XF86AudioRecord
keycode 176 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume
keycode 208 = XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay
keycode 209 = XF86AudioPause NoSymbol XF86AudioPause NoSymbol XF86AudioPause
keycode 215 = XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay
keycode 234 = XF86AudioMedia NoSymbol XF86AudioMedia NoSymbol XF86AudioMedia
```

This confuses me since there are many entries for the same keys.

I'm running a swedish Dell XPS m1210 with "Generic 105-key (Intl) PC"  in System > Preferences > Keyboard > Layout - Keyboard model.

If anyone has the same problem, or any input on the subject, please help!

... and it all worked fine in 8.04.

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by budde on 2008-11-01
... and of course right after I post (after 1h searching the web finding nothing) I stuble upon the solution.

If anyone has the same problem, here's how I fixed it:

1) Find all the bindings you have for you XF86Audio-keys with
```
xmodmap -pke | grep XF86Audio
```

2) Note the keycodes for all the bindings. For example in 
```
keycode 121 = XF86AudioMute
```
the keycode is 121

3) Remove all the previous bindings:
```
xmodmap -e 'keycode 121 = ' -e 'keycode 122 = ' -e ' keycode 123 = ' -e 'keycode 144 = ' -e 'keycode 153 = ' -e 'keycode 160 = ' -e ' keycode 162 = ' -e 'keycode 164 = ' -e 'keycode 171 = ' -e 'keycode 172 = ' -e ' keycode 173 = ' -e 'keycode 174 = ' -e 'keycode 175 = ' -e 'keycode 176 = ' -e ' keycode 208 = ' -e 'keycode 209 = ' -e 'keycode 215 = ' -e 'keycode 234 = '
```
Replace all the keycodes with the ones you've got.

Step 4-5 I copied from this site ([http://wiki.zenwalk.org/index.php?title=Dell_XPS_m1210](http://wiki.zenwalk.org/index.php?title=Dell_XPS_m1210)) THANK YOU.
4) Open a new text file and type in the media key bindings for Dell M1210:
```
keycode 174 = XF86AudioLowerVolume
keycode 176 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume
keycode 160 = XF86AudioMute
keycode 162 = XF86AudioPlay
keycode 144 = XF86AudioPrev
keycode 153 = XF86AudioNext
keycode 164 = XF86AudioStop
```

and save the file to ~/.Xmodmap

5) Activate them with 
```
xmodmap ~/.Xmodmap
```

6) Enjoy your "new" keybindings!

Let me know if it works!
Good luck

PS. Isn't it ironic to write a reply to your own post?

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-11-01
This isn't the "proper" solution.  It's a result of input hotplug in intrepid though.

Switch "Generic 105-key (Intl) PC" in System > Preferences > Keyboard > Layout - Keyboard model to "evdev keyboard"

---

### Post by Myxb on 2008-11-01
Well, I have almost the same problem on Dell Latitude D630. Actually, it is two issues:
1) "Mute" button, XF86AudioMute, keycode by xev 121, did not work.
The xmodmap output gives only one keycode = 121.

Switching from generic to "dell latitude" keyboard achieved nothing. Under 'evdev' it works, almost. I need to hold the key for several seconds until it works. I watched the process with xev. Wonder why they broken this?

2) another problem is that the Fn+Up/Down for brightness works but the "brightness" applet does not know about this. And shouldn't there be a similar pop-up (as with volume) for brightness?

---

### Post by Myxb on 2008-11-03
An update to the issue. Finally, I've got the 'Mute' key to work properly. It works and notification icon pops up as it should. This is the good thing.

The bad thing is that I have no idea whatsoever how I did it.

The xev output when the key is pressed is:

```
FocusOut event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyAncestor

FocusIn event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x4000001,
    mode NotifyUngrab, detail NotifyAncestor

KeymapNotify event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x0,
    keys:  2   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   
           0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0  
```
```

```

---

### Post by ee19921 on 2008-11-04
Since I upgraded to 8.10, play/pause button [in Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop] isn't working as it used to. Before upgrade, on pressing that key, Amarok will pause. Now it restarts the song from the start. 

I have a feeling I can fix it if I can swap the shortcuts for 'Play/Pause'. Because Alt+Ctrl+P pauses. But I don't know how to swap. 

I wonder how it worked before the upgrade. 

```

Play - XF86AudioPlay[alternate]
Pause - nothing assigned
Play/Pause - XF86AudioPause[shortcut], Alt+Ctrl+P [alternate]

``` 

```
$ xmodmap -pke | grep XF86Audio
keycode 121 = XF86AudioMute NoSymbol XF86AudioMute NoSymbol XF86AudioMute
keycode 122 = XF86AudioLowerVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioLowerVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioLowerVolume
keycode 123 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioRaiseVolume NoSymbol XF86AudioRaiseVolume
keycode 144 = XF86AudioPrev
keycode 153 = XF86AudioNext
keycode 160 = XF86AudioMute
keycode 162 = XF86AudioPause
keycode 164 = XF86AudioStop
keycode 171 = XF86AudioNext NoSymbol XF86AudioNext NoSymbol XF86AudioNext
keycode 172 = XF86AudioPlay XF86AudioPause XF86AudioPlay XF86AudioPause XF86AudioPlay XF86AudioPause
keycode 173 = XF86AudioPrev NoSymbol XF86AudioPrev NoSymbol XF86AudioPrev
keycode 174 = XF86AudioLowerVolume
keycode 175 = XF86AudioRecord NoSymbol XF86AudioRecord NoSymbol XF86AudioRecord
keycode 176 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume
keycode 208 = XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay
keycode 209 = XF86AudioPause NoSymbol XF86AudioPause NoSymbol XF86AudioPause
keycode 215 = XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay NoSymbol XF86AudioPlay
keycode 237 = XF86AudioMedia
```

```
KeyRelease event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x1c00001,
    root 0x7b, subw 0x0, time 9128393, (179,-25), root:(184,0),
    state 0x0, keycode 172 (keysym 0x1008ff14, XF86AudioPlay), same_screen YES,
    XLookupString gives 0 bytes:
    XFilterEvent returns: False

```

---

### Post by LBAWinOwns on 2008-11-06
> **superm1 said:**
> This isn't the "proper" solution.  It's a result of input hotplug in intrepid though.

Switch "Generic 105-key (Intl) PC" in System > Preferences > Keyboard > Layout - Keyboard model to "evdev keyboard"

That did it for me! :)

(except that I choose the keyboard that I use instead of "evdev keyboard")

Thanks!

---

### Post by 0ptix on 2008-11-12
I have a very similar problem (as do many people judging by the number of posts on similar topics.)

My variant started with stop button not working as well as the mac_hid mouse button emulation settings from sysctl.conf. a few days later the play, next, prev buttons stoped working too. vol up/down and mute do though. Xev doesn't register the not working multimedia buttons as keypresses. Instead i more-or-less get the same output as Myxb did. 

Even weirder is that my home button starts audacious instead of firefox as i've set it up with keytouch. however it has no other effect (like stoping, or switching song, etc.).

Oh yeah and Ctrl+Alt+E doesn't do what my metacity config says it should. (instead it does nothing at all). Other metacity short cuts work though.

Everything worked before the upgrade from 8.04 -> 8.10

Anyway i did lots of playing with it and found that:
1) changing the xorg.conf file back so that it doesnt use hal does not help. 
2) Nor does not using xmodmap (which i use for other reasons).
3) Nor does changing the System->Pref->Keyboard setting as Suprm1 suggested
4) Nor does turning numlock on or off.

However i DID notice that if i turn of the hal daemon and then restart X (with my old xorg.conf which doesnt need hal) then all short cuts and multimedia keys work properly again. (ofcourse other stuff like sound isn't happy without hal.) but still this is an indicator of where the problem might lie...

any thoughts?

---

### Post by 0ptix on 2008-11-12
Ha! Fixed my problem. (Well actually it's a workaround but who am i to complain.)

I added

Section "ServerFlags"
     Option "AutoAddDevices" "false"
EndSection

to my xorg.conf. Also i uncommented the InputDevice sections which had been commented out during 8.10 upgrade as well as the corresponding entries in the ServerLayout section.

Once i set the System->Pref->Keyboard:Layouts Tab:Keyboard Model back to Generic (or actually the particular Dell model which i have) everything worked as before upgrade again.

---

### Post by linfidel on 2008-12-06
Thought I'd add my input just in case it helps anyone (including me).

Right after the upgrade, most of my media keys stopped working with my Logitech Access Keyboard.  The vol up/down work OK, but not mute.  None of the other keys work (like email, media, home, search), which worked previously.  The keys register if I manually assign them in keyboard shortcuts or Compiz Configuration manager; in fact, I can assign Alt+Home to Firefox, but not Home by itself.

They do work on a new login account.  Also, if I delete .gconf and .gconfd, they start working, also, but that has major affects on my configuration.  

I tried editing the gnome configuration editor whereever it looked interesting, but no effect.

I checked for duplicates using xmodmap, but there were none.  xev registers the keypress with no problem.

---

### Post by ee19921 on 2008-12-06
> **linfidel said:**
> Thought I'd add my input just in case it helps anyone (including me).

Right after the upgrade, most of my media keys stopped working with my Logitech Access Keyboard.  The vol up/down work OK, but not mute.  None of the other keys work (like email, media, home, search), which worked previously.  The keys register if I manually assign them in keyboard shortcuts or Compiz Configuration manager; in fact, I can assign Alt+Home to Firefox, but not Home by itself.

They do work on a new login account.  Also, if I delete .gconf and .gconfd, they start working, also, but that has major affects on my configuration.  

I tried editing the gnome configuration editor whereever it looked interesting, but no effect.

I checked for duplicates using xmodmap, but there were none.  xev registers the keypress with no problem.

I had a similar problem in Kubuntu. Since new account has the right keys. You may try something similar to [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6219058&postcount=3"), if you don't get any expert comments here.

Cheers!

---

### Post by linfidel on 2008-12-06
> **ee19921 said:**
> I had a similar problem in Kubuntu. Since new account has the right keys. You may try something similar to [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6219058&postcount=3"), if you don't get any expert comments here.

Cheers!
Thanks.  I thought about doing something like that, but I haven't found anything that doesn't require a lot of reconfiguration.  If I'm going to do a lot of work, I'd probably just do a clean install and copy just my basic configuration settings for certain programs like vim, my editor and bash. 

I was able to set some of the keys in the Compiz configuration utility, like the brpwser and email key.  If I could figure out a command to mute/unmute sound for the mute key, I'd be happy.

---

### Post by linfidel on 2008-12-07
I was able to get all the media keys working by a very unlikely (to me) method; I didn't discover it myself, it was reported in a launchpad bug report (300954).

I deleted this file:  ~/.gconf/desktop/gnome/peripherals/mouse/%gconf.xml

After restarting X, the keys worked.

---

