---
title: "9.10 upgrade dell mini 10 issues"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by xpfighter on 2009-11-04
i upgraded to 9.10 a few days ago and sense then i have the following issues:

Sound: it works but after a few minutes (some times hours) the sound just stops. It doesn't even work when i plug in my head phones. i tried going back  to esound but that didn't work either. i have to restart which temperarly fixes the problem

Brightness: my brightness adjustment buttons stopped working

boot time: it takes 73 secs to boot up with 9.04 instead of the 24 secs i had with 9.04

any ideas how to fix this? i dont mind the brightness or boot time, but i would like sound.

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2009-11-04
Upgrading has been a big bugaboo with 9.10, probably because of some of the radical changes it makes. I upgraded first and it was buggy in too many ways to list. So I backed up my data and did a clean install and everything is working fine now. It took a little longer because I had to reinstall several apps and plug-ins but it's working perfectly now.. better than 9.04 in many ways except I can't resume from suspend and have to shutdown instead, but I hope that will be fixed soon. Boot time hasn't changed that much for me since the fresh install but it's a lot faster than it was after the upgrade.

A fresh install is always better than an upgrade, just for the "cruft" factor, but I'd say it was especially true for 9.04-> 9.10.

---

### Post by tibalt-99 on 2009-11-08
> **xpfighter said:**
> i upgraded to 9.10 a few days 

Please would you mind to explain how did you upgrade Mini?

Thank you

---

### Post by critmcdonald on 2009-11-10
I also have had issues after upgrading my Dell Mini 10 to 9.10.

I upgraded after being prompted by Synaptic Package Manager (I guess ... it said upgrade, so I did). I had installed UNR after buying with Windows XP, and I had had serious video redraw issues. I fixed 9.04 by installing plousbo video drivers, but that all gone blown away (I guess) by the upgrade to 9.10 and I have not been able to fix. In fact, in trying to fix, I've completely hosed it and now I'm looking to do fresh install, I guess. Pain.

---

