---
title: "S-video and Dell Inspiron 1525"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by fs3rp4 on 2008-11-01
Hello!

I have a Dell Inspiron 1525. All Intel with this video card:

             product: Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 2
             bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
             version: 0c
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: msi pm bus_master cap_list
             configuration: latency=0


I'm using ubuntu 8.10.

I can't use the S-video. I connect the cable and try fn+f8 but nothing happens.

My Xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection




Thank you!

---

### Post by vikram on 2008-12-15
Im having the same problem. The S Video works fine on Vista but doesn't work with kubuntu. 

The resize and rotate tool finds the S Video is connected to the TV but I dont see anything even after trying different resolutions.

any one ?

---

### Post by qbox on 2008-12-25
Same problem. On XP I have black and white picture :S
On Ubuntu 8.04 I have Unknown Device detected but no picture is shown on TV.

---

