---
title: "noob problems w/ drivers"
date: 2009-07-07
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by McTwizle on 2009-07-07
I installed Ubuntu 8.10 instead of 9.04 to see if that would solve some graphics problems I have been having.  Nothing major just want to get better performance for full screen video stuff.  I was hoping the problems were just with the 9.04 install ( I have googled it to death and am aware of the intel problems ) and was hoping it would be auto configured after install.  I still have the Display:0 unclaimed problem.  From what I can gather ( I am an absolute noobers ) this means I am not using the correct driver or just using a generic one.  Can somebody walk me through setting up the graphics drivers step by step like I am a 3rd grader ?  Many thanks and I know this is the place to ask.  Very nice people compared to other forums I have seen.  Here is what I can gather.  The PC is a Dell Inspiron E1505 laptop.

 *-display:0 UNCLAIMED   
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 03
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
  *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
       description: Display controller
       product: Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2.1
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
       version: 03
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0

##########################################################
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by McTwizle on 2009-07-08
nobody knows?  I have gone into the synaptic package manager and X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display driver is installed but I dont think its using it.  Full screen video is choppy at best.  When I play online poker (full tilt) it looks really bad and I have to have the window minimized to make it run even decent.  I dont know how to test anything really so any advice on performance tests would be nice as well.  Thanks.

---

