---
title: "10.04 Compiz Problems Latitude 600m"
date: 2010-03-29
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by duncanyoyo1 on 2010-03-29
I just installed the Ubuntu 10.04 beta on my Dell Inspiron 600m. Everything is working great, except whenever I try to do anything 3D, the screen will go almost completely dark, almost as if the brightness is turned all the way down. The mouse pointer still looks the same, but everything else on the screen looks dark.

Here is the best image I could get of the issue.

This happens when I use desktop cube
[IMG]http://img338.imageshack.us/img338/542/screenshotln.png[/IMG]

Here is an example of what happens when I try to use the Expo switcher.
[IMG]http://img338.imageshack.us/img338/2145/screenshot1l.png[/IMG]

Sorry for the big images.


I have a Mobility Radeon 9000 and I tried installing the new driver, to no avail. It just ended up making desktop composition impossible. Currently everything is working nice and smooth, just really dark. When I am not changing desktops or moving to a different one, the screen is as bright as it normally is.

I was wondering if anyone else was having this issue, or knows of a way to resolve this issue. If someone could help me resolve this issue, I would be greatly appreciative.

Thanks,
Duncanyoyo1

---

### Post by ThomazW on 2010-05-01
yea it&#347; a little weird setting :S

go to CompizConfig Settings > General Options > Display Settings > and then ligtening or something (i don't know in englisch, it&#347; the second option!)

if you don have compizConfig Settings manager:
Applications > ubuntu software center > search for "ccsm" > the extended one

hope this helps ;)

---

### Post by maximus.bobba on 2010-05-01
I guess u just need to fiddle around with the ccsm... hey did u install compiz extra plugins? and opengl support for ati graphics cards? give it a try. it may help solve the issue...

---

### Post by tru infini on 2010-05-06
It looks like your 10.04 does more then Mine does. My Compiz won't even start. I can't get AWN to auto start like it should and you can't even change the login screen anymore. I know that these are just flashy graphical problems and dom't compare to any real bug that would prevent a must have program from working like open office or something but to me, AWN and compiz are must haves. the only thing I like about the 10.04 is the zynadsubfx update. besides that I think I will go back to 8.04. that's the best Ubuntu that i have seen so far.

---

### Post by fattyz on 2010-06-22
found fix;  compiz fusion icon, settings manager, general options tab, display settings, lighting.  uncheck the box.  this fixed it for me.  Dell inspiron 600m.  make sure you get a driver for the chip but it sounds like the same problem i had so this should fix it.

fattyz

---

### Post by sparrowt on 2010-06-27
Thank you very much... i had exactly the same problem and finally came upon this.
This does indeed fix it:
compiz fusion icon - settings manager - general options tab - display settings - untick the 'lighting' box

Thanks a bunch guys, it's been like this since upgrading to 10.04 i think but i'd just got used to it and ignored it, but all's back to normal now :)

---

