---
title: "Inspiron 1520 @ Ubuntu 10.10 VGA problem"
date: 2011-03-12
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by DanieliusV on 2011-03-12
Hi guys, 

I am experiencing difficulties with VGA drivers and associated problems with flash/movie viewing.

Symptoms:

Random desktop parts "freeze", they are always on top of any application/window. 

[[IMG]http://img848.imageshack.us/img848/6426/screenshot1y.th.png[/IMG]]("http://img848.imageshack.us/i/screenshot1y.png/")

Driver installed: 

[[IMG]http://img856.imageshack.us/img856/4340/screenshot1t.th.png[/IMG]]("http://img856.imageshack.us/i/screenshot1t.png/")

When I choose recommended one, after restart, X doesn't load. It just freezes @ dotted loading screen. Then I use recovery mode, graphics failsafe mode and change the recommended driver to that one set, then it loads again.

One more screenshot how these "freeze" elements look:

[[IMG]http://img855.imageshack.us/img855/2766/screenshotuv.th.png[/IMG]]("http://img855.imageshack.us/i/screenshotuv.png/")



I guess out of that I am getting movie viewing problems (they start to lag at some point - it can be an browser window opened. Then I have to close the movie, and start it again.) I tried different movie players - the same effect.

Flash (YouTube) problem: 

When the movie is embedded on some website, it runs more less smoothly, but when I try to full screen it - it frozes for 3-4 seconds, then its blank screen, after a while I see a laggy picture and after few more seconds I see normal as it supposed to be. BUT, if I click the embedded movie, in order to open it through YouTube, computer just frozes. It happens frequently and can take up to 20-30 seconds. (during that time, for example, I click ALT + F2 combination, it doesn't react, but when it un-freezes, it opens that command). 

RAM/CPU load is normal. Internet speed is:

[IMG]http://www.speedtest.net/result/1197723980.png[/IMG]

I tried Ubuntu-Tweak - cleaned all settings/packages etc., tried to start recommended drivers - same thing. 

Any ideas folks?

Thanks!


edit: I tried to activate the recommended drivers and in terminal used this:

> sudo nvidia-xconfigthen I got this error:

> Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Undefined Device "(null)" referenced by Screen "Default
                  Screen".

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' And so.. I searched more, and I found that that one can help me:

> sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorgNow, when I type old good: > sudo nvidia-xconfigI get this message:
> Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'Tried to set recommended drivers. Same. Doesn't load. Had to switch it back through recovery mode.



Here's what's inside xorg.conf - maybe something wrong here?

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Sep 29 10:19:47 PDT 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
OK so I re-installed the whole system with format and didn't update the system. Then I started recommended drivers, and it works. YouTube problem dissapeared, this "freezing" desktop elements dissapeared as well I guess. All though, it is not good to have not updated system.. the question is, how to find out the conflicting update.. Going on by one will take hoooours.. (edit: 1 frozen area just appeared on the desktop.. ahh)

---

