---
title: "8.04 32bit on Dell Vostro 1700"
date: 2010-01-17
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Godspell on 2010-01-17
Hi all,

I've completely transferred my laptop to Ubuntu today and am facing some issues. Since I'm a basic user who's learning and don't know the way around, I really hope you all could help me out.

Following is the specs of my laptop.

Dell Vostro 1700 with Ubuntu 8.04 LTS 32-bit
Centrino Duo T7300 2.2 GHz 4MB Cache
2GB DDR2 RAM
Nvidia GeForce 8600m GT
2 x 160GB 5400RPM

Conexant D330,HDA,MDC,v.92,modem
Intel Wifi Link 4965 AGN
Broadcom 440x 10/100 Integrated Controller

There's no problem with Internet and communication. I didn't need to install any drivers.

First issue I noticed was the sound being too quiet. I used severals players (mplayer, rthymbox. movie player, vlc player) to play mkv, avi and mp3 files. System volume was maxed out and I had to almost maxed out my 2.1 sound system to be able to hear properly. It was really annoying and worse, the sound completely stopped working on one occasion. I had to reboot.

When I tried to dim the screen brightness, controls (Fn + backward or forward arrow) are over sensitive. Just one tap on an arrow key and it dropped down more than half from full brightness.

One time, Firefox was lagging whilst browsing pages and that effected the system after about 2 minutes, it was frozen. I had to do a cold shutdown.

I didn't have any error msg so far. No major crashes either. But the whole system isn't just stable, really. I'm sure this is also because of my lack of knowledge.
I like Ubuntu and totally wanna switch it onto this machine, and I want it to be settled with it just like when it was with windows.

This might sound silly but I have a strange feeling that OS isn't utilising all hardware resources. Such as GPU, sound, etc. cause sometimes it lags when I'm switching from one window to another. I've switched to proprietary driver for Nvidia, btw.

Could you please also suggest me about apps for the following purposes?
- managing iPod
- watching films (mainly mkv) as I'm a film junkie
- listening to music (I used to use JetAudio and want that kind of quality output)
- powerful download manager (sometime like IDM)

Suggestions are more than well come :D Please help me out, I'm pretty desperate atm. Again, sorry if my requests are unreasonable or lame. I'm a toddler in Linux.

Thank you very much.

Best regards,
GS

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-01-17
...ok, take a look at this, a nice guide from ubuntu:
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Hardy)

---

