---
title: "8.10 changing brightness kills inputs"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by shortridge11 on 2008-10-30
i just installed 8.10 on my dell inspiron E1505 and i didn't have any problems in 8.04.  I love 8.10 but when i change the brightness of my laptop, the keyboard doesn't really work correctly anymore, and i can't click on things on the desktop or the bar on top...except the quick launch icons.  I can't right click things either.  Any ideas why?

---

### Post by Tulsapoke on 2008-10-30
I am having the same issue on my E1505 on Intrepid.  As a temporary work around I installed the brightness app on my taskbar that allows me to adjust my brightness without freezing the keyboard up.  Hopefully someone finds a fix for this... it is almost a reflex recation to hit the FN key to change my brightness.

---

### Post by ethoxyethaan on 2008-10-30
i don't have this problem, you should give us your Laptop name.
mine is a Latitude D830 with 140M Nvidia.

try to run gnome-power-manager from the terminal and give us the output.

---

### Post by rativid on 2008-10-31
I am have this problem too with my DELL Latitude D500

---

### Post by Jeffrois on 2008-10-31
Having the same issue on Dell Inspiron 9300

---

### Post by wbrendel on 2008-10-31
I am having the same issue on my Dell XPS M1330 with the BIOS A12 and Intrepid. The only third-party driver I am using is the nVidia v177 driver. One thing I noticed is that the BIOS firmware upgrade I performed prior to upgrading to 8.10 mentioned two things: "flashing BIOS", and "flashing keyboard ROM". The keyboard part is what I'm wondering about. Is anyone with the A11 or earlier BIOS revision encountering this problem?

-Will

---

### Post by superm1 on 2008-10-31
This is an intrepid bug that is affecting a *lot* of platforms.  If yours is included, add more data to this bug:

[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/261721](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/261721)

---

### Post by AaronMT on 2008-10-31
Exact same problem on my inspiron 1501.

As well, when I change brightness - this also at the same time changes my volume.

---

### Post by chris86wm on 2008-11-01
same problem here with an inspiron 6000

---

### Post by Tulsapoke on 2008-11-02
My brother just upgraded his Dell E1405 and his has the same issue.

---

### Post by egypt on 2008-11-03
Same problem on XPS M170

---

### Post by pmac7 on 2008-11-03
Confirmed on my Dell Inspiron 600m

---

### Post by marcin.kondera on 2008-11-06
I have the same, HP Compaq 6530b. Brightness lost and volume control goes crazy on batteries

---

### Post by mbeccaria on 2008-11-10
same problem observed on my DELL Precision M4300
It took me a while before realizing it was due to brightness controls...

---

### Post by Linicks on 2008-11-10
This is a known issue, and a kernel hack has been submitted and I believe waiting to go in Ubuntu kernel.

The bug report is here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpid/+bug/285323](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpid/+bug/285323)

The quick fix if you get in this state is to change to console and revert back again, i.e.:

Ctrl+Alt+F2
Ctrl+Alt+F7

etc.

I am running my own kernel build with the fix applied, and it does indeed work to fix to this buggy Dell issue.

Nick

---

### Post by saresca on 2008-11-13
This is a temporal solution while the bug is being fixed.


First you need to test if xbacklight works for you:

```
sudo apt-get install xbacklight
```

Then try to change your LCD brightness:

```
xbackligt -set 20
```

I'm using a Sony VAIO VGN-FE780G and the range (for me) is from 0 to 100.

  0 - dark
100 - full brightness


If xbackligth change your brightness then you can go on.

Add shortcuts in gnome desktop.

I'm using <SUPER> F5 and <SUPER> F6 (SUPER=winkey) since I should use those keys but with FN key.

Add some scripts to contro the brightness

```
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/morebright
```

Copy and paste:

```

#!/bin/bash

# Get actual brightness
bright=`xbacklight -get | cut -d . -f 1`

# Set new brightness
newbright=`expr ${bright} + 25`
if [ "$newbright" -le "100" ]
then
    xbacklight -set $newbright
else
    xbacklight -set 100
fi

```

```
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/lessbright
```

Copy and paste:

```

#!/bin/bash

# Get actual brightness
bright=`xbacklight -get | cut -d . -f 1`

# Set new brightness
newbright=`expr ${bright} - 25`
if [ "$newbright" -gt "10" ]
then
    xbacklight -set $newbright
else
    xbacklight -set 10
fi

```

```

chmod +x /usr/bin/morebright
chmod +x /usr/bin/lessbright

```

You can try them running from console 

```

/usr/bin/lessbright
/usr/bin/morebright

```

Let add the gnome shortcuts

```
gconf-editor
```

In gconf-editor choose apps >> metacity >> global_keybindings.

Add keybindings:

command_1 value: <SUPER> F5
command_2 value: <SUPER> F6

In keybinding_commands assign the custom commands:

command_1 value: /usr/bin/lessbriht
command_2 value: /usr/bin/morebright

Now you can control your brightness using SUPER F5 and SUPER F6.

I hope this work for you.

Adding shortcuts: [http://www.codejacked.com/create-custom-keyboard-shortcuts-in-linux/](http://www.codejacked.com/create-custom-keyboard-shortcuts-in-linux/)

---

### Post by gagnon88 on 2008-11-18
Hello all

This is fixed in the 2.6.27-8 kernel version.

To update, check "intrepid-proposed" in the "Updates" tab of "Software sources", then update your system to the last pre-release version.

---

### Post by anim on 2008-12-08
I'm sitting here with 2.6.27-9 and still having an issue.

---

### Post by Miguelito71 on 2008-12-29
> **anim said:**
> I'm sitting here with 2.6.27-9 and still having an issue.

Me too on a Dell Studio 1535.

---

### Post by Linicks on 2008-12-29
Please refer to this bug report - I think things are moving now I raised attention again:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpid/+bug/285323](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/acpid/+bug/285323)

Nick

---

