---
title: "10.14 wireless problem on dell lattitude 120L"
date: 2011-03-24
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by brentw1 on 2011-03-24
Hi, I need some help. I am a recent convert to ubuntu having put it on my sony vaio about three weeks ago. I am using the 10.14lts version. The Sony installation is perfect and was prompted by a virus attack on windows. Everything works. The system found the wireless network and even the network printer worked out of the box so to speak.

My son was so impressed that he asked for it on his dell 120L.

I've done a dual installation and cannot get the wireless to connect. The message in the network manager is 'wireless networks disconnected'. I've done the obvious step of checking the option to enable networking and enable wireless but no joy. Also the Fn F2 toggle on the keyboard does not appear to make a difference.

If I boot into windows xp, I can toggle the wireless card on and connect perfectly.

I am reasonably computer literate but am having to get to grips with terminal and the linex commands etc....so any help needs to bear in mind that I am a rookie in that department.

This is the first time on the ubuntu forums that I have read so much about so I am hopeful that somebody will be able to help.

I do have the Sony working perfectly if I need to download anything and transfer across with a usb flash drive etc.

Brent

---

### Post by AndyCinDallas on 2011-03-24
Hi, Brent

Start Terminal (found under Applications -> Accessories) and type **lspci** then press Enter.

That will dump a whole bunch of stuff about the system, but you're looking for the wireless card information, usually found towards the end. Copy that info and paste it here

---

### Post by brentw1 on 2011-03-26
Thanks for the reply. I have managed to solve the problem. I tried installing 10.10 and was then able to connect to the internet via a wired connection. I was then able to go into system/administration/additional drivers. It basically sorted itself out, downloaded drivers for the wireless card and asked me to restart. I was then in business and it is all working beautifully.

It is nice to know however that if I had remained stuck then somebody was prepared to help out.

Regards Brent

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-03-26
Good, please mark the thread 'solved' using 'thread tools'.

---

### Post by DarkTide on 2011-03-26
The problem was solved :D
mark as "solved thread"  and then closed this topic

---

