---
title: "10.04 - Dell Latitude Webcam not working"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by JedMeister on 2010-05-17
I recently upgraded (clean install) a Latitude 2100 from 9.10NBR to 10.04NBR. After install of Wifi driver all is well except the webcam does not appear to be working at all. Cheese crashes - it opens runs for a few seconds and closes with no error. Skype opens and runs fine but detects no video. Identical machine - webcam works fine under 9.10NBR (although to be honest I didn't specifically check that this machine did).

[2010-05-18] After upgrade it all seems to be working now. Doh! Should have tried that first before posting!

---

### Post by gifford on 2010-05-23
I'm not understanding the solution. I have the same problem of the webcam not working after upgrade on my StudioXPS16 to Lucid. How did you solve your problem?

---

### Post by JedMeister on 2010-05-23
Between initially noticing the problem and realising that it was solved, I did very little. First I installed Skype to double check that it wasn't just something wrong with Cheese (which I doubt actually did anything, but perhaps? - the video in Skype didn't work). After that I just did an upgrade ([FONT="Courier New"]*sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade*[/FONT]) and restarted the machine and the problem was solved without any further action from me. Easiest fix ever! 

If that doesn't work I'd suggest start your own thread providing as much detail as possible.

Good luck!

---

