---
title: "9.10 on Ubuntu Mini-9 yet?"
date: 2009-10-14
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by skunkbad on 2009-10-14
I've been scared to change my Mini-9 because it just works, and I'm wondering if it will ever be worth upgrading from 8.10. Anybody done it yet?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-10-15
As you may know, 8.10 will be reaching its end of life sometime in Apr. 2010. I don't see why not upgrade by then. You can try a newer version from a USB stick just to make sure everything still works, and upgrade afterwards.

---

### Post by DodgeV83 on 2009-10-15
Check this out for more information on Ubuntu 9.10 on the Dell Mini 9

[http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/10/ubuntu-910-karmic-koala-beta-is.html](http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/10/ubuntu-910-karmic-koala-beta-is.html)

---

### Post by Grind0r on 2009-10-17
I'm writing this from my Mini 9 on 9.10.  I upgraded this week from 9.04 and everything worked out of the box.  The only thing I've done was to disable the user list on the login screen.  That's just a personal preference, not a functional issue.

---

### Post by ubudv on 2009-10-23
I had alpha5 working but ever since then I have been unable to get the beta or rc to install. It just hangs at the little white ubuntu logo. I have tried multiple downloads and installing from cd and usb.

---

### Post by zmjjmz on 2009-10-26
Everything works for me except suspend/hibernate. As you can imagine with a netbook, this is serious business.
EDIT: Actually, I got suspend working. Make sure to unmount the sd card before going into it.

---

### Post by Cowchip7 on 2009-10-28
If everything works, why upgrade? I never ran into a situation where I needed the updated version of ubuntu... so I have stuck with dell's lpia OOTB version.

---

### Post by Denimwizard on 2009-10-29
I just updated my mini-9 from 9.04 to 9.10. I had no problems at all and I did it through the update manager. It takes a while to download, but I am happy everything works!

My internal mic finally works again. For what ever reason 9.04 the mic driver was screwed up. 

I am quite happy with the new distro. :)

---

### Post by lswartz on 2009-10-29
> **Cowchip7 said:**
> If everything works, why upgrade? I never ran into a situation where I needed the updated version of ubuntu... so I have stuck with dell's lpia OOTB version.

Good point, I'm still there too & it works just fine.

---

### Post by norrisg on 2009-10-29
The big catch is if you have a 4GB SSD: there's not enough free space for the network upgrade, and the only UNR CD available cannot do an upgrade, only a full install. You may run into the same problem with a larger SSD of course, but generally there'd be enough data you can copy off and put back later.

---

### Post by entropic_existence on 2009-10-30
I just installed 9.10 yesterday. Wasn't flawless, had some trouble with the bootable USB stick install but managed to get it working. Had to install the broadcom wireless drivers afterwards and I had just been banging my head frustrated about suspend not working until I saw the post up thread about unmounting my sdhc card first. That works but it is kind of a pain, I suppose I can probably put a command in the suspend file to automatically unmount it first.

I moved from 8.10 to 9.04 pretty much immediately and used the lpia kernel but not the UNR. Switched to the UNR with 9.10 and so far I am liking it, takes a little getting used to though. No noticable huge improvements over 9.04 yet but it does seem to be running a little quicker.

---

### Post by ghicksrn on 2009-10-30
I had taken the factory version off and was using Easy Peasy. I recently switched to 9.04 UNR. Just yesterday, I upgraded to 9.10. The only thing I wish, was that the switch for wireless (airplane mode) would work. Mine is not working, but it hasn't since I took the factory OS off. 
I have also been unable to transfer files from my phone to my netbook via bluetooth. 
Otherwise, I love 9.10 UNR.

---

