---
title: "9.04 Dell ISO available in South Africa?"
date: 2009-08-06
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by TeamScience on 2009-08-06
Hi

I have a vostro 1710 laptop and want to try the Dell version of 9.04. Is there localy hosted ISO that anybody knows of? To download from the Dell server is going to take 12 hours and I've tried more than once with the download bombing out at some point.

Second prize will be a torrent file to use.

Should I even try this, or just use the official ditro from Ubuntu?

Thanks in advance.
Brenton

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-08-06
Torrents linked to from the link in my signature.  I would recommend torrent unless you have a severely restricted upload limit; it is generally very fast, and is easy to restart at any time.

There are plenty of international mirrors if you prefer.

Otherwise, if you are prepared to wait up to 6 weeks, Canonical will post a CD to you for free.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-08-06
Torrents linked to from the Get Ubuntu link in my signature.  I would recommend torrent unless you have a severely restricted upload limit; it is generally very fast, and is easy to restart at any time.

There are plenty of international mirrors if you prefer.

African mirrors: [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#mirrors](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#mirrors)

Otherwise, if you are prepared to wait up to 6 weeks, Canonical will post a CD to you for free.

EDIT: Just realised you want the Dell specific ISO. Sorry.

---

### Post by TeamScience on 2009-08-08
Hi ugm6hr

Thanks for your reply. I've already been playing with the default 9.04 64-bit on the laptop and found it to work perfectly. I was just wanting to try out the Dell version as a matter of intrest.

Brenton

---

### Post by regors86 on 2009-08-08
:popcorn::D:popcorn::P:(:confused:

---

### Post by regors86 on 2009-08-08
[PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP][PHP][/PHP]> **regors86 said:**
> :popcorn::D:popcorn::P:(:confused:
h

---

