---
title: "12.04 on Latitude D600"
date: 2012-06-28
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by smitj02 on 2012-06-28
Hello,

I was planning on installing Ubuntu on my wife's old laptop which is a Dell Latitude D600.  I downloaded the latest version to a USB stick and attempted to boot and I got an error saying that it couldn't load the kernel because the CPU didn't support PAE.  I did some googling and found that there are several workarounds for this issue.  What I am wondering is it a fool's errand to do the workaround.  Should I just install an older version?  10.04 LTS?

Thanks,

smitj02

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-06-28
It really doesn't matter for an old computer. You can install 10.04 now, and when it's out of support in Apr 2013, upgrade to 12.04. There won't be the PAE problem when upgrading.

---

### Post by drogve on 2012-06-30
Yesterday ...
I did exactly what your are saying and i had the same error (after it had already worked fine but ive been working with the radeon video card driver-video lag and dual screen)

But this is hands down the best way to do it
12.04 on Latitude D600

[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/windows-installer](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/windows-installer)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-06-30
I don't think the Windows installer is the best way. It's ok for testing, or to make up your mind if you want Ubuntu or not, but if you plan on using Ubuntu, I'd recommend a proper installation.

---

### Post by Shadius on 2012-06-30
Agreed. A proper installation would be best. WUBI (Windows installer) is just an installation within Windows that can be used to test out Ubuntu before actually doing an installation. However, if your Windows goes down, so does your WUBI installation of Ubuntu. A Ubuntu LiveCD can be used for testing purposes also, but again, I recommend a full installation as well.

---

### Post by drogve on 2012-06-30
> **mikewhatever said:**
> I don't think the Windows installer is the best way. It's ok for testing, or to make up your mind if you want Ubuntu or not, but if you plan on using Ubuntu, I'd recommend a proper installation.
Im running 12 inside of xp pro is there reasonable way to resize the xp partition and do a correct dual boot???           Thats what i really want so i may be faster..

---

### Post by Shadius on 2012-06-30
> **drogve said:**
> Im running 12 inside of xp pro is there reasonable way to resize the xp partition and do a correct dual boot???           Thats what i really want so i may be faster..

You can use [GParted]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/index.php") to create partitions for Ubuntu and resize the Windows partition.

---

### Post by Redalien0304 on 2013-03-01
if you need a copy of Ubuntu 12.04 Non pae Here is my post on it
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2116112](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2116112)

---

