---
title: "Vostro 1500, 10.04, suspend/hibernate"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by JesperSP on 2010-04-30
Hi everyone.

I just did a fresh install of ubuntu-10.04-desktop-amd64 on my laptop. I had been having issues with suspend/hibernate on 9.04, and after reading that speed of hibernate/suspend was one of the improvements in 10.04 I didn't hesitate to try it out. Unfortunately the problems with Suspend/hibernate persist in 10.04:

When I ask ubuntu to suspend every thing seems to power down properly. However, when I press the power button to resume, it either comes back to a black screen or a flashing green screen. There is nothing for me to do here other than power down the machine the illegal way.

Having a functional suspend/hibernate is essential on a laptop, where you want to have documents open while moving your laptop from place to place (e.g. in a bag). I don't want to spend hours and hours trying to fix suspend/hibernate, but if someone have a quick fix for the Dell vostro 1500 (4GB ram), I'm willing to give it a shot. Otherwize I guess I'm stuck on windows XP/7.

Cheers,
Jesper

---

### Post by myddewji13 on 2010-04-30
What type of graphics do you have? I had the same problem but installing ati fglrx drivers solved my resume problem.

---

### Post by JesperSP on 2010-05-02
I have the NVidia GeForce 8600M GT 512MB - Will installing an ATI driver fix the problem ?

---

### Post by calandryll on 2010-05-02
I just installed 10.04 on release day and think I have gotten suspend/hibernate working.  All I did was install the proprietary drivers and everything is working fine now.

Now to get fan speed thing working.  Dellfand is working but would prefer a constant low speed if possible.

---

### Post by JesperSP on 2010-09-28
Hi!

I'm also back on ubuntu now.. Suspend and Hibernate works great after installing the Nvidia driver. Also I did a fresh install on a new hard drive (they're getting so cheap), and this time I gave myself enough swap space to actually go into hibernation.

A follow up question that is on topic:

The installation automatically generated a swap partition of 6GB, and I have 4GB of memory on my system. I'm using ImageJ to process some really big raw movies. This means that I might encounter a situation where I have fx. 7GB of stuff in the memory/swap of my laptop. What happens if I try to hibernate my laptop then? (7GB >6GB?)

Cheers,
Jesper

---

