---
title: "8.04 to 10.04 on Mini 9, live USB problem"
date: 2010-09-16
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by epb223 on 2010-09-16
Hi,

I'm trying to put 10.04 on my Mini 9; no CD, as you know. I downloaded the .iso from [here]("http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/download"). I was told that then I had to create a USB stick on another computer, since there's no startup disk maker in 8.04. The message I read said that I could do it in the following manner (in Terminal, on my Mac):

hdiutil convert -format UDRW -o ~/path/to/ubuntu-10.04.1-desktop-i386.img ~/path/to/ubuntu-10.04.1-desktop-i386.iso

I tried this with the .iso on the stick or on the Mac, but either way get this response:

hdiutil: convert failed - No such file or directory

I tried booting the Mini 9 up with the USB stick anyway; it said "no boot filename received" and "operating system not found".

I'd really appreciate some help here; some of the things I see online are amazingly confusing, or maybe I'm just not good at this! I'm willing to learn, though.

Thanks,
Edward

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-09-16
[Unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net") should allow you to prepare a bootable Live USB from within your Ubuntu 8.04 install. (Not sure if Unetbootin works on Mac though.)

---

### Post by epb223 on 2010-09-16
> **snowpine said:**
> [Unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net") should allow you to prepare a bootable Live USB from within your Ubuntu 8.04 install.

I downloaded Unetbootin on my Mini 9, but when I did "chmod +x ./unetbootin-linux," I got "no such file or directory"; same when I added "-471" to the end to make it conform to the actual name that appears on my desktop.

Thanks for your help so far, though, I feel as though a solution is growing closer!

Edward

---

### Post by mtbsoft on 2010-09-20
Strange that, I get the same result and yet I've pulled it down and used it myself previously with no problem.

That said, instead of trying to download it, you could always try to install it via the repositories - the instructions for adding the necessary ppa are to be found by clicking the Ubuntu link, just below the "Download (for Windows" button.  If you do this you can then get it via Synaptic.

Using unetbootin is definitely the way to go though, I've used it on both my mini 9 units.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by mtbsoft on 2010-09-20
D'Oh... what am I thinking!

When you are in the terminal you need to enter **[COLOR="Red"]./[/COLOR]***unetbootin-linux-471* to get it to run, not just *unetbootin-linux-471* otherwise it won't find it, even though you're in the correct folder. You will also want to prefix it with sudo.

You may also want to install 7z too if you don't have it or you may not be able to use all the features.

---

