---
title: "9.10 blank screen on restart"
date: 2010-03-21
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Linux_rookie on 2010-03-21
I have a Dell Optiplex 260, and I installed Ubuntu 9.10. Installation went fine, but after the first hard reboot, you just get a blank screen when you try to start it. I re-installed 9.04, worked fine.

Fast forward a couple of months, I had a hard drive problem so I have to re-install again. A friend tells me that Xubuntu is a lighter version, and might work better on my older computer. Installed Xubuntu 9.10, same results as I had with Ubuntu. 

Both times, the desktop would come up after installation, and would work fine. Then the computer was shut off, and when it re-started all I get is blank screens.

Kinda at a loss, not sure what to do, but I have NOT had good luck with v9.10.

---

### Post by yomuffin11 on 2010-03-21
I agree with you.   Ubuntu 9.10 is way to buggy, glitchy, and acts weird.   It never worked for me on my Dell Studio 1555.   I reinstalled it 4 times and it never worked...  I always got messages saying there was a 'severe kernel problem'  which made no sense because I installed everything right.    It also never let me go on the internet due to 'wireless drivers'  not working.   But here's the funny part, when i ran off the LIVE CD everything was perfect.    On the HD, ehh well, no.                               Anyways my point is that you got to keep trying different Ubuntu versions and see which works best for you.   I went through 3 versions until I got the best working for me.  Ubuntu 9.04.

---

### Post by sportscliche on 2010-03-22
Try editing GRUB.  If you can't get past a blank screen on boot, choose the recovery option in the boot menu.  Open the terminal and edit the file located at /etc/default/grub
 
I use nano by typing

sudo nano /etc/default/grub

Change the line

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

to              

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="splash"

Save your changes with Ctrl-X, then run

sudo update-grub

and re-boot.

---

### Post by Linux_rookie on 2010-03-22
I could not get it to give me anything but the black screen in the recovery mode either. 

Completely by accident however, I discovered that if I hit escape at the perfect time, it would boot up normally. It would work, and work normally, even if I restarted the machine. If I shut it off and booted cold however, it would go back to the original black screen. 

I also got it to work by inserting the boot disk in the disk drive, and when the menu came up, clicking on "boot from first hard disk".

I did try what you suggested once I got it going, and it didn't make a difference - black screen on cold startup. 

Is this just a driver issue? It keeps sounding to me more like its not loading something correctly when booted cold, that maybe stays in RAM when its just restarted?

---

### Post by sportscliche on 2010-03-29
So if I understand correctly, 9.04 works flawlessly and 9.10 causes a blank screen lockup on reboot?  One possibility may be an incompatibility with the older graphics hardware.  If you can get to a terminal again, it might be worth trying the following:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4)

---

### Post by ImmortalZecred on 2010-03-30
I know I'm more of a newbie than some here, but I experienced the same problem a while back. I would boot up and it would stay as a black screen for what seemed like forever. However, "forever" in this case was just about thirty seconds, and then it's able to boot just fine.

My advice is, try waiting it out a bit. If you go past the three-minute mark, then it's possible you have something more seriously wrong.

Just a simple tip that helped me when I had this problem.

Regards,
-Zecred

---

### Post by Linux_rookie on 2010-03-30
I didn't go 30 minutes, but we have waited over 5, and it still didn't come up. In fact, after a few minutes the monitor will go back into sleep mode.

If I have to wait more than 5 minutes for your computer to boot, there is something wrong.

---

### Post by ImmortalZecred on 2010-03-30
No, mate, I didn't say 30 minutes... I said 3. It would seem as though the computer's hosed then.

---

### Post by Linux_rookie on 2010-03-30
Sorry, I mis-read your post. We did hit about 5 minutes a couple of times, with no luck.

I was working on it again tonight, but I had to hit escape at exactly the right time to get it to work. It will come back on a reboot, but not on a cold start-up. 

I have been having trouble with file sharing, mounting a second hard drive, the video thing. I think I am about ready to ditch and go back to Ubuntu 9.04. All of this stuff was working before I switched to Xubuntu 9.10. With all the problems I have been having, I'm hesitant to upgrade to 10.04 when it comes out.......

---

### Post by sportscliche on 2010-03-31
How much RAM is in your Dell?  When I googled the Optiplex 260 I discovered that it came with 256 Mb, which is below Ubuntu's minimum recommended amount:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements)

256M RAM should be sufficient to get Xubuntu going yet your problem is there too.  It might be interesting to try a minimal distribution like Puppy Linux to see how the machine responds.

---

### Post by Linux_rookie on 2010-03-31
We upgraded to 768 (512 in one slot, a 256 in the other), with 8 meg reserved for video. The machine ran well on Ubuntu 9.04, but was a little slow. A friend suggested that I try Xubuntu before buying more ram to see how it would run.

---

### Post by sportscliche on 2010-03-31
I searched around here and found this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1293030](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1293030)

The BIOS upgrade described in the link provided by post #2 is worth a shot.  I did not do this when I installed 9.10 on my Dell Dimension, but in retrospect probably should have.  I solved my problem (with symptoms not nearly as severe as yours) by rolling back the driver.

---

### Post by sportscliche on 2010-03-31
Another possibility that is specific to Xubuntu:

[http://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5932](http://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5932)

---

### Post by anurag chauhan on 2010-04-03
I have just baught my new laptop dell inspiron 1464 (2GB RAM, i3 processor ). I have alraedy installed vista and is working fine for me. I tried to install ubuntu 9.10. I tried to install from CD. After reboot I select option ubuntu ... then further option comes which asked me to install ubuntu and after selecting that nothing appears ... just a blank screen.
From this CD ubuntu was installed properly in some other laptop.... I followed every step correct but don't know what is the problem.

I tried another option ubuntu 8.04 lts from CD.... in this I moved one step ahead ... but when it tried to detect my CDROM.... it asked me that "may be some other modules needed to detect CDROM pl. insert your floppy disk" ... don't know what to do?

Some body told me that try 9.10 ubuntu from butable pen drive (with the help of universal installer )... I also did this .. but after making butable I was not able to boot from usb ..as it was saying kernal image is corrupted .. once again a failure
 
Need suggestions!!!

---

### Post by sportscliche on 2010-04-05
I can't comment on why your CD won't work, but it appears there is a problem with the install on the startup flash drive.  I've had errors if the drive is not properly formatted.    Also is it big enough?  I've had success with 2 Gb but not smaller.  Can you verify whether it will boot another PC?

---

### Post by pjomara on 2010-04-08
I had the same problem on a group of Optiplex GX260 s.  The way I "solved"it was to unplug the floppy drive (power and data cable).  After doing so, the computers boot fine.

---

### Post by intrader on 2010-04-22
I have seen a mention to the 'second screen' capability.\

A solution perhaps?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1365701](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1365701)

---

