---
title: "refresh rate in dell XPS 1530"
date: 2008-10-05
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by cotiK on 2008-10-05
I have installed 8.04 on a brand new xps 1530 and generally everything is working fine. However the monitor refresh rate is only 50 Hz when it should be 65 and kinda messes with my eyes, I have searched everywhere for a solution but couldnt find anything. 

Below is my xorg.conf 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us,gr"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	","
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"grp:alt_shift_toggle,grp_led:scroll"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


any suggestions please???

---

### Post by CdeSousaG on 2008-10-13
I also have an XPS 1530. Have you tried installing Envy? (EnvyNG for Hardy) Envy will install the last Nvidia drivers and that should fix your problem

I had a lot of performance issues and most of them where related with 2D rendering... after updating the drivers everything improved.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-10-14
Are you using an old-fashioned CRT screen as an external monitor?

Screen flickering because the refresh rate is too low only occurs on CRT monitors. Changing the refresh rate does not change anything when you're using the LCD screen of the laptop itself or an external LCD screen.

LCD screens work totally different from CRT screens. LCD screens don't flicker.

How did you see that the refresh rate is 50 Hz?

---

