---
title: "10.10 on Dell Inspiron 1100"
date: 2011-01-11
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by MikeG0 on 2011-01-11
My Dell Inspiron 1100 is finally stable after installing the 10.10 release.  Now it's down to one semi-minor issue:

When I set the laptop to Hibernate or Suspend, everything shuts down fine.  But when it wakes up, the LCD screen is blank.  I'm thinking the CRT/LCD switch isn't being checked.  Actually, the Fn+CRT/LCD key has never worked -- it has never toggled like it does under winXP.

Might Ubuntu/Xorg think the CRT is connected and outputting signals there?  I don't have a CRT handy to verify this.

Anyway, bringing the laptop out of hibernation or suspend never works.  The screen is always blank and I need to reboot.

Any ideas?  Maybe I could map the LCD/CRT Fn key to some other key with xmodmap?

Cheers,

Mike

---

### Post by Rob Glenn on 2011-01-27
I want to know how to fix this too!  I see it consistently on my 1100, either when using the Meerkat live/install CD, or when I tried to use the "Intel" driver for X on Lucid Lynx (I could never get it to not crash, in spite of trying most of the workarounds posted on other threads and wikis.)  Suspend/resume works correctly with the vesa driver.

---

### Post by Rob Glenn on 2011-06-23
Connecting an external monitor verifies this is in fact the case.  And, as reported above, "Fn->F8 (CRT/LCD)" has no effect.  Anybody know, how to hack it so that X ignores the external monitor connector and always activates the onboard LCD display?

---

