---
title: "5.1 audio in ubuntu?"
date: 2009-01-30
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by kozzney on 2009-01-30
So I've got a Dell XPS M1330, and I'm going to get the Logitech X-540 5.1 speaker system. I know in Vista I can select each of the three 3.5mm jacks on the front of my computer to output stuff for the green, black, and orange input cables for the speaker system. How do I do that in Ubuntu 8.10? I'm relatively new to linux, so I don't know much about it... but it is sooooo much better than windows!!!

---

### Post by halovivek on 2009-01-30
welcome to the Forums
It is same as the windows connection to the Ubuntu. I am using same connection as windows in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by kozzney on 2009-01-30
So you mean you can get 5.1 audio with three 3.5mm jacks on your computer? Like I have 2 headphone jacks and 1 microphone jack, so I can configure the microphone jack somehow to output sound? The speakers I'm looking at getting have those three 3.5mm input cords- the green, black, and orange, one's for the front speakers, one's for the rear speakers, and the other one's for the center and sub

---

### Post by kozzney on 2009-01-31
Alright, question;

How do I boost the output of the mic port? 

I can't find any options in Volume Control, or GNOME ALSA Mixer. What I have right now is my center/sub channel (orange) hooked up to the mic port (with "Mic as output" checked), and it is very very quiet (like you cannot hear it with the front and rear unmuted). Also, both mixers label the mic output as "Headphones;" can that be changed to "Center?"

I hope this makes sense...

---

