---
title: "8.10 only boots from recovery mode."
date: 2009-03-03
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by adster101 on 2009-03-03
Hi All,

I have 8.10 installed on a Dell Optiplex SX260 and it all works fine when it boots. However, it only boots from Recovery Mode. This isn't a problem as such but it is a little annoying.

As the Graphics chipset appears to be unsupported in 8.10 with compiz (due to some bug or other) I have removed Compiz. With Compix installed the machine wouldn't even boot.

What are the log files or trouble shooting I need to do in order to figure out what the issue is here? Why does it boot from 'recovery' mode but not normally?

Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by sirebral on 2009-03-03
Do you mean after you enter your name and password?  If so then you simply need to change your session before you login.

---

### Post by adster101 on 2009-03-17
If the machine is not started in recovery mode then I do not even see the login splash screen.

Sometimes even if I boot from the recovery mode and choose 'proceed with normal boot' then the machine will hang. I would say this happens about 1 in 4 times. 

I then have to switch it off and then reboot.

When it doesn't boot I do see some error regarding TCP/IP and postgres sql. 

Where can I see this error log?

If I don't boot from recovery mode then the machine just hangs.

As noted I have removed compiz fusion following the advice on some other posts.

Happily, when it does boot it is stable as a rock, except sometimes when switching a user it also hangs.

Any help much appreciated.

Thanks,

Adam

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-03-17
Perhaps this is an issue with the usplash?

I would suggest try editing /boot/grub/menu.lst and delete the "quiet splash" from the end of the kernel lines near the bottom.

It also sounds like GDM is misbehaving intermittently.

---

### Post by adster101 on 2009-03-18
Removing the quiet splash bits from menu.lst fixed the boot problem. Now it boots straight to the splash screen! :-)

Still a bit tetchy switching users though. Not a major problem.

I'll look into the GDM issue a bit.

Thanks!

---

### Post by 123456789123456789123456 on 2009-03-18
Interesting problem.  you may try uninstalling the option you edited out. and reinstalling it.

If that was not working properly for some reason, it would explain why switching users did not work.  Another thing you could do would be to change the run level

a normal boot runs on runlevel 5
runlevel 3 should be the recovery mode
levels 1 and 2 are text only
I would try runlevel 4
you can either edit this in GRUB.conf
or type runlevel=4 in terminal and restarting

---

### Post by adster101 on 2009-03-19
To clarify:

The machine now boots to the splash (i.e. login) screen without issue. My /boot/grub/menu.lst was modified as below:

kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-23-generic root=UUID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxx ro 

#quiet splash

I.e. the quiet splash was commented out in two places.

However, there is still an issue when swichting users. Doesn't seem to be such a problem when I 'log off' but switching a user hangs the machine.

Does this switching user use the same quiet splash package? If so I suppose reinstalling it might do the trick...

What benefit would booting at a different runlevel have?

Also, when I boot I don't see the ubuntu logo and progress meter but a load of terminal like output. 

Any ideas on how to fix that???

Thanks!

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-03-19
Let me help clarify things to ensure there are no misunderstandings.

1. The "login" screen is the GDM login screen (not the splash screen).

2. The Ubuntu logo and progress animation *is* the *u*splash screen.

3. GDM manages the user switcher agent with a plugin (I think - not 100% certain).

So:

1. You cannot fix the lack of Ubuntu logo and progress animation without reversing what you have done (i.e. re-enabling the splash Grub option).

As for further help from me:

1. I have no idea what the issue with GDM and the user switcher is.

Hope that clears some things up for you; unfortunately it doesn't get you closer to a complete solution :(

---

### Post by adster101 on 2009-03-19
Thanks for that.

Well that makes sense. 

Before I commented out 'quiet splash' then I would see the splash screen but it would hang before it reached the login screen!

Now when I boot I see all the output in the same way as when I used to boot in recovery mode. But it boots without having to choose recovery mode which is definitely better. Guess I'll have to live without the splash screen....at least for now.

As for the user switcher it's not major as I only need it occasionally. 

Actually when I switch a user it doesn't hang the machine, as such, but all I get is a black screen. It makes the sound to say that it has displayed the login screen but I cannot see it! Weird.

Thanks for your help!

P.S. I found this post as well. May try that later.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580903](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580903)

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2009-03-19
> **adster101 said:**
> Actually when I switch a user it doesn't hang the machine, as such, but all I get is a black screen. It makes the sound to say that it has displayed the login screen but I cannot see it! Weird.

Hmmm...

Just thinking out loud here, but I suspect this is a graphics card issue.

It sounds like your card doesn't like changing resolution.  Each time you go from desktop to GDM (and vice-versa), or usplash to GDM, the resolution often changes.

This would explain why you can return to GDM login screen, but can't see anything.  Maybe you might like to try typing your username and password (using Tab key between the 2), and seeing if it will actually log into the desktop properly.  Or using Ctrl+Alt+F1 when you can't see the GDM screen.

So maybe this is the problem.  Unfortunately, it still doesn't help solve anything :(

---

### Post by adster101 on 2009-03-19
Yes. Sounds about right.

There is an issue with the 845G graphics chipset which this machine uses:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/285250](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/285250)

Not too worried about that as even under 8.04 this machine is just on the edge in terms of being able to cope with any fancy desktop effects....

Yep. The splash screen was/is displayed in a lower resolution which fits in with what you are suggesting.

Often when I try and switch screen resolution (from the desktop) then it crashes (or I see severe visual glitches which makes the system unusable) so it looks like something similar happens when I switch the user.

Will try logging in next time I switch the user or pressing the key combination you mention. 

Thanks again.

---

