---
title: "13.04 :: Dell XPS 15 (L521X) :: NOT L502X/L512X/15z"
date: 2013-04-27
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by paradoxni on 2013-04-27
Good morning all Dell XPS 15'ers,

I have skipped the last few versions of Ubuntu due to ongoing issues with this laptop model. This morning I took the plunge and installed Raring, however the same issues remain.

- CPU fan on max; It never goes quiet! (possibly fixed by installed bumblebee)
- Erratic touchpad; Very jumpy when attempting to tap-to-click, makes the laptop frustrating to use.
- Touchpad gestures; Not a show stopper as I could live without them.

I was hoping that with the recently release of the Dell XPS 13 fully Ubuntu supported that there would be knock on benefits to similar models.

Anyone have any fixes or upgrades to tackle these issues?

Thanks,

A.

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-04-27
> - Erratic touchpad; Very jumpy when attempting to tap-to-click, makes the laptop frustrating to use.
See: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2051324]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2051324")

---

### Post by paradoxni on 2013-04-27
I will give that a try

---

### Post by wcorey on 2013-05-04
Hi,
    While I have an L511z, which, while runnable, ran poorly on 12.10, runs much better on 13.04. What I did, which may help, is to purge bumblebee prior to upgrade. 
What the install did was add that last suggestion for  added parameters to the boot line, the one about backlight=0 and dell_laptop.  On 12.10 I would get frequent notifications almost one right after the other of gpu crashes or potential gpu crashes. I have only seen one 'crash' notification here but there is something weird right at boot up, prior to the desktop mgr starting, while still black and white, I get a very brief notification of something the kernel didn't like or count. I will post what it was when I discover what it says.

the cpu fan at max....most annoying, is fixed by either acpi=noirq for the 12.04 and the backlight blah blah fix for later `12.10 and 13.04.

I suggest if you've read this far be sure you've seen this:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Laptops/Dell/XPS/15z](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Laptops/Dell/XPS/15z)

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2013-05-11
How can I install Ubuntu 13.04 on the L521X?

The UEFI boot thing has me all confused.

If I want to add a second internal HD instead of the CD ROM, and boot Ubutu from that, how would I do it?

I've tried doing a strait install and even with legacy boot, it wouldn't boot the install I did.

---

### Post by paradoxni on 2013-05-12
> **donalgodon said:**
> How can I install Ubuntu 13.04 on the L521X?

The UEFI boot thing has me all confused.

If I want to add a second internal HD instead of the CD ROM, and boot Ubutu from that, how would I do it?

I've tried doing a strait install and even with legacy boot, it wouldn't boot the install I did.

Hmm.

I am using UEFI (secureboot off). Installed windows7 on main HDD (self purchased SSD) and 13.04 on the internal miniSSD. UEFI lists "Windows boot manager" and "Linux". As far as I can remember I did not have to do anything to get this to work, if I hit F12 on start I get the UEFI boot list and can pick Linux from there.

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2013-05-12
You just need to turn secure boot off to make it work? 

Does turning it off impact the Win-doze 8 installation or boot?

---

### Post by paradoxni on 2013-05-12
> **donalgodon said:**
> You just need to turn secure boot off to make it work? 

Does turning it off impact the Win-doze 8 installation or boot?

That I am unsure. I scrubbed Windows8 and replaced with 7.

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2013-05-12
Well, if I'm installing from a separate drive, it shouldn't make any difference, right? I probably didn't turn secure boot off. I'll do that when I get the second drive installed and I'll report back. I have a caddy on order due to arrive tomorrow or the next day, to remove the noisy and useless DVD drive and install a second SSD specifically for Linux to dual boot, etc. This way, I can do secure erase procedures on either drive effectively.

---

### Post by paradoxni on 2013-05-13
If it helps. I purchased a new desktop PC over the weekend that came with Windows 8. Just before I formatted to get rid, I jumped into the bios and set secure boot to OFF. I was then still able to boot into Windows 8 just fine. You could just turn it back ON if you have boot issues.

Cheers,

A

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2013-05-13
The thing is, I thought Ubuntu supported secure boot as of 12.10. No reason not to use it if it works, but so far, that doesn't seem to be the case, so I'm still stumped by this.

---

### Post by donalgodon on 2013-05-28
What about installing the nvidia drivers on this model? I'm not having much success.

---

### Post by NoBugs! on 2013-11-02
So how does this run with 13.10? Some say this one has bad screen, or wifi that's always cutting out, anyone else notice this on latest Ubuntu?

I also noticed this model comes in Window 7 and 8 versions. Is there a difference in BIOSs, does the win7 version not have UEFI weirdness?

---

### Post by paradoxni on 2013-12-08
> **NoBugs! said:**
> So how does this run with 13.10? Some say this one has bad screen, or wifi that's always cutting out, anyone else notice this on latest Ubuntu?

I also noticed this model comes in Window 7 and 8 versions. Is there a difference in BIOSs, does the win7 version not have UEFI weirdness?

I have been trying each new version that comes out, and a few other flavours too. Unfortunately the touch pad is never "perfect", even with the various tweaks that can be made. Given that this is my main method of interacting with the laptop, it makes it a frustrating experience and I quickly reboot back into win7. Its a pity.

Unfortunately I have never remained in the OS for long enough to discover any wifi cut out problems.

I am running the latest UEFI bios update and Windows 7 has no issues (UEFI: on, secure boot: off, legacy option rom: on).

---

### Post by paradoxni on 2013-12-08
> **donalgodon said:**
> What about installing the nvidia drivers on this model? I'm not having much success.
I had no issues installing bumblebee-nvidia metapackage.

---

