---
title: "8.10 Wireless on Dell Latitude D800"
date: 2008-12-19
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by carlos.pereira on 2008-12-19
Hi,

I tried to install wireless driver through "System" -> "Administration" -> "Hardware Drivers", i click on "Broadcom B43 wireless driver" and then click activate. It don't download anything and don't appear any error message.

I had run the hwinfo command.
```

 hwinfo --wlan
01: PCI 203.0: 0282 WLAN controller                             
  [Created at pci.310]
  UDI: /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/pci_14e4_4324
  Unique ID: y9sn.zxnhFsu6a71
  Parent ID: 6NW+.+ISWpD3pbdC
  SysFS ID: /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0/0000:02:03.0
  SysFS BusID: 0000:02:03.0
  Hardware Class: network
  Model: "Dell Truemobile 1450 MiniPCI"
  Vendor: pci 0x14e4 "Broadcom"
  Device: pci 0x4324 "BCM4309 802.11a/b/g"
  SubVendor: pci 0x1028 "Dell"
  SubDevice: pci 0x0003 "Truemobile 1450 MiniPCI"
  Revision: 0x03
  Driver: "b43-pci-bridge"
  Driver Modules: "ssb"
  Device File: wlan0
  Features: WLAN
  Memory Range: 0xfafec000-0xfafedfff (rw,non-prefetchable)
  IRQ: 5 (no events)
  HW Address: 00:90:4b:8d:28:ad
  WLAN channels: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
  WLAN frequencies: 2.412 2.417 2.422 2.427 2.432 2.437 2.442 2.447 2.452 2.457 2.462
  WLAN encryption modes: WEP40 WEP104 TKIP CCMP
  WLAN authentication modes: open sharedkey wpa-psk wpa-eap
  Module Alias: "pci:v000014E4d00004324sv00001028sd00000003bc02sc80i00"
  Driver Info #0:
    Driver Status: ssb is active
    Driver Activation Cmd: "modprobe ssb"
  Config Status: cfg=new, avail=yes, need=no, active=unknown
  Attached to: #12 (PCI bridge)

```

Any one can help me install the wireless driver?

---

### Post by rmaultz on 2008-12-27
3.4. Installing Windows driver
3.4.1. Installing Windows driver using ndisgtk (ndiswrapper graphical interface)

·         If you chose to install ndisgtk, the graphical interface for ndiswrapper, after installation click on System | Administration | Windows wireless drivers and follow the instructions on-screen. For an idea of what to expect, some screenshots of ndisgtk can be found here.

If this works, and you have a network connection, then you can skip to Automatically loading at Startup - ndisgtk will load the driver if it installs correctly.
3.4.2. Installing Windows driver using command line

In a Terminal, run the following command:

·           sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/drivers/drivername.inf

(assuming the driver is in a directory in your home folder called drivers, and is named drivername.inf)

ndiswrapper then copies the .inf and sys files into /etc/ndiswrapper/.... Don't forget that the filename you type in is case-sensitive.
3.4.2.1. Check to make sure the driver was installed correctly

    * Run the following command from a Terminal: 

  ndiswrapper -l

If the driver is installed correctly, you should see the following output:

  Installed ndis drivers:

  {name of driver} driver present, hardware present

or

  {name of driver} : driver installed

       device ({Chipset ID}) present

If you don't see this message:

a.       Try a different driver such as the drivers for Windows 2000, or another driver matching the PCI ID on the ndiswrapper list.

b.      This document has a troubleshooting section which may provide an answer.

c.       Look for additional help. Read HowToGetHelp for more information.
3.5. Load the new driver module

    * If ndiswrapper correctly associates the driver to the wireless adapter, you are now ready to load the driver into memory, and try to establish a network connection. Open a Terminal and run the following commands: 

·           sudo depmod -a

  sudo modprobe ndiswrapper

Then, also in a Terminal, check for error messages:

  tail /var/log/messages

Alternatively, open a Terminal and try the commands ifconfig and iwconfig. Your wireless card should appear with an interface name of wlan0. If it doesn't appear here, then the driver is not working properly. If no errors are given, you should now be able to configure the network connection.

---

