---
title: "M1330 8.10 beta: Fan spins full speed all the time"
date: 2008-10-15
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by dagurb on 2008-10-15
I am running the 8.10 beta on my M1330 and after a recent software update the fan spins full speed in 4 second intervals all the time (i.e. it spins for 4 seconds, stops for a moment, then starts again). Can anyone help me with this?

If you need more info let me know and I'll update this post.

Update: I just followed [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5275415#post5275415") guide to no avail. Every time I change i8k setting the fan briefly stops but starts right back up again. It seems i8k is not able to control the fan.

---

### Post by harryy on 2008-10-16
same problem here, M1330, fan is crazy...

edit: seems the problem is the nvidia driver version 177...

---

### Post by shingalated on 2008-10-18
So I shouldn't upgrade yet? :(

---

### Post by saro on 2008-10-19
I downgraded my nvidia driver to version 173 and the problem stopped. Though the system is not very stable and keeps crashing but that is a different issue. All the fruits of being an early beta tester :(

---

### Post by Oliver Acevedo on 2008-10-19
So has anyone figured out a fix to this without having to downgrade to version 173? I'm having the same problem, except it didn't happen until after I first woke up my computer from suspend. Before then, it was normal. I use to idle at around 54 degrees, but now I'm idling at around 46 degrees. The cooler pc is nice but I would rather a little warmer and no fan noise for sure.

---

### Post by engineer on 2008-10-20
I first also had this problem, then went back to 173 and after a few days again back to 178. It seemed either gdm or the X server itself used 100% of the cpu power.
It seems to work now, however most times gdm still uses 100% CPU power and doesn't come up with the login screen.
I have no real explanation, but there might still be some driver issues.

---

### Post by Oliver Acevedo on 2008-10-20
What's the difference between 173 and 177 other than one being "recommended"? (even though that's the one with problems...)

---

### Post by Oliver Acevedo on 2008-10-21
according to [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/280805](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/280805) the fix to this problem is upgrading to the latest BIOS update (A12?). Go to [http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Tech/libsmbios_dellBiosUpdate](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Tech/libsmbios_dellBiosUpdate) for instruction on how to update your BIOS with linux. 

They say the fan speeds are even quieter than before.

---

### Post by engineer on 2008-10-21
you're right! I forgot to mention the thing with the bios upgrade.

however gdm still doesn't work on my system and consumes 100% cpu power. there might be 2 problems that just look similar.

---

### Post by shingalated on 2008-10-21
Is the latest A12?

---

### Post by Oliver Acevedo on 2008-10-21
Yes, the latest is A12. Someone mentioned an A13 but I have no idea what he was talking about. Dell's website just shows A12...

---

### Post by zwon on 2008-10-30
Thanks Oliver! Yes BIOS upgrade solves the problem.

---

### Post by drsaamah on 2008-10-31
I followed the instructions on the Dell Linux wiki, and the BIOS did not upgrade.  The troubleshooting section says to add the command for a warm reboot to my kernel command line.  The issue is where in the filesystem the kernel command line is.  Help?
Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Oliver Acevedo on 2008-10-31
Same here, I had to do mines under windows. Is that a possibility for you?

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-11-01
> **drsaamah said:**
> I followed the instructions on the Dell Linux wiki, and the BIOS did not upgrade.  The troubleshooting section says to add the command for a warm reboot to my kernel command line.  The issue is where in the filesystem the kernel command line is.  Help?
Thanks in advance!

open terminal
Application/Accessories/Terminal 
then run this command 

before that you are about to edit your boot config so its always important to make backups in case things go wrong so the first command should be 

```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst-bak
``` 
this would create a backup file of the original boot menu config

now to the real stuff

```
gksu gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
this would open a text file . look for this line in the text file

kernel	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f ro quiet splash 

and add ```
reboot=bios
``` to it to look like this 


kernel	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f ro quiet splash **reboot=bios** 

here is mine 

#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-7-generic
uuid		0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f
**kernel**		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f ro quiet splash **reboot=bios**
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-7-generic (recovery mode)
uuid		0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f ro  single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic

title		Ubuntu 8.10, memtest86+
uuid		0fba187f-6735-471a-858c-5b887670988f
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

when you do this reboot ... then go over the update process again then reboot . 
once you confirm the bios is updated remove the  reboot=bios option ( at least i removed mine ) and get on with you life

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-11-01
i updated my bios to BIOS Version: A13 even then my fan keeps running non stop . ibex is cool and all but with my webcam not working, and finger print reader not working. add to this fan problem .. i think am starting to get pushed a little too much over the edge .. maybe i need a steady hardy :)

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-11-01
i think the latest is A13

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-11-01
is it possible to downgrade the dell bios from A13 to A12

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-11-01
when i tried i got this grim message .

 
[B]
 dellBiosUpdate -u -f ./bios.hdr
WARNING: BIOS HDR file BIOS version appears to be less than or equal to current BIOS version.
         This may result in bad things happening!
         Exiting...[/B]
 and i think i will do what its says .. problem is my fan is always constantly spinning .. what can i do .. am running ubuntu hardy heron with kernel version Linux version 2.6.24-21-generic anything i can do to stop the spin. :(

---

### Post by jbcano on 2008-11-01
Hi

I solved the fan problem using the nvidia driver 173 not the driver 177. I changed it using system/Admin/Driver Hardware, selecting the nvidia 173 driver and rebooting. After that no problem with the fan.

I updated from hardy and because of that i dont know if this driver is always there or must be downloaded.


Luck

---

### Post by prankst3r on 2008-11-01
There is no fix for this if you have a 1420N other than dropping down to nvidia driver 173.

$ sudo getSystemId
Libsmbios:    2.0.3
System ID:    0x01F3
Service Tag:  9QH0GF1
Express Service Code: 21191736349
Product Name: Inspiron 1420
BIOS Version: A04
Vendor:       Dell Inc.
Is Dell:      1

If you check the list of downloadable bios files, the BIOS for 0x01F3 is for a different model of Dell than the 1420N...

---

### Post by Tweak42 on 2008-11-01
Thanks all!

Had the same problem on Latitude D630 running 64bit 8.10 ibex and downgrading from Nvidia 177 to 173 drivers silenced the fan noise.

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-11-01
i have upgraded to bios A13 yet the fan problem persist .. i then downgraded by to A12 am still getting the fan problem. i just so unhappy :( getting this dell m1330 with ubuntu preinstalled cost me a lot because i had to get a friend to buy it from the US and ship it down to my country all at great expense. when i could have easily gotten a vista version locally for cheaper plus support. now am stuck with a system whose fan spins non stop. i made sure i avoided the Nvidia cards because of this same problem never knew that the Intel intergraged graphic cards are also affected. i honestly dont know what to do. i have spent all day trying to fix this thing. posted,googled, now its 3AM and am still up trying to look for a solution. words cant describe how sad i am right now after spending over $1800 on a machine this is definitely not what i expected. please any body that can help it would be appreciated.

---

### Post by motin on 2008-11-02
> **bigbrovar said:**
> i have upgraded to bios A13 yet the fan problem persist .. i then downgraded by to A12 am still getting the fan problem. i just so unhappy :( getting this dell m1330 with ubuntu preinstalled cost me a lot because i had to get a friend to buy it from the US and ship it down to my country all at great expense. when i could have easily gotten a vista version locally for cheaper plus support. now am stuck with a system whose fan spins non stop. i made sure i avoided the Nvidia cards because of this same problem never knew that the Intel intergraged graphic cards are also affected. i honestly dont know what to do. i have spent all day trying to fix this thing. posted,googled, now its 3AM and am still up trying to look for a solution. words cant describe how sad i am right now after spending over $1800 on a machine this is definitely not what i expected. please any body that can help it would be appreciated.

I understand you. I was in the same position a few years back. What I learned was the value of running a tested, supported system. Buying things pre-installed is a good way to accomplish this and means that it will probably work great as shipped. 

If you install some other system or perform a major upgrade from the pre-installed version, you kind of loose the benefits of buying with Ubuntu pre-installed and could just as well as you said bought the Vista version and replaced Vista with Ubuntu.

I propose you perform a system restore so that you get back the system that was shipped with the laptop. Save your /home directory and put it back after installation and you won't loose your customized user settings and files. 

Then, when having a supported and working system, you could install Hardy Heron or Intrepid Ibex on a separate partition, and make sure it works fully with your hardware before performing the upgrade on your main system.

---

### Post by greenpeace on 2008-11-08
I also have a m1330, and after the upgrade to 8.10 I had the same problem... fan spinning every few seconds then cutting out.

I've just updated the BIOS to a13 following the [Dell guide]("http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Tech/libsmbios_dellBiosUpdate") mentioned previously.  it has now stopped, and reckon it's probably quieter now than it was on 8.04.

---

### Post by sultanoswing on 2008-11-11
If you wait a few weeks / months, Dell will hopefully release their image of 8.10 which in theory SHOULD contain a good solid working set of drivers and modules tailored to the 1330.

Otherwise, I'd suggest staying with 8.04 LTS for now - only you can know how important the new features of 8.10 are to you compared to the annoyance / distress of a loud fan.

---

### Post by dpilot83 on 2008-12-28
Has anyone found a solution for this yet? 8.1 is now out and I'm experiencing the same issue with my XPS 1330 and nVidia 8400M GS. Sometimes the fan runs 100% for 15 seconds but most of the time it runs for 4 seconds or so and then has a slight pause before the next 4 second run. Thanks.

---

### Post by AllisonM on 2008-12-28
I had this problem on my D630 (with Nvidia Quadro NVS 135M) and downgraded to 173 to solve it. The next day, my Nvidia card overheated and died. Reading here how many folks used the same fix without a card failure, I'm more convinced that the failure was coincidental, but still, learn from my mistake - watch your GPU temp carefully in 8.10, especially if you're using the 173 driver!

---

