---
title: "L501X 10.10 or 10.04 and 32 or 64? aka Dell XPS 15 2010 model"
date: 2011-03-08
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by iammeagain on 2011-03-08
I have just recently gotten a Dell XPS 15 ( L501X ). I wanted to go ahead and get ubuntu running on this. 
Now my main question is what seems to be the most stable on this system? 10.10 or 10.04 and is it better to go with the 32bit or 64bit for my system? 
I am aware of the nvidia optimus driver problems that are out there. I don't understand exactly how to go about fixing it. But if it defaults to just the intel on board graphics that is fine with me. I'd prefer the battery life since I won't be using any games anyways on Ubuntu. 

System Specs:
i5 460M @ 2.53GHz
6GB Ram
The 1080p Screen
Nvidia 420M (NO tv tuner)
Basic Keyboard (NO backlight, but want to add later on.)
Dvd RW DL Drive
JBL 

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2011-03-08
The Dell XPS 15 ( L501X ) has a Intel Core i5, so it's 64-bit. I would go for 64-bit.

And I find 10.04 very stable and better than 10.10, so I would go for 10.04 (it's now at 10.04.2). One exception: maybe your Dell XPS 15 has hardware that's not supported in 10.04. Just try 10.04 from the live CD/USB and check that everything's working.

So: 10.04 64-bit is my advice.

HTH

---

### Post by iammeagain on 2011-03-08
I installed 10.04.2 64bit. I currently don't have audio unless it is through one of my headphone ports. The brightness lowering shortcut button does not work (which is expected since I read a thread about it before). The wireless does not seem to want to turn on, which is strange since it was working while using the live desktop. The HDMI doesn't seem to work either but I think that would be tied into having Nvidia graphics drivers installed. 

Interestingly enough the battery shortcut does display battery information for me. The wireless hotkey turns the light off and on, although it doesn't activate the card for Ubuntu. The hotkey for the touchpad also works correctly. The programmable shortcut key turns down the brightness SETTING, but not the actual brightness. 

I don't know how to tell if I'm using nvidia or intel graphics at the moment, which I would like to figure out. I imagine there is some sort of command line to tell me exactly. 

I have yet to update any of this, so I will try some updates and look around for solutions. If I can't find anything I'll then try 10.10, Since I ready in another thread it worked well for someone else. > **danjh2705 said:**
> 

Just as a final thought..... Meerkat works perfectly on this machine!

I only just found that a little bit ago, after doing my install of 10.04.2

---

### Post by iammeagain on 2011-03-09
I may have figured out the Nvidia power drain problem by searching around. Here is my writeup on it. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10540069#post10540069](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10540069#post10540069)

---

