---
title: "XPS M1330 / 8.10 Keyboard issues"
date: 2009-02-01
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-02-01
Thought I posted this before, but it disappeared.

I searched the forums and spent the better part of a day Googling this specific problem but had no luck.  

These Keys do not work:

FN Keypad (the FN key does work though)
Backspace
Home
Page Up
Page Dn
End


I tried different keyboard layouts and that didn't seem to help.  Is there any way to map the keys properly, or is there an keyboard layout that will work?

I could live without the page/home/end keys, but it's a real PITB not having a working backspace!

---

### Post by superm1 on 2009-02-01
1) If you are on 8.10 Make sure that you are fully up to date.  There are tons of keyboard related fixes in 8.10

2) If you've been trying different key layouts but still don't have luck, I would recommend booting an 8.04 live disk up to check functionality there and rule out hardware problems.  I say 8.04 because the 8.10 live disk *does* have some problems with keyboards on Dell machines

3) If the live disk shows that everything is fine, go into the gnome keyboard tool and set the keyboard layout to "Generic evdev managed keyboard"

See how those turn out.

---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-02-01
Double checked 8.10 is up to date; it is.

Typing this right now on the 8.04 disk's Firefox, no backspace - or the rest of the problem keys either.

Tried the evdev keyboard, no luck there either.

---

### Post by superm1 on 2009-02-02
If you were having trouble on the live disk, that surely means you have some hardware going bad.  I would contact Dell support to get a replacement keyboard.

---

### Post by Ubun00btu on 2009-02-02
Yah, bad keyboard...

I booted into BIOS and tried the backspace where I could.  It didn't work there either.  It's an older laptop and I got it used from family, so Dell won't be any help.  OTOH, Ebay has new keyboards for $15, so I'll just get one of them.  Thanks for the assist!

---

