---
title: "Xps m1710&gt;11.04&gt;audio too loud"
date: 2011-06-01
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Dead_$partan on 2011-06-01
Hi Everyone,

I recently installed 11.04 on my XPS M1710 and everything seems fine apart from the audio.

When listening to anything, it sounds like you are hearing music through a wall, its kind of muffled, like the mid of bass are too high(or the treble too low).  Furthermore when I click the volume up from 0, it only takes about 2 clicks for the music to sound distorted and loud and the volume bar has barely moved.

I have attached a screenshot of alsamixer with the volume bar so you can see what I mean.

Also when I click the volume(with alsamixer running) the volume jumps from 22 to 64, then from 64 to 93 for PCM and LFE.

Can anyone help resolve this issue please?

---

### Post by Dead_$partan on 2011-06-01
I have got it working better.  Have been doing a lot of random things so unsure exactly what helped.

I edited /usr/share/pulseaudio/alsa-mixer/paths/analog-output.conf and set Element LFE to ignore but this didnt help as the audio was still coming through my sub woofer.  I then set this back to merge and set Hardware Master and Master to ignore(one at a time).  

Around this point I also re-opened alsamixer and pressed F6 to select sound card and selected the one underneath default, even though this was already set correctly.  

I then messed around with Master, PCM and LFE via alsamixer and noticed it was saving the levels for each(before it wasnt) and I also noticed that when I adjust the volume now, only PCM moves, LFE stays static so one of the above has got it working better.  It is not fixed as the mix between bass and treble is off but it is a lot better than it was.

---

