---
title: "10.04 system super crazy slow AFTER update"
date: 2011-03-25
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by stirlo on 2011-03-25
Hi, 

After a recent auto update my system suddenly started going incredibly slow. The entire system, not just a particular application. It boots fine, I log in fine, then as the desktop appears the mouse becomes very slow and laggy, and it takes forever to do anything. Firefox takes literally about 7-10 mins to open, and once it opens it seems to be hungup(greyed out) most of the time, all the main dropdown mens take a number of seconds. To open any form of window takes a few minutes. The system ran fantastic before the update, infact i remember just minutes before being amazed at how fast it ran on my old ispiron 2200. It is now totallay un-useable.

So some recent history; I did a fresh install of 10.04 after 9.04 failed to upgrade properly. The new install of lucid ran absolutely great for about 2 weeks - I was very happy and very impressed with it. Then i had a kernal panic. So i rolled back to an older version(by pushing shift key on grub load) and it started fine. Also, just to note, during this kernal panic, the live cd wouldnt load...
So, once i was back to running fine on an older kernal, the update manager popped up and did its thing, i noticed it was a fairly large update - about 66Mb. It finished and requested a re-start, I did that and it seemed to crash during the resatart, so i forced shutdown by holding the power button.

It powered back up fine, did a disk check, i logged in, and then it was crazy slow. Couldn't really do anything with it, FF took the better of 10 mins to load, opening synaptic took about 6mins! 
So i restarted again, to try rolling back the kernal agian, when i noticed there is now a third option on the list, cant remember the whole thing but im pretty sure it ended with .32  The other options end in .28 and .29. I selected .28 (the oldest im assuming). It started quick as usuall, but again, once in the desktop, everything turned into molasses at -40!!

FYI 
- the HDD read light is notflashing anymore than it usually would, actually it seems less
- i have turned the graphic effects to none

Im trying to get the results of grepVGA and lshw but its taken 20mins and counting to get into the terminal, ill post the results when i get em.

Im still somewhat new to ubuntu, but im certainly able to copy and paste into terminal!
:D


Any help would be great, my system was fantastic before this seemingly routine update. 
Im trying real hard to convert my windows friends to linux, but asking to borrow their pc's to fix mine, is certainly not helping my cause!! 

Thanks in advance!!

---

### Post by stirlo on 2011-03-25
Just a quick addition - the three kernal choices i have in the grub menu are 2.6.32-28, 2.6.32-29, and 2.6.32-30. And a recovery mode for each one.
The problems started straight after the update that included 32-30. Is there any way to remove that kernal update?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-03-26
Sorry to hear that you have this much trouble. How does the machine work in a live boot of 10.10?

---

