---
title: "setup s-video on Inspiron 1525 Ubuntu"
date: 2008-10-13
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by heartlessdevil on 2008-10-13
I installed Ubuntu 8.04 on my Dell Inspiron 1525 laptop. I used the image from the Ubuntu website and not the Dell image. However I added the backports repo plus the updated Dell repo and everything works like a charm.

However, the S-video/HDMI output does not work. Is there any fix for this feature to work on Ubuntu ?

The Inspiron 1525 has an Intel 965 graphics card and I am not able to find any article or solution regarding this. Someone suggested using i810switch on ubuntuforums and sadly that does not work as well.

 

Can someone help?

---

### Post by MrSootentai on 2008-10-13
I have a Dell 1420 and was never able to get my S-Video out working either.
But just recently, because of an update, dual monitor support was finally working for me. I have an intel driver too.

What'd you try so far other than i810driver??

---

### Post by heartlessdevil on 2008-10-14
My xrandr output looks like this:
hd@hogwarts:~$xrandr
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1280 x 1024, maximum 1400 x 1400
VGA connected 1280x1024+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 380mm x 305mm
   1280x1024      60.0*+   75.0     60.0     60.0* 
   1400x1050      60.0  
   1280x960       60.0  
   1152x864       75.0     75.0  
   1024x768       75.1     75.0     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        75.0     72.8     75.0     60.0     59.9  
   720x400        70.1  


Also when I connect the S-video cable to TV:
hd@hogwarts:~$xrandr --output TV --auto --right-of LVDS
xrandr: screen cannot be larger than 1280x1024 (desired size 1280x600)

This is similar to the post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=617934&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=617934&page=2)

Can someone help??
This is how my xorg.conf looks like:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by heartlessdevil on 2008-10-21
I installed grandr - a package available through synaptic. This required me to restart the laptop with the S-video connected to the TV and it started working.
Only problem was that the Shift and Capslock keys froze, which was resolved by changing System -> Preferences -> Appearance from Normal to None. Also mentioned in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=785029](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=785029)

---

