---
title: "9.04 or 9.10 ?"
date: 2009-10-26
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by sydneyaustralia on 2009-10-26
I ordered a DELL Latitude 2100 with Ubuntu 9.04 last week. Now I read on Ubuntu website the 9.10 version comes out in 3 days (not beta). should I upgrade to 9.10 or should I leave it to DELL configurations? I am new to all this.

---

### Post by Normalex on 2009-10-26
Try the preinstalled configuration first for a month or two. It should be enough time for a Linux newcomer to kill the first system :)
And then you should it be pretty easy for you to install Karmic Koala (9.10).
Don't forget to make a backup of user files, just in case of failure.
Good luck and DON'T PANIC, read manuals and forums.

---

### Post by sydneyaustralia on 2009-10-26
> **Normalex said:**
> Try the preinstalled configuration first for a month or two. It should be enough time for a Linux newcomer to kill the first system :)
And then you should it be pretty easy for you to install Karmic Koala (9.10).
Don't forget to make a backup of user files, just in case of failure.
Good luck and DON'T PANIC, read manuals and forums.


Thank you

---

### Post by Spooky5 on 2009-10-26
I always like to wait a week or two before installing the newest version of Ubuntu, just in case there are some incompatibilities with the Dell hardware.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2009-10-26
Usually Dell will make the latest distro available with all its own gee-gaws in about a month or two. I would suggest that you might want to wait until the Dell 9.10 comes out.

However that being said, I borked my original Ubuntu 7.10 on my 530n about two years ago. Dell sent an Ubuntu disk, which turned out to be just plain vanilla Ubuntu from Canonical. I basically wiped out the original partitions and installed from that disk and everything was fine. Just had the usual video card problems when I updated to 8.04LTS, but everyone seemed to have that problem. Been using 8.04 ever since. Can't say that will work for 9.04 and 9.10 though, maybe Dell has customized Ubuntu a bit more.

---

### Post by swallisa on 2009-10-26
Hey oz in case you don't want to wait Dell 9.10 iso [http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/karmic/iso-images/](http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/karmic/iso-images/)

---

