---
title: "10.04 dual boot with Windows 7 occasionally hangs on boot"
date: 2011-02-17
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by seagaia on 2011-02-17
Hi,

after I reach the grub screen, and pick my 10.04, 2.6.32-27 to boot on, it will go to the black loading screen, and occasionally (maybe 1 out of 2 boots) it will just hang indefinitely with a "_" blinking in the top left corner. Otherwise it boots normally.

I'm not really sure why this happens, especially since it happens every other time I boot or so.

I dual boot with Windows 7, if that helps.


Also, uname -a gives me this:
... 2.6.32-27-generic #49-Ubuntu SMP Wed Dec 1 23:52:12 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux 6


And a smaller question. Is there a way to remove older versions of kernels from the GRUB menu? I.e.,  2.6.32-24, etc. still show

---

### Post by emptythevoid on 2011-03-01
What model of Dell computer are you using?  I have a Precision M6500 with Windows 7 that gets that same problem.  

I was able to fix it by:

    sudo gedit /etc/default/grub 

and changing the line 

    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash" 

to

    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet"

saving, and then running  

    sudo update-grub

I also removed ureadahead, which slows the boot time a bit, and I'm not sure if that was necessary or not - it's been a long time.

---

### Post by bodselecta on 2011-03-01
> **seagaia said:**
> 
And a smaller question. Is there a way to remove older versions of kernels from the GRUB menu? I.e.,  2.6.32-24, etc. still show

try [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GrubHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GrubHowto)  menu.lst is the place

---

### Post by emptythevoid on 2011-03-02
I used to use Startup-Manager to limit the kernel list... but I don't think it's working with newer versions of Ubuntu.  I can't confirm this, though...

---

### Post by seagaia on 2011-03-07
Thanks guys. Booting  is consistently smooth and I no longer have to key through 4 menu options at GRUB :)

---

