---
title: "12.04 LTS on PowerEdge T300 installs but won't boot"
date: 2012-08-22
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by scottlowe on 2012-08-22
Hello all, I'm trying to get Ubuntu 12.04 LTS 64-bit installed on an older PowerEdge T300 server with the SAS 6/iR controller (LSI SAS1068E chipset). Ubuntu installs just fine, no errors reported by the installer and all drives recognized as expected. However, upon attempting to boot the system after installation, boot fails.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by cross37 on 2012-08-23
I had a bunch of T310 servers that would not boot when larger disks were installed.  It seemed to have something to do with the disk controller taking too long to initialize.  I used an Ubuntu install cd to boot up in rescue mode, then I edited /etc/default/grub so it had the following:

[FONT="Courier New"]GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="rootdelay=90"[/FONT]

This lets the kernel wait longer for the root device to become available.  This worked for me, maybe you are having the same issue.

---

### Post by suicid3al on 2013-07-07
I found that the easy solution to this is to have atleast one physical drive attached that's not connected to the raid controller but directly to the motherboard. When installing Ubuntu (I presume desktop since server already seams to install fine) you have to select "something else" on install options so that you can define partitions and such. Install on SDA and make sure the boot partition is also installed on SDA. T300 doesn't seam to like OS Boot Sectors on seperate partitions than the OS.
Hope that helps :)
~SU!C!D3~

---

