---
title: "WPA-PSK on Dell XPS m1330"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by doubleij on 2008-12-02
Hi,

I bought my Dell XPS m1330 with Ubuntu pre-installed and have been very happy. Wireless works flawlessly for WEP and WPA personal. Unfortunately, I can't get my machine to connect to a WPA-PSK network at a friend's home where I'm staying (TKIP encryption). It's a hidden SSID, but my wifi will detect and show the network in gnome's GUI wireless display after I enter the name and enter the passphrase. Unfortunately, I can't actually connect. I select WPA Personal and then TKIP at the moment, because that's the closest. Selecting these options, I can see the network, but it just tries to connect endlessly (none of the dots go green). I do not see an option in my GUI for WPA-PSK (or WPA2). 

If it helps, my network/interfaces file has the following
> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

How do I enable WPA-PSK in Dell XPS m1330? I have the stand Intel wireless card that comes with this machine.

Thanks in advance for any tips.

---

### Post by rybl on 2008-12-15
Any chance you can just make the SSID visible?  Hiding it doesn't really add much security especially if you are using strong encryption.

Edit:  By the way, I'm pretty sure that WPA-PSK and WPA Personal are the same thing.

---

### Post by vdoki on 2009-01-09
Any news here? I am in the same situation. Or maybe not, if your wireless is really intel.

I have a Dell XPS M1330 too, this is the wireless card:

description: Wireless interface
product: BCM4312 802.11b/g
vendor: Broadcom Corporation
logical name: eth1
version: 01
capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl latency=0 module=wl multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg

I can connect at home with WPA to a linksys router, but at work there is an smc router with WPA which is causing trouble.

I have learned if i change WPA to WPA2, then I'm able to connect (but my phone can't, so this is not an option).

I'm using wicd, but I have tried it by hand too.

Any idea why this particular router is causing trouble? I tried to update the firmware on that, but that did not help either.

---

### Post by vdoki on 2009-01-30
I have solved my problem.

It seems, that the router gives inconsistent information about the connections settings.

This is the result of iwlist scan:
```
          
Cell 01 - Address: 00:11:22:33:44:55
                    ESSID:"myssid"
                    Mode:Managed
                    Frequency:2.432 GHz (Channel 5)
                    Quality:4/5  Signal level:-66 dBm  Noise level:-24 dBm
                    IE: IEEE 802.11i/WPA2 Version 1
                        Group Cipher : TKIP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (1) : CCMP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                       Preauthentication Supported
                    IE: WPA Version 1
                        Group Cipher : TKIP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (2) : TKIP CCMP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    Encryption key:on
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              12 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s

```

This configuration is generated by wicd (/var/lib/wicd/configurations/macaddress):
```

ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant
network={
       ssid="myssid"
       scan_ssid=0
       proto=WPA **RSN**
       key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
       pairwise=**CCMP** TKIP
       group=**CCMP** TKIP
       psk=04408fc84426332645486e9ec3a61bbf945df4886f9e3ebb7e4182043e3a8c0e
}

```

But this is the correct configuration:
```

ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant
network={
       ssid="myssid"
       scan_ssid=0
       proto=WPA
       key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
       pairwise=TKIP
       group=TKIP
       psk=04408fc84426332645486e9ec3a61bbf945df4886f9e3ebb7e4182043e3a8c0e
}

```

According to this [very helpful howto]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=571188"), the first is the WPA2 and the second is the WPA1 kind of configuration.

I could not let wicd use my correct settings, so I got back network-manager. Network manager created the same wrong settings, but I could edit in gconf-editor in /system/networking/connections/N/802-11-wireless-security.

So finnaly I am able to connect!

---

