---
title: "12.10 X screen crashes ocasionally Dell XP 17 optimus"
date: 2012-12-03
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2012-12-03
I've been dealing with this since I bought the laptop a few years back.  I accept that NVidia probably won't support optimus which is fine however what is mostly annoying is x screen crashing on a regular basis.

So I have bumblebee installed I'm currently on 12.10 and I can use optirun program name to run the program and that's fine however sometimes when booting up my PC I get a white box telling me that the graphic card drivers can't be found do I want to try and repair, re-coinfigure etc.

Or I just log in via terminal and type startx and then log out and log back in.  I would say this generally happens 3 times every 2 weeks.

I am now even switching from Unity to gnome-shell to try and use a less "graphical" interface to help reduce these crashes but it doesn't really help the situation.  

Unfortunately due to it being at random times it can be hard to try and get messages that may help troubleshoot however it did happen yesturday so if there are any specific log files people want me to look at to help I would be happy to do so.

If this is what I have to deal with permanently then fine but I do want to at least try and resolve this before I consider investing in getting a toshiba at a later point in time.

Regards,
Jay

---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2012-12-05
*bump* is there no one who has a simular problem like this?

---

