---
title: "10.04 on an external USB drive"
date: 2010-07-11
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by CnS3046 on 2010-07-11
Hello, 

I'm new to this whole linux stuff, so bear with me.

Here is my setup.
Dell Inspiron 6000 (celeron)
No internal HDD
60g external USB HDD

I have downloaded/burnt Desktop Ubuntu 10.04 iso on another computer and successfully run live CD on this Dell Inspiron.  Now I want to boot Ubuntu from a spare external USB drive I have (mb from windows or Mac I don't remember).  It did recognize the drive when running live CD, so I installed Ubuntu through some GUI tool that came with (I think Startup disk creator or something like that name under Administration).  

It said "it was successfully installed and now I can use the disk to boot," BUT when I restart, it just gets stuck on "DELL" logo screen before it shows "F2 to setup, F12 to... etc" everytime I have the USB drive connected.  If I unplug the USB drive and restart I can go setup menu or it boots from the live CD automatically (since I have no internal HDD).  I really don't know about linux formatting so I tried FAT and ext3, and this issue happens in both circumstances.

When I check the drive in live CD, it's checked as "bootable", and also I did make sure in bios that it's allowing USB storage devices to boot.

I googled  A LOT and still can't find the exact solution.  It seems some people claim this bios (A09) has some issue with linux external HDD booting, so I tried to get newer bios through "universe" repo etc directly in live CD (which I don't even know if it's possible cuz with live CD and no internal drive, there is no "write" space to save the package etc..), but no success.  I really don't know where to go from here.  Please let me know if there is anything I can try.

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-07-11
You probably need to change your BIOS to boot from USB.  On my dell it is done with F12 when the Dell label comes up.

---

### Post by CnS3046 on 2010-07-11
Sry if I wasn't clear but when I plug USB drive, it freezes on DELL logo screen before it shows options for f2 or f12.  Also, I boot without USB and I did change boot sequences starting from USB storage, CD, diskett etc, all the combinations and rstart with USB plugged this time, but the same result...

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-07-11
> **CnS3046 said:**
> Sry if I wasn't clear but when I plug USB drive, it freezes on DELL logo screen before it shows options for f2 or f12.  Also, I boot without USB and I did change boot sequences starting from USB storage, CD, diskett etc, all the combinations and rstart with USB plugged this time, but the same result...
Sounds like USB drive is not mounting.  Don't know what to do about that.  Perhaps someone else can help?

---

