---
title: "Dell 1721"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by yahn on 2008-07-12
I've been wanting to use Ubuntu on my laptop since the day I got it, but when I first got my laptop 7.04 wasn't working on the 1721.  I found a lot of posts with people having the same problem I was having, actually.  No one seemed to know how to fix it, or at least I couldn't find anyone demonstrating how.

Does anyone know if it works on the 1721 now?  I did a search and found people complaining about more specific things now, so I'm guessing people have been able to get it working.  I just want to make sure before I download and install it.

---

### Post by brncofan7 on 2008-07-12
What specific issues are you having?

---

### Post by yahn on 2008-07-12
The x server doesn't work at all.  So I can't see anything except a black screen when Ubuntu loads.

---

### Post by brncofan7 on 2008-07-12
Is that right after install or after enabling the drivers?  Sorry, just not familiar with the issue folks have had with the 1721.

---

### Post by yahn on 2008-07-12
Right after the install

---

### Post by PinkFloyd102489 on 2008-07-12
Why are you trying to put 7.04 on it anyway? Or do you mean 8.04? I have a 1720 and Ubuntu works fine for me. Only complaint is the webcam doesnt work, which isnt a big deal.


EDIT: What type of graphics card is in it?

---

### Post by yahn on 2008-07-13
ATI Radeon Xpress1270

I'm not trying to install 7.04.  I just tried to install that when I purchased the laptop.  I'm wondering if anything works on it now.  It seems that it does, but I'd like to have some assurance before I download it and spend an hour installing it.

---

### Post by PinkFloyd102489 on 2008-07-13
8.04 installed well for me, on my 1720. I had a bit of an issue with partitioning, because Dell likes to make six million partitions to back up their software, but I eventually got everything worked out. Ubuntu has 30GB (more than enough) and Vista has the rest of the drive, which is about 270GB. Music, videos, etc is shared from the Vista partition.

---

### Post by yahn on 2008-07-13
The newer version of Ubuntu works fine on the 1721.  I havn't had any problems yet, but I've only been using it for about 10 minutes.  It's so nice to be able to use Ubuntu again.

Vista was taking 20 minutes to load.  Not to mention, after Vista loaded, Notepad took a minute or longer to load.  Obviously, I must have had some kind of Trojan or something.  I don't know what could be making it so slow, honestly.  Either way, it's nice to be able to turn the computer on and be doing things in 30 seconds.

Thank you.

---

