---
title: "8.04's wireless and bluetooth issues at startup"
date: 2008-08-28
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by laurence91 on 2008-08-28
Hi there,

I have a M1530 with a dual boot of vista and Kubuntu, most things are going very well apart from sometimes at startup the wireless connection works fine, and the bluetooth mouse connects without any encouragment, and other times none of it connects and i cant get the wireless to kick in no matter what i do, generally a few restarts sometimes solves it.

Can anyone offer any advice on OS stability and anything i can do, i dont really want to change the release to a previous one.

Or failing that how about some console code that could give the wireless a kick form behind, i can manually connect the mouse with hcitools from the console. Is there anything similar for the wlan?

Thanks in advance
Laurence

---

### Post by TimDaniels on 2008-08-29
> **laurence91 said:**
> Hi there,

I have a M1530 with a dual boot of vista and Kubuntu, most things are going very well apart from sometimes at startup the wireless connection works fine, and the bluetooth mouse connects without any encouragment, and other times none of it connects and i cant get the wireless to kick in no matter what i do, generally a few restarts sometimes solves it.

Can anyone offer any advice on OS stability and anything i can do, i dont really want to change the release to a previous one.

Or failing that how about some console code that could give the wireless a kick form behind, i can manually connect the mouse with hcitools from the console. Is there anything similar for the wlan?

Thanks in advance
Laurence

I've found that my Dell Bluetooth Travel Mouse sometimes refuses to connect, too.  I've recently found a command line that will get it connected:
$ **sudo hidd --server --search**

With the Bluetooth mouse's broadcast button pressed, the laptop will find the mouse in a few seconds and link up.

For a balky Wi-Fi connection, a Dell tech rep had me download a new M1730 driver for my M1330 that is also the same one for the M1530, but 6 months more recent than the downloadable drivers for the other two laptops.  So far, that has been the cure (knock on wood).

*TimDaniels*

---

### Post by laurence91 on 2008-08-29
Thanks for sharing, thats good advice.

I have used that code before to connect up the mouse, its a lot quicker to do that in Kubunt than Vista!!!

Cheers
Laurence

---

