---
title: "9.04 on a Dell Latitude D500"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by egrpioneer on 2009-04-24
I'm happily using 8.10 on an older Toshiba Satellite A10. Also running real well on a very new intel dual core, 2, HDD box. 1. using XP Pro, the other 8.10.
So, I thought I'd try a clean (single partition) install of 9.04 on the older Dell. 40 gig HDD, I gig. ram. Actually, I performed 2 installs hoping that the second would be the charm. Observations: 1. boots in 2-3 min. takes 8.10 ~ 45 seconds on the Toshiba,, 2. during start up, no Ubuntu splash screen moving bar. No complaint with that, but may mean something is wrong. It was present during the initial installations. 3. during start up, Ubuntu user log in screen is ocasionally present. A large Ubuntu logo appears in the lower left hand side of the screen. 4. To much CPU activity when observed in system monitor. 5. Before desk top appears, a screen appears with huge lines of messages. The only word I can read is "error." The screen only appears for a second, or 2.

Thanks in advance for any feedback that may help fix these problems.

---

### Post by egrpioneer on 2009-04-24
> **egrpioneer said:**
> I'm happily using 8.10 on an older Toshiba Satellite A10. Also running real well on a very new intel dual core, 2, HDD box. 1. using XP Pro, the other 8.10.
So, I thought I'd try a clean (single partition) install of 9.04 on the older Dell. 40 gig HDD, I gig. ram. Actually, I performed 2 installs hoping that the second would be the charm. Observations: 1. boots in 2-3 min. takes 8.10 ~ 45 seconds on the Toshiba,, 2. during start up, no Ubuntu splash screen moving bar. No complaint with that, but may mean something is wrong. It was present during the initial installations. 3. during start up, Ubuntu user log in screen is ocasionally present. A large Ubuntu logo appears in the lower left hand side of the screen. 4. To much CPU activity when observed in system monitor. 5. Before desk top appears, a screen appears with huge lines of messages. The only word I can read is "error." The screen only appears for a second, or 2.

Thanks in advance for any feedback that may help fix these problems.

Forget about 9.04 with the Dell Latitude D500. 5 minutes to the desktop tonight, no update manager, open office grinds away for several minutes before opening.
9.04 is not ready for prime time with this hardware!

---

### Post by ducheus on 2009-04-25
Hi,
I upgraded my 8.10 (that worked great!) to 9.04 in my Dell D830...I expend all the night wondering me why I did that stupid move...
Boot time is between 4 to 6 mins. Every time I boot,a graphic adapter configuration error appears and so on.

I installed bootchart in order to understand what is happening but my first conclusion is that 9.04 is not ready for Dell laptops. I'm seriously evaluating to reinstall the 8.10

Any comment or suggestion will be welcome!
Hector

---

