---
title: "10.10 install on a Mini 9 Help please!!"
date: 2010-11-14
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by busheys on 2010-11-14
I've seen this topic discussed but I can't find a resolution to my problem.

I have a Dell Inspiron Mini 9 that came stock with 8.04.  Since I was already having some problems I decided to do a clean reinstall and upgrade to 10.10.  I made a usb key with 10.10 netbook remix (twice, just to make sure it was formatted and loaded correctly).  I booted from the USB key and did a clean reinstall of the entire hard disk.  The installation went fine, it prompted me to restart...changed my boot order, popped out the USB and then all I get is a blank black screen with a blinking cursor.

I've done the reinstall twice with two different USB keys.  10.10 runs fine off the USB key but not off the hard drive once installed.  I've made sure I've loaded the netbook version.  I even reinstalled 8.04 just to make sure there wasn't something else wrong.  Please help me, I've been at this for days...

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-11-14
Hi!

I have a mini 9 w/16gb hd and 2gb ram.

With no problems.

What size hd do you have?

KegHead

---

### Post by busheys on 2010-11-14
8 gb hd

---

### Post by KegHead on 2010-11-14
Hi!

Did you use unetbootin?

KegHead

---

### Post by busheys on 2010-11-14
i used universal usb installer on my windows comp per the instructions on the ubuntu website

[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/)

the usb stick i formatted using this allows me to run 10.10 off of the drive fine so it def worked...just not off the hard drive after install...

---

### Post by busheys on 2010-11-14
I was able to solve by installing 10.04 then upgrading from the upgrade manager to 10.10.  This should work if anyone else is having the same problems.  You'll have to do a wired upgrade because the wireless firmware won't work at first as discussed elsewhere.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2010-11-16
> **busheys said:**
> the usb stick i formatted using this allows me to run 10.10 off of the drive fine so it def worked...just not off the hard drive after install...

Actually, the most likely problem was the USB.
It can work "live" but still have errors. The important thing is to check md5sum, or re-download the original iso (with BitTorrent).
10.10 installs flawlessly on Mini 9's (apart from the wifi driver, which has to be installed from command line).

I would suggest this as an option rather than your upgrade path.

---

