---
title: "R.I.P Dell - killed by Ubuntu??"
date: 2009-08-21
forum: Dell Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ScottyC on 2009-08-21
Some months ago I loaded Ubuntu on to a seperate partition (for dual booting) on my Inspirion 6000 which was running on XP Pro. I only played around with Ubuntu and never really used it that much.

My machine was starting to give me a few problems (running slow / using full cpu all the time) and since it was a few years old anyway I bought myself a new laptop (Toshiba / Vista) and stopped using the Dell.

Well I plugged the Dell in a week ago and decided to get it running again to use in my four wheel drive for GPS / mapping and music. Still running really slow and at full cpu.

Formated the hdd and reloaded XP - spent several days pulling my hair out trying to update drivers and get it to connect to my wireless network and then in frustration decided to completely wipe the hdd (used KillDisk) and just load Ubuntu.

Downloaded the latest Ubuntu and burnt it to cd, put it in the Dell and booted to it. The Ubuntu menu came up, checked the disc - all good - ran the memory test - all good.

Start the installation - it was doing it's thing for a couple of minutes and then completely shut down.....hmm bit strange. Left it for a few more minutes then started it up again and got a Dell error message reporting it had shut down due to over temperature.

Checked the air vents - all clean - propped the machine up a bit to help the airflow anyway and started the install again - same result. This time I left the machine for 10 minutes to cool then restarted it - all the lights come on for about 5 seconds and then it just shuts down - no error messages or anything.

Tested my power supply - 19.5 volts - and tried it again after about an hour but still won't start :(:(:(

Has Ubuntu killed my laptop?

Any suggestions from anyone on what I could do without giving it to a $180 an hour tech to tell me it's stuffed?

---

### Post by automaton26 on 2009-08-21
Try an older (less demanding) version of ubuntu - 8.04 or perhaps 8.10.

But it sounds like that machine may have always had a poorly-fitted heatsink somewhere, or cooling issues.

---

### Post by Cresho on 2009-08-21
dell uses cheap ram. and other cheap stuff.  I usually switch ram and fixes problem on peoples machines.

---

### Post by pawhtiobo on 2009-08-21
Hi :)

Is the Fan working right?...maybe you need some [Artic Silver 5]("http://www.arcticsilver.com/") between the heatsink and the CPU, also try another AC adapter and a new battery, or start the PC without the battery. You can also remove the CD-Rom and HD and test if the PC works for some minutes in the post and don´t shutdown, after those test we can take some conclusions...

see ya :)

---

### Post by ScottyC on 2009-08-21
Some worthy suggestions guys but I don't think I explained myself properly - the machine won't boot at all now. press the power button and all the lights come on as per normal but after about 4 or 5 seconds it all just shuts down - before any screen or hdd activity at all.

I did try it with the hdd, dvd and battery removed - same result though.:(

---

### Post by pawhtiobo on 2009-08-21
Do you notice, if the fan is spinnig? some MB if they don't detect a CPU fan, it shutdown the system.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-08-21
I'd go to the DELL website. They have some great manuals on there for troubleshooting.

---

### Post by ScottyC on 2009-08-21
No fan action - just had a very close listen to it and the hdd appears to spin up for the few seconds that the lights are on.

---

### Post by automaton26 on 2009-08-21
> **ScottyC said:**
> with...battery removed - same result though.:(

Is that (or any PC) supposed to boot without a battery?

Perhaps a duff battery is actually the issue?

---

### Post by ScottyC on 2009-08-21
nah not the battery, was running fine on the battery earlier today.

---

### Post by pawhtiobo on 2009-08-21
When the lights are on, are they on, in some kind o sequence? I hask this because those lights have codes, that give us the right diagnostic. If you can find a way to open the laptop, removing the CMOS battery for a few mins and reinserting it will return the BIOS settings to factory defaults, maybe this can be a BIOS issue or a corrupt BIOS file.... just guessing...

---

### Post by balaji_9r on 2009-08-21
HI, I got lucky when someone left a broken laptop in my room(ex roommates). i fixed it and installed ubuntu 9.04. i kind of had the same problem.... i have a dell inspiron 1300. first when i tried to install the software it shut down. i had no clue what had happened. i knew the problem the moment i touched the laptop, it was over heating. so i let it sit out for a while.. removed the cover for the processor and and used a table fan set up to cool it as it was installing the software... it worked for me.. i also installed windows xp(by the which make is super hot super fast...) too like this. IT IS ONLY THE INSTALLITION WHICH HEATS UP THE SYSTEM.. ONCE YOUR ARE PAST THIS OBSTACLE I THINK U WILL BE JUST FINE WITH DELL... I ALSO OWN HP ... (IT SUCKS..... )

---

### Post by balaji_9r on 2009-08-21
Remove the battery and see if you can get to the BIOS.. if so.. remove the battery and install... i guess... it is the battery that has to R.I.P.

---

### Post by balaji_9r on 2009-08-21
i had the same issue... i removed the battery and it worked.. i think the bios in dell checks for your battery health.. pls wait a few seconds before you power up your laptop...(after connecting you laptop to your Direct power...)

---

### Post by ScottyC on 2009-08-21
Well I pulled the bios battery out (tests at 3.125v on the multimeter) for about 5 minutes then put it back in - still the same result.

Watched the lights closely to see exactly what they do - When I press the power button the num lock, caps lock and scroll lock all light up for about a quarter second. The caps lock stays on for a fraction longer and then flashes 9 times. After the last flash it all shuts down.

Also when I first press the power button the power light comes on and stays on untill it shuts down, and the hdd activity light comes on for about 1 second.

If this flashing light stuff is an error code and someone knows what it is I'd love to know. Thanks for all your suggestions so far guys :)

---

### Post by FirstByté on 2009-08-22
@ScottyC:

What graphic card to you use? I used HP's tx1000 whose MoBo fried <similar to your case... all LEDs come on but not BIOS action>. After much trouble shooting I discovered I wasn't alone in the pool of HP's dead MoBos. A critical examination says that most AMD/nVidia CPU-GPU end up in such fate, due to their arrangement on the boards. It might come on after ABOUT 20 trials but a day comes when it would surely come on and you shutdown, and that would be it for ever. Which gracefully pushed me off HP and Up to DELL.

Don't get me wrong. **I'm not brand Cynic**, I got off HP just to take a break of my ordeal, and manufacturing error that a consumer like me had to shoulder.
 
[B]
What's your system specs?[/B]

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2009-08-22
Caps Lock flashing...try reseating the RAM.

Other people with the 6000 have found that with them turned off, shaking them or slaping the bottom has fix the problem. Something inside shorting out.

---

### Post by ScottyC on 2009-08-22
Old Grey Wolf??? more like Old Wise Wolf!!!!!
Slipped the ram cards in and out a couple of times hit the power button and it booted up :P:P:P:P:P

In the process of installing Ubuntu now.

THANK YOU THANK YOU THANK YOU ):P

---

### Post by MartynT on 2009-08-23
You should change the subject to "Long Live Dell - Resurrected by Ubuntu Forums !!"

 :P

Odd that Memtest didn't reveal the problem.  It just goes to show ....

---

### Post by tomasrey88 on 2009-08-23
I have the same problem with my Dell, but unfortunately, GreyWolf's suggestion did not work with my Dell. Oh, well....

---

### Post by ScottyC on 2009-08-23
> **MartynT said:**
> 
Odd that Memtest didn't reveal the problem.  It just goes to show ....

At the time I ran the memory test the computer was still working. When it shut down the first time and gave me the over temperature error I opened it all up to check for dust accumulation inside and probably upset the ram card in the process.

Happy to report that it's still all going fine atm, just doing me head in learning about using terminal and commands and trying to get my partitions working :confused::confused:

fun fun fun :P

---

### Post by Sophont on 2009-08-26
Happy to hear your Laptop got resurrected.

What problems do you have with Partitions?

And while I don't want to keep you form using the terminal - why do you need that already?

If you wiped your XP off anyway just let the graphical Ubuntu installer do its thing. Go with default partitions - it'll use some space for swap partition and the rest for 1 big partition. That's fine.

You should be able to get a running system with less than half an hour - just by answering a few questions (language, timezone, login) and let the installer do a default install.

---

