---
title: "14.04 Alpha 1 installation ..."
date: 2014-01-12
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2014-01-12
Could never get Ubuntu 13.10 32 bit or 64bit or the Gnome distro to work.  
All three would eventually just freeze my PC and scramble the desktop graphics
to the point that it was totally unreadable.

So, I tried 14.04 Alpha 1 nightly AMD 64-bit version and it works on my PC:
AMD Athlon 6400+, 8GB RAM, SSD boot disk, nVidia GeForce 7300LE, dual monitors
Installed both root and /home in /dev/sda1

Here are my  observations installing 14.04 Alpha 1:

Installation via DVD:
- red indicator for Internet access
- displays "13.10 Ubuntu-Gnome" for one screen (so must be derived from Ubuntu Gnome)
- slow graphics performance
- froze once, then had to reset

2-cd Boot up, the first thing I did was:
- sudo apt-get update
- sudo apt-get upgrade
- sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
- reboot
- graphic performance improved a little but still not as good as my main 12.04 on same PC but in different partition.
- sudo pam-auth-update --force
- graphic performance greatly improved but still not as good as my main 12.04


Subsequent boots:
- no more freezing
- graphics performance not as good as I expected
- nvidia is 3.04.116

Carl

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-01-12
Moved to Ubuntu +1.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-01-13
> [COLOR=#000000]displays "13.10 Ubuntu-Gnome" for one screen (so must be derived from Ubuntu Gnome)[/COLOR]

The next version of Ubuntu or its flavours is always built upon the last version. Logos and labels are not changed until nearer the release date as the development branch has not yet morphed into the next stable release. 

Personally, I never use proprietary video drivers any more. I have no need and I have experienced breakage due to incompatibility between kernels, Xserver and proprietary video drivers.

Regards.

P.S. an example of what we expect when running the development branch.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2199035](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2199035)

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2014-01-14
Major malfunction.
Just noted when using dual monitor setup, when I switch workspaces only the left most monitor switches to the new workspace.
The right monitor stays the same with the windows I had in workspace 1.

Carl

---

