---
title: "3.16-rc2"
date: 2014-06-22
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-22
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTcyNzE](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTcyNzE)
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.16-rc2-utopic/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.16-rc2-utopic/)

---

### Post by fyfe54 on 2014-06-22
Got it, and running it in 14.04.  So far so good.

---

### Post by fooman on 2014-06-22
```
Current Date/Time: Sun Jun 22 17:11:32 EDT 2014
Distro Release: Ubuntu Utopic Unicorn (development branch)
Kernel Release: Linux 3.16.0-031600rc2-generic
```

---

### Post by jahidul hamid on 2014-06-22
Thanks for the post @
 	[**[COLOR=#000000]zika[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=690937") 	 
started downloading now.....

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-06-23
The 3.16 kernel is not default in 14.10 yet is it?  Just wondering...

The 3.15 kernel really took care of the problems i had on my 14.04 and it's very fast and snappy in performance...from what i read about 3.16, it is like that but even more awesome ;)
I plan on trying 3.16 when it goes final (on my 14.04) and will be upgrading into 14.10 when released (and it will have 3.16 as default of course)...

By the way, is there a way i could periodically check to see if 14.10 has received the 3.16 kernel as default? (i plan on testing it first on a live daily session of 14.10)....thanks :D

---

### Post by zika on 2014-06-23
> **craig10x said:**
> By the way, is there a way i could periodically check to see if 14.10 has received the 3.16 kernel as default? (i plan on testing it first on a live daily session of 14.10)....thanks :DMany of ways...
First that comes me to mind is checking: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/utopic/linux-image-generic](http://packages.ubuntu.com/utopic/linux-image-generic) ...

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-06-23
Thanks for the link, zika...i will keep a watch out for it ;)

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-06-26
How has the 3.16 kernel been working for those using it?  Stable?  How is it on temperatures as compared to 3.15? (what i mean is keeping temps low and not heating up)...
Was curious about it....

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-06-26
Finally had a little time to play with 3.16 and can not say I notice any difference.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-06-26
> **craig10x said:**
> How has the 3.16 kernel been working for those using it?  Stable?  How is it on temperatures as compared to 3.15? (what i mean is keeping temps low and not heating up)...
Was curious about it....It is all I have been using on my test server since it was posted. While it has been fine, I am also doing a specific set of tests and am not exercising it to it fullest extent. I can not give good comment on temperatures, as I am replacing one driver that could directly effect temperatures.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-06-27
Thanks guys...what happened was i had the 3.15 kernel which solved my multimedia stability problems on 14.04...there was a kernel update on 14.04 today and i booted into it manually i THOUGHT it no longer had the problems, so i removed the 3.15....after a few hours i realized that while some of the problems had been taken care of, some remain and i was better off sticking with 3.15....

However, rather then re-installing 3.15 again i thought maybe i should give the 3.16 a go instead ;)   I figure that if the 3.16 RC2 works out for me, then when 3.16 final is released i will replace it over that but meanwhile would get to use it...

So, that's why i wanted a comparison between the two...and any other feedback would be appreciated as well...

---

