---
title: ".iso boots to wallpaper, no unity panels"
date: 2014-08-13
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-08-13
All I get on booting the latest current utopic iso is wallpaper, no panels, can't do a thing except Ctrl-Alt-F1

My bug #1356357 is "confirmed"  caused by a "bot".  
What is a bot?

From command line, 
sudo service lightdm restart
just gets wallpaper again.

What is the command line for starting Unity?

Thanks

---

### Post by Alan F on 2014-08-13
+1 on the bug.

Also looking for solution.

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2014-08-13
I made a startup usb from my 08/13/14 Utopic and it will boot into a full desktop with Unity Launcher et all in "Try Me" mode. Without doing a full install I would say that it is working on my Intel chip set.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-08-13
Restart Unity?

```
setsid unity
```

reset Compiz?

```
dconf reset -f /org/compiz/
```

Regards.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-08-13
Seen similar since last fri. on an install that was updated & on all .iso's since (updated install is gone

Only diff is do get a launcher but it's non-functional.
Also  - booting to recovery > resume will produce a ubuntu session but it's using llvmpipe - see scr 1 (hardware obviously should handle unity 3d

So going back to an iso from 8 days or so & slowly updating/restarting, ect. the issue here seems to be the upgrade to xserver-xorg-video-intel package. ( xserver-xorg-video-intel (2:2.99.910-0ubuntu1) to 2:2.99.914-1~exp1ubuntu1

Though I still have 28 packages to upgrade, may also factor in.. scr. 2 but downgrading the above package allows a normal login atm - scr. 3

Edit: upgraded all, so at least here the issue is with xserver-xorg-video-intel
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1356683](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1356683)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-08-15
@ jerrylamos
not sure if you're seeing same issue as here where with current xserver-xorg-video-intel never get anything usable on login 
(except if thru recovery which gives the semi-worthless  llvmpipe 

If you wanted to try older package then get the .deb from here, pick your arch under  "Builds" , download then install with dpkg 
sudo dpkg -i /path/to/thedebyoudownloaded
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/2:2.99.910-0ubuntu1](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/2:2.99.910-0ubuntu1)

Then reboot & see

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-08-16
Unity didn't start.  Screenful of messages.  Finally saw a line near the top:

"Your hardware does not support unity"

This is an Intel core 2 duo on a Lenovo ThinkCentre.  There's millions of them out there.

How come unity linux-image -5 is supported by this hardware, and unity linux-image -8 is not?

From another crash, looks like the guilty party is compiz again....see Bug #1357753

---

### Post by Alan F on 2014-08-17
Jerry 

Just so you don't feel totally alone I can confirm that I am getting exactly the same as you, including the re-assuring(?) message that "Your hardware supports Unity" followed on the line below "Your hardware does not support Unity". This on a laptop that has been running Unity since year dot.

I can also confirm that todays updates to linux-image -9 does not resolve this.

Maybe someone can come up with a new version of Compiz, xorg-intel or anything to resolve this.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-08-17
Have either of you tried the nomodeset option when booting from the iso?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-08-17
> **Alan F said:**
> Jerry 

Just so you don't feel totally alone I can confirm that I am getting exactly the same as you, including the re-assuring(?) message that "Your hardware supports Unity" followed on the line below "Your hardware does not support Unity". This on a laptop that has been running Unity since year dot.

I can also confirm that todays updates to linux-image -9 does not resolve this.

Maybe someone can come up with a new version of Compiz, xorg-intel or anything to resolve this.
You should try downgrading  xserver-xorg-video-intel to the previous version & see if that resolves the issue(s) & allows compiz to start
(as noted in my latest report this also affects gnome-session flashback > compiz

If it does then keep that version until resolved, if it doesn't then you have another issue (from me that is..

---

### Post by Alan F on 2014-08-17
Cariboo
Adding nomodeset to boot options gives a functioning system with the screen resolution 1024 x 768 (should be 1440 x 900) with no options to change it in System Settings - Display

Mc4man
Downgrading xserver-xorg-video-intel from 2:2.99.914-1 ~exp1ubuntu1 (Utopic) to 2:2.99.910-0-0ubuntu1 (Trusty) makes no difference with or without nomodeset

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-08-17
> **Alan F said:**
> Cariboo
Adding nomodeset to boot options gives a functioning system with the screen resolution 1024 x 768 (should be 1440 x 900) with no options to change it in System Settings - Display

Mc4man
Downgrading xserver-xorg-video-intel from 2:2.99.914-1 ~exp1ubuntu1 (Utopic) to 2:2.99.910-0-0ubuntu1 (Trusty) makes no difference with or without nomodeset
nomodeset is basically the same as booting up thru recovery, ie. the intel driver is not used so you're on llvmpipe (just ck. System Settings > Details to see.

So if downgrading to the prior xserver-xorg-video-intel doesn't resolve then we have different issue & no point in any further comment here from me.
Other than - 
@jerrylamos - you should also try the prior xserver-xorg-video-intel, if it doesn't fix for you than please no more comments in my report ...

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-08-18
On the same install, booting selecting 3.16.0-5 works fine (for a development release).

Booting selecting 3.16.0-7 or -8 or -9 X11 and desktop fine, no panels.  All the kernels are in /boot from -5 on.

From Bug #1257746 Compiz has decided the hardware does not support 3D and fails.  It does, snce -5 boots fine.

Since Compiz fails, Unity fails.

Now I don't know enough about the kernels.  Since it's the same install, don't all the kernels use the same Intel video driver?

---

### Post by Alan F on 2014-08-18
Update

With kernels 3.16.0-7 -8 & -9 system hangs, after login, with wallpaper only display.

Adding 'nomodeset' to boot options allows correct operation with llvmpipe but with low resolution display

Downgrading xserver-xorg-video-intel to trusty version makes no difference

Downgrading kernel to current trusty version, 3.13.0.34.60, allows correct operation with either version of intel driver. Jerrylamos has achieved working system using kernel 3.16.0-5

Installation is near standard Ubuntu Utopic with all updates applied.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2014-08-18
Works fine here with standard live. All the bells and whistles.
```

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset DRAM Controller (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset DRAM Controller (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

```

---

### Post by ventrical on 2014-08-18
screenshot

---

### Post by ventrical on 2014-08-18
> **mc4man said:**
> Seen similar since last fri. on an install that was updated & on all .iso's since (updated install is gone

Only diff is do get a launcher but it's non-functional.
Also  - booting to recovery > resume will produce a ubuntu session but it's using llvmpipe - see scr 1 (hardware obviously should handle unity 3d

So going back to an iso from 8 days or so & slowly updating/restarting, ect. the issue here seems to be the upgrade to xserver-xorg-video-intel package. ( xserver-xorg-video-intel (2:2.99.910-0ubuntu1) to 2:2.99.914-1~exp1ubuntu1

Though I still have 28 packages to upgrade, may also factor in.. scr. 2 but downgrading the above package allows a normal login atm - scr. 3

Edit: upgraded all, so at least here the issue is with xserver-xorg-video-intel
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1356683](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1356683)

Yep .. got llvmpipe here . Will try it on SandyBridge box.

---

### Post by axiomanarcho on 2014-08-18
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Unity didn't start.  Screenful of messages.  Finally saw a line near the top:

"Your hardware does not support unity"

This is an Intel core 2 duo on a Lenovo ThinkCentre.  There's millions of them out there.

How come unity linux-image -5 is supported by this hardware, and unity linux-image -8 is not?

From another crash, looks like the guilty party is compiz again....see Bug #1357753


There are a few things to try from terminal [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity2D](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Unity2D)

Possibly use unity-2d

Also what model think centre do you have?

---

### Post by ventrical on 2014-08-18
The .iso detected SandyBridge straight away.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2014-08-18
Detects the Q35 but very touchy with the mouse..

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-08-18
If you aren't completely sure what the problem is, I'd suggest you create an offline bug report, as documented [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Filing_bugs_when_off-line"). File the bug against linux, the devs will tell you where to look, if it isn't a kernel problem.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-08-19
> **cariboo907 said:**
> If you arfen't completely sure what the problem is, I'd suggest you create an offline bug report, as documented [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs#Filing_bugs_when_off-line"). File the bug against linux, the devs will tell you where to look, if it isn't a kernel problem.

Problem is "Compiz" has decided that this hardware does not support 3D on every Utopic starting with 3.16.0-7.   Compiz fails.  Therefore Unity fails.

This is Utopic 3.16.0-6 running 3D just fine.

BTW, very rarely -8 would actually run.  -7 and -9 never do.  The "sometimes it will run most of the time it won't" smacks of a race condition.  I'm no developer, but if somehow Compiz got started before X windows was up, there would be an error like this.

Launchpad says my compiz bug is a duplicate of bug #1297117 which is "page not found" a typical result when a bug is marked private.  Therefore I can't see whether my bug looks the same, or whatever action if any ubuntu development may or may not be doing.

Oh, well, last resort, Debian internet video runs like blazes on this pc.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-08-22
Tried an older version of Intel video driver.  No help.

Current results with 22 August updates:

3.16.0-10 amd64 desktop comes up, however no compiz, no unity, no panels.  3.16.0-6 amd64 and previous kernels run O.K. for development release.  Reading between the lines there was a compiz change about when the failures started.  I don't know how to try an earlier version of compiz other than booting the kernels -6 and earlier.

3.16.0-10 i386 32 bit runs O.K. for a development release.  Everything up.

Latest bug I've reported: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2240600](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2240600)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-08-22
Lubuntu utopic amd64 installed and runs fine, only faster.

Lubuntu doesn't use compiz (or unity) hence no problem starting panels.  

LXDE doesn't have all the fancy desktop effects.  Just for giggles I can put the LXDE launcher on the left side like unity, then I get one more application line than unity has (I think, I could count).

---

### Post by Alan F on 2014-09-05
First proper boot into Unity in a month using 3.16.0-xx kernel thanks to today's -13 update:p

Let's hope that it lasts.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-09-05
Latest .iso at 3.16.0-12 boots to wallpaper, only thing up is a couple icons example install.
Resulting install at 3.16.0-12 boots to wallpaper only.

Apt-get, apt-get dist-upgrade.
Now reboot at 3.16.0-13 unity appears as usual......

Curio is, I got same pattern booting .iso at 3.16.0-11 desktop only, install boots to desktop only, upgrade to 3.16.0-12 unity running now.

So if updated to 3.16.0-12 unity runs, if .iso already at 3.16.0-12 no unity until updated to 3.16.0-13.  ?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-09-06
As I mentioned my issue with Intel Haswell Mobile was likely different (though the symptoms were similar.
As the bug I have is languishing I decided to see if there were any alternatives to downgrading the Xserver intel driver package.

What works here is to either blacklist nouveau or just go ahead & remove the xserver-xorg-video-nouveau package.
Then all is fairly well, compiz starts, shutdowns are a little more reliable, ect.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-09-08
> **mc4man said:**
> What works here is to either blacklist nouveau or just go ahead & remove the xserver-xorg-video-nouveau package.
Then all is fairly well, compiz starts, shutdowns are a little more reliable, ect.

Try 3.17-rc4.  Works for me while kernels 3.16.0-7 thru -10 compiz doesn't, 11 & 12 compiz doesn't work as installed but will after apt-get update, apt-get dist-upgrade.
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa...17-rc4-utopic/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa...17-rc4-utopic/)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2014-09-11
11 September amd64 .iso boots to unity O.K. on this Intel Core 2 Duo.  First .iso to do so since July.  So solved for the moment.....

---

