---
title: "13.10: dropbox and copy.com applet indicators missing"
date: 2013-10-03
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by megamania on 2013-10-03
I clean-installed Ubuntu 13.10 Beta - 64bit, but kept the original /home partition from my previous install (13.04).

The copy.com and Dropbox applet indicators on the Unity top panel used to work fine with 13.04, but are missing in 13.10. Both apps appear to be working fine though.

Any ideas on how to restore the indicators?

---

### Post by speartip on 2013-10-05
Same issue here. Any ideas?

---

### Post by gspe on 2013-10-05
Same issue here too.

---

### Post by megamania on 2013-10-06
I clean-installed again, this time with a clean /home. Updated the system and reinstalled dropbox and copy.com from scratch. 

The indicator icons are now present. The dropbox indicator works perfectly, while the copy.com indicator works partially: it shows when it is syncing, but when I click on it only part of the menu opens up - it only shows my email address and the "visit website" menu entry.

---

### Post by asalapi on 2013-10-20
See [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus-dropbox/+bug/1211066](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus-dropbox/+bug/1211066)
I clean-installed ubuntu 13.10, and later dropbox and copy.com, and the icons were missing.
Following the install of libappindicator1 dropbox was back, but not "copy.com". The CopyAgent process was there, but it did not actually seem to do anything. I renamed both the folder where the copy.com software executables were, and moved the ~/.copy folder as well as the Copy one. Restarted, so no CopyAgent was run at startup, and then renaming back the executable folder, I ran CopyAgent. It started from scratch, created new .copy and Copy folders and icon was showing... but only with "visit copy website"... now it seems to be working even if all the menu options I see in my 13.04 computer are not shown...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-10-20
Saucy has been released, so there is no need for this thread any more. Closed

---

