---
title: "22.04.  - Gnome Extensions and Google Login Problems"
date: 2022-04-11
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by iamjiwjr on 2022-04-11
10 days to go until LTC release. I still can't install Gnome Extensions with Firefox (either Snap or Flatpak version). I can get around this bug with Chrome's Gnome Integration extension, so this one is not such an irritant.

I still can't login to Google. Getting around this is beyond my pay grade.

Is everyone having this issue or is it just me?

Seems to me to be cutting it a little close.

---

### Post by Hreinsi on 2022-04-11
I use this for extensions. [https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/01/gnome-extension-manager-app-easy-install](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/01/gnome-extension-manager-app-easy-install)

---

### Post by iamjiwjr on 2022-04-11
Thanks for the suggesion. Good idea, as long as you do only the default presentation of extensions. 

But I don't obey rules well. I disable the extension number in gsettings (gsettings set org.gnome.shell disable-extension-version-validation "true"). Once that's done, I can use a lot more extensions, but the extension manager is not accurate anymore.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2022-04-11
"Extensions Manager" (not the same as "Extensions") is a step in the right direction, in that it allows a search for extensions and their installation (at last). But I found the search for a string in the extension name is not complete - many possible results are not be shown. Example: I search for "Workspace" and get just 10 results (some unsupported) on this machine. No way to see more results as far as I can tell. If you enter the exact full name (if you knew it), or something close, the extension you want is likely to show up and can then be installed. In practice, you could search on the shell extensions website, then install using "Extensions Manager" once you have an exact name. Perhaps all this will be improved in the future.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2022-04-14
I believe your Google login issue is [LP: #1966418]("https://launchpad.net/bugs/1966418")

The good news is that there is a fix pending for that today.

*gnome-shell-extension-manager* is now available in Jammy so you can use a .deb package instead of the Flatpak. We want to get the 0.3 version in, but it's running a bit close.

Using Firefox to install GNOME Shell extensions is a high priority issue. It will be fixed soon; not sure if it will be done before the 22.04 release day but it should be really soon after if it's not done by then.

---

