---
title: "13.04 crash on boot"
date: 2013-02-20
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by cipx2 on 2013-02-20
It seems I can't make 13.04 live to start, it crashes/freezes.
I installed it on a usb and I'm trying to make it run on a Dell Vostro 3750 (nvidia optimus, i5, ...) with a W7 and a 12.10 installed.
I get to grub, I select to test without installing, the screen goes black,  a blinking dash appears in the top left corner then the dash gets smaller and stops blinking. After this nothing happens: screen remains with a solid dash in the upper left corner, keyboard is dead (all combinations I tried did nothing), no usb stick activity, nothing.
All I can do is to keep the power button down for 4 secs to reboot the thing.

What's weird is that something gets screwed up since after a failed 13.04 boot attempt I can no longer boot the 12.10 on the HDD. It gets stuck with same symptoms (the small dash stops blinking and the laptop goes dead). I have to power off the system, remove the usb from the laptop and then power on.
Another thing that happened once after booting the 12.10 (After a failed 13.04 boot)  I got a message about a udisk-daemon crash.

Any clues?

---

### Post by ventrical on 2013-02-20
I just zsynced the raring-desktop-i386.iso (daily) and it is worse now than ever.  I get the 'busy-box' on my tower that has nvidia graphics, then it just hangs.. and no response.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2013-02-20
Today's daily across nvidia&ati graphics

Busy Box .. etc...



(initramfs) Unable to find a medium containing a live file system.

---

### Post by cipx2 on 2013-02-21
SOLVED

It is the old bug "[Firmware Bug]: ACPI(PEGP) defines _DOD but not _DOS" where it hangs.
This bug was present in 11.04/11.10 and was solved in 12.04/12,10 (the error is still there and it's logged in syslog but at least it doesn't hang).

Solution can be either one of the following:
1. the bootable usb stick with the 13.04 ubuntu must be the only usb device plugged in the laptop (preferably on the left side plug) OR
2. set boot parameter *nomodeset* OR
3. set boot parameter *acpi=off*

---

