---
title: "4.2.0.7.7 kernel now landed"
date: 2015-09-08
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by ventrical on 2015-09-08
The 4.2.0.7.7 kernel has now updated. Appears very stable on ubuntu-desktop so far. Seems to have fixed a problem with the 304 nvidia driver where it appeared that there were multiple windows in (workspaces enabled) on unity. (should be only 4 by default - but there were 20).

Regards..

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2015-09-08
Greetings,
I got this on Sept 2nd as an update to my 4.2 RC-Final. It happened when I deleted my 4.1 kernel and had proposed enabled. 4.1 bogs down on my system but the 4.2 kernel is pretty crisp. Good to see that they are making progress on the Nvida problem.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2015-09-08
Thanks for all your candidate testings. I haven't had much time to.

Regards..

---

### Post by tista on 2015-09-09
Greetings,

I've updated kernel to current 4.2.0-7-generic as well, and found the weird laptop battery capacity.
Dell XPS 11 (9p33) (Core i3-4020Y, 4GB RAM, 80GB SSD):
```

$ cat /sys/class/power_supply/BAT1/uevent

POWER_SUPPLY_NAME=BAT1
POWER_SUPPLY_STATUS=Discharging
POWER_SUPPLY_PRESENT=1
POWER_SUPPLY_TECHNOLOGY=Li-ion
POWER_SUPPLY_CYCLE_COUNT=0
POWER_SUPPLY_VOLTAGE_MIN_DESIGN=7580000
POWER_SUPPLY_VOLTAGE_NOW=7817000
POWER_SUPPLY_CURRENT_NOW=4885000
POWER_SUPPLY_CHARGE_FULL_DESIGN=5540000
POWER_SUPPLY_CHARGE_FULL=3810000
POWER_SUPPLY_CHARGE_NOW=25550000
POWER_SUPPLY_CAPACITY=670
POWER_SUPPLY_CAPACITY_LEVEL=Normal
POWER_SUPPLY_MODEL_NAME=PABAS0241231
POWER_SUPPLY_MANUFACTURER=Simplo
POWER_SUPPLY_SERIAL_NUMBER=41167

```

Yes. It seems wrong number of digits in "POWER_SUPPLY_CHARGE_NOW", so "POWER_SUPPLY_CAPACITY=670" was shown, Capacity must be percentage value though.

Anybody experienced such issue? I'm sure this didn't happen with previous 4.1 series (and 4.2-RC, too) :confused:

Regards.

**EDIT**
Just now shutdown and cold boot, the issue was fixed... What happened?

---

### Post by ventrical on 2015-09-09
I loaned my main laptop out to a friend. It got bricked by a lightning storm. What a pain. For  the laptop that is ..   Will be reimbursed by friend. I have two others not in development cycle so I haven't a clue until I get a replacement.

---

### Post by tista on 2015-09-09
Hi ventrical,

After several times of hot reboot, shutdown, cold boot, AC pluged/unpluged, I could not reproduce this anymore. So it might be an accidentally happening, I hope. ;)

Best Regards.

---

### Post by aljosa2 on 2015-09-09
The question is: have they fixed the Nvidia issue (as far as I know, there have been some licensing problems - flush_workqueue)?

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2015-09-09
I got 4.2.0.7.7 at the weekend. I don't have proposed enabled. I use the Japan riken mirror. I'm using nvidia 355.06 from xorg-edgers ppa with GTX680 and so far no issues.

---

### Post by aljosa2 on 2015-09-09
> **tokyobadger said:**
> I got 4.2.0.7.7 at the weekend. I don't have proposed enabled. I use the Japan riken mirror. I'm using nvidia 355.06 from **xorg-edgers ppa** with GTX680 and so far no issues.

Let's suppose I'm a total newbie to Ubuntu, and my new laptop is the optimus one - equipped with both Intel and Nvidia GPU. So, I've made a clean installation of Ubuntu 15.10. During the installation process, I selected option "Install third-party software". At the very first boot, I will experience (346, 352 or 355) pleasure or [delusional black screen of nothingness]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2293682")?

---

### Post by zika on 2015-09-09
ECQ ([COLOR=#545454][FONT=arial]ex contradictione (sequitur) quodlibet).
There is no 15.10 yet so &#8222;total newbie&#8220; would not have it on his new laptop.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2015-09-09
@aljosa2: must have missed you were on a laptop with optimus which I do not have, so unfortunately I cannot validly answer the question, though in the link you posted, the 2nd poster suggests that 355.x series addresses issues in the earlier releases.

As to the total newbie scenario, I'd think that regardless of experience, 15.10 is pre-release, and in the testing cycle you take the rough with the smooth

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-09-09
If we install the latest wily daily image and tick the box "Install third party software" we will definitely get the latest proprietary video driver in the wily repositories.

I have the habit of installing without ticking that box and so I avoid the black screen. Which I know I will get because the latest proprietary video drivers do not support my graphic card. But Additional Drivers does have 2 legacy proprietary drivers I can use.

My one attempt to join the testing of the RC kernels had to be abandoned because the proprietary video driver module would not compile because the newer kernels needed the newer drivers and the newer proprietary video drivers did not support my graphic card.

In time the kernel team did their stuff and I am now running kernel 4.0.0-4. I never did get 4.1 and I am waiting a long time for 4.2. It is not a problem because the system is stable.

Release Candidate kernels are definitely not "newbie" stuff. We should at least be familiar with recovery mode and purging proprietary drivers and have a standby Ubuntu to use in the mean time.

Regards.

---

