---
title: "20.04 Beta - Software store doesn't load, no Snap Store"
date: 2020-04-06
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by richard138 on 2020-04-06
I was on the 20.04 daily which I installed about 2 weeks ago. Today I did a fresh install of 20.04 Beta.


  When I click on Ubuntu Software, the title appears briefly in the taskbar, but never loads. My install is also missing the Snap Store icon, and also the Extensions icon/program is missing.


  I am using the ZFS disk partitioning. Dell Latitude E6440 i5 8gb Ram, 500gb SSD.


  UPDATE: Strangely, the Extensions Icon has appeared! This may be as a consequence of I installed Gnome Tweaks via Terminal.


  Any ideas?
  Many thanks in advance.

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2020-04-06
The snap-store icon is now the same as the old Ubuntu software icon and snap-store is called 'Ubuntu software'. If you install gnome-software (by terminal or synaptic) you will have an icon named 'software'
after yesterday's updates Ubuntu-software == snap-store seems ok with snap and .deb

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-04-06
>  My install is also missing the Snap Store icon...

Snap store is installed by default as a snap application, but isn't showing up in Applications Overview or the Search Box in the beta. As a workaround, I did the first launch from terminal:
```
snap run snap-store
```
then pinned it to the dock for easy access. As to it's icon, It still has the same distinct icon in the default Yaru icon theme.

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2020-04-07
If in the dash you enter 'softwa' or 'ubu' you see snap-store with the icon you know for Ubuntu software and also with name 'Ubuntu software'

---

### Post by richard138 on 2020-04-07
Hi, thanks for your reply.

I still have the issue of the Ubuntu Software store not loading, I installed the Gnome-software store and that works perfectly.

The Ubuntu Software store upon clicking on it appears in the taskbar with the 'busy' rotating mouse pointer and then disappears without launching.

Many thanks.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-04-07
> **corradoventu said:**
> If in the dash you enter 'softwa' or 'ubu' you see snap-store with the icon you know for Ubuntu software and also with name 'Ubuntu software'
100% correct. I get the same result. Icon shown in the search results is the icon 'Ubuntu Software', and it launches the snap store. The running icon in the dock is changed to the snap store icon - this is what I was referring to when I said it used the previous icon (see screenshot).

I installed 'gnome-software' package, and as you said, it offered both regular and snap versions of a few applications I checked. An exception I noticed was that Firefox was only offered as a snap package.

---

### Post by richard138 on 2020-04-07
I still have the same result.

Try to open Ubuntu Software and nothing starts, not Ubuntu Software Store nor the Snap Store....nothing.

Only thing working for me is the Gnome software store.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-04-07
> Only thing working for me is the Gnome software store.
Remember it's a beta release. Things may get straight by the final release. In Ubuntu 19.10, 'ubuntu-software' is just a symbolic link in /usr/bin to 'gnome-software'. They are the same thing in that release. In 20.04 beta I don't find that link. 

From Ubuntu 19.10:
```
dmn@Sydney-VM:/usr/bin$ file ubuntu-software
ubuntu-software: symbolic link to gnome-software
```

From Ubuntu 20.04 beta:
```
dmn@Tyana-vm:/usr/bin$ file ubuntu-software
ubuntu-software: cannot open `ubuntu-software' (No such file or directory)
```

In 20.04 terminal:
```
dmn@Tyana-vm:~$ ubuntu-software
Command 'ubuntu-software' not found, but can be installed with:
sudo apt install ubuntu-software
```

If you install ubuntu-software as suggested here, it adds the link back. And I now get two identical icons labeled 'Ubuntu Software' in the search results - one opens snap store as before, the other opens gnome software.

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2020-04-07
You must install gnome-software, not ubuntu-software

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-04-07
I fixed mine by installing both gnome-software and ubuntu-software. Then I found that the .desktop file for Snap Store had the wrong name and icon so I just corrected those (details below). Search for Snap now gives 'Snap Store' as a result (screenshot 1). Searching for Ubuntu Software gives 'Ubuntu Software' as a result (screenshot 2).

For now, everything seems to work correctly, including the 'show applications' button now displays a Snap Store icon and a Ubuntu Software icon (restart was necessary).

There may be some reason why the .desktop file was as created the way I found it. Therefore, changing it could be the wrong thing to do. But it is easy to revert the changes.

Changes made (use at your own risk):

Edit:  /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications/snap-store_ubuntu-software.desktop
changed Name=Ubuntu Software to Name=Snap Store
changed Icon=ubuntusoftware to Icon=snap-store


Update: These changes will prove temporary and will be reverted with a refresh of the snap-store application. And it looks like a snap store with snaps only will not exist in 20.04. Launching the latest revision of snap-store snap package from the terminal or from the Snap Store icon (still called 'Snap Store' in the 'About' info) is essentially the same as Ubuntu Software. More explanation is here:
[Ubuntu Switches to snap Software Store]("https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2020/02/ubuntu-snap-store-transition")

---

