---
title: "13.10 kubuntu -depency problem"
date: 2013-06-21
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by deri on 2013-06-21
I upgraded files from channel and installed steam. It said something about depency problem dont\t remember anymore what it said. I rebooted and now I have lost minimize, maximize and close buttons and all programs start on the left top corner.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2013-06-22
> **deri said:**
> I upgraded files from channel and installed steam. It said something about depency problem dont\t remember anymore what it said. I rebooted and now I have lost minimize, maximize and close buttons and all programs start on the left top corner.


I have had zero luck with kbuntu Upgrading to saucy!
Unity & Gnome-Shell however is coming along nicely.

---

### Post by caryb on 2013-06-23
It is the plasma-widget-networkmanagement this is the error...
This update was issued on 18/06/13 08:19 AM
  * New upstream release. 
  * Upgraded build-dep to network-manager-dev >= 0.9.8 per 
    upstream instructions. 
  * Breaks/replaces old kde-workspace-data for moved icon

---

### Post by deri on 2013-06-24
I have had this problem now 2 times. I don't have all the details what really happens. I have some old (I say old because there is daily build) 13.04 64bit kubuntu install. I used that. Upgraded all files from 13.04 source. Installed steam, installed playonlinux. Installed ati drivers from earlier used and selfmade deb files which do work. Then I upgraded reposity to saucy (which has been worked before) I had hundredes of megabytes of updates (even 13.04 channel, but saucy too). And then the depency hell starts. All upgrades are not able to finnish because of depency problems. I try go own with sudo dpkg --configure -a and it installs/sets some files and I go with sudo apt-get upgrade and distro-upgrade. But the kde root becomes blank. 

But I think one problem is going directly to dist-upgrade maybe I should have just made update sources and then upgrade and then distro-upgrade?

---

### Post by deri on 2013-06-24
But I do confirm that upgrading from 13.04 to 13.10 (kubuntu) has worked before. I have done it earlier.

---

### Post by deri on 2013-06-25
There is something really wrong now. I downloaded a new 13.10 daily build. Installed it on usb. Installed it on hard drive, installed updates. In somepoint it just breaks again. Plenty of updates that are unable to install.
> 
The following packages will be upgraded:
  calligra-data dragonplayer kaccessible kamera kcalc kde-config-telepathy-accounts
  kde-telepathy-auth-handler kde-telepathy-contact-list kde-telepathy-desktop-applets
  kde-telepathy-filetransfer-handler kde-telepathy-integration-module
  kde-telepathy-send-file kde-zeroconf kdegames-card-data kdegames-data
  kdegraphics-strigi-analyzer kdemultimedia-kio-plugins kdenetwork-filesharing kmag kmix
  kmousetool kpat kppp krita-data ksnapshot ksystemlog kwalletmanager libkdcraw-data
  libkdcraw22 libkdegames6 libkexiv2-11 libkexiv2-data libkipi-data libkolabxml0
  libksane-data libksane0 libnepomukwidgets4 libsmokekdecore4-3 libsmokekdeui4-3
  libsmokekfile3 libsmokekhtml3 libsmokekio3 libsmokeknewstuff2-3 libsmokeknewstuff3-3
  libsmokekparts3 libsmokektexteditor3 libsmokekutils3 libsmokenepomuk3 libsmokeplasma3
  libsmokesolid3 lightdm-kde-greeter openoffice.org-hyphenation plasma-dataengines-addons
  plasma-scriptengine-superkaramba plasma-widget-kimpanel playonlinux print-manager
57 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 8 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/39,0 MB of archives.
After this operation, 5 296 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
Extracting templates from packages: 100%
dpkg: considering deconfiguration of krita-data, which would be broken by installation of calligra-data ...
dpkg: yes, will deconfigure krita-data (broken by calligra-data)
(Reading database ... 151958 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace calligra-data 1:2.6.3-0ubuntu2 (using .../calligra-data_1%3a2.6.92-0ubuntu3_all.deb) ...
De-configuring krita-data ...
Unpacking replacement calligra-data ...
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/calligra-data_1%3a2.6.92-0ubuntu3_all.deb (--unpack):
 trying to overwrite '/usr/share/kde4/servicetypes/calligradb_driver.desktop', which is also in package kexi 1:2.6.3-0ubuntu2
dpkg-deb: error: subprocess paste was killed by signal (Broken pipe)
dpkg: considering deconfiguration of calligra-data, which would be broken by installation of krita-data ...
dpkg: yes, will deconfigure calligra-data (broken by krita-data)
Preparing to replace krita-data 1:2.6.3-0ubuntu2 (using .../krita-data_1%3a2.6.92-0ubuntu3_all.deb) ...
De-configuring calligra-data ...
Unpacking replacement krita-data ...
Replacing files in old package calligra-data ...
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/krita-data_1%3a2.6.92-0ubuntu3_all.deb (--unpack):
 trying to overwrite '/usr/share/icons/hicolor/1024x1024/apps/calligrakrita.png', which is also in package krita 1:2.6.3-0ubuntu2
dpkg-deb: error: subprocess paste was killed by signal (Broken pipe)
Processing triggers for hicolor-icon-theme ...
Errors were encountered while processing:
 /var/cache/apt/archives/calligra-data_1%3a2.6.92-0ubuntu3_all.deb
 /var/cache/apt/archives/krita-data_1%3a2.6.92-0ubuntu3_all.deb
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)


---

### Post by eddygorge on 2013-06-27
> **deri said:**
> There is something really wrong now. I downloaded a new 13.10 daily build. Installed it on usb. Installed it on hard drive, installed updates. In somepoint it just breaks again. Plenty of updates that are unable to install.

I had this too a couple of days ago.

The solution is to remove krita and krita-data packages to allow upgrade to proceed, then afterwards reinstall.

sudo aptitude remove krita krita-data
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
sudo aptitude install krita krita-data

---

### Post by deri on 2013-06-27
I did almost the same thing. I purged calligra data and it wanted to remove 3 files. I removed them all and upgraded system, but I did not reinstall calligra back. Also I installed some of the deb files (before i purged those files) that upgrade downloaded to the cache. I don't know if my system is 100% as it should be because I somepoint used sudo apt-get autoremove command.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2013-06-28
> **deri said:**
> I did almost the same thing. I purged calligra data and it wanted to remove 3 files. I removed them all and upgraded system, but I did not reinstall calligra back. Also I installed some of the deb files (before i purged those files) that upgrade downloaded to the cache. I don't know if my system is 100% as it should be because I somepoint used sudo apt-get autoremove command.

Seems like everything landed today! Giving it a go now! (For Saucy Flavors KDE)
Will Report back..

Went without a hitch..
Now its a toss between KDE and Gnome-Shell (maybe Ill just keep both)
KDE has come along way since I last used it!

---

