---
title: "14.10 bug: rc.local is not executed"
date: 2014-09-14
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by ivo-welch on 2014-09-14
I just stuck an

> echo "hello from rc.local"

into /etc/rc.local , and made sure that it was executable.   rc.local is properly linked in

>     rc2.d/S05rc.local@  rc3.d/S05rc.local@  rc4.d/S05rc.local@  rc5.d/S05rc.local@

but it never executes.  the boot process does not create a /var/log/boot.log , as it does under 14.04 .

yikes.  if this is not a bug to be fixed, but my misunderstanding, then the rc.local file could at least announce the issues at the top in comments: e.g., make sure it is executable; or, it no longer works and you should now use ... .

is this a bug?

what is the right location for commands to be run at the end of the boot process?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2014-09-14
How do you know it's not running? Where would 'echo' send output during the boot process? Try sending it to a file.

Also, stuff executed from rc.local does not live in your user account. The environment is much like a cron job with a bare bones path, etc.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-09-14
It is not executed either in 14.04 with SytemD enabled nor in 14.10 from the very beginning of SystemD testing...
There are different places that different distros use for makinf rc.local work: /etc/systemd/system/ ...
Did not find enough time (and motivation) to play with that but is is solvable, I'm sure.
This looks most promissing to me: in /usr/lib/systemd/system/rc-local.service put:```
[Unit]Description=/etc/rc.local Compatibility
After=network.target
[Service]
Type=oneshot
ExecStart=-/etc/rc.local
TimeoutSec=0
StandardInput=tty
RemainAfterExit=yes
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```To enable it:```
sudo systemctl enable rc-local
```and to run once```
sudo systemctl start rc-local
```.
Will test it as soon as I get spare time on my fingers...

---

### Post by ivo-welch on 2014-09-14
thank you.  you are correct.  rc.local is indeed executed.  it was the logging behavior that was changed.  the output used to go to boot.log .  (I looked at it on a 14.04 system.)  it no longer does.

I need to figure out why my perl script invoked by rc.local that follows it is no longer run.

can one get the boot process to log what is happening as each rc.local line is executing?  I wonder if the privileges of invoked perl scripts are no longer root, for example, or if something else gets now checked before it hands off execution.

this is fun...not.

/iaw

---

### Post by zika on 2014-09-15
It seems I was wrong. rc.local.service **does** work but handles errors in a stricter way... Systemd eliminated /run/shm so my tweak/erasure for PA backfired on me with it... Did not have time to investigate further and closer. Mea culpa. Thank You for giving me a push and motivation... ;)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-03-12
closed and moved a couple of posts

---

