---
title: "16.04 user switching?"
date: 2016-01-11
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2016-01-11
I've been using the daily of 16.04 for a couple weeks now and haven't found any spectacular oopsies but a couple niggles. Do these warrant a bug report?

- I don't see user switching in its usual spot. I have the network connection and current user listed but don't see a means to leave one user account running (for example creating a live USB) and log into another.

- I have enabled icons on the desktop. One of them is removable drives. I find it convenient to switch to the desktop view, right-click the mounted removable drive and unmount/eject it. I can unmount/eject via Nautilus but not via the desktop icon.

- For fun I installed the Wayland package. It actually works quite well, I only noticed a couple problems. One is that I wasn't seeing any icons on the desktop, the other problem was that at least one extension - Lock Keys didn't work properly. The icons appeared but capslock and numlock states did not change when pressed. Other extensions - especially Dash to Dock (couldn't live without that:D) worked as expected.

It's pretty early in the game and I don't want to squawk prematurely.

---

### Post by fthx on 2016-01-11
*- I don't see user switching in its usual spot. I have the network connection and current user listed but don't see a means to leave one user account running (for example creating a live USB) and log into another.*

Yep, I did not notice that because I do not use that. Anyway :
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/192824/how-to-switch-user-in-gnome-shell/717257#717257](http://askubuntu.com/questions/192824/how-to-switch-user-in-gnome-shell/717257#717257)
Abstract : you can lock screen and re-connect as another user, e.g.

*- I have enabled icons on the desktop. One of them is removable drives. I find it convenient to switch to the desktop view, right-click the mounted removable drive and unmount/eject it. I can unmount/eject via Nautilus but not via the desktop icon.*

"Me too."
Workaround (that you probably know) :
[https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/7/removable-drive-menu/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/7/removable-drive-menu/)

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2016-01-12
Those work-arounds do -- work:-P. They seem like a bit of a regression though. I'll see how things progress toward April 2016.

---

### Post by p_schott on 2016-04-29
Bug seems still to be present in final release :-(

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-29
Thread closed, as we are now testing yakkety.

---

