---
title: "18.04 alpha1: Gnome-shell Applications Menu extension broken"
date: 2018-01-14
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-14
After completing my fresh install of Ubuntu 18.04 alpha1 I installed some of my favourite Gnome-shell extensions. The "Applications Menu" extension is currently broken.

Kind regards,

Curt

---

### Post by jbicha on 2018-01-14
How did you install Ubuntu?

Ubuntu installs gir1.2-gmenu-3.0 by default (it's a Recommends from ubuntu-desktop) which is required for that GNOME Shell extension to work.

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-17
I installed Ubuntu 18.04 from a bionic-desktop-amd64 ISO downloaded Jan 12. I have verified gir1.2-gmenu-3.0 is installed. The Gnome Applications Menu extension was installed from [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/6/applications-menu/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/6/applications-menu/) and worked correctly in 16.10, 17.04, & 17.10.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-01-17
I have not met your issue on a fresh install: first i have installed the prefered gnome-shell-extension-* from the bionic archive, then i have added  some others (not the same indeed) from the gnome extension url. What you need then, is to install gnome-tweak and set your wishes. Have you done them ?

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-18
Well, I installed gnome-tweak-tool and verified the [Applications Menu extension]("https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/6/applications-menu/") was installed, but when you click on it nothing happens.

Looking in Synaptic, I found the gnome-shell-extensions package an installed it. This does provide a working Applications menu, but it has some side effects:
[LIST]
[*]Includes a bottom bar in addition to the top bar, which interferes with Ubuntu Dock at the bottom of the screen (fortunately the dock is on top).
[*]Top and bottom bars don't respect the Global Dark Theme and use black text on a bright background.
[*]There do not appear to be any configuration controls for this top and bottom bar.
[*]
[/LIST]

Best regards,

Curt

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-20
For now, I have switched from 'Ubuntu dock' back to 'Dash to dock' so I can move the dock from the bottom of the screen back to the left edge, as this appears to be the "standard" location for the dock when using gnome-shell-extensions.

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-20
For now, I have switched from 'Ubuntu dock' back to 'Dash to dock' so I can move the dock from the bottom of the screen back to the left edge, as this appears to be the "standard" location for the dock when using gnome-shell-extensions.

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-20
the 'Window list' extension included in gnome-shell-extensions is supposed to turn off the bottom bar, but this is not working.

I tried installing gnome-themes-standard and selecting the Adwaita-dark theme, but the top & bottom bars from gnome-shell-extensions are still black foreground and white background.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-01-20
Myself i prefer dash-to-dock over the ubuntu-dock. The bottom bar is an option, so set it off, voila.
And note that now your '/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/' subdir should be empty to stop disturbing the system with different settings (that is the old path, now depreceted but still used when installing from the url).

---

### Post by ping-wu on 2018-01-21
gnome-shell-extension-taskbar is also broken (nothing happens when I click on "Applications").

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-01-21
> **ping-wu said:**
> gnome-shell-extension-taskbar is also broken (nothing happens when I click on "Applications").

not mine :guitar:  purge then reinstall it

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-21
If '/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/' subdir is deprecated, what is the new path for extension settings? I am having problems trying to migrate from extensions formerly installed from URLs, but now provided by Ubuntu pkgs. If the URL installation method is now deprecated, how are we meant to install extensions that are not included in the Ubuntu repo or are we now limited to **only** the extensions in the Ubuntu repo?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-01-21
The new place is: /usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions/ , and the archive have 38 extension's packages :p working out of the box, automatically updated to get rid of ABI conflict :D
That's more than what you need.

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-23
I have replaced the URL extensions Impatience and OpenWeather with their Ubuntu package counterparts. Attempting to replace DashToDock with its Ubuntu package counterpart was a disaster, which I have documented in a [bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-shell-extension-dashtodock/+bug/1745060") .

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-23
So, if you have URL extensions present in both locations, what is the correct way to migrate from .local/share to /usr/share? I have already determined that simply deleting extension directories from the .local/share/gnome-shell/extensions path is a bad idea (fortunately, I was able to recover).

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-01-24
Purge everything installed via the url; Purge everything installed via the archive (gnome-shell-extension*).
Stop using the url for installation & upgrade; Only install the archive's extensions. Do not mix ubuntu-dock & dash-to-dock.

You need to understand that the old install way (url) is deprecated and disturb the ubuntu way via its archive. Thats said, your report is a non sense.
The title report says 'crash', where is that crash ? To get a real crash report, you might have ran: 'ubuntu-bug xxxx' to expose the error met; without such details, the report is useless.

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-24
Consider me a Gnome Ubuntu early adopter of 18.04. After I completed a clean install of 18.04 alpha1 and logged in once using the clean user home account from the install, my next task was to mount my existing Gnome Ubuntu 17.04 home partition. I was not previously using Ubuntu distro packages for installing Gnome extensions. After upgrading the URL extensions that were still supported by the new version of gnome-shell, everything worked except for the Applications Menu. Everything since then has been trying to (a) get a working applications menu because that's simply how I like to work and then (b) work on converting from URL extensions to package extensions after being informed that is the new way it is to be done. Note that I was not running Gnome Classic or Mate or Cinnamon prior to 18.04. I have been happily using gnome-shell since at least 14.04 LTS. 

If the correct process is to purge all URL-based extensions and then replace them with distro packages then you need to do one of two things:
* Have the distro package version of an extension check for and remove the corresponding URL extension(s) it includes as part of the package install.
* Clearly _document_ by some means the migration process for existing Gnome Ubuntu users.

The title of this report says "broken", not "crash"; the two terms are not synonymous. If I had been presented with a Gnome crash dialog I most certainly would have included it and would have gladly opened a bug report for it when asked to by this forum. This report thread has been useful. I have learned a number of interesting things about the 18.04 gnome-shell environment and I hope others after me will find my experiences useful. For the package-based extension that did break my system, DashToDock, I have opened bug report for on Launchpad.

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-26
OK, I couldn't find a reliable way to remove the URL-based extensions after installing some of the package-based extensions, so I have bit the bullet and started rebuilding my /home directory from scratch. URL-based extensions have been purged and I have uninstalled packages chrome-gnome-shell and gnome-shell-extensions. I logged out, Changed from Gnome Classic back to Ubuntu window manager, and logged back in. As an aside, I'm assuming the installation of gnome-shell-extensions was responsible for changing my window manager selection to Gnome Classic as I certainly didn't do it.

Looking in the Gnome Tweaks tool, the first option in Top Bar tab is "Application Menu". I see no sign of an Application Menu, only the Activities button in the left corner. Turning the  "Application Menu" off, logging out, and then logging back in makes no readily discernible difference. Nor does turning it back on, logging out, and then logging back in, other than making the Gnome GUI respond very, very slowly. Rebooting restored normal operation.

I found the  "Application Menu" extension in the Shell Extensions section of the Ubuntu Software catalog. To my surprise, this entry downloads the URL-based extension. I gave it a try, and it did replace the Activities button with an Applications button, but clicking this button doesn't do anything, i.e. the pull-down applications menu does not appear.

I have come full circle, no Applications Menu in the Ubuntu gnome-shell window manager, but I now have my shell extensions installed "the Ubuntu way".

---

### Post by irv on 2018-01-31
I installed 18.04 yesterday (1/30/18) and started to install some Gnome-shell Applications, I found the Menu extension broken as well.
Besides that, I tried to install the "Easyscreen Cast." The OS just locked up and I could not do anything at that point but power off.
I installed it on a Dell 11" 3000 series 2-1 that was running 17.04 without any issues. After Rebooting it would get to the point where I think it was loading the Easyscreen Cast and it would just lock up.
At that point, I just reinstalled the OS again. Tried to see if it would do the same and it did.
I reinstalled the OS again and this time I did not try to install it, and everything is working so I am not going to try again. Maybe I will wait for the final release and then try it then.

---

### Post by curts on 2018-02-10
OK, I have found a solution - The gnome-shell extension "Arc Menu" from the Ubuntu Software store works correctly! :)

What I don't understand is that it installed from a URL into ~/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions, despite @dino99 insisting that ALL shell extensions in Ubuntu now install to  /usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions. What I see in /usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions are the gnome-shell extensions that installed as packages from the Ubuntu repo.

I believe it makes sense for the package-based extensions to install to  /usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions, as they are then available to all users on the system. I also believe it makes sense for a URL-based extension to install to ~/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions as a lightweight, per-user customization.

The point I am trying to make is with gnome-shell going mainstream in 18.04 we need to get our story straight when answering questions about gnome-shell extensions in the forums. We do need to tell users to install the URL-based extensions from the Ubuntu Software store instead of using the older, web-based control panel.

I suspect this means that Gnome Ubuntu users upgrading to 18.04 can keep their URL-based installed extensions, but migrate to the Ubuntu Software store for install & removal. What is crucial is that a URL-based extension be uninstalled before installing a package-based replacement.

Kind regards,

Curt

---

### Post by martin30002 on 2018-05-01
```
sudo apt install gnome-shell-extensions
```
fixed it.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2018-05-01
Thread closed, as Bionic has been released

---

