---
title: "15.04-beta2 and Firefox 37 (constant crashes)"
date: 2015-04-17
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by ubunt72 on 2015-04-17
I don't see any (other) similar (or relevant) posts.   I'm just wondering if anyone has experienced the same thing.   Firefox 37 continually crashes all of a sudden.   I didn't update/upgrade anything recently.   

I'm using Xubuntu 15.04 (beta2), using a nvidia card (if it's relevant - don't know why it would be) and Firefox ver. 37.

I use Firefox 37 in Ubuntu 14.10 and in a Debian (derivative) OS install with no crashes Iike I experience when using 15.04.   It doesn't matter what I try - I tried to use Firefox 37 in Safe Mode but it didn't make a difference.   I googled and there are hits to do with Firefox 37 crashing but nothing that really struck out at me.   I am wondering if it's related to the 'beta' situation with 15.04 right now?   

Posting this in my Debian install - Firefox is at 37.0.1.   Any crashes in that are usually related to having tons of tabs open.   I only had two or three or even just one - in 15.04-b2 but FF still crashed after a short period of time.  

Any ideas?

---

### Post by marco-parillo on 2015-04-17
I can reliably crash Firefox by copying [http://winhelp2002.mvps.org/hosts.txt](http://winhelp2002.mvps.org/hosts.txt) when I paste into kate. 
But, other than that, I have not had a huge problem with FF 37 on Kubuntu Beta2 with daily updates.

---

### Post by ubunt72 on 2015-04-17
> **marco-parillo said:**
> I can reliably crash Firefox by copying [http://winhelp2002.mvps.org/hosts.txt](http://winhelp2002.mvps.org/hosts.txt) when I paste into kate. 
But, other than that, I have not had a huge problem with FF 37 on Kubuntu Beta2 with daily updates.
You gave me the idea - to run Software Updates - obvious as it probably should be? :)     There was a lot to update - required/requested a restart.  

Using FF 37 now - in the Ubuntu 15.05b2 install and 14 tabs open - posting in one of them.   Knock on wood - working so far with no crashes yet.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-04-18
The beta releases are just a snapshot of the repositories at a particular time, they are nothing special. They should be updated regularly just like you would with a regular development image.

---

### Post by orj-gmail on 2015-04-18
> **ubunt72 said:**
> I don't see any (other) similar (or relevant) posts.   I'm just wondering if anyone has experienced the same thing.   Firefox 37 continually crashes all of a sudden.   I didn't update/upgrade anything recently.   

I'm using Xubuntu 15.04 (beta2), using a nvidia card (if it's relevant - don't know why it would be) and Firefox ver. 37.

I use Firefox 37 in Ubuntu 14.10 and in a Debian (derivative) OS install with no crashes Iike I experience when using 15.04.   It doesn't matter what I try - I tried to use Firefox 37 in Safe Mode but it didn't make a difference.   I googled and there are hits to do with Firefox 37 crashing but nothing that really struck out at me.   I am wondering if it's related to the 'beta' situation with 15.04 right now?   

Posting this in my Debian install - Firefox is at 37.0.1.   Any crashes in that are usually related to having tons of tabs open.   I only had two or three or even just one - in 15.04-b2 but FF still crashed after a short period of time.  

Any ideas?

I have (till today) the same behaviour of firefox (using ubuntu gnome).

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2015-04-19
Using 15.04 updated most days, running Unity and Firefox 37.  Some problems with Unity but not with Firefox or Chromium.

I don't like Unity - I run it to report bugs.

---

### Post by Taboo Tongue on 2015-08-10
I was having the same problem with (Xubuntu/xfce) 14.04 so I updated to 14.10
But I'm still getting very frquent Firefox (39) crashes, frequent lock ups, and occasional VLC crashes. When I tried Chromium I had the same issue as with Firefox.
(I'm also using an nVidia card)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-08-11
Not wily related, thread closed.

---

