---
title: "New 22.10 Install Results"
date: 2022-10-17
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by zebra2 on 2022-10-17
Last night I installed the 22.10 pending 101622 ISO on a clean newly partitioned HD.  I did a new clean install to jettison the cling-ons of yesteryear.

Result in my  opinion is that it is a very decent OS.  The Ubuntu Software offers apps in both snap and deb format however they may be available. I did some of both.  You can also set permissions for many of the apps after the install through the link provided.  Everything that my simple life requires works flawlessly.  In my mind this release is a big improvement over 22.04.  
I believe that most of the problems being reported from most of us are due to configuration problems embedded from the previous version that was upgraded with the standard upgrade script. A clean install is in order, IMO.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2022-10-17
> **zebra2 said:**
> In my mind this release is a big improvement over 22.04.

Could you be more specific?

---

### Post by zebra2 on 2022-10-17
> **jbicha said:**
> Could you be more specific?

Probably not because the statement I made is too subjective.  And I never did a clean install of 22.04.  In addition I only use Intel systems that get better support for the most part.  However a few things stand out. 
No more printer ghosts in the printer app.  22.10 installed my printer perfectly without any interaction.  My old Canon scanner loaded and works perfect for the first time ever.  Gscan2pdf is producing a first class result. 
The Ubuntu Software app, aka Snap-Store opens smoothly with a click. The search function finds what I'm looking for and it provides both Snap and Deb apps without glitches or work-arounds. 
The only issue I have found is the the "Videos" app doesn't play videos. I know that most use VLC anyway and I have actually made SMPlayer my default, but I don't know why Canonical installs Videos as default when it doesn't work. 

Also, you should know that I have my development copy of 22.10 on a different Lenovo Laptop and even though it is fully updated with the new kernel et all. It is pure crap.  Hence the clean install on my other system.  I just think that at some point a user has to get rid of past bad choices and work-arounds an mismanaged config files  and start over.  Just to give the new release a fair chance.

Regarding 22.04. It had too many problems, in the areas mentioned above.  I see it as a work in progress that is smoothed out in 22.10.  
Finally the point of my post if there is one is that especially due to all of the reported problems with this release thus far a clean fresh install is in order. I think it is the only way that even a very experienced user is going to get a properly working 22.10 system. But what I am ending up with is the best release I have ever used.  I started with Karmic Koala and it has been nothing but problem solving all of the way including 22.04.  Right now I don't have a single issue with 22.10 but in a couple of weeks I will be off the the next development version. Because that is what I do.

---

