---
title: "32 or 64 bit"
date: 2014-04-04
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-04-04
I'm unclear which iso I should download for insuring a 64 bit installation.
 
I believe [64-bit PC (AMD64) desktop image]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/trusty-desktop-amd64.iso") is correct for a PC that has a 64 bit Intel processor, yet when I installed that last night the system booted into unity. After performing apt-get update, upgrade, dist-upgrade the system booted only into a black screen.

My main os is Ubuntu 13.04 (64 bit) and is working perfectly.  I'm testing 14.04 because I want to switch to LTS.

TIA

Pete

---

### Post by zika on 2014-04-04
> **pfeiffep said:**
> I'm unclear which iso I should download for insuring a 64 bit installation.
 
I believe [64-bit PC (AMD64) desktop image]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/trusty-desktop-amd64.iso") is correct for a PC that has a 64 bit Intel processor, yet when I installed that last night the system booted into unity. After performing apt-get update, upgrade, dist-upgrade the system booted only into a black screen.

My main os is Ubuntu 13.04 (64 bit) and is working perfectly.  I'm testing 14.04 because I want to switch to LTS.

TIA

PeteThere are two or three threads about trouble with GUI at this moment, things that are either already resolved or on their way to resolution... That is the life in U+1 especially last days before final... ;)
What is the reason that You've performed dist-upgrade and what packages were (if any) removed in that process? Look into logs to determine answers to these questions...
What server You've used for upgrade and if You did not use Main switch to it... You can add &#8222;text&#8220; to Your kernel-boot-line to boot into tty (CLI) and You can switch to Main and do upgrade in order to resolve issues You have at present...

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-04-04
> **zika said:**
> There are two or three threads about trouble with GUI at this moment, things that are either already resolved or on their way to resolution... That is the life in U+1 especially last days before final... ;)
What is the reason that You've performed dist-upgrade and what packages were (if any) removed in that process? Look into logs to determine answers to these questions...
What server You've used for upgrade and if You did not use Main switch to it... You can add &#8222;text&#8220; to Your kernel-boot-line to boot into tty (CLI) and You can switch to Main and do upgrade in order to resolve issues You have at present...

I had just installed from a beta 2 dated 27 March - I thought it was prudent to perform all three. I don't recall the exact messages, and the system only displays a pure black screen. 

I'll just download the most recent daily and try again. Is my assumption correct about the image to use?

When are the daily images and software sources refreshed?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-04-04
> [COLOR=#000000]yet when I installed that last night the system booted into unity.[/COLOR]

Well it would, wouldn't it? Unity is the default user interface for Ubuntu. The question about 32 bit or 64 bit is not specific to Ubuntu 14.04. A lot of people have asked this question and it has been answered lots of times.

Intel and AMD produce CPUs that have much the same architecture. So, the Ubuntu i386 32 bit version will run on both Intel and AMD 32 bit CPUs and even their 64 bit CPUs because those 64 bit CPUs are backwards compatible with the 32 bit architecture.

The Ubuntu amd 64 bit version will run on both Intel and AMD 64 bit CPUs but will not run on a 32 bit CPU no matter who makes it.

Ubuntu live sessions do not use proprietary video drivers they use the Nouveau open source video driver. But when we install and we tick the "Install Third Party Software" box we get not only some proprietary audio and video codecs but also a proprietary video driver. In my opinion it is the proprietary video driver that causes many black screens on the first reboot after installation.

The daily images are refreshed - well, er, daily. Unless there have been failures in building the image then there might be a delay. The repositories are updated as and when upgraded packages are available and there is someone around to put the packages into the repostiories. On the development branch we usually update daily and the amount of code that is updated does vary.

This is where we get the daily images from. The version number is actually the date. The latest Ubuntu desktop amd64 is 20140404 or 2014/04/04 to put it another way.

[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/308/builds](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/308/builds)

My advice is, at the Grub boot menu select Advanced options for Ubuntu and then select Recovery mode and at the Recovery menu select Resume. If that gets you to a desktop go to System Settings>Software and Updates>Additional Drivers tab and experiment with the available video drivers.

Regards.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-04-04
[COLOR=#000000]@grahammechanical[/COLOR] Thanks for your comprehensive answer:D

> Well it would, wouldn't it? Unity is the default user interface for Ubuntu. 

That was as expected to me also - simply stated the the system worked initially

> [COLOR=#000000]The question about 32 bit or 64 bit is not specific to Ubuntu 14.04. A lot of people have asked this question and it has been answered lots of times.[/COLOR]

I really was questioning the labeling of the iso's > -[COLOR=#000000]The Ubuntu amd 64 bit version will run on both Intel and AMD 64 bit CPUs but will not run on a 32 bit CPU no matter who makes it.[/COLOR]  I wanted to insure I choose the correct iso for my 64 bit machine

> [COLOR=#000000]Ubuntu live sessions do not use proprietary video drivers they use the Nouveau open source video driver. But when we install and we tick the "Install Third Party Software" box we get not only some proprietary audio and video codecs but also a proprietary video driver. In my opinion it is the proprietary video driver that causes many black screens on the first reboot after installation.[/COLOR]


Yes I had checked the boxes to install 3rd party software. My guess is that dist-upgrade was the culprit - lesson learned.

I'll mark this solved after I get to my other machine and use the most recent daily

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-04-04
):PLessons learned:
1-when installing onto a multiple partition hard drive boot to previous existing installation and perform ```
sudo update-grub
```
2-keep with ```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
``` and stay away from ```
dist-upgrade
```

Many thanks to those who replied and helped me think this through!

---

