---
title: "3.16-rc6 .deb ready to be tested"
date: 2014-07-21
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by zika on 2014-07-21
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.16-rc6-utopic/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.16-rc6-utopic/)
[http://lkml.iu.edu/hypermail/linux/kernel/1407.2/03637.html](http://lkml.iu.edu/hypermail/linux/kernel/1407.2/03637.html)

---

### Post by fyfe54 on 2014-07-21
Just installed it.  30 minutes and all is going along just fine..

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2014-07-21
Greetings,
I tried this kernel with systemd and it failed as usual, then did an update and guess what.
Success!!
It gets a completely new systemd.

rrnbtter@Toshiba-Satellite-L305:~$ sysd
systemd
LSB Version:    core-2.0-ia32:core-2.0-noarch:core-3.0-ia32:core-3.0-noarch:core-3.1-ia32:core-3.1-noarch:core-3.2-ia32:core-3.2-noarch:core-4.0-ia32:core-4.0-noarch:core-4.1-ia32:core-4.1-noarch:security-4.0-ia32:security-4.0-noarch:security-4.1-ia32:security-4.1-noarch
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu Utopic Unicorn (development branch)
Release:    14.10
Codename:    utopic
3.16.0-031600rc6-generic

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2014-07-21
Greetings,
Also, this is the first time Utopic has booted without an apport error.
Looks good!

---

### Post by fooman on 2014-07-24
in all the time i've been testing the development releases with the latest kernels,  i have always seen the "No LSB modules are available." reply when i run the command: 

```
lsb_release -a && uname -r
```

just noticed today that i now have LSB versions!  lol,  don't know what it means,  but this is what i now get from that command....

```
~$ lsb_release -a && uname -r
LSB Version:    core-2.0-amd64:core-2.0-noarch:core-3.0-amd64:core-3.0-noarch:core-3.1-amd64:core-3.1-noarch:core-3.2-amd64:core-3.2-noarch:core-4.0-amd64:core-4.0-noarch:core-4.1-amd64:core-4.1-noarch:security-4.0-amd64:security-4.0-noarch:security-4.1-amd64:security-4.1-noarch
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu Utopic Unicorn (development branch)
Release:    14.10
Codename:    utopic
3.16.0-rc6-foomans-custom-kernel
```

using systemd btw.  i was getting errors when running updates last week with systemd and switched over to upstart...  went back to systemd after updating to 3.16.0-rc6 and all seems fine now!

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2014-07-24
Greetings,

> **fooman said:**
> in all the time i've been testing the development releases with the latest kernels,  i have always seen the "No LSB modules are available." reply when i run the command: 

sudo apt-get install lsb-core

My experience with the systemd update is the same as yours. Had to boot with init and then update and switch back to systemd.

---

