---
title: "[20.04] Can't login to Ubuntu only Wayland"
date: 2020-01-17
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2020-01-17
So I downloaded 20.04 in a VM just to see how it looks and what I'm expecting for when the big day comes :).  When I try to login it authenticates but then sends me back to the login screen, I have to change my desktop option from ubuntu to ubuntu with wayland.  Is anyone else having this problem and how do you solve it?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2020-01-17
This often means old settings disturbing the new upgrade. Try cleaning the system via autoremove / bleachbit (as root) first , then test again.

---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2020-01-17
This was a clean install, but I did do a autoremove and the problem still persisted.  Also when I try to login with just normal gnome and login to wayland I have to log out and log back in, just to get wayland again.

---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2020-01-18
Resolved the issue, this was a kvm problem the video adapter doesn't play well on gnome on the default one which is QXL.  I switched it to Virtio and all is working as expected.  Chalk this up to human error and lack of experience :)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-01-18
Great news! 

Please mark as SOLVED from the Thread Tools menu up-top if this is now solved to your satisfaction. It is a great help to other users with the same problem searching the forum.

---

### Post by sergiomc1978 on 2020-02-26
Hello, I had the same problem. I created a new VirtualBox machine and installed Ubuntu 20.04 , but after reboot, on login screen, I put my login credentials, and it sent me back to the login screen.
So I read that you tried to change to Wayland option, and it worked. But, is it correct? Why doesnt work on Gnome normal? 
Thanks.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-02-28
> **sergiomc1978 said:**
> Hello, I had the same problem. I created a new VirtualBox machine and installed Ubuntu 20.04 , but after reboot, on login screen, I put my login credentials, and it sent me back to the login screen.
So I read that you tried to change to Wayland option, and it worked. But, is it correct? Why doesnt work on Gnome normal? 
Thanks.

Please read post #4 as well.

---

