---
title: "13.04 installed just fine on my new (UEFI) PC!"
date: 2013-03-06
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-03-06
Didn't even have to Disable Secure Boot. Looks like Canonical has a Microsoft Secure Boot Driver in 13.04.

---

### Post by pinballwizard on 2013-03-06
While we're talking UEFI and secure boot, I just installed 12.04.2 on a new system, and using UEFI, it boots slower than win 8. Why is that?

---

### Post by cole.mickens on 2013-03-06
Boot time has regressed for me, but legacy vs efi shouldn't matter. I think ubuntu's upstart has gotten a bit slower though.

To the OP, not to be abrasive, but much of what you read about UEFI/SecureBoot online (HN, LWN, Reddit) is often 50% half-truthes and 50% completely invented nonsense from confused individuals.

Case in point: Ubuntu has supported MS-signature SecureBoot for almost a year. 12.04.2 brings support for SecureBoot and 12.10 had it at launch IIRC.

SecureBoot isn't nearly as big a deal as most people make it out to be. That having been said, I'll be stubborn and remove the MS key and enroll my own in all likelihood. Although my next device will probably be a dual boot, so I may leave the MS key and just enroll  my own for when I dual boot.

edit: For the record, I'm doing a native EFI install on my MacbookAir 2012. Everything works out of the box, Refind is my boot manager, Grub is my bootloader, everything gets along nicely, except 3.8.0-10 but I'm sure that's just a matter of time, supposedly -11 is dropping soon.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-03-06
> [COLOR=#000000] Looks like Canonical has a Microsoft Secure Boot Driver in 13.04.[/COLOR] That has been in Raring since the beginning because 12.10 has had a Microsoft approved signed kernel compatible with Microsoft's secure boot specification. And now 12.04.2 has the Quantal kernel. Raring started out with the Quantal kernel. So, I am not surprised that Raring installs without needing to disable secure boot. 

[http://web.dodds.net/~vorlon/wiki/blog/SecureBoot_in_Ubuntu_12.10/](http://web.dodds.net/~vorlon/wiki/blog/SecureBoot_in_Ubuntu_12.10/)

Regards.

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-03-06
I was just trying to let everyone know that I had no trouble installing 13.04 on my new Dell 15 3521 UEFI Computer. Where as NOT even Dell's Pre-Installed Windows 8 Recovery Partition Worked Correctly (it did NOT work at all). Sorry if I touched a Nerve.

---

### Post by balloons on 2013-03-06
Ohh, you've got new hardware.. yay! How was everything? Did you do anything different during installation?

---

### Post by CoreyB. on 2013-03-06
I installed 12.10 fine on my Lenovo with UEFI and Secure Boot just fine, but it GRUB2 doesn't boot Windows 8 w/ UEFI properly until I run some tool (I don't remember what it's called), has anyone installed Ubuntu 13.04 alongside Windows 8 w/ UEFI and Secure Boot on for both and had GRUB2 successfully chainload Windows 8??

Thanks!

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-03-07
> **guitara said:**
> Ohh, you've got new hardware.. yay! How was everything? Did you do anything different during installation?

I did not have to do anything different during the installation, in fact I did not have to disable anything at all in order to get the installation to work. By the way, Dell did send me the Windows 8 Recovery Disk when I called them and told them that the Windows 8 Recovery Partition was NOT working at all so I do have the ability to return to Windows 8 for stuff like Updating my IPhone 5 and my IPad Mini through ITunes if I need to do so. Just FYI.

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-03-07
The picture in this post was Uploaded the Wrong Way. The Picture in the next post shows that I was Successfully able to Update the Ubuntu Kernel to 3.9.0 RC1 on my new Dell Inspiron 15 3521 PC.

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-03-07
[ATTACH=CONFIG]239882[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-03-07
Sorry, but I uploaded the first picture the wrong way. The second picture was Uploaded the correct way. Perhaps a Moderator can delete the first Picture. Edit: Nevermind, I edited the First Post Myself.

---

