---
title: "16.04 LTS Final Beta"
date: 2016-04-04
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by trevorcato on 2016-04-04
I don't know if this is the right place to report this but I've just installed 16.04 LTS Final Beta alongside Windows 10 and windows 7 and I've noticed that every time I boot into Ubuntu it knocks my computer clock back one hour from BST to GMT (UK). Ok, a very minor problem just thought I'd mention it.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-04-04
With me Xenial has started to gain time over the day. Other than that Xenial is keep in up with the switch to BST.

We report things here for discussion. To report as reporting a bug, then we go to Launchpad.

Regards.

---

### Post by izznogooood on 2016-04-04
Did you check the systemsettings --> Date / time to make sure they are set correctly?

If say you're settings is in the wrong timezone it will change the clock every time if it's set to "Get time from Internet" .

---

### Post by VMC on 2016-04-04
On a related note, in order to get my timezone correct, I need to do this:
```
timedatectl set-local-rtc 1
```

**rcS** doesn't work anymore. Setting it to **UTC=no** has no effect.

---

### Post by $yl9pAR%t on 2016-04-04
I can confirm this issue on Windows Vista. I have been observing this problem since February, when I have installed 16.04 for the first time. I use Central Europe Time and the clock on Windows after reboot from Xubuntu 16.04 or Ubuntu GNOME 16.04 always was late 1 hour, after seasonal time change (1 week ago) the clock on Windows is late 2 hours. As long as now i didn't care to much, but now I think it is worth to tinker with this problem.

---

### Post by izznogooood on 2016-04-04
So what you are saying as the Clock is correct until you reboot?

---

### Post by $yl9pAR%t on 2016-04-04
I suspect it has something to do with **ntpdate**. This package was installed by default on 12.04 and 14.04. On *buntu 16.04 it is not installed. Moreover I am afraid installation of ntpdate is not enough and some configuration job has to be done.

---

### Post by $yl9pAR%t on 2016-04-05
I am not sure now if OP has the same issue, but if he has, I would call this thread "*buntu 16.04 changes BIOS Time settings on reboot and shutdown". This is what exactly happens. In short, rebooting from Windows Vista or *buntu 14.04 leaves BIOS time settings untouched, but rebooting from *buntu 16.04 changes BIOS time.

---

### Post by zika on 2016-04-06
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/169376/clock-time-is-off-on-dual-boot](https://askubuntu.com/questions/169376/clock-time-is-off-on-dual-boot)
There was also a thread in U+1 about this recently but I do not have time now to search for it.

---

### Post by $yl9pAR%t on 2016-04-06
I have set "RTC in local TZ: yes". I did it VMC's way (post #4).

Anyway I do not know why I had no such problems using Ubuntu 14.04. Perhaps some changes came with systemd, but it is over my head.

EDIT:

Additionally I have activated NTP synchronization and it seems to work properly. These are my present settings on Xubuntu 16.04:

```
Network time on: yes
NTP synchronized: yes
 RTC in local TZ: yes
```

The only downside is this warning:

> The system is configured to read the RTC time in the local time zone.         This mode can not be fully supported. It will create various problems
         with time zone changes and daylight saving time adjustments. The RTC
         time is never updated, it relies on external facilities to maintain it.
         If at all possible, use RTC in UTC by calling
         'timedatectl set-local-rtc 0'.

---

