---
title: "14.10 to 15.04 upgrade: no unity"
date: 2014-11-10
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by suoko on 2014-11-10
I just tried the upgrade this way:
I downloaded the 15.04 ubuntu-next daily iso, booted it and installed: when asked I chose to upgrade my 14.10 installation (which should be an original 13.10 installation) instead of a fresh install.
Eveything booted, but kde did not start.
Fortunately razorqt booted.
Unity8 shows just the mouse arrow, nothing else.
When I run the iso live image, unity8 works just fine so I know that the hardware is fully supported.
How to debug ?

Btw, gnome3 boots also ok.

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-11-10
Since you have volunteered to test this pre-release version of Ubuntu, you should expect to have problems at this point.  From other posts on using pre-release versions (first link below), it is recommended you post in the Ubuntu Development Version section of the forums, second link below.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2245627](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2245627)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=427](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=427)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-11-10
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu Development Version**.*

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-11-10
I have difficulty understanding what you are doing.

Ubuntu Desktop Next is an ISO image of Ubuntu Touch that installs on the desktop. I found that if I used the Nouveau open source video driver the install would load as far as the LightDM login screen but once I logged in and the OS switches to MIr and Unity 8 all I got was the mouse arrow and a black screen otherwise.

Things were different when I installed and ticked to install third party software. Then I got the Nvidia driver and after login in at the LightDM screen the Ubuntu Touch login screen would load and after that the Ubuntu Touch UI would load. Now were are on Mir and Unity 8 but without access to the usual Ubuntu desktop and its applications.

I do not understand where KDE and razorqt come into it. 

Did you use this Ubuntu Desktop Next ISO image to upgrade an existing installation? Of what? KDE? And with RazorQT as an alternative desktop? Interesting experiment. Either way, Do not expect much from Ubuntu Desktop Next at the moment. Although, playing with the Touch apps is interesting.

This is the thread where we had previous discussions on Ubuntu Desktop Next

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2248940](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2248940)

If it was not Ubuntu Desktop Next but the daily image of Ubuntu Vivid Vervet (15.04), then that is not Unity 8 but Unity 7. Best put in a fresh install and not upgrade. Especially if there are alternative desktops installed.

Regards.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-11-10
Also you should be aware that what you see on ubuntu next is not really what will ultimately be the unity 8 desktop version. that is being worked on now for default release by 16.04...What you are seeing now is the touch version for say, a tablet or phone...

If you want to go with development at this point, you should download a daily build of 15.04 (regular not Next version) and install with that...

---

### Post by suoko on 2014-11-12
Thanks for the suggestion: by uninstalling all nvidia packages unity8 now boots correctly

EDIT: in my case nvidia prime actually works so I just need to "sudo prime-select intel" to enter the unity8 session

---

