---
title: "18.04 loses network after suspend"
date: 2018-03-06
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2018-03-06
I suspend Bionic for an hour or so, come back unsuspend it and lose the network.

This may be only on certain hardware.
cavsfan@cavsfan-le-beast:~$ ```
inxi -Fnn
...
Network:   Card: Realtek RTL8101/2/6E PCI Express Fast/Gigabit Ethernet controller driver: r8169
           IF: ens33 state: up speed: 100 Mbps duplex: full mac: 00:24:21:51:21:3a



```

If you have the r8169 driver it will do this.

The only way to fix it is:
```
sudo modprobe -r r8169

sudo modprobe r8169
```

If you have that driver you can duplicate this by suspending your computer and then waking it up. It will happen every time.

It is also happening in Arch Linux...

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-03-06
This is on both Buntu and Arch  and same results as you Cavsfan.
```
 Linksys WUSB100 v1 RangePlus Wireless Network Adapter [Ralink RT2870]

```
This has been ongoing for a bit time for me on both Distros.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2018-03-06
> **1fallen said:**
> This is on both Buntu and Arch  and same results as you Cavsfan.
```
 Linksys WUSB100 v1 RangePlus Wireless Network Adapter [Ralink RT2870]

```
This has been ongoing for a bit time for me on both Distros.

You have the [COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]r8169 driver too I take it? I also opened a thread in the Arch Forum.

It just started happening to me in Arch about Valentine's day. I don't know why.

In Ubuntu it happened after the 4.15 kernel was released. They both have 4.15 kernels but, that by itself is not the cause.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-03-06
> **Cavsfan said:**
> 
It just started happening to me in Arch about Valentine's day. I don't know why.>>> after the 4.15 kernel was released. 


```
Card-2: Realtek RTL8111/8168/8411 PCIE Gigabit Ethernet Controller
           driver: r8169

```

Sounds about right as far as the date, [but I was playing with the 4.15 kernel when it was in testing}
I've heard all kind of reasons why but nothing concrete (Just speculation) to state...(So far just hear-say and you know how that set's with me....** in one ear and out the other** :) ).

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2018-03-10
> **Cavsfan said:**
> It just started happening to me in Arch about Valentine's day. I don't know why.>>> after the 4.15 kernel was released.
> **1fallen said:**
> ```
Card-2: Realtek RTL8111/8168/8411 PCIE Gigabit Ethernet Controller driver: r8169
```

Sounds about right as far as the date, [but I was playing with the 4.15 kernel when it was in testing}
I've heard all kind of reasons why but nothing concrete (Just speculation) to state...(So far just hear-say and you know how that set's with me....** in one ear and out the other** :) ).

Well, 1fallen, it must just be you and me experiencing this problem. :lol:

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-03-10
> **Cavsfan said:**
> Well, 1fallen, it must just be you and me experiencing this problem. :lol:
That's alright buddy, I got your back! ;)
BTW I still can't find a clue as to why yet! >> It just flat disconnects in suspend. :(
I kind of suspect with recent discovery of the CPU's patch's might have a bit to do with it. (Again just my opinion.)

---

### Post by elguavas on 2018-04-07
just testing ubuntu 18.04 beta 2 and this happens here too, with the r8169 network driver. removing and reloading the module gets it working again, but having networking be completely lost on every suspend is a serious problem. anyone know if a bug has been added for this? guess i'll go search there now.

---

### Post by flocculant on 2018-04-07
There is this bug reported [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/1760073](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/1760073)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-04-07
As  a work around try this

Create a file in /lib/systemd/system-sleep, call it, say network-restart and put in these lines

```
set -e

if [ "$2" = "suspend" ] || [ "$2" = "hybrid-sleep" ]; then
    case "$1" in
        pre) true ;;
        post) sleep 1 && service network-manager restart ;;
    esac
fi
```

**Edited:** oops. forgot to say make it executable, see flocclant's below.

---

### Post by flocculant on 2018-04-07
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> As  a work around try this

Create a file in /lib/systemd/system-sleep, call it, say network-restart and put in these lines

```
set -e

if [ "$2" = "suspend" ] || [ "$2" = "hybrid-sleep" ]; then
    case "$1" in
        pre) true ;;
        post) sleep 1 && service network-manager restart ;;
    esac
fi
```

[s]just as is? 

no shebang and mark executable?

if so - didn't work ;)[/s]

Added a shebang - marked it executable and it does in fact work.

Thanks monkeybrain20122

---

### Post by flocculant on 2018-04-07
mmm - and now it doesn't work ...

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-04-07
> **flocculant said:**
> mmm - and now it doesn't work ...

Does it work if you run  the command manually?
```

sudo service network-manager restart
```

---

### Post by flocculant on 2018-04-08
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Does it work if you run  the command manually?
```

sudo service network-manager restart
```

I had previously tried that - doesn't work.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-04-08
> **flocculant said:**
> I had previously tried that - doesn't work.

So if you don't suspend, just run

```
sudo service network-manager stop

sudo service network-manager start

```

What happens? Did you try a different kernel?

---

### Post by ericy on 2018-04-28
Same problem. Unload/reload kernel module works. Mine is r8169, so "sudo modprobe -r r8169" and the rest.

I tried "sudo service network-manager restart" first(typed by hand). Didn't work. Then "sudo service network-manager stop" "sudo service network-manager start", didn't work either.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2018-04-28
Thread closed, @ericy, please start a new thread in General Help.

---

