---
title: "16.04 daily test (12/26/15)"
date: 2015-12-26
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2015-12-26
D/L today 12-26-15 13:54EST, put on USB.
Extremely good imho.
My Canon MG7520 printer works (MG7500-series) out of the box though the scanner deb (holler if you need it) hasn’t yet been run against it so /usr/bin/scangearmp2 is missing. Minor.
Encountered no probs with player, FF, terminal, sound, video, displays, I'll view star wars on it later. Nice!
Again, extremely good.  I will keep editing this as I play with it more.


GA-Z87N-WIFI mobo, i5 4670K, CoolerMaster Hyper TX3 hsf, 8GB ballistix   1600(2x4), UBUNTU 14.04.3 LTE, Win7 Pro x64 SP1 current, Sammy 250GB Evo   SSD

---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-12-26
Hi Kris_M,

Which flavor are you testing of 16o4? Unity?

Happy Testing!

Thanks

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2015-12-26
I got it from here:
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

16.04
4.3.0-2-generic#11

Unity 8 is apparently a ways off..............

---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-12-26
Your working with Unity.

Thanks

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2015-12-26
Is that the default desktop in 16.04?  It looks and functions just like 14.04.3 as far as I can see in my very short look (one minor error).
In any case I believe that 16.04 has Unity 7.

For Unity 8 LXC I had to run about 5 or 6 commands in a terminal but then found that I had to set up logons for it and I didn't have time so I abandoned it - I logged off and was offered an LXC logon, but sure enough "wrong logon or password" LOL.  I'll get back to it some time in the next few days. Should be easy.

So I'm on Unity and didn't know it! - Apparently since Ubuntu 10. LOL  :rolleyes::rolleyes::oops:

Anyway that's good because I can do my video sound cutouts test on both 7 and 8, which is really the only reason I'm playing with this - the only problem that held me back for a few days on 14.04.3 .

Thanks!.

I got nowhere with Unity8 -
setup gave an error "Unable to start the container"

I was able to create a userid, which, when I logged off, it asked me for, but it refused to log in.(chroot, close term, open term, useradd, passwd, log off)
Maybe it needs MIR.

I'm not a geek on Linux so I'll abandon that test and work with 16.04 as it is.

EDIT: video would not play from within tab on FF or QupZilla.
   phone memory was accessable.
Done with 16.04 daily 12/26

---

