---
title: "15.04 Kate does not save preferences"
date: 2015-04-20
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by brent on 2015-04-20
Not sure if this is the correct forum, but Kate does not save any preferences or session data in an up to date Kubuntu 15.04 install. Running Kate from a terminal does not indicate any problems with saving the preferences or anything like that. Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-20
Did you ever run **sudo kate**?

---

### Post by brent on 2015-04-21
No, that makes no sense.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-21
> **brent said:**
> No, that makes no sense.

People are told to edit files that require root access all the time. If they do **sudo kate**, then the config files will be created with root.root ownership under their userid's HOME.  So ... from that point going forward, if they run **kate** normally, the settings are owned by root and cannot be changed.  

It could also be that they did **sudo nautilus** and opened a file for editing that way, which would have the same negative effect.

I've seen where noobs ran sudo gedit as the first command on a new system and it created the ~/.gnome and ~/.gnome2 directories as root.  No gnome programs could save any settings going forward. Most worked, but a few crashed.

Does this make sense now?

---

### Post by brent on 2015-04-21
Hmm, I spoke too soon. I did run sudo kate somewhere shortly after setup, in order to modify /etc/fstab. Not sure if it was the first thing I did, but, following up, I see no kate-directory in ~/.kde/share/apps. I chmodded ~/.kde/share/ 755 just to be sure, but seems to have no effect.

But I suppose it seems so the config is never saved for some reason. Any further idea?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-21
Ok then.


a) to edit any system files where your normal userid doesn't have permissions to modify, use "sudoedit /path/to/file" - there are other solutions, but THIS is the best one. If you don't like the default editor, set **export EDITOR=/full/path/to/editor** and put that line in your ~/.bashrc - you can use kate in the EDITOR, but it will NOT work correct over non-GUI connections like ssh.

b) run ** sudo chown -R brent:brent ~/.kde** - if brent is your userid and default groupid.  You can check that with the **id** command.

I nice, free, good, reference: [http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php](http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php)

---

### Post by brent on 2015-04-21
I had chowned ~/.kde already too, no effect.

I'm quite familiar with the commandline btw, just not so much with distro or KDE specific stuff.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-21
Sorry - assumed by the low bean count you were newer. ;|

I haven't used KDE in many, many, years. Where are config files placed?  What are the ownership and permissions to get there in the directory structure? For most Ubuntu-based distros, config files are stored in ~/.config/ ... 

# Find files in HOME that aren't owned by you
find ~brent/  \! -user brent -print

---

### Post by brent on 2015-04-21
Excellent, that find command led to a number of kate-related files in ~/.config and ~/.local (apparently ~/.kde is not used for everything). Chowning solved it, settings are now saved and read back properly. Thanks!

In general, do you think it's a problem to chown your own user dir? My first thought (because using find didn't occur to me) was to do that, but perhaps some software relies on differently owned files in ~.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-21
Great!

* Please mark the thread as "SOLVED" in the thread tools.
* Please use "sudoedit" going forward. There are many reasons for this.

---

