---
title: "13.10 Saucy problems, screensaver, workspace switcher"
date: 2013-10-03
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-10-03
Hi, I just did a clean install of 13.10. Saucy Salamander.
There does not seem to be any way to stop the screensaver blanking the screen after about five minutes. I checked in Appearance and Power settings and it's set to "Never".
Also the workspace switcher will go left/right but not up/down. Using Ctrl+Alt+Arrow keys.
Any tips?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-10-03
Hi coldraven,

Please do:```
xset -q
```Let's see what DPMS is set at.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-10-03
> **DuckHook said:**
> Hi coldraven,

Please do:```
xset -q
```Let's see what DPMS is set at.
That gives
```
 xset -q
Keyboard Control:
  auto repeat:  on    key click percent:  0    LED mask:  00000000
  XKB indicators:
    00: Caps Lock:   off    01: Num Lock:    off    02: Scroll Lock: off
    03: Compose:     off    04: Kana:        off    05: Sleep:       off
    06: Suspend:     off    07: Mute:        off    08: Misc:        off
    09: Mail:        off    10: Charging:    off    11: Shift Lock:  off
    12: Group 2:     off    13: Mouse Keys:  off
  auto repeat delay:  500    repeat rate:  33
  auto repeating keys:  00ffffffdffffbbf
                        fadfffefffedffff
                        9fffffffffffffff
                        fff7ffffffffffff
  bell percent:  50    bell pitch:  400    bell duration:  100
Pointer Control:
  acceleration:  2/1    threshold:  4
Screen Saver:
  prefer blanking:  yes    allow exposures:  yes
  timeout:  0    cycle:  0
Colors:
  default colormap:  0x20    BlackPixel:  0x0    WhitePixel:  0xffffff
Font Path:
  /usr/share/fonts/X11/misc,/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1,built-ins
DPMS (Energy Star):
  Standby: 0    Suspend: 0    Off: 0
  DPMS is Enabled
  Monitor is On


```

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-10-03
***&#8203;Moved to Ubuntu +1***

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2013-10-03
Cause is not DPMS. The problem with Ubuntu is that there are a half-dozen little obscure settings where this sort of behaviour can be hidden. Try [this]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/184111/disable-blank-screen-in-12-04") link. Also [this]("http://blog.projectz.me/2012/06/25/disable-the-lock-screen-and-screen-blank-on-ubuntu-12-04/") one. They all deal with Precise, but probably are still applicable to Saucy. 13.10 may have introduced a few more obscure ways to activate screensaver. If so, can't help you there as I don't have Saucy installed yet.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-10-03
The Ws issue is due to be fixed soon, for now open ccsm > wall > bindings  > move within wall & set to defaults for move down & move up
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/1201405](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/1201405)

For the other thing try setting to anything but 'never', then set back to 'never'

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-10-04
Thanks for all the replies
I'm a bit busy so I will get back here later.
In the meantime FYI the latest kernel update will not boot (3.11.0-11.17) so I have had to fall back to 3.11.0.11.12. I'm actually not sure which of these is the newest :(
Error says cpu1 frozen, this is a dual core machine

I just did this and now I'm even more confused```
 uname -r
3.11.0-8-generic
```


> @mc4man For the other thing try setting to anything but 'never', then set back to 'never'
Yes I already tried that, no luck .

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-10-04
These issues have been noticed already. The screen blanking although it is set to Never happens on my updated Saucy, least until today's updates - not tested it yet. The Ctrl+Alt+arrow keys issue has been fixed as of a few days ago. Another way is to use Super+S. Someone said that with that method it is not possible to move an application from one workspace to another but I have not found this to be the case.

I think that there are actual changes to the keyboard shortcut functions. Try Shift+Ctrl+Alt+Left arrow. That is a handy little option provided you have a genetically modified left hand!

Regards.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2013-10-04
Is this by any chance with Gnome Flashback or are you on Unity?

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-10-05
> **Cavsfan said:**
> Is this by any chance with Gnome Flashback or are you on Unity?

Sorry for the delay in answering, a boozy night at the pub has interupted things.
That was with Unity and it got worse. Firefox started to lose text and the whole system went down.
I can usually create a bootable USB stick really fast but I've had hours of problems and have finally managed to install Ubuntu 12.04. My other netbook with Xubuntu 12.10 started to misbehave and it has been a major hassle.
13.10 has definately been the most buggy release that I've tried. I've been using 12.10 up until now but i realize that I need a stable version to get some work done.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2013-10-05
> **coldraven said:**
> Sorry for the delay in answering, a boozy night at the pub has interupted things.
That was with Unity and it got worse. Firefox started to lose text and the whole system went down.
I can usually create a bootable USB stick really fast but I've had hours of problems and have finally managed to install Ubuntu 12.04. My other netbook with Xubuntu 12.10 started to misbehave and it has been a major hassle.
13.10 has definately been the most buggy release that I've tried. I've been using 12.10 up until now but i realize that I need a stable version to get some work done.

As you can see from my signature I have them all installed; mainly for the grub so I can keep up with it. That and playing around with different versions.
But 12.04 the LTS version is the most reliable and is good to go all the way until April **2017**.
Glad you got it worked out.

---

### Post by CrazedWarVet on 2013-11-08
My problem is similar but different. I'm running 13.10 on a MacBook Pro. No problems switching workspaces with keyboard shortcuts but trying to move an application up or down doesn't work with keyboard. Example: Ctrl+Alt+Shift+arrow left/right will move applications left and right, but up or down does not work. Is this a fix that is till pending? 

Thanks!

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-11-08
> **CrazedWarVet said:**
> My problem is similar but different. I'm running 13.10 on a MacBook Pro. No problems switching workspaces with keyboard shortcuts but trying to move an application up or down doesn't work with keyboard. Example: Ctrl+Alt+Shift+arrow left/right will move applications left and right, but up or down does not work. Is this a fix that is till pending? 

Thanks!
known bug that will be fixed at some point
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-settings/+bug/1241282](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-settings/+bug/1241282)

To fix just open ccsm (install compizconfig-settings-manager if need be), go to Desktop  wall >  Bindings > Move with window.. > & for up & down click on the little x icon on far right to set to actual defaults

---

