---
title: "14.04 Lost Ability to Mount External Media"
date: 2014-04-03
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2014-04-03
Am I the only one getting this problem today?   This is the third problem I've ran into today in the beta and it's seriously making me want to ditch it.

---

### Post by lowlymarine2 on 2014-04-03
I suspect this is related to a slew of other bugs introduced in the updates today, many of which seem to stem from a permissions/session start up issue.  If there is an issue with **polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1** as suggested [in this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214915"), it would likely be affecting the ability of the user to mount and unmount drives (and could also be related to the disappearance of the suspend/shut down/restart options from [this bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-session/+bug/1302221")).

Have you tried mounting the external device from a terminal (with sudo)? This would help confirm a permissions issue.

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2014-04-03
I was able to mount via cli just fine.  No error messages

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-04
This was happening sometime back for me, and I had stopped using thumb drives, cause system would freeze.

But after the upgrade which brought in the 3.13.0-21 kernel, this problem went away.
I have not upgraded since.

---

### Post by f-matt-m on 2014-04-06
I observe the same with 14.04.

More annoyingly I enquired on IRC as to why this bug was marked as Low (they were more angry at the word pissed than the report), apparently mounting a USB pen drive or hard drive isn't too important for XUbuntu so they're happy with Low (and thus unlikely to be fixed prior to final release) -although granted they link upstream where its marked as Normal. Like the release before last with the 2 minute login XUbuntu is no longer an out the box distro nor does it aim to be. I may just go Unity.. Long come are the days were XUbuntu was solid (and aimed to be) aka 12.04/12.10

---

### Post by rtalcott on 2014-04-06
FWIW Xubuntu 64 all the latest updates mounts usb and hard drives fine for me...it would be VERY annoying if it did not.

EDIT: Running 3.14

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-06
Running 3.13.0-23  there is no problem of sound.
> 
~$ uname -a
Linux nbe42 3.13.0-23-lowlatency #45-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT Fri Apr 4 07:16:25 UTC 2014 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Guess it is time to mark this as 'Solved' :)

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-04-06
> **mamamia88 said:**
> Am I the only one getting this problem today?   This is the third problem I've ran into today in the beta and it's seriously making me want to ditch it.

I do not have xubuntu loaded at this time but I had to go into Input Devices and check mark the top 3 boxes. Even after some updates I had to go back and do the same. To me it's a bug as it only happens to Xubuntu beta and above.

---

