---
title: "16.04 shows wrong internet time..."
date: 2016-04-13
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by orange2k on 2016-04-13
Yesterday, my ubuntu 16.04 began showing wrong time. On my system it is set to automatic internet time, but it shows 2 hours too much.

How can I fix this?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2016-04-13
its a known problem (report against 'adjtime' on launchpad Bug #1566465 )

sudo dpkg-reconfigure ntp

---

### Post by orange2k on 2016-04-13
This solved the issue...thanks...

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-13
> **orange2k said:**
> This solved the issue...thanks...

Please mark the thread 'solved' to help future travelers. See the first link in my signature at the bottom of this post.

---

### Post by djlen-ny on 2016-04-17
len@ALIEN:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure ntp 
[sudo] password for len: 
dpkg-query: package 'ntp' is not installed and no information is available
Use dpkg --info (= dpkg-deb --info) to examine archive files,
and dpkg --contents (= dpkg-deb --contents) to list their contents.
/usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure: ntp is not installed

did sudo apt-get install ntp
then sudo dpkg-reconfigure ntp

and now, all is well, thx!

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2016-04-18
@dino99
I have this happening in VirtualBox and thought it to be vBox related.  I know better now.  Thanks

@Bucky Ball
> Please mark the thread 'solved' to help future travelers.
Don't you mean future time travelers :)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-18
> **v3.xx said:**
> @Bucky Ball

Don't you mean future time travelers :)

Both. ;)

---

### Post by sudeep3 on 2016-07-29
Thanks!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-07-29
Thread closed as we are testing Yakkety now.

---

