---
title: "3.18-rc2"
date: 2014-10-27
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by zika on 2014-10-27
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.18-rc2-utopic/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.18-rc2-utopic/)

The same problem I had whole week with 999 & 994 now is happening with rc2. It stalls on boot and after long wait I'm out in initramfs.
3.18-rc works nicely (from the start).

---

### Post by fooman on 2014-10-27
thanks zika.  compiled my own and seems fine here so far...

```
lsb_release -a && uname -r
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu Vivid Vervet (development branch)
Release:    15.04
Codename:    vivid
3.18.0-rc2-foomans-custom-kernel
```

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2014-10-27
I purged 3.18-rc1 because it was hard-locking my machine.

I'll forego installing '-rc2' and wait for the next release.

Thx Zika!

---

### Post by lee295012-gmail on 2014-10-27
> **zika said:**
> The same problem I had whole week with 999 & 994 now is happening with rc2. It stalls on boot and after long wait I'm out in initramfs.
3.18-rc works nicely (from the start).

having the same problem with rc2

looks like it's now up on the kernel bugtracker: [https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=87001](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=87001)

EDIT: from the bugreport it could be btrfs related.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-10-28
My 3.18RC2 experience:
All 64 Bit and all 250 Hertz kernels (Generic in Ubuntu terms):

Kernel 3.18RC2 Ubuntu version:
. Config file is very different than config file was for RC1
. The kernel is ~11 megabytes larger.
. The kernel boots, but it takes an extra couple of minutes because the network does not work.

Kernel 3.18RC2 Kernel.org version.
. Compiled using the Ubuntu config file from kernel 3.18RC1, and accepting defaults for new stuff.
. Boots fine. Seems to run fine, but haven't done much yet.

Next tests to do: Compile Kernel.org version using the Ubuntu config file from kernel 3.18RC2 (note sure when I'll get it done). Then take a more detailed look at the kernel config changes.

Edit: Kernel.org version using the Ubuntu config file from kernel 3.18RC2: Boots, but network doesn't work, same as Ubuntu kernel.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-10-28
Not contained to BTRFS. Ext4 infected also.
Looks like typo in some small but important script.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-10-28
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.18-rc2-vivid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.18-rc2-vivid/)
Downloading, that might be solution for problems... Fingers crossed.
Update&#8321;: Nope, same place. It does not form /dev/sd* etc. So, no boot.
I had some ideas but almost all ended at the same place. Still, some are waiting.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-10-28
For my case the 3.18RC2 kernel now works. The kernel size being much bigger was fixed by reverting this config file change:```
< # CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS is not set
---
> CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS=y
> CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS_GZIP=y
> # CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS_XZ is not set
```Which is counter intuitive.
This same config file change is what fixed the kernel for me.

Edit: If anyone wants to try this kernel, pm me and I'll put it somewhere on my website for you to pull (I am trustworthy, but I suppose there is risk in taking my word for it).

---

### Post by zika on 2014-10-28
> **Doug S said:**
> For my case the 3.18RC2 kernel now works. The kernel size being much bigger was fixed by reverting this config file change:```
< # CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS is not set
---
> CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS=y
> CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS_GZIP=y
> # CONFIG_MODULE_COMPRESS_XZ is not set
```Which is counter intuitive.
This same config file change is what fixed the kernel for me.

Edit: If anyone wants to try this kernel, pm me and I'll put it somewhere on my website for you to pull (I am trustworthy, but I suppose there is risk in taking my word for it).I would trust You. You are on the track of one of ideas of mine to try: initramfs can be made with depreciating compression, just what You've done but in the config... I'm brave to try... ;) I have courage but not a free time to let kernel compile slowly like a good meal... ;(
Even Your words about the size follow intuition of mine that problem could be in size and allocated space, not to bother other readers with too much technicalities...
Update&#8321;: Now we know that 3.18 is OK and that there is a config glitch at the mainline kernel PPA. Thank You Doug_S.

---

### Post by Gaylaird_Culbreth on 2014-10-28
You are a wizard. Thanks! (You've PM BTW).

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-10-28
> **Gaylaird_Culbreth said:**
> You are a wizard. Thanks! (You've PM BTW).Hi and welcome to Ubuntu forums. I PM'd you back with the link.

Note that in the meantime the vivid version of the 3.18RC2 kernel has just been updated, using the kernel configuration change mentioned in my earlier post (or so I am led to believe).
That kernel will be easier for people to try.

Edit: adding Ubuntu PPA [link]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.18-rc2-vivid/") 

Edit 2: I have now tried the new Ubuntu 3.18RC2 kernel, and it works for my case.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-10-28
Thank you for adding the link, DougS.

Gaylaird_Culbreth - please do not solicit support via PM.  This deprives the community of information which someone might otherwise find of value in the future.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-10-28
> **QIII said:**
> Thank you for adding the link, DougS.

Gaylaird_Culbreth - please do not solicit support via PM.  This deprives the community of information which someone might otherwise find of value in the future.

Thanks.QIII - It was me that asked people to PM me if they wanted to try my kernel, because I did not want to publish the link to my own site as bandwidth is limited. It was in an earlier posting.

---

### Post by Gaylaird_Culbreth on 2014-10-28
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.18-rc2-vivid](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.18-rc2-vivid) is totally working on my my ASUS Vivid VM-60...

I downloaded Doug's *debs (AMD64 headers & image). I went to [http://kernel.ubuntu.com]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/") to get 3.18 headers/all and found
Version 3.18-rc2-vivid waiting. Installed these in lieu of Doug's *debs...all is good. Thank  Doug and thanks kernel.ubuntu.com 
for being responsive to this board.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-10-28
Gaylaird, thanks for reporting back.

> **Gaylaird_Culbreth said:**
> I downloaded Doug's *debs (AMD64 headers & image). I went to [http://kernel.ubuntu.com]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/") to get 3.18 headers/all ...Ya, it is academic now, but there is only the one header file for the kernels I build.> **Gaylaird_Culbreth said:**
> ... thanks kernel.ubuntu.com for being responsive to this board.Actually, I don't think the kernel team frequents these forums. After zika confirmed my findings, I went on the kernel IRC channel and reported our findings. But, yes it was just over an hour later that the new version appeared. If the change was already in progress or not, I do not know.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-10-29
> **Doug S said:**
>  I don't think the kernel team frequents these forums. After zika confirmed my findings, I went on the kernel IRC channel and reported our findings. But, yes it was just over an hour later that the new version appeared. If the change was already in progress or not, I do not know.Neverttheless thank You for reporting that. I'll install new(est) rc2 and 999 right now and report after reboot. Dl is finished.
Update&#8321;: Writing this from 999. So, among others, thanks to Doug_S, again, I have working daily 3.18.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-10-29
For those who like full Ubuntu flavor of 3.18: [https://launchpad.net/~canonical-kernel-team/+archive/ubuntu/ppa?field.series_filter=vivid](https://launchpad.net/~canonical-kernel-team/+archive/ubuntu/ppa?field.series_filter=vivid)

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2014-10-29
I went ahead and compiled 3.18-rc2.  So far, so good.

```
~ VinDSL Unity Debug Script 13.07.08 (vindsl.com) ~
Current Date/Time: Wed Oct 29 23:31:26 UTC 2014
Distro Release: Ubuntu Vivid Vervet (development branch)
Kernel Release: Linux 3.18.0-rc2-vindsl-custom-1
Gnome Release: GNOME Shell 3.12.2
Unity Release: unity 7.3.1

OpenGL vendor string:   NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce 7600 GT/AGP/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  2.1.2 NVIDIA 304.123

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes

Package: mesa-utils
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: x11
Installed-Size: 119
Maintainer: Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>
Architecture: i386
Source: mesa-demos
Version: 8.2.0-1
Replaces: xbase-clients (<< 6.8.2-38)
Depends: libc6 (>= 2.4), libgl1-mesa-glx | libgl1, libx11-6
Description: Miscellaneous Mesa GL utilities
 This package provides several basic GL utilities built by Mesa, including
 glxinfo and glxgears.
Original-Maintainer: Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>
Homepage: http://mesa3d.org/

Package: mesa-common-dev
 Version: 10.3.0-0ubuntu3

Package: xserver-xorg-core
  Installed: 2:1.16.1-1ubuntu1

Package: xserver-common
  Installed: 2:1.16.1-1ubuntu1

Package: xserver-xephyr
  Installed: 2:1.16.1-1ubuntu1

Tree Map of PCI Devices:
-[0000:00]-+-00.0  Intel Corporation 82875P/E7210 Memory Controller Hub
           +-01.0-[01]----00.0  NVIDIA Corporation G73 [GeForce 7600 GT]
           +-03.0-[02]----01.0  Intel Corporation 82547EI Gigabit Ethernet Controller
           +-06.0  Intel Corporation 82875P/E7210 Processor to I/O Memory Interface
           +-1d.0  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #1
           +-1d.1  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #2
           +-1d.2  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #3
           +-1d.3  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #4
           +-1d.7  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB2 EHCI Controller
           +-1e.0-[03]----0c.0  Lite-On Communications Inc LNE100TX
           +-1f.0  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) LPC Interface Bridge
           +-1f.2  Intel Corporation 82801EB (ICH5) SATA Controller
           +-1f.3  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) SMBus Controller
           \-1f.5  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) AC'97 Audio Controller

Display Properties:
 lcd monitor: Dell UltraSharp 1907FP (analog input)
  dimensions:    1280x1024 pixels (339x271 millimeters)
  resolution:    96x96 dots per inch

vindsl@Zuul:~$ 

```

I guess the joke is on me.  I should have waited.  :p


[INDENT][IMG]http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-custom-kernel-29-oct-2014.png[/IMG][/INDENT]


Oh, well, it only took an hour...

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2014-11-02
Anyone else having problems with Chromium browser 'snapping' on 3.18-rc2?

I can't run the official Chromium release, nor the raw trunk build.

Both versions 'snap' immediately after loading.  Firefox works fine.

All three browsers work fine on the Linux 3.17 final mainline kernel.

I have a feeling that I left something out, when I compiled 3.18-rc2.

I didn't answer 'Y' to a couple of items, when queried.  Can't remember which.

Hrm...

---

### Post by zika on 2014-11-02
> **VinDSL said:**
> Anyone else having problems with Chromium browser 'snapping' on 3.18-rc2?

I can't run the official Chromium release, nor the raw trunk build.

Both versions 'snap' immediately after loading.  Firefox works fine.

All three browsers work fine on the Linux 3.17 final mainline kernel.

I have a feeling that I left something out, when I compiled 3.18-rc2.

I didn't answer 'Y' to a couple of items, when queried.  Can't remember which.

Hrm...Uh, there are numerous escapes from that position:
First: what do You get if You start Chromium from CLI?
Second: Try with mainline kernel to see if Your kernel is to blame.
Third: Try latest Chromium ([https://download-chromium.appspot.com/](https://download-chromium.appspot.com/)) to see if Chromium is to blame.
etc.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-11-03
> **VinDSL said:**
> Anyone else having problems with Chromium browser 'snapping' on 3.18-rc2?Out of curiosity, I tried it. However, I have moved on to 3.18RC3. I am a server guy and not a desktop guy.
 My setup was: Ubuntu server computer 14.04 with a guest VM Ubuntu desktop 14.10 but with Ubuntu 3.18RC3 kernel. I installed the Ubuntu Chromium browser package. It seems to be working fine.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2014-11-03
> **Doug S said:**
> Out of curiosity, I tried it [...] I installed the Ubuntu Chromium browser package. It seems to be working fine.

Okay, thanks.  

Must have been something I neglected to set, when i ran 'localmodconfig'.

There were a couple of new options that I wasn't sure about, so I just selected 'no'.

Only thing it affected was Chromium.  Live n' learn ;)

---

