---
title: "14.04 Beta Install Problem"
date: 2014-03-13
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Ed_Woosley on 2014-03-13
First allow me to preface this by saying I am totally new to Ubuntu and Linux in general.

First let me tell you my setup.

MoBo: Asus P7P55DLE
Chip: Intel i5
HDs: 64gb SSD, 3tb intel fakeraid5.

I've been wanting to learn Linux and quickly dove in to installing 13.10 on my desktop. For now it is necessary that I keep Windows as I have programs for school that do not have a Linux equivalent. Upon running the 13.10 live CD I discovered that I could not see my raid and did some Googleing on the issue and discovered that there is actually a documented bug for the kernel that is included with that image. I then decided to install 12.04LTS with /boot on the SSD and everything else on the fakeraid. All was well until I tried to upgrade to a newer distribution and tanked the install.

Since the install was trashed and there was nothing in there I needed I decided to nuke it all away and try to install 14.04 (thinking I could get a newer distribution and sidestep the bug mentioned earlier)  The live CD works great, and the install seems to have gone off without an issue however once the install is complete and I try to reboot I get a black screen telling me that the system had 'Gave up waiting for root device'.  This was with the same scheme of keeping /boot on the SSD and everything else on the raid5. 

After some more googling I found that the path to the raid might have changed but the initramfs prompt doesn't show anything of use in /dev/mapper. 

Is there anyway to recover this install or should I wait for a more final build to install Ubuntu? 

Alternatively is there anyway to install 13.10 with a kernel that can see the raid properly?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-03-13
Do now know what updates have been done for 14.04.
But with 12.04 only server and test based alternative installer included RAID and LVM drivers. Desktop could no install LVM nor RAID.
But 12.04 was last version with alternative installer and they were going to add those capabilities to gui based Desktop installer. The 13.10 does now have LVM full disk install, but not RAID.

You may have to lie to the download as it did not have a 14.04 version yet. Just choose 13.10 and it still should work. 
       Post the link to the Create BootInfo report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.

Boot-Repair has issues telling LVM from RAID as both use /mapper type settings. You may have to help it a bit.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-03-13
***Moved to Ubuntu + 1***

---

