---
title: "Is 16.04 worthwhile for games on amd desktops?"
date: 2016-03-25
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by sgian on 2016-03-25
I've been testing out 16.04 Ubuntu Mate on various computers of mine.  With my minecraft benchmark, 16.04 is outstanding with my 3.2 GHz dual core Intel with NVIDIA graphics card (IIRC GeForce 730?), getting around 100 fps.  But like some others here, I used to be an AMD fanboy and still have more AMD desktops than Intel with NVIDIA.  So one AMD that I assembled last year (3.7 GHz dual core processor and Radeon HD 8370D integrated graphics) can't get over 10 fps while my 6 year old 1.6 GHz dual core Athlon with Radeon R5450 graphics starts out under 10 but slowly peaks around 25 fps if minecraft is allowed to load.  That is a drop in performance for both AMD's I tried from prior versions of Ubuntu with the proprietary fglrx driver.  I understand that sometime later this year AMD is planning to release a better open-source driver for linux.  

So is this new driver likely to rival fglrx in performance?  I'm trying to figure out what to do with my AMD's.  I might just go back to 14.04 and eventually get rid of them if support doesn't improve, or I might just temporarily go with 15.10 until support in 16.04 is likely to improve to similar to fglrx performance.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-03-25
Thread moved to the "*Ubuntu Development Version*" forum.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-03-25
If you are seeing an improvement then I think it is more to do with improvements to the Linux kernel. Each new version of Ubuntu has newer kernels and also newer video drivers to go with them. Credit where it is due.

As for AMD drivers, have you read the 16.04 release notes?

> [h=3]fglrx[/h] The  fglrx driver is now deprecated in 16.04, and we recommend its open  source alternatives (radeon and amdgpu). AMD put a lot of work into the  drivers, and we backported kernel code from Linux 4.5 to provide a  better experience. 


When  upgrading to Ubuntu 16.04 from a previous release, both the fglrx  driver and the xorg.conf will be removed, so that the system is set to  use either the amdgpu driver or the radeon driver (depending on the  available hardware). 


More information is available here [https://tjaalton.wordpress.com/2016/03/11/no-catalystfglrx-video-driver-in-ubuntu-16-04/](https://tjaalton.wordpress.com/2016/03/11/no-catalystfglrx-video-driver-in-ubuntu-16-04/)

I would say that things will get worse before they get better. If AMD is exposing more of their driver code to open source developers then that can only be a good thing. There will be those whose ethics will put them in opposition to having anything proprietary mixed in with open source. It may be these hybrid drivers are condemned as not being truly open source.

I guess those people will have to stay on older hardware that works with Radeon and pay the price for being ethical.

Regards.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2016-03-25
In addition to what grahammechanical already said, there was [this e-mail]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-doc/2016-March/019771.html"). Extract (actually all of it):
```
One important change that should be noted: AMD dropped support for their proprietary-blob fglrx video driver so it can't
be included in 16.04 LTS. The last release AMD did can not be used because it is incompatible with the newer x.org
display server.  Most people will be able to the use the open source AMD video driver, but there are a few applications
(certain graphics-intensive games, bitcoin mining) for which it is inadequate.  Folk who rely on such applications might
choose to remain on 14.04 LTS until adequate support lands in the open source AMD video drivers.
```

---

### Post by d-cosner on 2016-03-25
I have two AMD laptops running Ubuntu Mate 16.04 but I do not play any games. I do have concerns about my kids desktop though because they use Steam. The kids system is running 15.10 and I guess they can stay on that until the open source driver gets sorted out.

---

### Post by P-I H on 2016-03-25
I have installed this driver that supports newer Radeon cards
[http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-arti...ase-Notes.aspx]("http://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMDGPU-PRO-Beta-Driver-for-Vulkan-Release-Notes.aspx")
```
p-i@pi-GA-990FXA-UD3-xenial:~$ glxinfo |grep OpenGL
OpenGL vendor string: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: AMD Radeon (TM) R9 380 Series
OpenGL core profile version string: 4.5.13830 Core Profile Context
OpenGL core profile shading language version string: 4.50
OpenGL core profile context flags: (none)
OpenGL core profile profile mask: core profile
OpenGL core profile extensions:
OpenGL version string: 4.5.13830 Compatibility Profile Context
OpenGL shading language version string: 4.50
OpenGL context flags: (none)
OpenGL profile mask: compatibility profile
OpenGL extensions:
OpenGL ES profile version string: 4.5.13830 Compatibility Profile Context
OpenGL ES profile shading language version string: 4.50
OpenGL ES profile extensions:
p-i@pi-GA-990FXA-UD3-xenial:~$
```

There isn't much performance difference compared to fglrx in Ubuntu 15.10

---

### Post by d-cosner on 2016-03-25
Under 15.10 Steam would not load on my kids computer unless I used the proprietary driver... My Lenovo G70-35 with an A8 processor runs just fine with the open source driver. My HP 531 with an E1 processor runs alright too. The kids, 11 and 7 are crazy about Steam and I don't want to mess that up for them. They have a 2 GB passive cooled graphics card and I can't remember the exact model off the top of my head. The kids may have to go back to 14.04 depending on how things work out....

---

### Post by sgian on 2016-03-25
Thank you everyone for your replies.  The kids do use the AMD computers I have for Steam and minecraft, among other things so driver support is obviously important.  I've gone back to 14.04 on both but will keep an eye on the development of AMD drivers over the next 6 months before doing anything drastic.

---

