---
title: "3.19-rc2"
date: 2014-12-29
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by zika on 2014-12-29
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.19-rc2-vivid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.19-rc2-vivid/)

---

### Post by mrfelker on 2014-12-29
this works fine in ubuntuGNOME but not in Kubuntu - strange

---

### Post by xeizoo on 2015-01-03
Doesn't build the proprietary Nvidia-drivers ...

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-01-03
[COLOR=#000000]If anyone is having problems with Nvidia drivers and 3.19-rc? kernel, here is how to make them work:[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Change f_dentry to f_path.dentry in nv.c and nv-frontend.c files. And change MODULE_LICENSE("NVIDIA"); to MODULE_LICENSE("GPL"); in the same files.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by xeizoo on 2015-01-03
Excellent 9d9! I will try that, the problem has been the same with all post 3.16-kernels and this is the first time I saw a potential fix  :)

---

### Post by zika on 2015-01-03
> **9d9 said:**
> [COLOR=#000000]If anyone is having problems with Nvidia drivers and 3.19-rc? kernel, here is how to make them work:[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Change f_dentry to f_path.dentry in nv.c and nv-frontend.c files. And change MODULE_LICENSE("NVIDIA"); to MODULE_LICENSE("GPL"); in the same files.[/COLOR]Nice work Milos_SD ... ;) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257597&p=13192295#post13192295](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257597&p=13192295#post13192295)

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2015-01-03
> **9d9 said:**
> [COLOR=#000000]If anyone is having problems with Nvidia drivers and 3.19-rc? kernel, here is how to make them work:[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Change f_dentry to f_path.dentry in nv.c and nv-frontend.c files. And change MODULE_LICENSE("NVIDIA"); to MODULE_LICENSE("GPL"); in the same files.[/COLOR]

> **zika said:**
> Nice work Milos_SD ... ;) [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257597&p=13192295#post13192295](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2257597&p=13192295#post13192295)

:lolflag: :lol: I'll install the 3.18 kernel when it comes down from a stable update. Not because I've had problems with anything but just because I'm not gonna... :lol:

---

### Post by zika on 2015-01-04
> **Cavsfan said:**
> :lolflag: :lol: I'll install the 3.18 kernel when it comes down from a stable update. Not because I've had problems with anything but just because I'm not gonna... :lol:Imagine a bunch of those who resent testing U+1 start writing similar messages here... ;) :lolflag: :lol:

---

### Post by xeizoo on 2015-01-04
Whatever, the fix did work as advertised anyway, now running 3.19-rc2(lowlatency) on Vivid with Nvidia GTX680  :-)

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2015-01-04
> **zika said:**
> Imagine a bunch of those who resent testing U+1 start writing similar messages here... ;) :lolflag: :lol:

Ne za&#353;tite

Ya'll can test it. I test the other things... Grub, Conky weather and usually each development system usually from the onset. :lolflag: :lol:

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2015-01-07
Anyway the 3.18 kernel came though the regular updates as I'm sure everyone is well aware of.

```
cavsfan@cavsfan-MS-7529:~$ uname -a
Linux cavsfan-MS-7529 3.18.0-8-generic #9-Ubuntu SMP Mon Jan 5 22:51:10 UTC 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

So, what now testing on the next kernel 3.19 perhaps?

cheers

---

### Post by xeizoo on 2015-01-07
Yay! rc3 works great too, and there was a new vbox today which also works just fine  :-)

---

### Post by zika on 2015-01-08
> **Cavsfan said:**
> Anyway the 3.18 kernel came though the regular updates as I'm sure everyone is well aware of.```
cavsfan@cavsfan-MS-7529:~$ uname -a
Linux cavsfan-MS-7529 3.18.0-8-generic #9-Ubuntu SMP Mon Jan 5 22:51:10 UTC 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```cheers[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2259714](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2259714)
> **xeizoo said:**
> Yay! rc3 works great too, and there was a new vbox today which also works just fine  :-)[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2259660](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2259660)

---

