---
title: "24.04 Update Error, Can't Login"
date: 2024-04-06
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by osarusan on 2024-04-06
I've been using 24.04 for a couple of weeks now.

Today I ran apt update and apt upgrade, then restarted. After that the OS seems to be ruined and I can't do anything.

Here is what I see when Ubuntu loads: [ATTACH=CONFIG]293566[/ATTACH]

And if I click log out, I get this [ATTACH=CONFIG]293565[/ATTACH] for a few seconds and then it returns to the first screen.

The apt update/upgrade did not return any errors when I ran it, but there were a lot of packages held back, so I suspect that perhaps some of the dependencies didn't get installed or updated properly.

Is there any way I can attempt to repair this (or even get to a terminal) before resorting to a reinstall?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2024-04-06
I assume that you are aware that 24.04 is still in development. I also suspect this is the first time for about a week that you have updated and upgraded that system?

Join the merry club of users who have been caught in the same or similar situation after a problem a week or more ago that removed many essential packages and did not allow them to be reinstalled.
I have not used my versions of 24.04 since then as they are almost useless at the moment.

See the thread at [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2496457](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2496457) and note that I have moved this thread to the same section of the forum where it needs to be.

---

### Post by osarusan on 2024-04-06
> **ajgreeny said:**
> I assume that you are aware that 24.04 is still in development. I also suspect this is the first time for about a week that you have updated and upgraded that system?

Correct and correct.

I can get into grub and see that there are 483 packages in apt held back that won't install...

Edit:
(somewhat solved)
I was able to get back to a functioning desktop by using apt-get full-upgrade as root from grub.

This removed a lot of previously installed packages, including nautilus... but I've been able to reinstall them one by one with success so far. I'm not sure how many packages are missing or just misconfigured, but now that I've got a functioning system again I'll move slowly and not upgrade again until these issues are ironed out.

---

