---
title: "13.10 - Can Only Boot KDE after Installing Gnome"
date: 2013-09-18
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by databoy2k on 2013-09-18
--Update--
Didn't get a response, but ended up purging FGLRX (doesn't that solve all problems?), correcting permissions on XAuthority, and starting X from terminal. I can now boot all sessions, including Gnome. I might have to update this post if I still can't get these working together.
--/Update--

Hey All

The age of my account is deceptive - I'm still below a n00b. And am running 13.10.

I installed KDE on top of a fresh install of Ubuntu. I then also installed the new Gnome from the repositories. During the installation, I chose to use GDM. On reboot, though, the screen stayed black after the Kubuntu logo. I was able to get into TTY1 and log in, but could never start x.

By reconfiguring GDM I was able to return to LightDM, which allowed me to get to the login screen. But if I start either Ubuntu or Gnome as the session the screen stays on the LightDM/Kubuntu desktop. I can still get to TTY1, but the video doesn't update. The only interface that works is KDE.

Last piece of info: I'm using FGLRX as downloaded from the repositories (per instructions on the wiki). It was working fine prior to installing Gnome.

Any tips for troubleshooting? Thanks in advance!

--Databoy2k

---

### Post by databoy2k on 2013-09-21
I continued to try to get FGLRX working on this system, to the point that I've lost all GUI access beyond LightDM. I installed FGLRX per the instructions on the "FGLRX in Saucy" post in this forum, and couldn't start x. I then purged and installed FGLRX from the repos. Still no X. I would really appreciate any help.

Card: ATI Radeon 5450, dual monitor setup on the DVI and VGA ports

fglrxinfo output: "Error: unable to open display (null)"

StartX last output before hanging: "(WW) fglrx: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:0@2:0:0) found"
Note: On this hang, if I ctrl-c to terminate process, the screen clears to a flashing cursor in the top corner and freezes (cannot access other tty sessions)
Note2: Video Card is located at 02:00.0 per lspci

In my Xorg.0.log I get the following line repeated for /dev/ati/card1 to /dev/ati/card15 before giving the startx output above:
ukiDynamicMajor: found major device number 249
ukiDynamicMajor: found major device number 249
ukiOpenbyBusid: Searching for BusID PCI:2:00.0
ukiOpenDevice: node name is /dev/ati/card0
ukiOpenDevice: open result is 10, (OK)
ukiOpenbyBusid: ukiOpenMinor returns 10
ukiOpenbyBusid: ukiGetBusId reports PCI:2:00.0
ukiOpenDevice: node name is /dev/ati/card1
ukiOpenDevice: open result is -1, (No such device)
ukiOpenDevice: open result is -1, (No such device)
ukiOpenDevice: open failed
ukiOpenbyBusid: ukiOpenMinor returns -19
[and repeat node name for /dev/ati/card2-card15)

I would massively appreciate any assistance. Thanks!

--Databoy2k

---

