---
title: "16.10 - onto 17.04"
date: 2016-10-16
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by lonniehenry-gmail on 2016-10-16
Yaketty Yak working well for me.  Looking forward to Zesty Zebu.

---

### Post by lonniehenry-gmail on 2016-10-17
Well I got the adjective right.  Closest I have ever been.  Zesty Zapus.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-10-17
Hey .. Great .  I still use a mouse ya know . :)

Regards..

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2016-10-17
[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1512](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1512) is the official announcement for those that might be interested.

I guess 'something' zebra was just too obvious.  :)

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-10-17
> **PaulW2U said:**
> [http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1512](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1512) is the official announcement for those that might be interested.

I guess 'something' zebra was just too obvious.  :)

Zebra ... too carnivale I think. Now .. Zap - Us!  That's going to be a wing-dinger .. ya know .. Frank Zapus and the Mothers of Contention ...ehehehe  jk 

So... is more than one Zapus  correctly called Zappii or Zappuses  and also .. be careful if the police approach you and ask- 'Whats that you are carrying in your hand?" and you answer - "Zapus" and then get tasered :)

Regards..

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-10-17
Perhaps zapus is foresight in that this one will sting a little.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-10-17
> **deadflowr said:**
> Perhaps zapus is foresight in that this one will sting a little.

Hey .. never thought of that. Thanks for the heads up ! :)

Regards..

---

### Post by egeezer on 2016-10-17
If it gets together with the Xfce mouse, will it have a litter of phone apps?

---

### Post by PJs Ronin on 2016-10-17
> **ventrical said:**
> So... is more than one Zapus  correctly called Zappii or Zappuses  and also .. be careful if the police approach you and ask- 'Whats that you are carrying in your hand?" and you answer - "Zapus" and then get tasered :)

I seem to recall that about 10 years ago, or so, an august university body that had the erstwhile role in life of examining and formulating 'rules' for the English language deemed that 'i' ending for plurals was no longer to be followed.   Thus, when meeting a group of '-us' animals at the local watering hole they should be addressed as platypuses, octopuses and I guess, zapuses.

I fear humans are doomed.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-10-17
I think Mark  is a genius at creating this stuff. I think  that with containers (Libertine), mir and unity8 we are going to have a zesty time with zapus and , yes , even all the Zapuses jumping from our tablets and into our desktops or vis a versa :)

Regards..

---

### Post by pixelro on 2016-10-18
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/zesty](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/zesty)

---

### Post by zika on 2016-10-19
Having &#8222;devel&#8220; in all source files brought this to my attention:```
~$ lsb_release -a
LSB Version:    core-9.20160110ubuntu5-amd64:core-9.20160110ubuntu5-noarch:printing-9.20160110ubuntu5-amd64:printing-9.20160110ubuntu5-noarch:security-9.20160110ubuntu5-amd64:security-9.20160110ubuntu5-noarch
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu Zesty Zapus (development branch)
Release:        17.04
Codename:       zesty
```Al(l_)ready... ;)

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-10-24
When the sources.list is edited for zesty the ubuntu.info file automatically changes repos to devel.  If devel is edited in manually  I think that there could be two redundant  instances of 'devel' in the ubuntu.info file and that will of course raise the software-properties-gtk flag.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2016-11-08
I just baked "16.10 - onto 17.04".


From ZSH:

```
&#9581;&#9472;vindsl@Zuul ~  
&#9584;&#9472;&#10148;  lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu Zesty Zapus (development branch)
Release:	17.04
Codename:	zesty
&#9581;&#9472;vindsl@Zuul ~  
&#9584;&#9472;&#10148; 
```

From BASH:

```
&#9581;&#9472;vindsl@Zuul ~  
&#9584;&#9472;&#10148;  bash                                                  
vindsl@Zuul:~$ echo && echo "~ VinDSL Unity Debug Script 15.02.13 (vindsl.com) ~" && echo -n "Current Date/Time: " && TZ='UTC' date && echo -n "Distro Release: " && lsb_release -sd && echo -n "Kernel Release: " || cat /etc/*release && uname -s -r && echo -n "Gnome Release: " && gnome-shell --version && echo -n "Unity Release: " && unity --version && echo && /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p -f && echo || echo && echo -n "Browser Release: Chromium ver." && chromium-browser --product-version && echo || echo && dpkg -s mesa-utils && echo || echo && echo "Package: mesa-common-dev" && dpkg -s mesa-common-dev | sed 's/^/ /' | grep Version && echo || echo && echo "Package: xserver-xorg-core" && apt-cache policy xserver-xorg-core | grep Installed && echo || echo && echo "Package: xserver-common" && apt-cache policy xserver-common | grep Installed && echo || echo && echo "Package: xserver-xephyr" && apt-cache policy xserver-xephyr | grep Installed && echo || echo && echo "Tree Map of PCI Devices:" && lspci -tv && echo || echo && echo "Display Properties:" && echo -n " lcd monitor:    Dell UltraSharp 1907FP (analog input)" && echo && xdpyinfo | grep -E '(resolution|dimensions)' && echo

~ VinDSL Unity Debug Script 15.02.13 (vindsl.com) ~
Current Date/Time: Tue Nov  8 05:19:37 UTC 2016
Distro Release: Ubuntu Zesty Zapus (development branch)
Kernel Release: Linux 4.6.5-040605-generic
Gnome Release: GNOME Shell 3.22.1
Unity Release: unity 7.5.0

OpenGL vendor string:   nouveau
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on NV4B
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 12.0.3

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes

Browser Release: Chromium ver.Using PPAPI flash.
53.0.2785.143

Package: mesa-utils
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: x11
Installed-Size: 99
Maintainer: Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>
Architecture: i386
Source: mesa-demos
Version: 8.3.0-2
Depends: libc6 (>= 2.4), libgl1-mesa-glx | libgl1, libx11-6
Description: Miscellaneous Mesa GL utilities
 This package provides several basic GL utilities built by Mesa, including
 glxinfo and glxgears.
Original-Maintainer: Debian X Strike Force <debian-x@lists.debian.org>
Homepage: http://mesa3d.org/

Package: mesa-common-dev
 Version: 12.0.3-1ubuntu2

Package: xserver-xorg-core
  Installed: 2:1.18.4-1ubuntu7

Package: xserver-common
  Installed: 2:1.18.4-1ubuntu7

Package: xserver-xephyr
  Installed: 2:1.18.4-1ubuntu7

Tree Map of PCI Devices:
-[0000:00]-+-00.0  Intel Corporation 82875P/E7210 Memory Controller Hub
           +-01.0-[01]----00.0  NVIDIA Corporation G73 [GeForce 7600 GT]
           +-06.0  Intel Corporation 82875P/E7210 Processor to I/O Memory Interface
           +-1d.0  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #1
           +-1d.1  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #2
           +-1d.2  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #3
           +-1d.3  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB UHCI Controller #4
           +-1d.7  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) USB2 EHCI Controller
           +-1e.0-[02]----0c.0  Lite-On Communications Inc LNE100TX
           +-1f.0  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) LPC Interface Bridge
           +-1f.2  Intel Corporation 82801EB (ICH5) SATA Controller
           +-1f.3  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) SMBus Controller
           \-1f.5  Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) AC'97 Audio Controller

Display Properties:
 lcd monitor:    Dell UltraSharp 1907FP (analog input)
  dimensions:    1280x1024 pixels (339x271 millimeters)
  resolution:    96x96 dots per inch

vindsl@Zuul:~$ 
```

Game on !!!

Looking forward to some heavy-duty breakage ... :)

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-11-08
You've come to the right place ! 
 :)

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2016-11-08
> **ventrical said:**
> You've come to the right place ! 
 :)

Hi Vent !

Oh, yeah, this is going to be great; I can tell, already.  

Yakkety was a snooze.  Never could get excited about it.  Zesty is right up my alley.  

First thing that happened, after rebasing to ZZ, was Unity quit working.  Looks to be a Compiz prob. YaY !

Next thing I tried was booting into GS.  Desktop started to populate, then BOOM !  It spit me back to login. Woohoo !

I tried Wayland next.  That booted me into GS successfully, but half (or more) of the apps are FUBAR.  More breakage goodness !

So, I started working my way down my alternate DEs.  Surprisingly, GNOME Flashback (Compiz) is working a treat (as I type).  LoL !  :)

Anyway, I got my foot in the door ...

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2016-11-09
zz.iso's working,  expect some hiccups.

With 3 pc's desktop big laptop slim laptop I do a zsync on the iso's
```
#! /bin/bash
sudo zsync http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily-live/current/zesty-desktop-amd64.iso.zsync
echo "checksum O.K.?"
read temp
echo "permit read"
sudo chmod 666 *.iso
ls -l *iso
read temp
exit 0
```

then a setup exec to do much of my customization

```
#!/bin/bash
sudo software-properties-gtk
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo cp -dpuv 40_custom /etc/grub.d
sudo apt-get install -y zsync
sudo apt-get install -y gparted
sudo apt-get install -y flashplugin-installer
sudo apt-get install -y synaptic
sudo apt-get install samba
sudo apt-get install smbclient
sudo gedit /etc/samba/smb.conf smb.conf
sudo cp 40_custom /etc/grub.dcode]
then a
sudo update-grub
sudo ufw enable
echo "install google-chrome then get chromecast app"
echo "www.google.com/chromecast/setup"
exit 0
```

plus usual firefox sync and gaim login to bring in bookmarks and passwords.

What with buggy software and fumble fingers I get to do an install every couple weeks.

Note each of my pc's has Windows10 so I run Ubuntu from USB hard drives.
The HP Stream13 is giving me fits, the 1st year Win 10 upgrade screwed things up won't fit on the internal SSD and trying to boot USB with all the Win foreign software protections still turned off it screws up the USB drive.  I'm trying to order larger SSD which is an oddball card remove Win10 for the next user to puzzle out.   

The 40_custom is a /etc/grub.d exec to allow booting from a .iso from hard drive direct don't have to dd a thumb drive.

Cheers, Jerry

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-11-10
> **VinDSL said:**
> Hi Vent !

Oh, yeah, this is going to be great; I can tell, already.  

Yakkety was a snooze.  Never could get excited about it.  Zesty is right up my alley.  

First thing that happened, after rebasing to ZZ, was Unity quit working.  Looks to be a Compiz prob. YaY !

Next thing I tried was booting into GS.  Desktop started to populate, then BOOM !  It spit me back to login. Woohoo !

I tried Wayland next.  That booted me into GS successfully, but half (or more) of the apps are FUBAR.  More breakage goodness !

So, I started working my way down my alternate DEs.  Surprisingly, GNOME Flashback (Compiz) is working a treat (as I type).  LoL !  :)

Anyway, I got my foot in the door ...

  Great to see  you back at it again :)  Yakkety was an enigma  of sorts and was uneventful with exception of Unity 8 breakage. (It either worked or completely busted itself) :) . I am having some fun creating containers in unity 8, installing all kinds of weird xapps, busting the container and then destroying it. !  

  There have been some nVidia problems with mir+unity8 so I have been trying to install nVidia-drivers onto created containers and they literally break on the spot:) Seems like updates are coming fast and furious so we're going to be busy this cycle. I think there are going to  be a lot of  surprises this cycle .. (as you are now finding out :)

regards..

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-11-10
> **jerrylamos said:**
> 
Note each of my pc's has Windows10 so I run Ubuntu from USB hard drives.
The HP Stream13 is giving me fits, the 1st year Win 10 upgrade screwed things up won't fit on the internal SSD and trying to boot USB with all the Win foreign software protections still turned off it screws up the USB drive.  I'm trying to order larger SSD which is an oddball card remove Win10 for the next user to puzzle out.   

The 40_custom is a /etc/grub.d exec to allow booting from a .iso from hard drive direct don't have to dd a thumb drive.

Cheers, Jerry


 I have had nothing but problems with Windows 10 .. and clients still ask me to repair their installs and I just can't see the logic in it anymore.[I] Thanks for sharing your reports and testing.

Regards..[/I]

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2016-11-11
I read a question, somewhere in this sub forum, about the necessity of doing a fresh install when testing Ubu dev releases, or not.

Thought you might get a chuckle out of this.  Mind you, I've been testing Ubu every day since 2012 ...

> ProblemType: Package
DistroRelease: Ubuntu 17.04
Package: tex-common 6.05
Uname: Linux 4.6.5-040605-generic i686
NonfreeKernelModules: nvidia
ApportVersion: 2.20.3-0ubuntu8
Architecture: i386
Date: Wed Nov 9 09:31:58 2016
ErrorMessage: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
[COLOR="#FF0000"][SIZE=+1]InstallationDate: Installed on 2014-01-25 (1020 days ago)[/SIZE][/COLOR]
InstallationMedia: Ubuntu 14.04 LTS "Trusty Tahr" - Alpha i386 (20140124)
PackageArchitecture: all
RelatedPackageVersions:
 dpkg 1.18.10ubuntu1
 apt 1.3.1
SourcePackage: tex-common
Title: package tex-common 6.05 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
UpgradeStatus: No upgrade log present (probably fresh install)

Bwahahahahaha !!!  If memory serves me correctly, I think I've had to do 3 fresh installs in 4 years :lolflag:

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2016-11-11
> **ventrical said:**
> I have had nothing but problems with Windows 10 ...

Here's another chuckle for you (I'm actually testing 17.04 as I type -- wanna see if it bombs) ...

My Ubu test machine (see sig) is getting a little long in the tooth, so I decided to buy a Dell OptiPlex i5 7010 SFF refurb.  First thing I did was take it apart, install 16GB Ram, Samsung 850 SSD, nVidia 710 vid card, and three monitors (2-19" & 1-24").

I'll continue to use this machine to test Ubu, e.g. 32-bit low spec machine, and use the Dell OptoPlex as my daily driver.

On topic:  Once I burned in the OptiPlex, I decided to multi-boot it with Peppermint 7 and winders 7 Pro (the OS Dell included) both in UEFI mode.  No problem.

Once I updated and config'ed them, I started thinking about '10'.  Truthfully, I'd never even seen a winders 8 machine, nor a winders 10 machine, but I knew they were giving '10' away for free, so I thought I'd find out how bad it really is.  

When I went to the MS web site, I found out the offer expired in 2hr 40min so I decided to pull the trigger.  I don't like winders 7 anyway.

It took 2 days (no kidding) to get '10' Pro up and running with the proper OEM drivers downloaded/installed from MS, Dell, and nVidia.

'10' was working great on my Dell, triple monitors and all.  It was every bit as stable as Linux, even after the 'Anniversary' update.

Later I decided to triple-boot the Dell with openSUSE Leap (KDE).  Still no probs, and 'Leap' worked/looked as good as '10'.

Then, never being able to leave well enough alone, I decided to purge 'Leap' and install openSUSE Tumbleweed (KDE) -- basically, their dev release.

Here's where the chuckle comes in ...

Installing openSUSE is a totally different experience than using Ubiquity.  I was uber careful when I installed 'Leap', but got a little lackadaisical when installing 'Tumbleweed' and accidentally saved it to MBR instead of EFI.  Oops !  :)

No more winders 10 Pro.  Can't blame '10' on this.  It was PEBCAK.

Okay, looks like 17.04 is semi-working today.  Wish I had a desktop and some panels and buttons to use.  Maybe tomorrow ...

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-11-11
@vindsl

Amazing ... as I was reading your above I could almost swear I heard those two songs... Carry on your Wayward Son and The Point of no Return by Kansas playing in the background. :)

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2016-11-16
> **ventrical said:**
> Carry on your Wayward Son :)

Heh !  I started thinking about you fantasizing at the keyboard, and decided you're right.  I did a fresh install the next day -- Ubu Unity & GS DEs.

Every morning, I've been doing an incremental update in a hail of error & warning pop-ups, but amazingly I don't have any errors to report, so far today.

So far, so good !  ;)

---

