---
title: "13.04 daily build?"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by shizz on 2012-10-28
Hey guys,

I'd like to be involved in this development cycle but I can't seem to find a way to download the daily build?

Ubuntu wanted me to log in to some amazon web services thing?

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-10-28
> **shizz said:**
> 

Ubuntu wanted me to log in to some amazon web services thing?

Those are Cloud Images shizz, there are no daily desktop builds as of yet. You could install 12.10 and upgrade it.

---

### Post by shizz on 2012-10-28
> **wojox said:**
> Those are Cloud Images shizz, there are no daily desktop builds as of yet. You could install 12.10 and upgrade it.

Thanks. Will do. :D

---

### Post by serdotlinecho on 2012-10-31
On 12.10, you have to change the /etc/apt/sources.list from quantal to raring.

```
sudo sed -i 's/quantal/raring/g' /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```Ubuntu 13.04 may drop alpha releases.

[http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21405/foundations-r-schedule/](http://summit.ubuntu.com/uds-r/meeting/21405/foundations-r-schedule/)

Ubuntu 13.04 release schedule.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RaringRingtail/ReleaseSchedule)

Enjoy :guitar:

---

### Post by jppr on 2012-11-01
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/)

First Daily-live now out :popcorn:

---

### Post by cecilpierce on 2012-11-01
Bummer! No 32 bit yet...:(

---

### Post by shizz on 2012-11-01
Also I presume you can use that build on a non-mac?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-11-01
Now that is confusing.

> Desktop image for 64-bit Mac (AMD64) computers (standard download)

I would say , yes, if the Mac has an Intel 64bit processor. Do Apple put 64bit AMD processors in their machines?

For the uninitiated:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64")

The issue is not the make of CPU but the architecture.

Regards.

---

### Post by cecilpierce on 2012-11-01
I think they are trying to get rid of the 32bit guys!

I have a AMD64 but hardly ever use it, guess I could put this hard drive in it and have both..:)

---

### Post by xebian on 2012-11-01
> **shizz said:**
> Also I presume you can use that build on a non-mac?

Why label as amd64+mac if it's for everyone?

There is  always build for amd64,  and  for amd64+mac.
```

quantal-desktop-amd64+mac.iso         17-Oct-2012 17:15  932M  Desktop image for 64-bit Mac (AMD64) computers (standard download)
......
quantal-desktop-amd64.iso             17-Oct-2012 17:14  934M  Desktop image for 64-bit PC (AMD64) computers (standard download)

```

---

### Post by shizz on 2012-11-01
> **xebian said:**
> Why label as amd64+mac if it's for everyone?

There is  always build for amd64,  and  for amd64+mac.
```

quantal-desktop-amd64+mac.iso         17-Oct-2012 17:15  932M  Desktop image for 64-bit Mac (AMD64) computers (standard download)
......
quantal-desktop-amd64.iso             17-Oct-2012 17:14  934M  Desktop image for 64-bit PC (AMD64) computers (standard download)

```

I suppose haha. I just couldn't find one without mac in it.


Edit: Had another look and still can't see an iso without mac in the name?

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-11-01
That's because they haven't been built yet.

You'll have to wait for the standard 32-bit and 64-bit Live CD's, my guess is they'll be here within the next few days.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-11-01
I have just downloaded the amd64+mac iso and burned it and I am posting from the live CD right now on Intel Core 2 Duo and what worries me is that I now have a craving for eating apples.  Must be a coincidence. Right? Oh, I hope so. :)

---

### Post by shizz on 2012-11-01
> **Cheesemill said:**
> That's because they haven't been built yet.

You'll have to wait for the standard 32-bit and 64-bit Live CD's, my guess is they'll be here within the next few days.

That's what I presumed, but xebian'c comment made me think that he had seen where the other one was.

---

### Post by sparker256 on 2012-11-01
Got a daily build but had to go back to a 12.04 Startup Disk Creator to create a bootable usb. 12.10 and 13.04 Startup Disk Creators would not finish but crashed. Will try to do a install with it in the comming days.

Bill

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-11-01
I'm testing the Lubuntu i386 Alternate build that went up today, no problems so far.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-11-03
Oops!  amd64 went charging right into install WITHOUT ASKING WHICH PARTITION OR WHAT FORMAT!!

Cancelled out of that in a hurry!

---

### Post by OGpmpdog on 2012-11-03
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Oops!  amd64 went charging right into install WITHOUT ASKING WHICH PARTITION OR WHAT FORMAT!!

Cancelled out of that in a hurry!

Thank you!! Was going to fresh install RR, but your heads-up changed my mind.

Upgrading from QQ as we speak *crosses fingers*...

Breakage time already??

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-11-03
3 pc's with raring so far via replace quantal with raring in /etc/apt/sources.list.  All still running.  Famous last words...

Seems to be a bit of update activity.  I haven't found any problems that didn't exist (launchpad bugs written) on quantal release level.

---

### Post by anubis101 on 2012-11-04
also you can try the ubuntu server 13.04

that have x86 image

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/)

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/raring-server-i386.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-server/daily/current/raring-server-i386.iso)

i test the dailys in virtual machines and for general use you can try with the server (unfortunadly my processor can't virtualized x64)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-11-04
Still no daily build.  Actually, I don't want it until they think it's ready.  

The amd64 they do have isn't ready for install to a chosen partition as far as I can tell.  I've had development ubuntu install blitz whole hard drives before, once even both hard drives.

I could try Lubuntu Raring not sure about that since on lubuntu I install Firefox, LibreOffice, etc.  LXDE is quick and efficient for my "ordinary user" functions but doesn't generate as much bugs (!) as unity/compiz.

---

### Post by sparker256 on 2012-11-04
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Still no daily build.  Actually, I don't want it until they think it's ready.  

The amd64 they do have isn't ready for install to a chosen partition as far as I can tell.  I've had development ubuntu install blitz whole hard drives before, once even both hard drives.

I could try Lubuntu Raring not sure about that since on lubuntu I install Firefox, LibreOffice, etc.  LXDE is quick and efficient for my "ordinary user" functions but doesn't generate as much bugs (!) as unity/compiz.
I have a spare hard drive that I am using to test the daily build to prevent your experence and will let you know if I find success. I unplug my other drive and just have my spare pluged in so I do not lose my other installs. 

It must run some script to do the install and would like to know where that is to see if it is fixable.

Bill

---

### Post by anubis101 on 2012-11-04
> **sparker256 said:**
> I have a spare hard drive that I am using to test the daily build to prevent your experence and will let you know if I find success. I unplug my other drive and just have my spare pluged in so I do not lose my other installs. 

It must run some script to do the install and would like to know where that is to see if it is fixable.

Bill

for that reason is that i test all system in virtual machine; because you can make snapshot(something like restore point) before install anything and if you have any problem after, you can back to the snapshot

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-11-04
> **cecilpierce said:**
> Bummer! No 32 bit yet...:(

You could change the repos to raring and update/upgrade 12.10 32 bit and you'd have the newest 13.04 32 bit:)

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-11-04
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Still no daily build.  Actually, I don't want it until they think it's ready.  

It is not that they think it is ready, but they have to keep a d-day, so what you get after that might also be not *really* ready.:)

The never ending something had crashed would not be there, would it? The strange thing is nothing had really crashed.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-11-04
> **Chdslv said:**
> You could change the repos to raring and update/upgrade 12.10 32 bit and you'd have the newest 13.04 32 bit:)
Done that already on 3 pc's.  Working fine, that is with the same problems that 12.10 has on my pc's.

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-11-04
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Done that already on 3 pc's.  Working fine, that is with the same problems that 12.10 has on my pc's.

Now, that the Ubuntu-Server 13.04 32 bit is "released", it maybe a good idea to install that and add any DE one wants.

>  
**Server install image**

  The server install image allows you to install Ubuntu-Server permanently on a computer for use as a server. It doesn't even say not to install in production machines. A person, who uses a server don't want his/her server to break, so this must be a pretty stable one. Note the word "permanently."

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-11-04
> **Chdslv said:**
> Now, that the Ubuntu-Server 13.04 32 bit is "released", it maybe a good idea to install that and add any DE one wants.

It doesn't even say not to install in production machines. A person, who uses a server don't want his/her server to break, so this must be a pretty stable one. Note the word "permanently."

UDS-R just ended, most of the attendee's are still on their way back home, expect to see changes to the web pages over the next couple of days, as well as actual Raring daily iso's.

---

### Post by Chdslv on 2012-11-05
> **cariboo907 said:**
> UDS-R just ended, most of the attendee's are still on their way back home, expect to see changes to the web pages over the next couple of days, as well as actual Raring daily iso's.

If these changes are significant, but not whether to add Nautlius 3.6 or not, whether to have the kernel 3.8 or not, it would be okay to wait, otherwise one could change the repos from Quantal to Raring, update/upgrade 12.10 to 13.04 and keep on updating it every few days/weeks, the end result would be same--you'd have your Raring Ringtail 13.04 

I don't expect anything spectacular in 13.04, except maybe a newer Unity and some upgraded "usual" applications of "usual" Ubuntu. The base, of course, would be different than Ubuntus before.

If we are not having a business with lot of computers using only Ubuntu, then the idea of LTS is nothing much for the ordinary user, who would keep on moving to the next "number" in the release line, and would have an always-supported-distro, for at least next 6 months.

Once, the 13.04 is officially released, many of us would move on to 13.10, at least just to have the new base, or to face the challenge.

---

