---
title: "17.10 touchscreen not working"
date: 2017-10-05
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by tfbielawski on 2017-10-05
Hi,

I was using Ubuntu Gnome 17.04 and touchscreen worked perfectly. When Ubuntu 17.10 Beta was released, I performed a fresh install of 17.10 (completely removing 17.04 and its partitions). On 17.10 Beta 1, touchscreen did not work at all. I kept using it and doing daily updates through Software Updater. One day the touchscreen started working, but I was too dumb to check if the update was what fixed it. The next day I ran Software Update and lost touchscreen functionality again. Again, I did not think to see if Updater caused the change.

When Final Beta came out I did a fresh install of that. Sadly, since the day Final Beta came out, I have zero touchscreen functionality. Is there a setting I need to configure, or should this just work on its own? I've never needed to configure anything for touchscreen before, or on any other distro that I've used. Incidentally, screen rotation works perfectly in 360 degrees. Strange.

I'm using a Dell Venue 11 Pro 7139. It is configured to dual boot with Kali. Touchscreen and rotation work perfectly on Kali. 

 Thank you in advance

Tom

---

### Post by izznogooood on 2017-10-05
Try putting your computer to sleep and wake it again. I have to do that for my Tilt sensor to work.

---

### Post by tfbielawski on 2017-10-06
Ironically, tilt sensor worked fine before putting laptop to sleep. That USED to be a huge problem. Tilt sensor still works fine after putting the computer to sleep. And, restoring from sleep did kick the touchscreen back on. So, I'm happy for the workaround, but I'd like to file a bug report on it. Not sure where to do that, though.

---

### Post by izznogooood on 2017-10-06
The package that senses tilt is (or was, I've bean "away" from ubuntu for a year or so) "[COLOR=#000000][FONT=monospace]iio-sensor-proxy" but im not sure if its the same for touchscreen. I think it might be "[/FONT][/COLOR]xserver-xorg-input-libinput".

---

### Post by jbicha on 2017-10-06
Probably it's a kernel issue so

```

ubuntu-bug linux

```

---

