---
title: "14.04 alpha and beta"
date: 2014-03-03
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by geomcd1949 on 2014-03-03
Some quick questions about upgrading:

1. What terminal command will print the current version and release of Ubuntu 14.04, giving the alpha or beta numbers?

2. If the release is updated on schedule (using the Software Updater), will the alpha release installed become the beta release when the beta is released?

3. Will the final beta release become the LTS through (only) installing updates through the Software Updater?

Thanks.

~George

---

### Post by David D. on 2014-03-03
Question 1 - I do not know the answer to that.  I am sure some other forum user will provide the answer soon.

Question 2 and 3 - Keeping up with the updates will progress your install through all the phases to the final OS when it is released next month.  I should note that there are many who advocate a fresh install with the final release to eliminate any possibility of problems from residual junk that may exist from the updates.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-03-03
The closest thing I'm aware of only tells you whether you're on a development release or not:
```
lsb_release -a
```

Keep in mind that the main Ubuntu flavor does not do alpha or beta 1 releases anymore (only final beta and release candidate).

---

### Post by geomcd1949 on 2014-03-03
Thanks! I see the 14.04 release schedule Here: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TrustyTahr/ReleaseSchedule)

My question, stated another way, is this - if I do nothing more than install the updates that come in the Software Updater, will I have the Final Release installed on my computer on April 17th? I installed the alpha release a while ago.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-03-03
> **geomcd1949 said:**
> My question, stated another way, is this - if I do nothing more than install the updates that come in the Software Updater, will I have the Final Release installed on my computer on April 17th?

Yes

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-03-03
If things go well, yes, but it might break seriously at some update/upgrade, and you have to restart from a 'daily build' iso file some days after that crash. You find the daily builds here:

[http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/308/builds](http://iso.qa.ubuntu.com/qatracker/milestones/308/builds)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-03-04
Just a note about the alpha and beta releases, these are both just a snapshot of the repository at release time, if you choose to update after installing, you will get new packages almost immediately. That's why we don't see any Ubuntu alpha or beta releases.

---

