---
title: "16.10 =&gt; 17.04 No more Gnome Wayland login option"
date: 2017-03-23
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by pebcak2 on 2017-03-23
Hey everyone. I just recently started using Linux again for my desktop again after 15 years or more since I last tried it. Things are looking great now, and I'm really enjoying working with Linux again. :)  But I'm a bit rusty so please understand if I'm not sure on some things.

I first installed 16.10, then decided I wanted to try Gnome rather than Unity and added the PPA for the Ubuntu Gnome packages. I was using Wayland before, but then after installing 17.04 I lost the option to log in with Wayland from the gdm greeter. I've verified that I have the latest packages available, and I have gnome-session-wayland installed. My /etc/gdm3/custom.conf does *not* have Wayland disabled. Does anyone have an idea of other things to check for?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2017-03-24
is ubuntu-gnome-desktop installed ?

---

### Post by jbicha on 2017-03-24
Please file a bug against gnome-session.

gnome-session-wayland is now a transitional package in 17.04 so you do not need it installed.

---

### Post by pebcak2 on 2017-03-24
> **dino99 said:**
> is ubuntu-gnome-desktop installed ?
Yep, I have 0.76 (zesty) installed.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2017-03-24
Someone else had a similar issue and it was fixed with today's updates (mesa 17?)

---

### Post by nikolay-kuzmin on 2017-03-27
Had similar issue when was trying to start gnome wayland on nvidia proprietary drivers. I had kms disabled so gdm was hiding wayland sessions, thinking there is no need to bother me with option, I couldn't use. 
Maybe you have some issue preventing gdm from loading in wayland mode?

---

### Post by fthx on 2017-03-27
At the moment, the only Nvidia configuration to make Wayland session to be displayed is Nvidia proprietary with Intel GPU mode.
Nouveau or Nvidia proprietary (with Nvidia GPU mode) do not display any Wayland choice in GDM.

FYI, switcheroo-control from GNOME staging PPA do not display "launch with dedicated GPU" option with Nvidia proprietary, but works with Nouveau (I get better results with my P530 than my M1000M in GL mark but it's maybe another story...).

---

### Post by nikolay-kuzmin on 2017-03-27
> **fthx said:**
> At the moment, the only Nvidia configuration to make Wayland session to be displayed is Nvidia proprietary with Intel GPU mode.
I've had it worked three days ago. Switched back to X11 due to missing glx.
Gnome wayland session is available in Zesty on proprietary nvidia drivers when gdm is used as a login manager and modesetting is enabled in nvidia drivers.
But, I believe, topicstarter has other issue, I just pointed that gdm doesn't offer wayland session when it failed to start in wayland mode itself.

---

### Post by fthx on 2017-03-27
ok, lightdm proposes a Wayland session with Nvidia proprietary drivers and Nvidia GPU chosen in NV settings.
BUT it fails to start GNOME... So, not GDM-only related.

@ jeremy : I've already reported that here : when I install lightdm and choose lightdm as main DM instead of gdm3, then uninstall lightdm, gdm3 is not active anymore. I have to reinstall gdm3 to get a graphical login GDM. If I remember Xenial's or Yakkety's dinosaur age, it was not the case.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2017-03-27
I had the wayland option but could no tlog in. Now, after updates.. I never seen it work so smoothly using the nouveau driver.

```

Graphics:  Card: NVIDIA GF119 [GeForce GT 610] bus-ID: 01:00.0
           Display Server: X.Org 1.18.4 driver: N/A
           Resolution: 1440x900@59.75hz
           GLX Renderer: Gallium 0.4 on NVD9
           GLX Version: 3.0 Mesa 17.0.2 Direct Rendering: Yes
Audio: 

```

---

