---
title: "14.04 beta, nvidia, amd, apt-get upgrade now NO Desktop after login just black screen"
date: 2014-03-13
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by bmullan2 on 2014-03-13
16GB Ram
2 TB sata
nvidia gtx 650 card
amd 8350fx cpu
asus MB

Last night everything on 14.04 beta was working fine

Booted computer today logged in as normal.

Next I did my daily:
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y

*After update/upgrade I rebooted.*

System came up with a weird look to the login screen, very dark, top menu bar items (time, shutdown etc are almost invisible).

Enter my password.... ***screen goes blank and a mouse cursor appears and that is all that happens...   mostly a Black Looking screen with a mouse cursor I can move.***

I have to hit Ctrl-Alt-F1 to get to a command prompt & terminal in order to do anything.

I know there was supposed to be 2 updates (1 for borderless menu's) and the other something about a new lock screen.    Not sure if those are having any bad side affects for my machine or not.

Just for kicks I purged lightdm, ubuntu-desktop and reinstalled both of them... no change so I am not sure what to check next at this point.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2014-03-13
> **bmullan2 said:**
> 16GB Ram
2 TB sata
nvidia gtx 650 card
amd 8350fx cpu
asus MB

Next I did my daily:
[U]sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
[/U]
*After update/upgrade I rebooted.*.

  By any chance did you also run
```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
Pulls in other things needed.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-03-13
WHich nvidia driver are you using? Nouveau, or one of the closed source binaries?

---

### Post by bmullan2 on 2014-03-14
yes 

on this system I did have 13.10 running and did

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
# not sure of both below were needed..
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get do-release-upgrade -d

as initial post said...

the system worked night before.   shut it down, next morning reboot, login then
run sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y and there were alot of updates!   After the updates were installed I rebooted into the state I am in.

when I get to the blank/black screen with the mouse cursor phase...    going to a terminal via Ctrl-Alt-F1 I can login as myself again, run "startx"... and although I do NOT get my full normal ubuntu unity desktop..   I do see the launcher ICONs from my old desktop.

Using those launchers I can start things like Firefox, terminal etc.      But in general the desktop environment is gone... no panels, no command bar on left etc.

---

### Post by bmullan2 on 2014-03-14
using default nvidia driver --* Nouveau* .

However, for my nvidia gtx 650 card I also tried xorg-edgers installing nvidia-331 which "ubuntu" recommends as a driver for my system from running:
[I][B]
 ubuntu-drivers devices | grep recommended [/B][/I]
Note:  the above cmd (uses Xorg Edgers PPA) was covered in Section 3 of this great writeup on ubuntu/video:  [http://askubuntu.com/questions/61396/installing-nvidia-drivers?rq=1](http://askubuntu.com/questions/61396/installing-nvidia-drivers?rq=1)

However, in both cases the system looks the same on boot.

I know there are no hardware problems as I can boot on other disks an run ubuntu, windows etc.

---

### Post by bmullan2 on 2014-03-15
Issue Resolved...

Because Ubuntu 14.04 is still beta I decided I wasn't going to beat a  dead horse, so I just reinstalled using latest Daily build and everything is working again.

---

