---
title: "13.04 upgrade to 13.10"
date: 2013-07-06
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by PipIWYG on 2013-07-06
So, I get the impression that I'm not allowed to scream about 13.10, but first understand how this happened, and then judge :)

I read the posts on 13.10 being a development release, so I decided to postpone updates. But the next minute, I'm being alerted to 1358 updates. Fishy, I dumbfoldedly accepted and continue with the upgrade. This upgrade took some time, but once done, my entire Desktop broke, and wouldn't load correctly. Windows had no borders, and Chrome's tabs were all red.

After managing to launch apps via command line, I read up on things and somewhere it told me to do a dist-upgrade. I forced the previous installation which clearly failed. Then upgraded, and the dist-upgraded. Finally, everything installed... and I rebooted. Using the 13.10 grub option, fails to load my drivers. Mouse and keyboard stops working, my display only uses my laptop monitor and not my external display.

Decided to use the 13.8.0-26 grub menu option, and I get this one up and running, which is what I'm on now, but the gnome panel seems to fail loading properly, and I don't have any menu at the top of my screen. The entire gnome panel with all my indicators are no more.

I only have kernels 13.8.0-26 and 13.10.0-2.

Was hoping someone around would have me some advice :)

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2013-07-06
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1**.*

---

### Post by PipIWYG on 2013-07-06
Managed to get my display, mouse and keyboard working, but gnome-panel still messed up

---

### Post by PipIWYG on 2013-07-06
Checked 208 objects (206 errors)
dpkg: error processing samba4 (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already
                                                              Errors were encountered while processing:
 apache2
 apache2-mpm-prefork
 samba4

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-07-06
Open a terminal and try this. No guarantee here as 13.10 is in development.

sudo apt-get install -f

And then try

sudo dpkg --configure -a

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-07-06
Your post is confusing in many respects. I have 13.04 and I have not received any invitation to upgrade to 13.10 through the Update Manager.

I also have Saucy Salamander (13.10) that I converted (upgrade) from 13.04 and I had to run several commands to make the change over. I did that a few days after 13.04 was released and when development on Saucy Salamander had just began.

I would not recommend converting 13.04 to 13.10 after 4 or 5 weeks have past because the code difference is too great. The best way right now and until 9 months after 13.10 has been released is to download an ISO image and install afresh.

The command apt-get dist-upgrade does not upgrade one distribution release to another. It upgrades the existing installation. It is very similar to apt-get upgrade which upgrades packages already existing on the installation but only from new packages in the existing repositories.

Your talk of Gnome panel and menus makes me wonder if you were running Unity.

Finally, Linux kernels 13.8.0-26 and 13.10.0-2 do not exist. You have Linux kernels 3.8.0-26 and 3.10.0-2.

Advice? Either re-install 13.04 or install 13.10 but I have a warning. You may find Saucy Salamander to be broken at this time. The latest image is from the 4th and yet there should be daily images. So, why no image dated 6th.

I installed the image from the 4th yesterday and it was broken. And another, already existing, install of Saucy is broken. I can get to the log in screen but the desktop does not appear - no Unity. Compiz is broken at the moment.

We expect stuff like this. It happened for a few days during the Raring development cycle.

We can learn a lot from trying to fix these things but often re-installing is the simple way. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1970289](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1970289)

Regards.

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2013-07-06
Greetings,

> **grahammechanical said:**
> 
Advice? Either re-install 13.04 or install 13.10 but I have a warning. You may find Saucy Salamander to be broken at this time. The latest image is from the 4th and yet there should be daily images. So, why no image dated 6th.

I installed the image from the 4th yesterday and it was broken. And another, already existing, install of Saucy is broken. I can get to the log in screen but the desktop does not appear - no Unity. Compiz is broken at the moment.

We expect stuff like this. It happened for a few days during the Raring development cycle.

We can learn a lot from trying to fix these things but often re-installing is the simple way. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1970289](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1970289)

Regards.

Not to mention that it is quite possible that certain hardware will not have support. Hardware that worked perfectly in 13.04. Most of the people testing Saucy and reporting on this forum are installing on an alternate medium.

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-07-06
I agree with the comments posted. Especially regarding a clean install from a fresh iso. However for some fun last week I did an update-manager -d on my testing laptop. The upgrade from 13.04 to 13.10 went as smooth as could be. Acer 1410 which has Intelgraphics. I have no data on this laptop by the way.

---

### Post by zika on 2013-07-06
> **philinux said:**
> I agree with the comments posted. Especially regarding a clean install from a fresh iso. However for some fun last week I did an update-manager -d on my testing laptop. The upgrade from 13.04 to 13.10 went as smooth as could be. Acer 1410 which has Intelgraphics. **I have no data on this laptop by the way.**That is why it went as smooth as it could... ;) Murphy... ;)

---

### Post by jbicha on 2013-07-06
> **PipIWYG said:**
> Checked 208 objects (206 errors)
dpkg: error processing samba4 (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already
                                                              Errors were encountered while processing:
 apache2
 apache2-mpm-prefork
 samba4

It sounds like you may have -proposed updates installed. Open the *Software and Updates* app, switch to the *Updates* tab and turn off *Pre-released updates (saucy-proposed)*.

-proposed is not meant to be used during the development cycle as it's a good way to experience uninstallability problems and more. I wish that message could be stickied at the top of this forum.

In your case with the number of problems you are reporting, I'd recommend backing up your data and reinstalling.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-07-07
> **jbicha said:**
> -proposed is not meant to be used during the development cycle as it's a good way to experience uninstallability problems and more. I wish that message could be stickied at the top of this forum.

Jeremy, unfortunately, the majority of people that install the latest development version do so, and only post here when they have problems, without even realizing there are stickies that should be read. I'll add the warning to my sticky, and keep my fingers crossed in hopes that the warning will actually be read, and heeded. :-P

---

### Post by zika on 2013-07-07
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Jeremy, unfortunately, the majority of people that install the latest development version do so, and only post here when they have problems, without even realizing there are stickies that should be read. I'll add the warning to my sticky, and keep my fingers crossed in hopes that the warning will actually be read, and heeded. :-P
As we talked about that in previous cycles, it might be made compulsory reading... ;)

---

### Post by PipIWYG on 2013-07-07
Well, yeah.... Been on Ubuntu since late last year, so I be a noob and I do apologize. I did do an upgrade to 13.10 eventually. Everything went smooth, except the panels. I don't have any menus anywhere. Existing running apps like Skype, I have to keep open on my desktop, otherwise I can't access it. That really is the only problem. I had to remove apache2 though... which I'll need to get running again at some point.

I've removed pre-released updates. I'll refresh.

---

