---
title: "13.04 install hangs"
date: 2013-04-19
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by kd4dii on 2013-04-19
Hello
     I was wondering if anyone else had this problem.  When I try to install 13.04 on my laptop the install goes fine up to the point where it says downloading file 14 of 30 and it hangs there.  I downloaded the latest beta image and tried again, no joy.
     I would like to give it a try, any ideas?

Bob

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-04-19
Please tell us the computer specs, as much as possible but at least cpu, ram, graphics card/chip.

And which flavour of 13.04 are you trying to run, [KLX...]Ubuntu?

---

### Post by serdotlinecho on 2013-04-19
You can click the skip button if it takes to long to finish updating process or don't connect to internet when you install ubuntu.

---

### Post by kd4dii on 2013-04-19
Hello
     Thanks for the answers.  The computer is a core 2 duo laptop with 4 gigs of ram, 360 Gig hard drive.  The graphics are from Intel.  I tried the skip button and it seemed to continue trying, maybe I didn't wait long enough after.  I thought the installer needed to be online to install.  I will try both and let you know what happens.
     Thans again for the responses.

Bob

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-04-19
The computer has horsepower and memory enough to run the GUI installer. If the computer is connected to the internet it should continue until it finishes, but if the connection is slow (due to delays at either end), it will take a long time to download the packages.

But there might be another problem. If there are already 4 primary partitions in an MSDOS partition table and you want to keep them (not give the whole drive to Ubuntu), no new partition can be created, and the installation will stall. I think you might get no explanation. 

You have to check for that before the installation, and delete one partition to create an extended partition, where Ubuntu can be installed.

Please post the output of the following command

```
 sudo fdisk -lu
```

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-04-19
I regularly do installations on my netbook without internet access, as it needs a proprietary wireless driver, I've never had a problem installing.

---

### Post by kd4dii on 2013-04-19
Hello again
     The partitions are not the problem.  I had a clear partition to install to.  I tried it again without the internet connected and it worked.  When I booted it had problems updating the repositories, so I guess they are very busy right now.  I also tried to install Mate as I hate Gnome 3 and Unity.  The Mate people set up repositories for 13.04 but I couldn't connect to them either.  Most of the regular repositories responded but some didn't.
     Guess I will wait awile untill things settle down and try again.
     Thanks to all who responded, your help was appreciated.

Bob

---

### Post by serdotlinecho on 2013-04-20
Hello, Bob. How do you update the repositories? Through Update Manager or from terminal?

---

### Post by Rukiri on 2013-04-20
I've solved this issue awhile ago, it has absolutely NOTHING to do with your paritions, it's the installer itself it either runs or it doesn't.  So here's what you need to do (I pretty much copied my older post)

> So let me guess, it freezes at "Preparing to install ubuntu" correct? I've had this issue since 12.10 which the bug still persists into 13.04... 

Here's what worked for me, boot from the live dvd and click try ubuntu.
Open the terminal which is ctrl+alt+t and than see if you have any weird partitions or borked partitions by either using gdisk(need to install from .deb first) or just do df /dev/sdx where x is your hard drive. 


if everything looks okay don't click on the installer just type ubiquity --debug, for some reason this actually worked for me but if I click on the installer it won't (actually tested 3 times, ubiquity --debug solves the issue but the average user will see it as tiresome, have them install gentoo a few times and see if it's tiresome.)

ubiquity is the problem, there should be an update available just sudo apt-get update and sudo apt-get install ubiquity and than just do ubiquity --debug and it does work every time, it freezes every time if I do not go through the terminal!
Some may hate me for this but I honestly think ubiquity is the worst of the linux installers, I still find text base cli installs the absolute best (nothing beats by hand), but the best graphical install is the anaconda installer, I do also like openSuse's installer is well.  The matter is, ubiquity is buggy, do you really want to introduce a buggy system to a new user?  Especially a windows user?!?   Ubiquity worked fine in 12.04, it's been BROKEN since 12.10 and it's a well known bug that is yet to be fixed.  I say, adopt something that works, anaconda is released under the GPL license no reason why it can't be used in Ubuntu (very minimal changes need to be made and could be made to look like ubiquity).  I do find it amusing that ubiquity runs smooth as butter in Kubuntu but doesn't run so well under ubuntu.

---

### Post by deadite66 on 2013-04-20
Long standing bug report about the installer hang.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1080701](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/1080701)

---

### Post by Rukiri on 2013-04-20
Run ubiquity --debug and the installer will run fine, but this is not acceptable especially considering most first time users are probably going to try ubuntu vs I don't know say arch or fedora (fedora may be okay, always preferred anaconda it works better and looks slicker, did I mention it actually works?)

What canonical needs to do is to automatically start ubuntu in the desktop and just have a welcome dialog popup just saying 'Welcome to Ubuntu version XX.XX! Have a look around, you may see something you like! If you wish to install Ubuntu please click on the Install-Ubuntu icon on the desktop.  Thank you again for trying Ubuntu!"   And launch the installer with Ubiquity --debug "I actually change the launch settings to this and by golly works EVERY time"  Still, nother a novice or new linux user should have to do.

I've also tested this on several PCs, servers, and workstations, ubiquity is busted!

---

### Post by iamkuriouspurpleoranj on 2013-04-20
Had it this morning too. It hung at the check for network connectivity. Rebooted and it was fine, though I don't recall doing anything different, the second time around.

People familiar with Linux who like Ubuntu might accept "having another go" as a workaround. Not sure other people will. 

Glad to see the bug is high priority, though.

---

### Post by Rukiri on 2013-04-20
"Ubiquity --debug" probably won't solve it for everyone, but the installer should work every time not when it feels like going to work, I don't like going to work but I have to!

---

### Post by iamkuriouspurpleoranj on 2013-04-20
:-) yeah - lazy workshy ubiquity. Perhaps it should be renamed "iniquity".

A showstopper?

How can I help (as a non-programmer)?

---

### Post by Rukiri on 2013-04-20
I'm a programmer, but I mostly program using QT and kubuntu/ubiquity runs like a charm so I'm assuming it's the GTK+ stack causing the issue.

Canonical, please... replace the installer with anaconda or something that works not half baked.

---

### Post by Yeeha on 2013-04-20
i installed kubuntu from todays daily and during partitioning screen went black and during shutdown it complained about soft lockup cpu#3 22 sec... Maybe related? Second time i successfully installed kubuntu.

---

