---
title: "13.10 gnome-shell and Software Center"
date: 2013-08-27
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-08-27
Hi folks, I have been using gnome3-shell with Ubuntu 13.10 and while taking updates that require the Software Center it gives me warnings and errors on those updates. The software center works great while not using gnome3-shell.  Ubuntu Software Center will not even work with gnome3-shell. Any thoughts from you very good folks.

Thanks sammiev

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-08-27
Use synaptic, I find the Software Centre really, really , really slow. :-)

Some speed stats [here]("http://test.ubuntu-discourse.org/t/initial-release-of-app-grid/960")

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2013-08-27
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Use synaptic, I find the Software Centre really, really , really slow. :-)

Some speed stats [here]("http://test.ubuntu-discourse.org/t/initial-release-of-app-grid/960")

I agree with Synaptic.  I don't even think I've tried the Software Center with 13.10.  As far as I can tell gnome-shell is working very well with Ubuntu 13.10.  I should really try a live version of Ubuntu-gnome or whatever it's called.  I tried it when it first came out and found Ubuntu with gnome-shell a smoother experience.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-08-27
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Use synaptic, I find the Software Centre really, really , really slow. :-)

Some speed stats [here]("http://test.ubuntu-discourse.org/t/initial-release-of-app-grid/960")

You kind folks are correct to say the least but my errors are with system updates which at times uses "software updater" and gnome-shell. It works with Unity but not gnome-shell. It tells me to report it as a bug.

Thanks sammiev

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-08-28
The thread I linked to on Discourse, looks like it may be a preview for a replacement for the Software Centre, which I'm all for. The Software Centre is just to slow in my opinion. I've installed App Grid on my system, I' t loads really quickly. See the screenshot.

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2013-08-28
I just installed Ubuntu Gnome 13.10 a few days back, ran into 'Partial Update' problems, which were sorted out thanks to 'grahammechanical'! 

But in the last 3 days I am using it there has been no upgrade and it still says to go for 'partial update', which i don't. 
But cannot install 'Restricted extras' as it says two libav-something needs to be removed! So i haven't done that( Installed Restricted extras) . 

But i like the UbuntuGnome, more than any other Flavor i've tried so far, including Kubuntu, Xfce and Studio!

In fact, I have got Jack and Audio softwares installed and running in UbuntuGnome and there have been no problems...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-08-28
It looks like it may be a problem between the Audio software you've installed, and some of the default audio libraries. You can complete a partial update without creating problems for yourself, by installing aptitude and running:

```
sudo aptitude update && aptitude safe-upgrade
```

or the much easier alternative of using synaptic to do your updates.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-08-28
> **bhattabhishek said:**
>  

But in the last 3 days I am using it there has been no upgrade and it still says to go for 'partial update', which i don't. 
But cannot install 'Restricted extras' as it says two libav-something needs to be removed! So i haven't done that( Installed Restricted extras) . 

'Restricted extras'  recommends the extra version of libavcodec53 so SC rightly informs you that libavcodec53 & by extension libavutil51 will be removed so libavcodec-extra-53 & libavutil-extra-51 can be installed.

(the only time this can be an issue is when the extra package versions fall behind the non extra versions which happens with some regularity, usually because of lazy maintenance (currently the reg. & extra versions are the same

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2013-08-29
Thanks for the clarification **mc4man**!

I am still not going for restricted extras yet and using Debian Wheezy when I need them! 
Actually, I took a lot of pain to set up a audio production studio (Jack and Co.) in UbuntuGnome, dont wanna break it up by doing something silly, & u better believe me when I say, I can be really Silly ;)

Guess I will just wait till the issues sort out!
Meanwhile I am using Ubuntu Gnome 13.10

There is no battery icon in the taskbar, no idea why? I've tried a lot of things to no avail! Also, Installed gnome-shells don't work! 
Minor issues to me, as long as the studio keeps working :)

P.S. Just wanted to share the official UbuntuGnome 13.10 Plymouth theme: [http://aldomann.deviantart.com/art/Ubuntu-GNOME-13-10-Plymouth-Theme-Official-396512079](http://aldomann.deviantart.com/art/Ubuntu-GNOME-13-10-Plymouth-Theme-Official-396512079)

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-08-29
OK when I boot into unity software center it works and if I log out and go into gnome-shell it also works. If I boot and log right into software center it locks up completely.
sammiev

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-09-08
This weekend updates has fixed the problem, gnome-shell works great on the updates and so on. Love testing.

---

