---
title: "3.19-rc1"
date: 2014-12-20
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by zika on 2014-12-20
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.19-rc1-vivid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.19-rc1-vivid/)

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-12-21
So far, so good. I have tried both the Ubuntu version of the 3.19RC1 kernel and one I compiled myself.

---

### Post by Hazzabin on 2014-12-21
Thanks Zika, 

and yes working fine here too, just a question....do you get a notification to when there has been a new kernel release or you just keep checking in to the Kernel Web site.....just curious :)

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-12-21
> **Hazzabin said:**
> ....do you get a notification to when there has been a new kernel release or you just keep checking in to the Kernel Web site.....just curious :)I just check the website. Mostly, the kernel.org release candidates are posted sometime around midnight UTC on Sundays (+ or - several hours), and the Ubuntu one is typically posted within the next couple of hours. Since 3.19RC1 was posted on a Saturday, I assume Linus was busy on Sunday this week. It is typically 2 weeks between the first non RC posting of a kernel and RC1 of the next kernel (i.e. it has been two weeks since 3.18).
Also see [this]("http://lkml.iu.edu/hypermail/linux/kernel/1412.2/02480.html") (and while I am on some linux e-mail distribution lists, I am not on that one).

---

### Post by Hazzabin on 2014-12-21
Many thanks Doug S for that information

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2014-12-21
> **Hazzabin said:**
> Thanks Zika, 

and yes working fine here too, just a question....do you get a notification to when there has been a new kernel release or you just keep checking in to the Kernel Web site.....just curious :)
if you want notifications use my mainline kernel updater
[https://github.com/GM-Script-Writer-62850/Ubuntu-Mainline-Kernel-Updater](https://github.com/GM-Script-Writer-62850/Ubuntu-Mainline-Kernel-Updater)
by default it checks for newer kernels when you login

---

### Post by Hazzabin on 2014-12-21
Thank you to for more info, will certainly give it a try

---

### Post by zika on 2014-12-22
> **Hazzabin said:**
> Thanks Zika, and yes working fine here too, just a question....do you get a notification to when there has been a new kernel release or you just keep checking in to the Kernel Web site.....just curious :)Checking, old geezer's habbits.

---

### Post by Milos_SD on 2014-12-22
If anyone is having problems with Nvidia drivers and 3.19-rc1 kernel, here is how to make them work:
Change f_dentry to f_path.dentry in nv.c and nv-frontend.c files. And change MODULE_LICENSE("NVIDIA"); to MODULE_LICENSE("GPL"); in the same files.

---

### Post by Hazzabin on 2014-12-22
> **zika said:**
> Checking, old geezer's habbits.

Geee I should of known that without asking  :lolflag:

---

