---
title: "13.04 install help"
date: 2013-02-26
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Bradley129 on 2013-02-26
Hi all ;) I'm thinking about testing Ubuntu 13.04 on my laptop currently I'm dual booting windows and and Ubuntu 12.04.2LTS (laptop didn't come installed with windows 8) and I was wondering how would I go to as installing 13.04 on a desperate patrician (I've never installed Ubuntu I started with wubi and just create the oartician and let the wubi move zip do the rest to make it a real patrician) so how would I got to doing this without messing up my other installs these laptop needs to stay fictional at all times (use it for work) but that should be a problem because if need to I can just boot into my other 2 working installs right? Also can I install 13.04 without updating the grub because the one I have know has always been reliable and I dont want to go on a unreliable 13.04 grub unless of course its the same grub lol anyway would the 13.04 work under the 12.04 grub? Thank you in advance I can't wait to test and get some feedback going to the devolopers. And by the way I have a 64 bit system and also how would I boot into 13.04 with nomodeset? Because that's the only way I could get into 12.04

---

### Post by unheeding on 2013-02-26
According to [packages.ubuntu.com](http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=grub2), the version of grub2 in quantal is 2.00-7ubuntu11, and the version in raring is 2.00-12ubuntu1.  As you can see, this is a very minor version change, and since a boot loader is such an essential part of a system, they tend to be quite conservative in regards to it.

So it shouldn't be a problem, but there is always a risk it might not work with any new install.

---

### Post by plucky on 2013-02-27
If you want to test 13.04 and have never installed Ubuntu on a separate partition, you should consider testing 13.04 on a small USB stick (2 Gig) which won't change anything on your computer unless you tell it to.

You can boot the USB stick and play with it to see if everything works on your computer and use the same stick if you want to continue with the install.

A wubi install is very different to having an install on a separate partition,and if you make a mistake with the install,it could break your system.


Good Luck

---

### Post by Bradley129 on 2013-02-27
Thanks for the info I actually did that USB thing on 12.04 before I I stalled it to a separate patrician I do t have a wubi install any more I moved it to a real patrician and swap  using the wubi move script so I've actually have installed Ubuntu on a separate patrician just in a whole different way lol so this should be fairly easy but I just wanted to make sure

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-02-27
real install:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12495221&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12495221&postcount=2)

---

### Post by Bradley129 on 2013-02-27
Ahh I got it all figured out thanks I'm just gonna set me up a extended patrician make 3 logical and install

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-02-27
First of all I am not sure that the Grub on 12.04.2 is the same as the Grub in 12.10 and 13.04. I think that 12.04.2 is still Using Grub 1.99. I know that 12.10 and 13.04 are using Grub 2.0. What is the difference?

For a start with Grub 2.0 we get an Advanced Options for Ubuntu sub-menu that contains all those previous Linux kernels and recovery mode. This is a much neater way of presenting the boot options in my opinion. Do you see an Advanced Options submenu? If not then you still have Grub 1.99.

Any install by default will install its version of Grub to the MBR. Thus overwriting the version of Grub that is already there. The way out if this is to boot into 12.04.2 and run

```
sudo update-grub
```
```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```

But, believe me you will not like the resulting mess that you will see. Grub 1.99 does not understand the Grub 2.0 configuration files and you will see duplicate and even triplicate menu entries.

You need to create a separate 15-20GB partition to install 13.04 in. Yes, Ubuntu can install in about 5GB but during development we get a lot of downloads and old libraries are not necessarily removed. I am running 13.04 on a 13.3Gb partition and 9.8Gb of it is used up.

When you install you choose the Do Something Else option and you create the new partition. You select that partition as the location do install Ubuntu by selecting the partition and clicking 'Change.' You select Ext4 as the file system and mark it for format; give it a mount point of / and that is about it.

There is nothing 13.04 about installing 13.04. It is all very installing Ubuntu. We follow the same methods to install 13.04 as others do when installing 12.04 and 12.10.

You should read through this:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowtoPartition")

Regards.

---

### Post by zika on 2013-02-27
> **grahammechanical said:**
> For a start with Grub 2.0 we get an Advanced Options for Ubuntu sub-menu that contains all those previous Linux kernels and recovery mode. This is a much neater way of presenting the boot options in my opinion. I do expect a flux of questions about „older kernel versions“ soon when they start to flood users' partitions since now they do not see that kernels are piling up... ;)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-02-27
>  kernels are piling up

It is one of the reasons why I start each development cycle with a fresh install. This present install of Raring has about 15 kernels. I am too lazy to clear them out. This is why I like Grub 2.0. It hides all those kernels in that sub-menu.

---

### Post by ft_ on 2013-02-27
autoremove now clears the <= #-2 installed kernels... ;)

---

### Post by zika on 2013-02-27
> **grahammechanical said:**
> It is one of the reasons why I start  each development cycle with a fresh install. This present install of  Raring has about 15 kernels. I am too lazy to clear them out. This is  why I like Grub 2.0. It hides all those kernels in that  sub-menu.Isn't re-install too steep price to pay just for cleaning kernels which could be purged just by... see below... ;)
> **ft_ said:**
> autoremove now clears the <= #-2 installed kernels... ;)Yeap, but it has to be started to do that... ;)

---

### Post by Bradley129 on 2013-02-27
Marking ths as solved :p and fyi 12.04.2 is on grub 2 :popcorn:

---

