---
title: "20.04LTS Upgrade"
date: 2020-04-01
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by derrickr on 2020-04-01
Hi,

I'd like to get a head start with the upcoming 20.04LTS release, but am wondering if its going to be worth it.

Can anyone tell me if I were to use today's [daily build]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/focal-desktop-amd64.iso") would it allow apt-get updates to bring it in line with the officially released version at the time of its release?

Thanks,

Derrick

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-04-01
Yep, that's how it's supposed to work; you'd get the testing updates until release, and then you'd be on the same release as everyone else. Many testers still do a fresh install at release, though, in case there is any weird cruft from testing that got fixed by the final release.

---

### Post by howefield on 2020-04-01
Thread moved to the "*Ubuntu Development Version*" forum.

Yes, it will, but remember it is still in development and may have issues.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-04-01
The 'daily' (build) refers to the ISOs, once installed it'll report as

```
Ubuntu Focal Fossa (development branch) x86_64
```

and upgrade normally.  Just prior to the actual release the Focal Fossa will be changed to report 20.04, and the '(development branch)' will disappear.   I think of it as just 20.04 (though technically it's *Focal Fossa* until release).  

It's also not called 'daily build', as there are multiple 'dailies', eg. there is a **bionic** daily too (18.04.5 which hasn't been released yet); 'daily' is imprecise as there are a number.


Even though we're already in beta freeze ([https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2020-March/004941.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2020-March/004941.html)), development releases tend to have more upgrades than 'stable' releases.

Should you expect problems?  **No**, I'd not expect any, but you should always be prepared should they occur; eg. I can reboot my box as it's dual boot & use my 18.04 LTS system (my other OS), or I have another box next to this one (should i need to keep this running to report a problem)

---

### Post by derrickr on 2020-04-01
Thanks for the replies guys.

I'm going to go ahead and invest the time, especially seeing we've all got so much of it at the moment.

Keep safe all.

Cheers!

---

### Post by ping-wu on 2020-04-02
Although still a daily build, 20.04 is more stable than 18.04.

---

