---
title: "13.04 Experiences"
date: 2013-04-22
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by bobblex on 2013-04-22
Yesterday I took a chance and ran the update/upgrade from Lubuntu 12.10 to Lubuntu 13.04.

Everything ran quite well with no apparent glitches to the upgrade.  I was really pleased with how easy the upgrade went and how well I could see what was going on during the upgrade.

After all was upgraded, installed and updated I only ran into a couple of very small issues.  First, I seemed to have lost mounting my NAS via fstab.  Anyway that I tried to mount it, either CLI or fstab, ended up in an error of Input/Output error. Looking at the logs didn't shed any more light on the issue.  I finally uninstalled the CIFS utilities then re-installed them.  I reviewed the man 8 mount.cifs and other info about CIFS and found there were some changes.  I made some small changes to my fstab entry and all seems to be OK now.  The NVIDIA files all updated just fine and the kernel was updated with the NVIDIA files.

Samba and PCManFM don't seem to interface/integrate the way the did under 12.10.  I have to explicitly mount the smb shares as they don't seem to automount like they did in 12.10. Once I figured that out, I was good to go.  

The update didn't seem to mess anything up. Vuescan still runs and my conky set up is still there and running. :)

This morning I had a notice that there were some files to update (I already forgot which ones).

---

### Post by nonamedotc on 2013-04-22
My one day experience of Xubuntu 13.04 has also been very positive! After test drives in VMs, I finally did a bare metal installation last night. So far so good! :)

---

### Post by breezypt on 2013-04-22
Did you have the nvidia driver from the nvidia website or the ones that came with ubuntu 12.04?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2013-04-22
You should really write a follow up about what's new, what's improved or changed, and perhaps it's a good idea to post the hardware specs. I for one, would be interested in such details.

---

### Post by bobblex on 2013-04-23
> **mikewhatever said:**
> You should really write a follow up about what's new, what's improved or changed, and perhaps it's a good idea to post the hardware specs. I for one, would be interested in such details.

Looks like a reasonable request to me.
The biggest change I see is the use of the 3.8 kernal.  The menu seems to have only black/gray/white icons with the default scheme. Submenus, however, still have color icons.

I'm running on an old Dell 2350 with 1GB RAM, two 80GB HDD, an LG SATA DVD RW through a SATA-IDE convertor, an add-on Realtek 1Gbps Ethernet card (r8169) and an NVIDIA 6200 512MB video card.  I'm using the NVIDIA 304.88 (nvidia-304-updates, nvidia-304-current-updates, nvidia-settings-304-updates) that were originally loaded through Synaptic when running on 12.10 and were automatically updated and loaded during the update/upgrade to 13.04. 

Improvements noted so far are very minor.  Graphics and scrolling seems to run smoother, otherwise it pretty much runs about the same as it did on Lubuntu 12.04 and Lubuntu 12.10.  This system has such a slow bus speed that it's hard to notice any improvement, especially when running multiple apps.  Performance seems to be better than it was on XP SP3 now since I sorted out the memory issue that was keeping me from running the NVIDIA drivers.  On this system there's also not much difference between the NVIDIA or the Nouveau drivers.  Both seem to be stable and are good for what I do on the computer.  This is definitely not a gaming system.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-04-23
Removed double post.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-04-27
> **bobblex said:**
> ....  The menu seems to have only black/gray/white icons with the default scheme. Submenus, however, still have color icons.
....
Yes, those black/gray/white icons are in /usr/share/icons/lubuntu/categories/32/ and /usr/share/icons/lubuntu/categories/16/. I think they're called symbolic icons.
More symbolic icons are in /usr/share/icons/lubuntu/actions/.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2013-04-27
I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 13.04x64 on my ASUS laptop. After applying updates, the system would hang on boot. Also online accounts and empathy have huge issues. Most of the time they won't connect and authorization required dialog would pop up. Also Yahoo accounts-plugin is broken, when trying to add account details all I get is a blanks instead of counters. Google Chrome won't install on Raring, also no indicator-sensors out for Raring yet.

---

### Post by Branimir on 2013-04-27
I have issue with empathy, not working under anything gnome3 (gnome-shell,unity,cinnamon), but works under KDE or XFCE...

---

### Post by K-Veikko on 2013-04-28
> **bobblex said:**
> Samba and PCManFM don't seem to interface/integrate the way the did under 12.10.

Possibly has something to do with that the ~/.gvfs has moved to /run/user/<username>/gvfs.

I solved it by installing nautilus. 
After installing nautilus, samba started working also in pcmanfm.
Maybe a missing dependency in pcmanfm.

---

### Post by bobblex on 2013-04-28
> **K-Veikko said:**
> Possibly has something to do with that the ~/.gvfs has moved to /run/user/<username>/gvfs.

I solved it by installing nautilus. 
After installing nautilus, samba started working also in pcmanfm.
Maybe a missing dependency in pcmanfm.

Thanks,

I just installed nautilus and now PCManFM can show and access the network workgroup and computers without needing to type in a samba link.

---

### Post by bluheron1 on 2013-04-28
After upgrading from 12.10 gnome remix to 13.04, everything has gone pretty well. My monitor glitches for a few seconds between login and loading the desktop, but then straightens out ok. The only problem is that my mint lmde partition isn't showing up in nautilus. Overall I'd say everyone working on this new release did a great job.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2013-04-29
I decided to 'try upgrading' from 12.10 to 13.04 and found it painstakingly SLOW. I just gave up and did a fresh install - needed to clean up partitioning anyway. Fresh install proceeded without incident and everything worked OOTB. Installed Cinnamon theme and I think this system really rocks!):P

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-04-29
We have a Raring Installation and Upgrade Experience thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2139055"), please post them there, as it's time to move on to Saucy. Thread Closed.

---

