---
title: "16.04 Too Many Errors to Complete Update"
date: 2016-02-04
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by mikeincousa on 2016-02-04
I have not turned on my Linux machine for a good while.
Today it would not finish the update.
What am I to do?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-02-05
What does 'it would not finish the update' mean?
Please describe the problem in detail. We cannot see your screen.

Are you really running 16.04?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-02-05
Assuming that you are running xenial xerus (16.04 development version) and making a wild guess, are you seeing a dialog box that says that not all updates can be downloaded because there is something wrong with the internet connection?

If so, that message occurs because the development version does not have all the standard repositories activated. So, the Update Manager is not able to connect to them and so it gives an error message. This is normal and if we accept the information the update should take place as normal.

Another message we will see when running the development branch and trying to update it is a message that says;

> Not all updates can be installed. Run Partial Upgrade, to install as many updates as possible. This can be caused by

#1 A previous upgrade which did not complete
#2 Problems with some of the installed software
#3 Unoffical software packages not provided by Ubuntu
#4 Normal changes of a pre-release version of Ubuntu

We recommend not accepting the offer to Partial Upgrade. It can cause more problems. As we are running a pre-release version of Ubuntu (xenial xerus) then we are seeing this dialog because of item number 4.

I often see this dialog. I saw it when I updated a few minutes ago. I always click Continue and the update takes place as normal.

Regards.

---

