---
title: "14.04 Software Update not working!"
date: 2014-03-28
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by xtremo on 2014-03-28
Hi guys......the software update function was working fine for weeks....now it just crashes! Any idea on this one?

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-03-28
Thread moved to Ubuntu +1.

Does it work from the command line ? sudo apt-get update.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-03-28
Please explain "crashes." The word does not give any clue as to what might be wrong. From my experience with Software Updater it will give an error message in an icon on the top panel. Or we could try running

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

and see what error messages get thrown up. We need to see them.

Regards.

---

### Post by xtremo on 2014-03-29
Thanks for the replies guys! What was happening was that I'd click on Software Update, the box would open for a couple of seconds and disappear. Same with the Software Center.

I ran the updates through Synaptic, rebooted, and they both started working again.

So at the moment all seems OK.....just waiting to see if it reoccurs!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-03-29
Ha! I had something just as strange the other week. Once opened I could not close System Settings. It just kept bouncing back to life. Had to reboot to get rid of the thing. The day before yesterday I created a new folder on the desktop and then found I could not move it to the rubbish bin. Something actually went into the Rubbish bin folder but the icon remained on the desktop until a reboot. Strange little bugs.

Regards.

---

### Post by xtremo on 2014-03-29
Odd thing is I switched onto the laptop and had the same problem there. Updated through Synaptic and it cleared it.

Thank god for good old Synaptic!

---

