---
title: "24.04 Random Black Screen"
date: 2024-04-11
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by speartip on 2024-04-11
Is anyone else getting a random black screen that lasts about 2 seconds and then returns to normal? This is happening in both Xorg & Wayland sessions.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2024-04-11
Is nVidia involved?

I'm just not a Gnome fan so I don't even test it there, but Plasma 6 (Testing) runs very nice on Wayland on my end.

If you do have a nVidia GPU they are working on it, and rumored to be fixed in the next release.

---

### Post by speartip on 2024-04-11
Hi 1fallen,
No. No Nvidia, all Intel based. 22.04 runs like a dream. It is an install from a daily build, whether that could be an issue I doubt, but don't know. Will overwrite with the Beta and see if things change.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2024-04-11
Please keep us updated.

If it persists after the new install  let me know I "might" have a work-around.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2024-04-11
Hello,

not any help, yet just to mention that using 24.04 under virtualbox and intel I haven't noticed what you mention. Does it happen after you do something specific? And if not, after how much time from boot you might first notice it?

Regards!

---

### Post by speartip on 2024-04-12
Hi Claus7.
My install is not in a VM, it's a hard disk install. There's no pattern to it, purely random. I'm downloading the Beta now to see if the problem persists.

---

### Post by speartip on 2024-04-14
OK. So after a reinstall of the beta, it appears that the black screen problem has gone. Only been a couple of hours though, so will post back if any issues.

---

### Post by Keith Myers on 2024-07-24
> **speartip said:**
> Is anyone else getting a random black screen that lasts about 2 seconds and then returns to normal? This is happening in both Xorg & Wayland sessions.
Yes I am also on all my hosts running Ubuntu 24.04 LTS
Annoying as heck.
Always find a "unable to grab DRM ownership" message in the dmesg log afterwards.
But I already have modesetting =1 set in the nvidia-graphics-drivers-kms.conf file in /etc/modprobe.d
which is set by the Nvidia 535 drivers by default

So what is the solution to stop this temp blankout?

---

### Post by argguy on 2024-08-23
If you have a touchscreen try disabling it in the BIOS.

---

