---
title: "UG 13.10 - Unable to remove ppas"
date: 2013-09-19
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Romu on 2013-09-19
Hi,
I've installed UG 13.10 by making a fresh install. I wanted to test Gnome 3.10, so I added gnome3-next and gnome3-staging ppas. I found some issues with gthumb I use a lot.

So I'm trying to remove these ppas to get back to Gnome 3.8. I used ppa-purge, ran "sudo apt-get update", then "dist-upgrade". But this last step no upgrade at all. I rebooted the PC, re-ran these commands. Same, I can't get back to Gnome 3.8.

Any idea? Thanks.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-09-20
Apt-get dist-upgrade like apt-get upgrade will not update if there is nothing to update. When the PPA was installed, did it remove existing code? Perhaps ppa-purge not only removed the PPA code but replaced the libraries that the PPA had removed. In this way the system does not break. Perhaps. 

How do you know that you are still using Gnome 3.10?

Regards.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-09-20
It's easy enough to tell what version of gnome-shell you are using by opening up a terminal and typing:

```
gnome-shell --version
```

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2013-09-20
> **Romu said:**
> Hi,
I've installed UG 13.10 by making a fresh install. I wanted to test Gnome 3.10, so I added gnome3-next and gnome3-staging ppas. I found some issues with gthumb I use a lot.

So I'm trying to remove these ppas to get back to Gnome 3.8. I used ppa-purge, ran "sudo apt-get update", then "dist-upgrade". But this last step no upgrade at all. I rebooted the PC, re-ran these commands. Same, I can't get back to Gnome 3.8.

Any idea? Thanks.

Hi,

How to remove PPA:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/173195/how-do-i-remove-a-ppa-added-via-command-line](http://askubuntu.com/questions/173195/how-do-i-remove-a-ppa-added-via-command-line)

Also, please see the other suggestions :)

---

