---
title: "13.04 Suspend"
date: 2013-03-16
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2013-03-16
Hi guys

My machine, Acer Aspire 5742 i5-480M with Intel HD Graphics, will not resume out of suspend. There's disk activity but no screen.

This is the first time I've had issues on any version of Ubuntu for many iterations. Any ideas?

---

### Post by ft_ on 2013-03-16
Do you have some old home-made-scripts in /etc/pm/sleep.d ?

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2013-03-16
Sorry, should have said, on a clean install. Have done about 6 installs of 13.04 now..

---

### Post by ping-wu on 2013-03-16
Your problem sounds similar to what I had.  Beidl helped me solve the problem:

I've gotten the same problem. What I did to work around this problem:
                                                         sudo gedit /etc/pm/sleep.d/00-displayfix                      
     
 
Copypasta the next few lines and save.

     Code:
     
#!/bin/sh case "$1" in         thaw|resume)         echo 500 > /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness         ;;         *)         ;; esac exit $? 
Finally, make it executable:
                                                         sudo chmod a+x /etc/pm/sleep.d/00-displayfix                      
     
 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2121631&highlight=ping-wu](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2121631&highlight=ping-wu)

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2013-03-18
Thanks ping-wu, but that script does NOT suspend my machine. I tried it, closed the lid and a few moments later opened the lid to be greeted by the log on screen. Result!!

But, the activity LED on this ACER remained blue throughout and on a subsequent closure, putting my ear to the machine the HD was still spinning, or it might have been a fan.

Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by bishoptf on 2013-04-01
> **AlanR8 said:**
> Thanks ping-wu, but that script does NOT suspend my machine. I tried it, closed the lid and a few moments later opened the lid to be greeted by the log on screen. Result!!

But, the activity LED on this ACER remained blue throughout and on a subsequent closure, putting my ear to the machine the HD was still spinning, or it might have been a fan.

Any other suggestions?

Not sure if you are still watching this thread, but I had my wifes acer that was just having all kind of issues running 12.04 so I upgraded and noticed the normal fix for brightness control did not work but was able to figure something out here is what I did, update grub to include this (/etc/default/grub):

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_backlight=vendor"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi_osi=Linux"

of course run - sudo update-grub afterword to complete

This will allow you to change brightness and also allow you to wake up after suspend, when you wake it backe up the screen doesn't autmatically come back but if you hit the brightness keys, one way or the other it will turn on the screen..hopefully this will help others also...cheers :)

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2013-04-01
Will give that a go and let you know.

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2013-04-09
Hi Bishoptf

I'e always done this to get the brightness to work properly on my Acer Aspire 5742

> sudo gedit /etc/default/grub

when the file opens, look for the line similar to:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quite splash"

and add "acpi_osi=" to the list, without the quotes, so it looks like:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quite splash acpi_osi="

save the file, then exit gedit. Next, be sure to run:

sudo update-grub

Following your tip, I found I could get the machine to come out of suspend by pressing the brigtness key combination as you suggested!

That said, have just done a full clean reinstall and low and behold, it all works again as it always did!

---

### Post by a0c on 2013-06-30
Just in case anybody encounters this thread and  finds the proposed solution not working:

On my ASUS G75V I could only solve the problem of broken Resume / Hibernate by choosing the NVIDIA driver instead of the open source Nouveau driver.

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]=> Ubuntu Software Center => Edit => Software Sources... => Additional Drivers => Select the newest NVIDIA driver

[/FONT][/COLOR]and Resume / Hibernate should work.

(Ubuntu 13.04, clean install).

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-06-30
Thread closed, as we are well into the Saucy development cycle.

---

