---
title: "14.04 beta 1 and setting up sharing?"
date: 2014-03-21
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by mbott on 2014-03-21
I've been using 12.04 LTS since it was available, but thought I'd give 14.04 a check-out.  So I installed a unused hard drive and installed beta 1.  I've encountered no show stopping issues with the exception of sharing some of the directories with the other pcs on my network.

"'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare add: cannot convert name "Everyone" to a SID. Access denied."

Know that this is a beta, I'm not really that concerned, but 14.04 has been the first release since 12.04 that I've seriously considered actually moving to.  Any simple solution at this point?

Thanks!

-- 
Mike

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-03-21
Have you tried to uncomment the line```
guest account = nobody
``` in your **_/etc/samba/smb.conf_** file?

---

### Post by mbott on 2014-03-21
> **slickymaster said:**
> Have you tried to uncomment the line```
guest account = nobody
``` in your **_/etc/samba/smb.conf_** file?

Thanks for the reply.  If it existed in the **_/etc/samba/smb.conf_** file, I would do that, but it's not there. So, I just copied **_/etc/samba/smb.conf_** from 12.04 to 14.04.  Allows me to create the sharing and if I come across anything new and strange, I'll revert to the original file.

eta: Reverted bact to the original file.

-- 
Mike

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-03-21
Glad you got it fixed.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2014-03-23
The only problem with that "fix" is that you are taking smb.conf from a system using Version3 of Samba and using it in a system with Version4 of Samba.

There is a bug report on this and it turns out that it's a simple fix once some developer actually looks at the default smb.conf they created. See post #12 of the bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/1261873](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/1261873)

---

### Post by mclewell on 2014-03-31
> **Morbius1 said:**
> The only problem with that "fix" is that you are taking smb.conf from a system using Version3 of Samba and using it in a system with Version4 of Samba.

There is a bug report on this and it turns out that it's a simple fix once some developer actually looks at the default smb.conf they created. See post #12 of the bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/1261873](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/1261873)


Thanks, following the steps in the linked post worked for me after upgrading from 12.04 to 14.04 Beta1.

---

### Post by mbott on 2014-04-02
> **mclewell said:**
> Thanks, following the steps in the linked post worked for me after upgrading from 12.04 to 14.04 Beta1.

After this mornings update was applied, the issue is no more.  :)

-- 
Mike

---

