---
title: "[22.04] Install ubuntu-server with ZFS via installer?"
date: 2022-03-31
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by qupfer2 on 2022-03-31
Hi,

is there a (easy) way to install the "ubuntu-server" with ZFS? I couldn't find it in the installer of the server-iso. 
At the moment, I install the "minimal desktop"  and iterate through [FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]apt list --installed [/COLOR][/FONT]and remove all gnome/xorg/wayland stuff (and much more) via [FONT=monospace][FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]apt-get --purge remove $PACKAGE_NAME 
[/COLOR][/FONT][/FONT]and [FONT=monospace][FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000][FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]apt-get autoremove
[/COLOR][/FONT][/COLOR][/FONT][/FONT]
This seems working, but create a lot of "non empty config folders" and other leftovers. 
Is there a "better" way? Or is not, because  zfs is still experimental and "server should not use experimental features"?[FONT=monospace][FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000][FONT=monospace]
[/FONT][/COLOR][/FONT] [/FONT]

---

### Post by him610 on 2022-03-31
Back when I installed LTS 20.04 a couple of years ago on one of machines, there was an (experimental) option  to install using ZFS. I gave it a try for several months then later decided that I did not know a whole lot about ZFS so I wound up reinstalling LTS in a more familiar way.
Good luck.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-03-31
Good question.

I've never tried it but a web search turned up this: [https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/Getting%20Started/Ubuntu/Ubuntu%2020.04%20Root%20on%20ZFS.html](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/Getting%20Started/Ubuntu/Ubuntu%2020.04%20Root%20on%20ZFS.html)

If it were me, I would definitely try this out on a non&#8209;production machine first, work out its bugs (if any) and stress test it before moving to a real server.

If you go for it, please post back and let us know how it went. Yours is an interesting project.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-03-31
Until it is easy, I'd use ZFS for data only, not the boot and not any OS files.

Of course, if the goal is to see what's possible, rather than have a stable, upgradeable, long-term OS install, then go for it!  Ah ... 22.04 ... which is still beta ... so non-production by definition.  Go for it!  

22.04 questions should be in the development version subforum for a few more weeks, shouldn't it?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-03-31
> **TheFu said:**
> 22.04 questions should be in the development version subforum for a few more weeks, shouldn't it?
Good catch!

*Thread moved to **Ubuntu Development Version** as the more appropriate forum.*

---

### Post by qupfer2 on 2022-04-01
> **DuckHook said:**
> Good question.

I've never tried it but a web search turned up this: [https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/Getting%20Started/Ubuntu/Ubuntu%2020.04%20Root%20on%20ZFS.html](https://openzfs.github.io/openzfs-docs/Getting%20Started/Ubuntu/Ubuntu%2020.04%20Root%20on%20ZFS.html)


Yeah, this is the manual way.  But since 19.10, this is implemented in the basic installer, also optional encryption. This make it very easy to install. 
So simplified, I want to use the "Desktop installer" with the minimal-server packagelist (+zfs dependencies).
But maybe its better at the moment to continue with btrfs or seperate OS and Data.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-01
> **qupfer2 said:**
> But maybe its better at the moment to continue with btrfs or seperate OS and Data.

BTRFS has some very critical issues for multi-disk systems.  As long as we don't use RAID-anything, it should be fine, but there are failure (i.e. data loss) modes that aren't expected.  Read the Ars Technica article about it before choosing BTRFS.

With that said, I do plan to use btrfs when I move my laptop to a new release.  It has a single SSD and the advanced features of the file system are very interesting.  I just need to ensure I don't use CoW for virtual machine storage on it.  I'd used btrfs before ZFS on a single disk system ... of course, any system needs to have excellent, automatic, daily, backups if there is data on it.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-04-01
What I've found useful is the following:

[LIST]
[*]I dual boot my servers. Not out of necessity, but out of an abundance of caution. If one partition should get corrupted, I can boot into the other and try to fix the failed one.
[*]Both OSes are on one SSD dedicated only to the OSes. Data is on physically separate drive(s). ZFS is only used on the data drives.
[*]/boot are on separate ext4 partitions.
[*]/ are in separate LVs using LVM. This is another redundancy. It allows me to snapshot the current working state before applying updates.
[*]I use ZFS on the data drives only because I've come to rely on Ubuntu's "native" container platform. If you don't use LXD, I see no reason why you should commit to ZFS, unless it's for advantages specific to this filesystem itself. In my case, it's laziness. I was forced to use ZFS in order to use LXD, found it agreeable enough in its own right, and didn't want to learn yet another new age filesystem on top of that.
[/LIST]
This sort of redundancy has saved me on more than a few occasions. Rolling back from bad updates has been especially useful. So has ZFS snapshots. I call them my "data" drives but they are really container drives running a fully fledged OS environment (like Nextcloud).

I have a couple of laptops where I've installed the OS into a wholly ZFS formatted disk. I agree with you that it is quite slick, though not without problems of its own. I don't like the automatic snapshotting that takes place with each update and have had to disable that "feature".

As far as I can tell, the current status of ZFS is a grey area somewhere between experimental and stable. I'm using it without problems in a server setting, but my needs are very basic and not remotely enterprise&#8209;level. You will have to judge whether such a grey area platform is okay for you.

---

