---
title: "13.10 Daily Build"
date: 2013-05-11
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-05-11
I thought they would of had this fixed by now so a little testing could be done. Why post a daily build if it doesn't install?

---

### Post by VMC on 2013-05-11
The daily builds have work for me. I'm using "saucy-desktop-amd64" version.

---

### Post by Rukiri on 2013-05-11
13.04 was just released and I've said time and time again it's ubiquity that is the issue, the ubuntu installer is one of the worst in the linux community.

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2013-05-11
Maybe the October release will see a revamped installer... *hope*

---

### Post by Rukiri on 2013-05-11
An installer is only updated when it needs to be, and the installer has been broken for 2 released versions now.  
It's plausible but not likely.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-11
It worked for me on the 4th but then again it was months before I could get a Raring live session running without using an F6 option or two. Once I used all of them. Most of the time I could only get a live session by using acpi=off and adding irapoll in the boot parameters before quiet splash.

See, it as an opportunity to learn the usefulness of the F6 options. We cannot really test that side of things if we never have an issue with the live session loading.

Regards.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2013-05-11
Today's daily installed just beautifully. (I finally found some time to zsync the daily and do a virgin install of saucy from USB).

 Unity looks a little faster and workspace switcher is working faster and smoother than normal. I still got the ATi blackspace on the Unity Dash but it is beggining to look cool overall, so I am not complaining.

```

ventrical@ventrical-P4M266A-8237:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu Saucy Salamander (development branch)
Release:    13.10
Codename:    saucy
ventrical@ventrical-P4M266A-8237:~$ 

```

---

### Post by kuvanito on 2013-05-11
To all of those above my post having trouble installing Saucy 13.10 I have installed Saucy today not once but twice (32 and 64 Bits) with no problems at all
I am a true tester of Ubuntu and believe me when I say I had no problems at all BUT against all odds I use Unetbootin not Startup Disk Creator and when I boot to my USB drive I always use the Install Option also Default sometime works.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2013-05-12
13.10 amd64 installed on netbook and notebook, 13.10 i386 installed on tower O.K.  Do note, during development, sometimes ubuntu install crashes.  Watch forum, usually gets fixed O.K.

I update the .iso with zsync then boot the .iso directly from the hard drive by adding this to /etc/grub.d
in my case the .iso is on partition /dev/sda6 so the entry below says (hd0,6)

```

jerry@Aspire1:~$ cat 40_custom
#!/bin/sh
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
menuentry "saucy64 13.10" {
set isofile="/saucy-desktop-amd64.iso"
loopback loop (hd0,6)$isofile 
linux (loop)/casper/vmlinuz.efi boot=casper iso-scan/filename=$isofile noprompt noeject
initrd (loop)/casper/initrd.lz
}

```

then do 
sudo update-grub
reboot and select the saucy choice
after boot do ctrl-alt-t to get a terminal session
then do 
df
sudo umount -rl /dev/sda6
or whichever partition shows up as isodevice
open install and away you go.
A lot faster than making a DVD or USB, and install runs faster off the hd.

---

### Post by Mathor on 2013-05-12
Latest builds worked perfectly on the most recent builds with no bugs. The first few images had some ubiquity bugs, but all of them have been ironed out on the most recent daily iso images. I am using amd64 builds.

---

### Post by Rukiri on 2013-05-13
I've always ran ubiquity --debug and it'll install perfectly, just don't click the install now button use try ubuntu.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-05-13
Did a fresh install last night and all was very good.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2013-05-14
> **jerrylamos said:**
> 13.10 amd64 installed on netbook and notebook, 13.10 i386 installed on tower O.K.  Do note, during development, sometimes ubuntu install crashes.  Watch forum, usually gets fixed O.K.

I update the .iso with zsync then boot the .iso directly from the hard drive by adding this to /etc/grub.d
in my case the .iso is on partition /dev/sda6 so the entry below says (hd0,6)

```

jerry@Aspire1:~$ cat 40_custom
#!/bin/sh
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
menuentry "saucy64 13.10" {
set isofile="/saucy-desktop-amd64.iso"
loopback loop (hd0,6)$isofile 
linux (loop)/casper/vmlinuz.efi boot=casper iso-scan/filename=$isofile noprompt noeject
initrd (loop)/casper/initrd.lz
}

```

then do 
sudo update-grub
reboot and select the saucy choice
after boot do ctrl-alt-t to get a terminal session
then do 
df
sudo umount -rl /dev/sda6
or whichever partition shows up as isodevice
open install and away you go.
A lot faster than making a DVD or USB, and install runs faster off the hd.


Thanks jerrylamos. I zsync my saucy-desktop-i386.iso on the Desktop  using Maveric so I am not sure how I would fit in the directory structure.

---

### Post by VMC on 2013-05-15
set isofile="/home/YOURUSER/Desktop/saucy-desktop-amd64.iso"
also change partition number to reflect yours: (hd0,X) or (hd1,X), etc

---

