---
title: "18.04 alpha1: K3B failed to blank disc"
date: 2018-01-14
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-14
I installed K3B into my fresh install of Ubuntu 18.04 alpha1. When I tried to overwrite two CD-RW discs, K3B failed to erase both discs. Next I installed Brasero, and it was able to overwrite the first of these same two discs (I did not test the other one). So, it would appear K3B has I/O problem.

Kind regards,

Curt

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2018-01-14
Greetings,
I got a "failed to verify" error on my DVD-RW but after an eject and reinsert I wrote a tahr.iso to the disk and then copied over it with a bionic.iso. Both copies verified. 
I'm running a fully updated Bionic/Gnome/Wayland/GDM with Proposed enabled. I seems to me that K3b has a bug in the switch from the format function to the write function, fixed by ejecting and reinserting the disk.

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2018-01-14
Greetings,
Oddly, I just got a update for cdrdao. It may be just the fix you need. 

rrnbtter@rrnbtter--110-15ISK:~$ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Calculating upgrade... Done
The following packages will be upgraded:
  cdrdao
1 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 281 kB of archives.
After this operation, 12.3 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
Get:1 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) bionic-proposed/universe amd64 cdrdao amd64 1:1.2.3-4 [281 kB]
Fetched 281 kB in 3s (94.7 kB/s)        
(Reading database ... 186307 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to unpack .../cdrdao_1%3a1.2.3-4_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking cdrdao (1:1.2.3-4) over (1:1.2.3-3) ...
Setting up cdrdao (1:1.2.3-4) ...
Processing triggers for man-db (2.7.6.1-4) ...

It's in Proposed.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2018-01-14
If you run into any bugs running Bionic create bug reports for them @bugs.launchpad.net. If you are unsure how to create a valid bug report, have a look [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs").

The same goes for your other two threads in this sub-forum.

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2018-01-14
Greetings,
I doubt that this K3b issue has anything to do with Bionic. 

Either way, I'm happy! It's working just fine!

Bionic/Wayland/GDM = Purrrrfect!

---

### Post by curts on 2018-01-17
OK, I enabled Proposed and did an update, which installed cdrdao (1:1.2.3-4). This did not fix my problem - the behavior has remained the same; K3B cannot blank a disc before writing an image, but Brasero can. Reloading the disc after K3B ejects it after the first failure has no effect, i.e. K3B erase fails again and the disc is ejected again.

Kind regards,

Curt

---

