---
title: "16.04.2 LTS Daily Build Testing"
date: 2017-02-09
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by gary.allan.garibaldi on 2017-02-09
Down loaded and testing today daily build time based 14:48 9 February on an HP Pavilion g 7 series computer. While in try mode while running the dvd I tried a close lid suspend. Guess what it suspended on lid closed. Went ahead and installed it as single boot with 12 gig swap, 40 gig / and 450 gig /home. Suspend on lid closed stopped working once the software was installed. My question is what changes between running live dvd and hard disk install with unity as I would expect something working off the dvd to also work when installed to a hard drive.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-02-10
Is power-management set to suspend on lid closure; just because it was in the live OS does not mean that will be the setting in the installed OS.
If I remember correctly my recent install of Lubuntu 16.04 on an old netbook had "No action" as the default setting on lid closure.

---

### Post by gary.allan.garibaldi on 2017-02-10
It was set to suspend on lid closure. The first thing I always check for.

---

### Post by Hewjr100 on 2017-02-10
Ok i give up were is the daily build testing of ubuntu 16.04.2

Henry

---

### Post by mc4man on 2017-02-10
> **Hewjr100 said:**
> Ok i give up were is the daily build testing of ubuntu 16.04.2

Henry
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xenial/daily-live/pending/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xenial/daily-live/pending/)

---

### Post by ventrical on 2017-02-12
> **gary.allan.garibaldi said:**
> Down loaded and testing today daily build time based 14:48 9 February on an HP Pavilion g 7 series computer. While in try mode while running the dvd I tried a close lid suspend. Guess what it suspended on lid closed. Went ahead and installed it as single boot with 12 gig swap, 40 gig / and 450 gig /home. Suspend on lid closed stopped working once the software was installed. My question is what changes between running live dvd and hard disk install with unity as I would expect something working off the dvd to also work when installed to a hard drive.

You may have to try nomodeset during install.

---

### Post by Hewjr100 on 2017-02-16
Checked testing site now it says daily build. Iso's listed as pending.  Dated today, will this iso work for fresh/clean install.

Henry

---

