---
title: "Nvidia gtx 770 tearing issue"
date: 2014-10-17
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by sebastian35 on 2014-10-17
Hello,

I am experiencing tearing issues in ubuntu 14.10 with nvidia gtx 770 (with the most recent drivers afaik - and yes I've tried downgrading the drivers, it didnt help) - using dual monitors as well, info in xorg.conf below.

I am not sure if tearing is the right word to describe the problem though, normally when I dont do anything on screen (eg. reading some text and not moving the content or scrolling) it's alright, but when I scroll or move windows or watch videos on YT the effect that shows up is totally annoying, it feels like the screens wouldnt refresh fast enough for the previos frames to dissapear, there are horizontal screen anomalies showing up periodically (during scrolling for example).

I've tried a lot of things to fix this, reinstalling drivers multiple times, disabling composite thingy and other options in nvidia settings etc. I am also using KDE but the annoying effects appear on GNOME too.

BTW. its not a hardware problem, Ive got windows 8 installed alongside ubuntu and it works perfectly fine there.
BTW2. I just noticed the other monitor is not even shown in that config... its a bit older DELL P2210 (1680x1050), the other one is 1920x1200
> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings# nvidia-settings:  version 343.13  (buildd@lgw01-30)  Mon Aug 11 19:50:14 UTC 2014




Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection


Section "Files"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"


    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"


    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection


Section "Monitor"


    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL U2412M"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     59.0 - 59.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection


Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 770"
EndSection


Section "Screen"


# Removed Option "metamodes" "DVI-I-1: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0, HDMI-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24




---

### Post by xeizoo on 2014-10-18
It's a bug in Ubuntu, it gets somewhat better but not perfect with the Compton compositor. I know it's not hardware, because if I run Windows 7 under Virtualbox in fullscreen there's NO tearing whatsoever .... would be very nice to find a fix!

edit. NO tearing when using gnome-shell/Gnome 3 ... only thing, have to start to like Gnome then ....

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2014-11-17
i to am experiencing screen tearing on my second monitor. i'm using an EVGA SC GTX 760 with Xubuntu 14.04.1. i disabled the compositor in xfce and installed compton which should provide me a tear free desktop but it's only working on my first monitor, the monitor that's farthest to the left which happens to be the monitor i don't care has tearing on. I want the monitor that's directly in front of me to be the one without any tearing as that's the monitor I game on. I've been searching for a solution and just can't find one. When I watch this video fullscreen on my gaming monitor there's terrible tearing
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5xkNy9gfKOg](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5xkNy9gfKOg)

here's some evidence of the tearing: [https://vine.co/v/O5U5TbUAg6n](https://vine.co/v/O5U5TbUAg6n)

the command i run for compton is: ```
compton --backend glx --vsync opengl-swc --detect-rounded-corners --detect-client-opacity  &
```
which does result in ZERO tearing on my farthest left monitor but no the monitor I want. Any suggestions?

My xorg.conf if it matters
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/9053202/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/9053202/)

---

### Post by xeizoo on 2014-11-18
Google Chrome Beta/Unstable browsers have no tearing at all, Firefox has ....

---

