---
title: "14.04 Netboot CD giving wrong architecture error"
date: 2014-01-09
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-09
Hi all,

I'm not sure if this is even a legit image:

[http://www.panticz.de/ubuntu-1404-Trusty-Tahr](http://www.panticz.de/ubuntu-1404-Trusty-Tahr)

... as I couldn't find a 14.04 Netboot image on any of the official download pages or anywhere else.

Attempted to install it and stops with the error about being wrong architecture. I downloaded 64bit version and have 64bit lappy. 

Any ideas? Is that link legit?

TIA. ;)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-01-09
That does appear to link to the official page, looks legit to me

[http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/devel/main/installer-amd64/current/images/netboot/](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/devel/main/installer-amd64/current/images/netboot/)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-09
Yep, does indeed. So wonder about the wrong architecture message? 64bit for a 64bit processor. I'll try again later and post the exact message, but that's what it refers to.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-09
I am typing this from 14.04 LTS minimal install. I have installed xfce4, firefox, network-manager, synaptic, lxterminal, pcmanfm, gparted (I think that's it). The install is 2.14Gb. I'm happy and it seems to be running well, although a heap of cofiguring to do yet, but off to bed now.

I didn't really solve the installing from disk issue. I downloaded the mini from the link you gave, Elfy, which I guess was the same. This time I created a USB installer using UNetbootin and away I went. No error message about wrong architecture. I triple checked I was using the 64bit ISO for the disk and I was so really don't know what happened there. Even if it would have been the 32bit, it still should have installed without showing that error. Shouldn't it?

So, not solved, but resolved. As it's in Ubuntu+1 I'll leave this open in case anyone else comes across the same anomaly. I've also changed the thread title slightly so it is more specific to an attempted CD install rather than CD and/or USB. The USB worked fine.

Cheers.

PS: The optical drive is in perfect working order.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-01-09
I recently saw a post in one of the other sections of the forum from someone who has a fine reputation of knowing this subject that some laptops had 64 bit CPUs but a 32 bit UEFI boot system which made it next to impossible to install Linux on. I do not know if this applies.

Regards.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-09
That sounds odd! But no, don't think it applies here. Never had this trouble with disk or USB in the past. I have a heap of 64bit installs on here and have only used 64bit OS since I had the machine. Thanks for the input though, as anything's possible and might have explained this problem. 

Just booted up for the day and now trying to get wireless up and the right things installed so I get to a login screen at boot and the system doesn't ask me for authentication to logout! I should be posting a few threads in here in the next couple of days as I've noticed a few oddities so far. 

Cheers. ;)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-13
Issue worked around using USB rather than issue solved, but marking it that way. Good luck future travellers. ;)

---

