---
title: "15.04 thinks my desktop is a phone?!"
date: 2014-12-13
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by dankegel on 2014-12-13
I did a fresh install of today's 15.04 daily.  It succeeded, but
when I log in, I get a phone interface, and there's no way to get
a terminal (other than CTRL-ALT-F1, which does take me to a non-gui VT).

Is it maybe confused because I have Ubuntu Core Snappy (or is it Ubuntu Snappy Core)
installed on the same hard drive?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-12-13
If Snappy Ubuntu Core is on a separate partition then there can be no confusion. Snappy is for servers. It does not have a desktop environment or user interface. I am not sure that those can be installed in Snappy Ubuntu Core until they have been packaged as snappy apps. 

Where did you download the Vivid daily image from? Are you sure that you have not install Ubuntu-Desktop-Next?

This will give us the usual Ubuntu desktop

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

This will give us Ubuntu phone UI running on the Mir on the desktop, It is called Ubuntu Desktop Next. Over the next few months it will be used to converge the phone code with the desktop code.

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-desktop-next/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-desktop-next/daily-live/current/)

If that is Desktop Next then the LightDM login screen will be on tty7 and MIr and the phone UI on tty8. I usually use tty2 to run apt-get update/upgrade and then switch to tty8 to test MIr and the phone UI. Are the applications on your install running in their own application windows or are they always full screen. 

Regards.

---

