---
title: "17.04 long boot time"
date: 2016-12-28
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by oui on 2016-12-28
17.04 works very good.

my problems on 16.04 and 16.10 with Kubuntu (not other) is fixed: no permanent smudge from cursor on the screen any more. this kubuntu64 17.04 is yet full usable for me :popcorn: (and the both stable not ):P )...

but the boot time is very long, too long

where are the boot message to see after login?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-12-28
How long is too long, and what hardware do you have; HDD or SSD?

Have a look at /var/log/syslog which will show the timestamp of everything at the start of each line and if you look for any longer time differences between adjacent lines in the list, that may give you clues about what is causing any lags.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-12-28
You could also use:

```
systemd-analyze blame
```

to see which processes are taking a long time to load.

---

### Post by oui on 2016-12-28
Thank you very much!

> **ajgreeny said:**
> How long is too long, and what hardware do you have; HDD or SSD?

Have a look at /var/log/syslog which will show the timestamp of everything at the start of each line and if you look for any longer time differences between adjacent lines in the list, that may give you clues about what is causing any lags.

my hardware is a DELL Laptop with harddisk only. possible is the effect of searching DHCP (wired).

var/log/syslog found. will analyze it in the next days, but at trying to open, the editor claim that file is damaged and a lot of char where changed to spaces.

> **cariboo said:**
> You could also use:

```
systemd-analyze blame
```

to see which processes are taking a long time to load.

oh, thank you very much!

(and terrible for me is a view now on man systemd-analyzed as my English is bad and I have to find at first a French or German man page...). Thank you...

---

### Post by wgarcia on 2016-12-29
Also: edit the boot line at the initial grub screen (clicking "e" before the system starts) and delete "quite splash" from the line starting with "linux". This will make the startup verbose.

---

### Post by oui on 2016-12-30
Hi

Thank you, it was the good way and the boot is now fast (UUID from swap wrong because each Linux re-format swap although, later, all installed Linux have to work with the same swap! Pure nonsens and old huts are here in evidence. And you can not choice don't to reformat swap...).

I find now the start of KDE itself too long.

A way to check why?

Kind regards.

---

