---
title: "14.04 and cinnamon"
date: 2014-01-18
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by mcse2000ca on 2014-01-18
No idea where else to ask this was using cinnamon in 14.04 beta until that jan 15 group of updates and it took it out. Anyone else seen this?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-01-18
Now here is a strange thing. When I search for Cinnamon in the Trusty software centre I get a result but when I click More Info I get a Not Found message. Perhaps I do not have the necessary repository enabled? Only I do - Main, Universe, Restricted and Multiverse. Could it be that Cinnamon has been temporarily removed from the repository? May be Cinnamon needs some maintaining to keep it up to date with the changes happening in Trusty.

Regards.

---

### Post by mcse2000ca on 2014-01-18
Well the ppa I have been using is [http://ppa.launchpad.net/gwendal-lebihan-dev/cinnamon-stable/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/gwendal-lebihan-dev/cinnamon-stable/ubuntu) set to saucy since that is the latest one they are showing support to.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-01-18
Checking packages.ubuntu.com, it seems cinnamon is only available in the saucy repositories.

---

### Post by mcse2000ca on 2014-01-18
Ya for now working with Xubuntu, only reason I changed to Cinnamon was SNES9X-gtk would not work with unity but worked under cinnamon.

---

### Post by VMC on 2014-01-19
What kernel do you now have. Do you know if one of the updates upgraded to kernel 3.13.0-3.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2014-01-19
My best guess is that the upgrade to 'gnome-shell-common 3.10' broke cinnamon:

> gnome-shell (3.10.3-0ubuntu1) trusty; urgency=medium

  * New upstream release (LP: #1269916)
  * Merge from Debian, remaining changes:
    - debian/control.in:
      + Recommend gdm instead of gdm3
      + Add Recommends on network-manager since this
        is required for network panel to work. (LP: #1225787)
    - debian/patches/revert-notification-settings-link.patch:
      + Don't link to Notification Settings since that's only available
        with gnome-control-center >= 3.8.
    - debian/patches/40_change-pam-name-to-match-gdm.patch:
      + Disabled not needed on Ubuntu
    - debian/patches/revert-disable-periodic-gc.patch:
      + This is safe to re-enable with mozjs17
    - debian/patches/ubuntu-lightdm-user-switching.patch:
      + Allow user switching when using LightDM.
        Rebased for 3.10 Usermenu changes (thanks Parin)
    - debian/patches/ubuntu_lock_on_suspend.patch
      + Respect Ubuntu's lock-on-suspend setting.
        Rebased for 3.10 Usermenu changes (thanks Parin)
    - source_gnome_shell.py: Now we have upstart user sessions most
      logging goes into the gnome-session.log, so add this to the
      apport hook.
  * debian/patches:
    - revert_new_bluetooth.patch: revert changes requiring Bluez5
    - revert_new_brightness_widget.patch: In its current
      form this requires gnome-settings-daemon 3.10. If trusty ends up
      on g-s-d 3.8, then this should be backported to the old API
    - revert-shelldbus-export-timestamps.patch: Revert
      api change to fix keyboard shortcuts, this can be dropped when
      g-s-d gets updated to 3.10

 -- Tim Lunn <tim@feathertop.org>  Fri, 17 Jan 2014 06:52:05 +1100

But that's only a guess :)

---

### Post by mcse2000ca on 2014-01-19
Well to answer both of kernel i now have is 13.0.4 and yes there was some gnome updates for sure there always is in this beta. So just going to wait and keep trying to see if there is an update for cinnamon for now xubuntu at least allows my kids to play snes9x on the media centre hehe.

---

### Post by mcse2000ca on 2014-01-19
[SIZE=3]Well interesting developments at least this is being looked into [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cinnamon/1.7.4-2ubuntu6/+publishinghistory](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cinnamon/1.7.4-2ubuntu6/+publishinghistory)
Many thanks to [COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]Iain Lane That's why the linux community is so awesome we have people who do this.[/FONT][/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

### Post by mcse2000ca on 2014-01-20
found this ppa for nightly firxes which has a trusty ppa
[http://ppa.launchpad.net/gwendal-lebihan-dev/cinnamon-nightly/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/gwendal-lebihan-dev/cinnamon-nightly/ubuntu)
works but find with the newest nvidia drivers 331.38 nake the font fade on the desktop when you move your mouse wierd things like that but this is still alpha so i guess what would we expect hehe.

---

### Post by mcse2000ca on 2014-01-20
found this ppa for nightly firxes which has a trusty ppa
[http://ppa.launchpad.net/gwendal-lebihan-dev/cinnamon-nightly/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/gwendal-lebihan-dev/cinnamon-nightly/ubuntu)
works but find with the newest nvidia drivers 331.38 nake the font fade on the desktop when you move your mouse wierd things like that but this is still alpha so i guess what would we expect hehe.

---

### Post by Nick_Germaine on 2014-04-03
The nightlies don't work for me.  I tried them last night.  I log into cinnamon session and after about 30 seconds the entire thing bricks up.  I can still move the mouse but the panels and cinnamon interface are non responsive.

I've got AMD64 and AMD graphics.  That could be a conflict.  

When I first log in, I can open the menu, but nothing responds.  It almost looks like all placeholder stuff.  You know.  Can't click anything.  Regardless, I hope cinnamon ports to ubuntu 14 soon.

---

### Post by John_Philpott on 2014-05-17
Don't hold your breath for a stable PPA for Trusty (at least not the one we've been used to). I emailed the maintainer:
"Hi,

The stable PPA is no longer being maintained.
Only the nightly is going to be kept.

Regards,
Gwendal LE BIHAN "

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-05-17
closed

trusty is out - consequently it's out of here now

---

