---
title: "15.04 USB Permission on new install"
date: 2015-02-01
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-02-01
Hi folks,

Did a fresh install of Ubuntu Gnome on my HDD and the USB sticks will not be recognized at all but all work on my other HDD on another install of gnome on 15.04 on the same computer.

Tried -

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

```
sudo chmod 666 /dev/sdb
```

with no luck.

Tried a few other chmood commands but still not luck.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-02-01
Never mind, did a fresh install as many more items were not working. A fresh reinstall fixed all my problems.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-02-01
Problem came back after taking all the updates. 

Updates broke permission on all fronts.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-02-01
OK found the problem. I tried to boot to the old kernel and the same problem.

Then tried to boot using systemd and all is good.

Try booting default using upstart and all the problems come back.

---

### Post by Hazzabin on 2015-02-01
And yes has done same to my Ubuntu Gnome 15.04 too

A simple fix would be appreciated

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-02-02
[08:20] <slangasek> xnox: hi, so it seems that my upstart user session in vivid (running on pid1=upstart) is no longer seeing any bridged :sys: events for hardware hotplug.  Is this related to any of the changes you've made?

From #ubuntu-release - there'll be replies I suspect but I'm off now.

[http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2015/02/02/%23ubuntu-release.html](http://irclogs.ubuntu.com/2015/02/02/%23ubuntu-release.html) updates hourly.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2015-02-02
Actually I could not update or anything any more unless I hit Ctrl Alt F1. I installed systemd-sysv and all seems to be good for now.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-02-02
> **sammiev said:**
> Actually I could not update or anything any more unless I hit Ctrl Alt F1. I installed systemd-sysv and all seems to be good for now.

That is (afaik) just going to have removed upstart - you could have probably dealt with it by booting with systemd option in grub. But heyho :)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-02-02
For those following ... 


> [QUOTE][11:30] <xnox> slangasek: that is correct
[11:30] <xnox> slangasek: udev-bridge has moved from system-bus to session-bus.
[11:31] <xnox> slangasek: everything in the archive was patched to do "start on :sys:device-added or device-added" type of stuff.
[11:31] * kgunn has quit (Quit: buggin' out)
[11:31] <xnox> slangasek: i was considering for a while, to keep faking the event names. And e.g. make udev-bridge on the session-init to emit ":sys:*" such that everything is backwards compatible
[11:32] * kgunn (~kgunn@84-199-88-155.iFiber.telenet-ops.be) has joined #ubuntu-release
[11:32] <xnox> (as in the event names remain unchanged, which is, in a way, an API)
[11:32] <xnox> but decided against it.
[11:32] <xnox> (mostly because pitti found it confusing, that event names are not in-fact special but simply concatenated strings"
[11:32] <xnox> )
[11:32] * kgunn has quit (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
[11:34] * s8321414 (~s8321414@host-56.13-234-182.cable.dynamic.kbtelecom.net) has joined #ubuntu-release
[11:36] <slangasek> xnox: ok, but upstart-monitor didn't show me any events, :sys: or otherwise - do I need to restart my session?
[11:36] <xnox> slangasek: if you did not restart your session, you need $ start upstart-udev-bridge on the session.
[11:37] <xnox> (upon package upgrade, system upstart-udev-bridge daemon was stopped, as per policy. But there is no way for dpkg package upgrade to start session services which now became default)
[11:39] <slangasek> xnox: got it, thanks[/QUOTE]

---

