---
title: "20.04 Snaps"
date: 2019-12-22
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2019-12-22
Apologies if this has cone up before - will one be able to uninstall/delete snaps in 20.04 as one can in 18.04?

---

### Post by howefield on 2019-12-22
Thread moved to the "*Ubuntu Development Version*" forum.

If anything, more of the release than current will be based on snaps. Newer, improved whiter than white, ect ect..

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-12-22
> Newer, improved whiter than white, ect ect.. 
And all snap users get them and benefit, regardless of the OS release they are running. One snap for all.

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2019-12-22
You can remove all the snap installed at installation and install the correspondoig .deb
```
corrado@corrado-p3-ff-1201:~$ snap list
Name               Version                     Rev   Tracking  Publisher   Notes
core               16-2.42.5                   8268  stable    canonical&#10003;  core
core18             20191212                    1288  stable    canonical&#10003;  base
gnome-3-28-1804    3.28.0-16-g27c9498.27c9498  110   stable/…  canonical&#10003;  -
gtk-common-themes  0.1-25-gcc83164             1353  stable/…  canonical&#10003;  -
corrado@corrado-p3-ff-1201:~$ apt policy gnome-calculator gnome-system-monitor
gnome-calculator:
  Installed: 1:3.34.1-1ubuntu1
  Candidate: 1:3.34.1-1ubuntu1
  Version table:
 *** 1:3.34.1-1ubuntu1 500
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu focal/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
gnome-system-monitor:
  Installed: 3.32.1-2
  Candidate: 3.32.1-2
  Version table:
 *** 3.32.1-2 500
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu focal/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
corrado@corrado-p3-ff-1201:~$ 
 
```

---

### Post by VMC on 2019-12-23
> **Quarkrad said:**
> Apologies if this has cone up before - will one be able to uninstall/delete snaps in 20.04 as one can in 18.04?

Do you mean snap itself or a snap installed program? First thing I did was remove purge delete *snapd*.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-12-23
First thing I do is uninstall snaps.
But then I also install chromium and now it only is available as a snap. :(

But found there is a ppa for now, have not tried that to know if it works yet.

And I use gnome fallback or gnome-panel.
But had to work to get icons on desktop & cannot add icons to top panel which I use a lot. 
My monitor is 4:3 so having 3 or 4 favorites in top panel makes it easy for me to open terminal or Firefox when needed. Space on side is at premium since terminal is narrower. Most now with wider screens will not have that concern, so not sure if I will get fix or not.

---

### Post by muktupavels on 2019-12-23
> **oldfred said:**
> 
And I use gnome fallback or gnome-panel.
But had to work to get icons on desktop & cannot add icons to top panel which I use a lot.


What problems did you had? Or still have? GNOME Flashback (3.35.1) now has experimental desktop icons. Also what problems you have with icons in panel? Is there bug report?

> **oldfred said:**
> 
My monitor is 4:3 so having 3 or 4 favorites in top panel makes it easy  for me to open terminal or Firefox when needed. Space on side is at  premium since terminal is narrower. Most now with wider screens will not  have that concern, so not sure if I will get fix or not.

Is this about icons in panel?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-12-23
Originally both on desktop & panel.

But was able to add icons to desktop with some setting but that only added /home & trash.
But then found copying into ~/desktop worked and allow launch worked.
For example copied this into desktop & after allow launch it worked.
```
fred@bionic-z97:/media/fred/focal/home/fred/Desktop$ ll
total 40
drwxr-xr-x  2 fred fred  4096 Dec 20 12:04 ./
drwxr-xr-x 12 fred fred  4096 Dec 20 10:44 ../
-rwxr--r--  1 fred fred  9261 Dec  5 14:31 firefox.desktop*
-rwxr--r--  1 fred fred   549 Oct 22 05:22 org.gnome.Terminal.desktop*
-rwxr--r--  1 fred fred 10062 Dec 17 11:04 thunderbird.desktop*
-rwxr-xr-x  1 fred fred  3803 Apr  4  2019 zim.desktop*

```

Still have not found if I can add to top panel.

---

### Post by muktupavels on 2019-12-23
Drag & drop to/on panel!? Does not work?

What setting did you use? I think by default you should not need to change anything...

Anyway, if you have problems in GNOME Flashback, please report bugs.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-12-23
I believe I used tweak tool to add icons, but that only added home & trash.

I think I used this to find desktop icons & add to desktop in 20.04.
[http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2019/10/send-app-shortcut-icons-desktop-in-ubuntu-19-10/](http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2019/10/send-app-shortcut-icons-desktop-in-ubuntu-19-10/)

---

### Post by Chanath on 2019-12-24
> **oldfred said:**
> First thing I do is uninstall snaps.
But then I also install chromium and now it only is available as a snap. :(


If you are interested in Chromium "testing," you can get it from [here]("https://download-chromium.appspot.com"). I use it in few Linuxes and in Windows. No problem whatsoever. :)

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-12-25
The only problem I have with Chromium snap and Firefox snap is that the gnome-shell integration doesn't work (at least as of now*). You can install the browser extension, but the "native host connector" (I think that would be chrome-gnome-shell) fails to connect. So this convenient feature is not available.

*Error Message: "Although GNOME Shell integration extension is running, native host connector is not detected."

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2019-12-25
I want to emphasize the point Fred made that to get applications to show on the Gnome desktop (at least with 18.04) you install  the gnome-tweaks package, enable desktop icons, then copy the application's .desktop file into the user's Desktop folder under ~/home.  There are several locations where an app's .desktop file may be found, but most of them will be in /usr/share/applications.  Possibly ~/home/.local/applications.    

Once placed in the user's desktop folder, open the icon's properties window and make sure execute permissions are enabled. 

The application's icon probably won't show when first placed on the desktop, but clicking on it will open a dialog warning this is not "trusted" and asking you to confirm you want to launch it.  The icon should display normally after being "trusted."

---

### Post by muktupavels on 2019-12-25
> **oldfred said:**
> I believe I used tweak tool to add icons, but that only added home & trash.

I think I used this to find desktop icons & add to desktop in 20.04.
[http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2019/10/send-app-shortcut-icons-desktop-in-ubuntu-19-10/](http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2019/10/send-app-shortcut-icons-desktop-in-ubuntu-19-10/)

That link is about GNOME Shell. Are you really using GNOME Flashback (you mentioned fallback and gnome-panel...)?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-12-25
@muktupavels     

You are correct & oldfred is wrong.
I had this:
       fred@fred-z97-focal:~$ echo $DESKTOP_SESSION
gnome-classic 
    
Installed gnome-panel which includes flashback & other dependencies. Reboot & changed login.
Then I was able to move icons to top panel.  Have not tried much else yet.

fred@fred-z97-focal:~$ echo $DESKTOP_SESSION
gnome-flashback-metacity

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2020-01-30
Hello,

having read this thread I found it very interesting that at last Desktop icons are back in ubuntu flashback!

I have upgraded from 19.10 to 20.04 and: i) no snap packages were installed during the upgrade (I did not have any during 19.10) ii) flashback has desktop icons (!), yet, since experimental, not all of the options are working while doing right click: for example the grid option is not working, yet Desktop icons are functional.

I should mention that a snap package was installed while upgrading from 19.04 to 19.10 and specifically chromium at that time, which was also interrupting the upgrade of my system (the upgrade took place prior to official schedule though). 

Also, I cannot see the usb flash icon on Desktop, when I plug in a usb devide, so in order to safely remove it, I have to do so via nautilus. I guess that this should be a future aspect(?).

Thank you *muktupavels*!

Regards!

---

### Post by muktupavels on 2020-01-30
Claus7, open upstream issue for things that does not work - [https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-flashback/issues](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-flashback/issues). And yes, currently only "auto arrange icons" placement mode is implemented.

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2020-02-27
Installed from last ISO Ubuntu 20.04 LTS "Focal Fossa" - Alpha amd64 (20200227) preinstalled snap gnome-calculator, gnome-characters, gnome-system-monitor are now preinstalled as .deb```
corrado@corrado-p3-ff-0227:~/Desktop$ which gnome-calculator gnome-characters gnome-system-monitor
/usr/bin/gnome-calculator
/usr/bin/gnome-characters
/usr/bin/gnome-system-monitor
corrado@corrado-p3-ff-0227:~/Desktop$ 
```
```
corrado@corrado-p3-ff-0227:~/Desktop$ snap list
Name               Version           Rev   Tracking         Publisher   Notes
core               16-2.43.3         8689  latest/stable    canonical&#10003;  core
core18             20200124          1668  latest/stable    canonical&#10003;  base
gnome-3-34-1804    0+git.220fb1f     5     latest/stable/…  canonical&#10003;  -
gtk-common-themes  0.1-28-g1503258   1440  latest/stable/…  canonical&#10003;  -
snap-store         20200225.15bed0a  288   latest/stable/…  canonical&#10003;  -

```

---

