---
title: "16.04 Dead on Install"
date: 2016-03-14
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by shinyblue on 2016-03-14
I downloaded Beta1 of Ubuntu Gnome to a USB stick and tried it on my laptop. **All seemed to work really well.**

From within the "live" environment, I ran the installer.

Apart from minor things (some notice text was obscured by the colourful disk-space barchart in the partitioner, and it says "welcome to gnome 15.10"...) **the install appeared to go fine**.

However when I try to boot the new OS it dies and will not let me log in. Turning off splash, I get the usual green success messages, but then pages and pages and pages of ones about creating a user slice (?). Eventually I get to a TTY which is flashing and struggles to receive my key presses. After entering my password it appears to login then immediately exit backto the login prompt.

I've never had this before. If there's anything I can do to make this report more helpful let me know, or anything else to try?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-03-14
Possibly a graphics chip problem, have you tried using the nomodeset boot parameter?

---

### Post by shinyblue on 2016-03-14
Adding nomodesset to the kernel params on boot got it to boot up, but the graphics were awful. It's just an Intel i5 (2nd gen) but they used to be fine for desktop.

**However** once I got the system up and running and did an [FONT=Courier New]apt get upgrade[/FONT] then I found I was able to reboot *without* the nomodeset, and it boots fine and the graphics run nicely.

Thanks for your help.

---

