---
title: "17.04 wired connection problems"
date: 2016-12-29
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2016-12-29
Yesterday I upgraded my 16.10 to 17.04 as usual (Ubuntu user since 10.04). Midway through I noticed that the net was down but wasn't overly concerned. On reboot (after upgrades had finished) the wired connection was still not working. Using recovery mode it was working. Booting into Unity or Gnome (can't use Gnome on Wayland as I have nvidia cards) network was still not working.

Booting into Ubuntu 16.04 (I usually run current plus development) or elementaryOS (0.3x and 0.4) Debian and LinuxMint the same network is fine. In all distros I have the wired network (this is a desktop) set to DHCP automatic. 

It may be that I've had too much turkey but I'm coming up blank as to how to resolve this.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2016-12-29
A first step is to glance at journalctl to find some usefull warning/error. A next step is to find/purge orphans (with gtkorphan) & clean the system with bleachbit (as root, but read twice before validating options). Finally, reconfiguring network-manager and/or its dependencies may help too.

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/761036/ubuntu-16-04-ethernet-issues](http://askubuntu.com/questions/761036/ubuntu-16-04-ethernet-issues)

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2016-12-29
Apparently the remedy was to go to the supermarket, have a cheeky snifter on the balcony, and come back 4 hours later - it fixed itself. Happy? Yes and no. Internet works. Why though will keep me thinking.

---

### Post by harry332 on 2016-12-29
Have you read this bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1647133](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1647133)

And yes, it is mine.

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2016-12-29
@harry332: interesting read. Were you able to connect in recovery mode? That was what really puzzled me and convinced me that there was an issue in the GUI environment of 17.04.

I tried earlier kernels. I also checked that /etc/resolv.conf was linked to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf (it was) and also ran sudo dhclient eth0.

What I have noticed is that on top of Wired Connections 1 & 2 (2 onboard NICS) that I've constantly had over the years I now also have eth 0 & 1. Using the MAC address I was able to identify which one is wired; switching between eth0 and Wired Connection 2 did not help, at least not before above-mentioned trip to the supermarket.

As I wrote, I'm grateful to be back online but would really like to know why. I've not rebooted yet so may well be back to remove the SOLVED tag on the thread.

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2016-12-29
Yep, reboot and back to where we started. Will try some of the troubleshooting steps in your bug report

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2016-12-30
solution (workaround): edit /etc/systemd/resolved.conf
uncomment DNS and set to 8.8.8.8 <-- it's what works for me
uncomment DNSSEC and set the flag to =off

Since it is a workaround I'm reluctant to mark as solved. I read harry332's bug report several times and I think his point has not been sufficiently addressed.

---

### Post by harry332 on 2016-12-30
This bug (#1647133) still remains unsolved.
The only solution for me is to downgrade to the previous version NM 1.4.2-2ubuntu3.

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2016-12-30
@harry332: I agree the bug remains unsolved which is why (a) I preferred the term workaround (b) I haven't marked the thread as solved.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2016-12-31
an other dnsmasq report  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1434986](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1434986)

solution to get an automatic reload: sudo pkill dnsmasq

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-12-31
This is most likely unrelated but as I have just found a solution it might be helpful. Starting about 3 weeks ago 17.04 lost Internet connection after the completion of an update. An install of 16.04 still had Internet connection. So, the problem was not hardware related.

I have both ethernet and wireless adapters and nmcli device was showing ethernet connected and wifi disconnected but I could not get an Internet connection. And then I deleted the wifi connection and immediately ethernet connected to the Internet.

Although I had the correct wifi passphrase Network Manager was not connecting to the router. I also noticed that systemd was taking many seconds to present a network icon in the top panel. That delay could be caused by the failed attempt to establish the wifi connection. I will have to test that out.

In earlier development cycles I noticed that I could not get an Internet connection if I had both ethernet and wifi connections to the router. The situation usually resolved itself by release day.

EDIT: In the time I took to compose this post the Internet connection dropped out. So, my solution is not a solution after all. I still have a 17.04 that teasingly will give Internet access when it wants to and then drop it again just when I am doing something useful. I am completing this post from 16.04.

Regards

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2016-12-31
> **grahammechanical said:**
> This is most likely unrelated but as I have just found a solution it might be helpful. Starting about 3 weeks ago 17.04 lost Internet connection after the completion of an update. An install of 16.04 still had Internet connection. So, the problem was not hardware related.

I have both ethernet and wireless adapters and nmcli device was showing ethernet connected and wifi disconnected but I could not get an Internet connection. And then I deleted the wifi connection and immediately ethernet connected to the Internet.

Although I had the correct wifi passphrase Network Manager was not connecting to the router. I also noticed that systemd was taking many seconds to present a network icon in the top panel. That delay could be caused by the failed attempt to establish the wifi connection. I will have to test that out.

In earlier development cycles I noticed that I could not get an Internet connection if I had both ethernet and wifi connections to the router. The situation usually resolved itself by release day.

EDIT: In the time I took to compose this post the Internet connection dropped out. So, my solution is not a solution after all. I still have a 17.04 that teasingly will give Internet access when it wants to and then drop it again just when I am doing something useful. I am completing this post from 16.04.

Regards

Sorry for the hijack here...But Good to see you posting here (Long Time No See)....Hope All is Well.
Best Regards

---

### Post by chenriques on 2017-01-02
Hi have the same problem.
Trying Ubuntu 17.04 on VirtualBox 5.1.12 and don't have internet connection.

Tried both Ubuntu and Ubuntu Gnome dailies from December 30 and January 02.


EDIT: tried the DNS=8.8.8.8 on resolved.conf, rebooted and it's working now :)

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2017-01-02
I have not bug reported my issue yet. Seems a little different than what others are posting.

For one thing DNS was partially working on my system, some sites come up fine, others are not found.

I did explore the dnsmasq angle, but on my system I have dnsmasq-base installed, which only provides the executables and is required to be installed due to dependencies.
I did not/do not have dnsmasq installed which provides the extra stuff to actually run the executables in dnsmaq-base as a system daemon.

So dnsmasq is not my issue. 

Using network manager through the icon on the panel in Unity, by right clicking and choosing edit.
No matter what configuration I use, I at best only got partial name resolution. Poking around in the utility I could find where it appeared the correct DNS servers were being used, but going to the command line and typing

systemd-resolve --status

only shows the address of the systemd stub resolver instead, no indication that the desired DNS servers are being looked at.
Moving the '/etc/resolv.conf' symlink out of the way and creating a real '/etc/resolv.conf' file and putting the DNS servers in it worked temporarily, but the real file would get written over by a symlink every time I rebooted.

In my Debian install I have my interface configured as a static ip address in '/etc/network/interfaces', which theoretically takes network-manager out of the equation, since network-manager then stops trying to configure the interface.
DHCP and static both, I got partial or no name resolution. Looking at '/etc/resolv.conf' still only shows the stub resolver address and not the real DNS servers, compared to Debian which shows the real DNS server addresses on the first two lines and the stub resolver address on the third. Going to the command line and typing 'systemd-resolve --status' in Debian shows the real DNS server addresses and not the stub resolver address, in Ubuntu it shows the stub resolver address and not the real DNS server addresses.

Now that I have the interface set up in '/etc/network/interfaces' and previously moved '/etc/resolv.conf' to '/etc/resolv.conf.symlink' I was able to delete the symlink copy a real copy of resolv.conf into it's place and edit it and not have it get replaced when I reboot. So I have the symlink renamed so that I can easily delete the real file and move the symlink back into place, I have a real file which I named 'reslov.conf.realfile' so I can easily 'mv' the symlink and 'cp' the real file into place. 

Currently the file the symlink points to (/var/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf) still only shows the stub reslover address compared to my Debian installation where it also has the real DNS server addresses in it. Since the file I created has the real DNS server addresses, when I go the the command line and type 'systemd-resolve --status' it shows the real server addresses and not the stub resolver in my Ubuntu installation.

In my Debian install even though the resolvconf generated resolv.conf includes the stub resolver address, 'systemd-resolve --status' only shows the real addresses, might be because the stub resolver address is listed on the third line.

At some point along the way I did try changing the 'DNSSEC=' in '/etc/systemd/resolved.conf' since I had thought at first only HTTPS sites were failing, but it was happening with HTTP as well, so currently that is commented out again, the default is to allow-downgrade on the individual interfaces.  

I also tried setting the 'Cache=' setting to no, which also had no affect, but I left that set to no anyway for the time being.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-01-02
BTW...just adding this so i can keep testing (17.04) I installed WICD ("The Cog" reminded me of this): [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD)
This will destroy Unity8 though...just a heads up.
Not a fix by any sense but at least I have reliable networking now.
Regards

---

### Post by harry332 on 2017-01-03
> **seeker5528 said:**
> I have not bug reported my issue yet. Seems a little different than what others are posting.

For one thing DNS was partially working on my system, some sites come up fine, others are not found.

...



Seeker5528, this is exactly the same I see on my setup: Ubuntu Gnome 17.04 dev.
The bug report I made is this:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1647133](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1647133)

In reply no 14 I try to explain this:
"Certain web pages (mainly in Finland) do not work at all."

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2017-01-03
Post #10 [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2340042](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2340042) seems to mention the same problem (Nov 2016).

The difference though is that my 16.10 and 16.04.1 were both working fine. I encountered the issue on upgrading the 16.10 to 17.04.

---

### Post by MikeMecanic on 2017-01-03
This bug is also present in Budgie 16.10.

---

### Post by harry332 on 2017-01-07
In Zesty, the bug [#1647133 ]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1647133")is solved.
Network is now working fine with the latest network-manager v. 1.4.2-3ubuntu2.
Here:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.4.2-3ubuntu2](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.4.2-3ubuntu2)

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2017-01-07
> **harry332 said:**
> In Zesty, the bug [#1647133 ]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1647133")is solved.
Network is now working fine with the latest network-manager v. 1.4.2-3ubuntu2.
Here:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.4.2-3ubuntu2](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/1.4.2-3ubuntu2)

my box says 
```
~$ sudo apt-cache showpkg network-manager Package: network-manager
Versions: 
1.4.2-2ubuntu4 (/var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_zesty_main_binary-amd64_Packages) (/var/lib/dpkg/status)
```
Do you have proposed enabled?

---

### Post by harry332 on 2017-01-08
No I do not have the proposed repo enabled.
Instead I downloaded network-manager packages manually and installed them with:
   sudo dpkg -i *.deb

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2017-01-08
Thanks for clarifying. Also curious to know if you upgraded from a previous version or started 17.04 testing as a fresh install.

---

### Post by harry332 on 2017-01-08
I always do a dist-upgrading.
I only do a fresh install when I do a complete setup renewal.
The last time that was at the end of 2014.

---

### Post by tokyobadger on 2017-01-08
> **harry332 said:**
> I always do a dist-upgrading.
I only do a fresh install when I do a complete setup renewal.
The last time that was at the end of 2014.
Thank you harry332. As mentioned earlier in the thread I also like to upgrade instead of reinstalling.

---

### Post by tp-groen on 2017-04-18
My wired connection is dropped every now and then also. I did a fresh install using the official 17.04 release.

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2017-04-18
Greetings,


> **1fallen said:**
> BTW...just adding this so i can keep testing (17.04) I installed WICD ("The Cog" reminded me of this): **[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD)**
This will destroy Unity8 though...just a heads up.
Not a fix by any sense but at least I have reliable networking now.
Regards


Thanks, WICD working perfect on my system. I seem to remember this from my old Gnome 2 days. I think I will just keep it until the new dev shows up.

PS: Yep, it zapped my Unity 8 . O' My!!!!  Think I will go and clean my rain gutters!

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2017-04-18
Greetings,
Just got home from work at 11:30PM after my Laptop has been asleep for 12 hours. I opened the lid and the wifi is working just fine. So I think it is safe to say that WICD is a functional drop-in replacement for network-manager provided one can live without their Unity 8 login. As I understand the problem with network-manager, the NM continuously spoofs the card's MAC ID so as to increase security at pubic WIFI servers, Obviously this is causing problems they are yet to fix. No question they will fix it but I intend to stay on WICD unless I uncover a reason to change my mind.

---

