---
title: "14.04 ThinkPad w/ GeForce GT 730M + nvidia-331-updates + bumblebee trouble"
date: 2014-02-14
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by mdlueck on 2014-02-14
Greetings,

I am having difficulty getting a ThinkPad T540p with GeForce GT 730M to properly run the nvidia-331-updates driver.

I have been updating the modprobe configuration:
/etc/modprobe.d/bumblebee.conf
commenting out the exclusions for the 331 version driver

I have updated the bumblebee configuration:
/etc/bumblebee/bumblebee.conf
according to the example found here:
[http://elementaryforum.org/forum/support-assistance/how-to_aa/3996-nvidia-optimus-drivers-and-tools-installation#post3997](http://elementaryforum.org/forum/support-assistance/how-to_aa/3996-nvidia-optimus-drivers-and-tools-installation#post3997)

Still the NVIDIA X Server Settings opens blank showing no video card being recognized.

What might I be missing? Why does this configuration have to be soooo painful?

Blessings,

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2014-02-14
Aaahhh, I got the NVIDIA Settings to show the board finally!

I found this command here:
"Nvidia Optimus on Linux" \ "How to use Bumblebee."
[http://www.linux.org/threads/nvidia-optimus-on-linux.4415/](http://www.linux.org/threads/nvidia-optimus-on-linux.4415/)

```
optirun -b none nvidia-settings -c :8
```

And it pops up the NVIDIA Settings with the board details populated.

So I suppose since this is an Nvidia Optimus system, does that mean it is now working as expected? Only when the system detects "graphics intensive" will it engage the NVIDIA chip?

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2014-02-14
Wait a minute...

I used the optirun command to start one instance of NVIDIA settings, and the GeForce board shows up.

With that running, I then went to Settings \ NVIDIA X Server Settings and launched it that way as well... that second instance opens not seeing the NVIDIA driver loaded.

This Nvidia Optimus seems like a bunch of nonsense to me. How does one pin the system configuration always to use the NVIDIA chip?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-15
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1**.*

Any and all threads regarding 14.04 LTS go here. It is unreleased and testing. Unless you are knowingly testing this release I'm unsure why you are using it.

If you are knowingly testing this, expect breakages and post/report/discuss any issues in this section of the forum. Thanks.

> **mdlueck said:**
> 
Why does this configuration have to be soooo painful?



As mentioned, still testing. Expect more pain or install the super-stable 12.04 LTS which is directly upgradeable to 14.04 when it is released in April (as is 13.10). If you stick with 14.04 please report all issues here as it will be appreciated.

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2014-02-15
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> *Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1**.*

If you are knowingly testing this, expect breakages and post/report/discuss any issues in this section of the forum. Thanks.


Yes I am testing the next LTS release on this machine. Thank you for pointing out that the "+1" group is to discuss testing.

As for this quote...

> **mdlueck said:**
> 
What might I be missing? Why does this configuration have to be soooo painful?


Already has been in this state in Xubuntu 13.10. I find it in exactly the same state come 14.04 Alpha testing.

I am thinking to log a bug against both the nvidia-331-updates and bumblebee packages as the state packages are in presently is far from automagic support and should not be acceptable.

I thought to discuss in a forum setting how Nvidia Optimus is intended to operate.

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2014-02-15
I went ahead and also started a bug report here about the issue:

"Nvidia Optimus + bumblebee configuration not optimized by default"
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1280613](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1280613)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-02-15
> **mdlueck said:**
> I went ahead and also started a bug report here about the issue:

"Nvidia Optimus + bumblebee configuration not optimized by default"
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1280613](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/1280613)


Good plan. ;)

---

