---
title: "[24.04] ALL audio devices have disappeared!"
date: 2024-01-25
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by IanW on 2024-01-25
Running Kubuntu 24.04. It was fine this morning.
Ran aptitude _safe_-upgrade just now, and it seems to have removed _all_ audio devices, both input and output.
Looking at /var/cache/apt/archives shows a recent update to wireplumber.
This is persistent over both soft & hard reboots.

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2024-01-25
On Ubuntu (not Kubuntu) i have no problem with audio and see: 
corrado@corrado-n4-nn-0125:~$ apt changelog wireplumber
wireplumber (0.4.17-1ubuntu1) noble; urgency=medium
  * Add patch to add support for snap permissions (LP: #1995707)
 -- Sergio Costas <sergio.costas@canonical.com>  Wed, 24 Jan 2024 12:54:23 -0500

---

### Post by IanW on 2024-01-26
I see the same.
Whatever caused my problem, it hit the repos between 05:00 UTC & 17:00 UTC yesterday (Thursday 25th Jan, 2024)

---

### Post by Ubunterrific on 2024-01-26
Been chasing this one down myself last night! :popcorn:
I've isolated the packages and it's definitely from the upgrade on noble of only** wireplumber** and **libwireplumber-0.4-0 **(0.4.17-1 to 0.4.17-1ubuntu1) yesterday. 

For anyone afflicted, you can grab and manually install the 2 older, working debs with (dpkg or otherwise) from launchpad here (at the bottom): [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wireplumber/0.4.17-1/+build/27575873](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wireplumber/0.4.17-1/+build/27575873), then log out and back in (or restart wireplumber) and have your sound devices back. These packages will upgrade when you upgrade, unless you intervene.

It's an odd bug though because the problem of no audio devices is happening just on my custom kernels and actually works fine on the supplied kernel 6.6.0-14 (hence perhaps not everyone will experience it. Glad it's not just me!), so obviously something now needed is missing and I'll need to figure out what and put it in the config next build. 
I wonder if wireplumber might be checking for permissions incorrectly or via a method that not every setup can accommodate or something. Installing **snapd** didn't seem to help. 

Will be digging further today, but hopefully someone finds the specific problem shortly. Hope this helps!

---

### Post by IanW on 2024-01-26
That got it, except that I had to downgrade gir1.2-wp-0.4 as well.

I've pinned all 3 until I'm sure there's a fix available.

Thanks for the detective work, I'll mark the thread as [SOLVED] for others to find.

---

### Post by Ubunterrific on 2024-01-27
It's a crafty blighter! I've been clearing/resetting configs and hokeycokeying pulse and alsa but made some discoveries.
[B]
0.4.17-1[/B] (**wireplumber** and **libwireplumber-0.4-0) **work, but also a (newer) 2 week old latest version deb I found ofversion** 0.4.81 **(and** libwireplumber-0.5.0)** work fine. Problem seems limited to just this particular new version for noble (which had me wondering if the problem was with how it was built - lto problem? Nothing jumps out at me looking at wireplumber's commit history anyways.)
As soon as you install the[FONT=arial]m and[/FONT] r[SIZE=2]esta[/SIZE]rt wireplumber with > [FONT=monospace]*[COLOR=#000000]systemctl --user restart wireplumber*.service[/COLOR]*[FONT=arial][/FONT][/FONT][FONT=monospace][FONT=arial][/FONT][/FONT][FONT=monospace][FONT=arial][SIZE=2][COLOR=#000000] you get your audio devices back.

There's a warning coming up often of:
> *pipewire-pulse[644]: default: snap_get_audio_permissions: failed to get the AppArmor info.*
but that's pipewire-specific and that began appearing when pipewire got the code for container permission stuff, this is wireplumber now getting the same treatment. I can't think of anything to get rid of this warning at the moment (and it appears even on 'good' wireplumber versions so incidental), it's also there whether apparmor is installed and running or uninstalled, and I've no ideas about setting up an appropriate profile for it (hopefully coming for ubuntu noble?).

This one may be more useful: 
[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][/FONT]> [FONT=monospace][SIZE=3]*[COLOR=#000000]wireplumber[5211]: [/COLOR][COLOR=#d7d75f]**GetManagedObjects() failed: org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NameHasNoOwner**[/COLOR]*[/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=monospace][FONT=arial][SIZE=2]

I'm working under the assumption that the 6.6.0-14 noble kernel isn't having any trouble with [/SIZE][/FONT][/FONT]0.4.17-1ubuntu1 because of something to do with **CONFIG_SECURITY_APPARMOR_RESTRICT_USERNS=y. **I can't seem to find any discussion on this kconfig option or if it's been deprecated for kernel 6.7 onwards (or code was merged into another option or something), but this option isn't available to be selectable on my 6.7, 6.8rc1 NOR the latest ubuntu mainline kernel I checked. 

There was a [reddit]("https://www.reddit.com/r/rhinolinux/comments/19f4yqc/sound_problems_in_firefoxchrome/") post very recently with same issue and a few hours ago, someone has also narrowed it down to being kernel + apparmor related. (On the right lines!)

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2024-01-27
Actually I filed against apparmor for a different application here:[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2493479](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2493479)

Sounds like you will need to create a apparmor profile for your use.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2024-01-27
Could someone affected by this issue with standard Ubuntu file a bug using

ubuntu-bug

then choose a sound or audio problem.

I'm not interested in a bug for this issue if it only shows when using a non-default kernel though.

We are preparing a security update to backport these pipewire & wireplumber changes to Mantic. Perhaps Jammy too.

---

### Post by IanW on 2024-01-29
> **jbicha said:**
> Could someone affected by this issue with standard Ubuntu file a bug using

ubuntu-bug

then choose a sound or audio problem.

I'm not interested in a bug for this issue if it only shows when using a non-default kernel though.

We are preparing a security update to backport these pipewire & wireplumber changes to Mantic. Perhaps Jammy too.
It shouldn't be me then, I've been using mainline kernels.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2024-01-29
There is a fix in progress:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pipewire/1.0.1-1ubuntu3](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pipewire/1.0.1-1ubuntu3)

---

### Post by jbicha on 2024-01-29
We believe the bug only affected non-Ubuntu kernels!

---

### Post by Ubunterrific on 2024-01-29
Very fortunate to have skilled programmers able to translate bug info datadumps (particularly my walls of text) into actionable patches - and so quickly too! lol :popcorn: It's damn impressive.

Yes, pipewire 1.0.1-1ubuntu3 in noble-proposed is working well on 6.7.2 and now upstream 6.8rc2. :o  


I know this bug was only affecting non-stock ubuntu kernels, and 22.04 is still alpha - all all the implications that come with that (especially being part of the bug finding fun before release primetime!). 
I may be getting my wires crossed and this isn't totally applicable here as it was Pipewire using features not yet available in later kernels, but I feel some compulsion to express that (outside of whacky kernel config setups of course), to my mind distros should always still work *reasonably* with an upstream kernel. (IME they always have done: Ubuntu/Kubuntu have always done well with upstream kernels using configs trimmed down from ubuntu defaults.)

I don't believe one should give a newly-introduced problem less weight simply that it wasn't with one of the stock kernels, unless a bug is solely an upstream regression. If 6.6.0-14-generic is working fine, we can't (shouldn't) stay on it forever or deem it less worthy if bugs are appearing on later kernels: the same problem would only rear its head or be discovered later when we do bump up a version. (Of course, it's also always been clear that ubuntu devs are not responsible to get every kernel working.)

When bugs like this happen, I'm grateful a solution can be applied  at the package level rather than fixes being limited to stock kernels  only. It's very fortunate that this was sorted at the source in pipewire. There's a growing list of distros based on ubuntu (e.g. rhinolinux) who will use slightly (or completely) different kernels with their own patches yet still share Ubuntu's package repos, and they've been hit by a bug like this with 'non-ubuntu' kernels.

I'm sure you'd agree but after all these years, I feel it would be very regrettable if we ever found ourselves in a position where a ()ubuntu user was ever confined to 'stock' provided kernels only (whenever they are pushed to the repo) and if they wanted a newer kernel (for a new feature/hardware support/bug fix) have no other option than to rely on acquiring specific distro patches for and patching an upstream kernel everytime. The freedom to build/test a recent kernel has always been very cherishable.

---

### Post by Ubunterrific on 2024-01-29
> **1fallen said:**
> Actually I filed against apparmor for a different application here:[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2493479](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2493479)

Sounds like you will need to create a apparmor profile for your use.

Oops, forgot to say thank you for the links, they didn't solve the particular bug but they were very informative and gave me stuff to try. :)

---

### Post by Smask on 2024-01-29
> **jbicha said:**
> We believe the bug only affected non-Ubuntu kernels!

I'm on 6.6.0-14-generic...

---

### Post by jbicha on 2024-01-29
Smask, I need more information about your situation. Could you file a bug as requested earlier in the thread?

Did you happen to intentionally remove Snap?

---

### Post by IanW on 2024-01-30
> **jbicha said:**
> There is a fix in progress:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pipewire/1.0.1-1ubuntu3](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pipewire/1.0.1-1ubuntu3)

Good to know, thanks!

---

### Post by IanW on 2024-02-02
Yesterday, I chanced un-pinning the files I'd locked and ran an update.
I'm happy to say that the latest versions caused no unwanted silence, and that this thread can now be considered

[CLOSED]

---

### Post by suzn123 on 2024-05-28
[COLOR=#0C0D0E][FONT=-apple-system]check if pipewire-pulse,pipewire-alsa, wireplumber are installed.. .. then do the following 2 commands.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#0C0D0E][FONT=-apple-system]systemctl --user restart pipewire.socket pipewire-pulse.socket[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#0C0D0E][FONT=-apple-system]sudo alsa force-reload[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#0C0D0E][FONT=-apple-system]. restart may required. . . it fixed mine (temporarily and have to do it at most restart), god knows yours. . . .. . good luck :)[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by andy-rozman on 2024-10-02
So I upgraded to 24.04.1 Ubuntu and now all my HDMI devices are unable to produce sound. I am using default kernel that came with this version. So it seems that this bug is not affecting also normal kernels... I installed wireplumber gui and I can see all me HDMI devices (the one connected and the ones not connected) and none of them seems to be "Audio" supported. So I have 2 HDMI devices connected, 1 is monitor which doesn't have Audio support, but other is TV which has Audio supported (that worked before I upgraded). 
Not sure if the problem is tied to kernel or to wireplumber or even pipewire itself.

---

