---
title: "18.04 How keep it updated?"
date: 2017-12-20
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by calby on 2017-12-20
Hi,
I have installed 18.04 and it works great so far, but the dev's are updating it almost everynight as I understands it.
But how do I keep it updated?
Is it just to run apt-get update and apt-get upgrade ?

Or do I need to change something?

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-12-20
Thread moved to the "*Ubuntu Development Version*" forum.

---

### Post by 3vi1 on 2017-12-20
> Is it just to run apt-get update and apt-get upgrade ?

For the most part.  You may need to run apt-get dist-upgrade as well, if new packages pull in new dependencies or conflict with other installed packages.  Just make sure it's not going to remove any important packages before you answer the prompt to proceed.  :)

-J

---

### Post by calby on 2017-12-20
OK thanks. =)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2017-12-20
I run:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
```

twice a day, once first thing in the morning, and when I get home from work.

---

### Post by corradoventu on 2017-12-22
apt upgrade or apt full-upgrade?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2018-01-02
Software & Uodates can be set to automatically check for updates daily; every two days; weekly; every fortnight or never. If set to daily, then Software Updater will run soon after login.

'apt-upgrade' should be sufficient. If we use 'apt full-upgrade' it will remove installed packages if that is needed to upgrade the system as a whole. Therefore, in my opinion, using 'apt full-upgrade' does bring with it a measure of risk on a Ubuntu development version.

Regards

---

