---
title: "15.04 (beta 2) with nvidia gtx 750?"
date: 2015-04-12
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by ubunt72 on 2015-04-12
Pleased with 15.04 (beta 2) so far - knock on wood!!! :)   Installed Xubuntu 15.04-beta2 and installed a few apps so far.   This is on one of my partitions - so it's not my 'work' OS.   I just wanted to try it.   I mostly use 14.10 and I thought to try this beta and then I hope to be familiar with stuff before upgrading my 14.10 install.  Does that make sense? :)   I hope so.

I didn't install the Nvidia drivers yet, though.   I thought I'd ask here about that install - what do you think I should use/do?   I thought to install the 346 drivers.   I can use the 'Additional Drivers' method?   Does it make sense to ask here before trying it and then coming back and asking 'how do I fix....?'   Or perhaps, my anticipated method would work smoothly?

I have a EVGA Nvidia gtx 750.  So, no Optimis to worry about - just the discrete video card.   

I have experience with installing in Debian and doing it the hard way - downloading from the Nvidia site and making sure the required dependencies are installed.   Also, matching up (kernel) headers/images and the required (nvidia) packages.   But, I have also obtained the dreaded black screen with flashing prompt/FS shell.  So, I've been through it all?  :)   I think Ubuntu does a decent job providing the 'click this/click that' method with 'Additional Drivers' and installing via gui with whatever driver version options they provide.   I don't need a beta driver or higher than what they offer - for now.   As of now, Nvidia's most recent (released) driver is 346.47.

[http://www.nvidia.com/Download/driverResults.aspx/82252/en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/driverResults.aspx/82252/en-us)

Ubuntu has this packaged - as it's an option in the Additional Drivers software program.  Right now, the 'Nouveau driver' is being used as it's checked at the moment.   So, what's the experience with selecting 346 - anyone?   

If this is a standard routine that works fine and I should have just tried it (and not posted), then I apologize (for wasting people's time for you reading this).   But, since installing the Nvidia driver is often a crapshoot and various results can be expected, I thought it is better to request input and info before going into the unknown.   Also, 15.04 is currently a beta (as of this post) so it doesn't necessarily mean the install will go well, right?  

Thanks for any info.

P.S.  I would like to offer my two cents or experience with the Ubuntu 15.04-beta2 install and I installed skype plus other applications/programs with no trouble - knock on wood.   So, just ask me - or pm if you think I can help.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-04-12
i myself use a gtx 750 and the ubuntu archive have a working nvidia 346 driver; so its safe. But xubuntu still needs some fixes here and there.

---

### Post by ubunt72 on 2015-04-12
> **9d9 said:**
> i myself use a gtx 750 and the ubuntu archive have a working nvidia 346 driver; so its safe. But xubuntu still needs some fixes here and there.
Thanks.   Which DE (ver. of Ubuntu) do you use?   Unity?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-04-12
> **ubunt72 said:**
> Thanks.   Which DE (ver. of Ubuntu) do you use?   Unity?

gnome-shell 3.16 (vivid with gnome3/staging ppa ) here (unity purged mostly)

---

### Post by ubunt72 on 2015-04-13
> **9d9 said:**
> gnome-shell 3.16 (vivid with gnome3/staging ppa ) here (unity purged mostly)
Ah.   My main system (OS) at the moment is 14.10 w/ Gnome.   However, I recently tried 'Gnome Classic' and kinda like it.   I wish the appearance was more like that - when I was thinking about trying 15.04, I was deciding between MATE and Xubuntu.  ;)

I'm used to Gnome 3, though.    There was some strange flashes, though, while in 'Classic.'   For a couple of seconds, the icons lined up on the left, vertically, as if the shell (?)/ effects returned?   Not sure how to explain it.  

Any idea of whether Nvidia driver 346.59 compiles with the release of kernel 4.0?   I think it does but not sure whether I should try it yet.   Or just install it with 3.19 kernel?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-04-13
> **ubunt72 said:**
> 

Any idea of whether Nvidia driver 346.59 compiles with the release of kernel 4.0?   I think it does but not sure whether I should try it yet.   Or just install it with 3.19 kernel?

There is a thread on that subforum saying that all is fine; watch it

---

### Post by ubunt72 on 2015-04-13
> **9d9 said:**
> There is a thread on that subforum saying that all is fine; watch itOkay?  Where is it?   Link?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-04-16
Perhaps it is this one?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2266435](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2266435)

Kernel 4.0 series and nvidia 346 or later may be fine on video adapter but on my older video card things were not fine. There were failures to compile the nvidia module even on the 3.19 kernel with nvidia 346.

I may never be able to shift from nvidia 340. That is life.

Regards.

---

