---
title: "KDE 15.10 Volume Control does not effect proper channels to control sound levels"
date: 2015-08-19
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by genesoo77072 on 2015-08-19
When I adjust sound levels with the Desktop GUI Volume Slider, alsamixer shows me that the Channel PCM is being modified however the Master(Mono and Surround) is not being modified. In order for me to raise or lower the Volume levels, I have to use alsamixer to change the Master levels. The 15.10 GNOME Desktop GUI Volume control does control the volume levels properly.

---

### Post by genesoo77072 on 2015-08-19
Refinement of previous description. Since the Master Channel Level is not altered, it is acting as a Cap for the subservient PCM Level. Once Master Level is Raised to MAX then the Volume Slider becomes effective in altering the Playback Volume level.  Besides KDE, this incorrect behavior also effects the following 15.10 Distibutions(EDUBUNTU, LUBUNTU, & XUBUNTU). The following 15.10 Distributions do not have this issue Ubuntu Desktop(Unity), Ubuntu GNOME, & Ubuntu Studio.

---

### Post by genesoo77072 on 2015-08-26
In case anyone has this problem, I tracked this issue back to a VirtualBox issue. Apparently Audio support was not quite up to par with respect to VirtualBox 5.0.0. The currently available Maintenance level is 5.0.2. I attempted to upgrade the 5.0.0 system with 5.0.2 package. The Upgrade process did not seem to fully install the code fixes for 5.0.2. By Uninstalling and ReInstalling, I went from 5.0.2(Layered install 5.0.0+5.0.2), UnInstall 5.0.2, then 4.3.30(Full Install) and the Audio Problem went away. I reversed the process and Uninstalled 4.3.30 and then a Full install of 5.0.2 and the problem does not reoccur. I can only conclude that there was a defect in the Upgrade process from 5.0.0 to 5.0.2 that did not fully implement all of the changes in the 5.0.2 full installation package.

---

