---
title: "14.04 - getting pop-ups in Firefox, see no option to disable them"
date: 2014-04-08
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-08
I used the "upgrade" path to upgrade my 13.10 installation to 14.04 beta (what I believe they said was the final beta) over the weekend.  

Since then I now have all kinds of pop-ups when I use Firefox.  I looked in the preferences for Firefox but did not see an option to disable these.

To be honest, I never looked before because I never had this problem before with Firefox in Linux.

So, I don't know if it's a 14.04 glitch or if it's just something in Firefox, or, more than likeyly, I'm an idiot and missed something somewhere ;)

Any advice would be appreciated! 

Thanks

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-04-08
I use Ghostery otherwise some web pages are choked with ads . You can set blocking preferences and hide the indicator from view by using customize. You are using the same Firefox version as the previous release and a pop-up block is absent on my browser also .  

[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ghostery/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/ghostery/)

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-04-09
Do you have "Block pop-up windows" checked in Preferences->Content?

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-09
> **buzzingrobot said:**
> Do you have "Block pop-up windows" checked in Preferences->Content?

Yep, and that's what has me confused.  It always worked fine up until I did the final beta upgrade to 14.04.  To me that seems suspicious - either something in Firefox changed - frogs hair says no - or else somehow in the upgrade to 14.04 something got hosed.  The only error messages I saw in the upgrade process where some from the font manager about some fonts it couldn't find and install, but the upgrade otherwise went fine and completed successfully.

I think I may try using a different browser, removing/purging Firefox, and then install it fresh and see what happens.  I can't try that for a day or two.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-04-09
Odd.  I'm on updated 14.04 and Firefox is behaving normally.  Good luck.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-09
Switch to a new profile by removing/renaming the hidden file .mozilla and restart Firefox to see if it makes a difference. I think somehow your profile is corrupted and I doubt that reinstalling Firefox would make a difference if you use the same corrupted profile.

---

### Post by frank18 on 2014-04-09
> **squakie said:**
> I used the "upgrade" path to upgrade my 13.10 installation to 14.04 beta (what I believe they said was the final beta) over the weekend.  

Since then I now have all kinds of pop-ups when I use Firefox.  I looked in the preferences for Firefox but did not see an option to disable these.

To be honest, I never looked before because I never had this problem before with Firefox in Linux.

So, I don't know if it's a 14.04 glitch or if it's just something in Firefox, or, more than likeyly, I'm an idiot and missed something somewhere ;)

Any advice would be appreciated! 

Thanks

Go to tools and get Addblock,i use ABE and have no adds

---

