---
title: "20.04 software update wants to remove my working kernel"
date: 2020-04-20
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by mfox on 2020-04-20
I have upgraded my 18.04 installation to the 20.04 beta when it was released. Up until now, everything has worked well. This morning when I went to update 20.04 (using Software Update), among the updates was a default to delete the 18.04 LTS kernel (4.15), which is still being supported. Since 4.15 boots, shuts down and sleeps nicely on my computer and the latest kernel (5.4) doesn't (takes 2 minutes to boot and shut down, and about as long to wake from sleep), I unchecked the option to delete the 4.15 kernel. This deletion default is new; it hadn't come up on system updates until today. This concerns me because I might accidentally let the deletion occur. Also, I had been thinking about deleting the new kernel so that the default boot would be the 4.15. Is there some way I can at least get Software Update to stop offering to delete the 4.15 kernel?

If I deleted the 5.4 kernel, would Software Update offer to delete the only kernel I have installed?

---

### Post by speartip on 2020-04-20
If the 4.15 kernel is the only one installed, your system will stop offering to uninstall it. However because all your sources will have now switched to 20.04 Focal, you will not be offered updates for the 4.15 kernel anymore, which could cause security issues.

---

### Post by mfox on 2020-04-20
Thanks for the reply, speartip. Do you mean that 4.15 will no longer be updated in Ubuntu 20.04 LTS? That would surprise me because this kernel is an LTS version that is supposed to be supported until 2023. Also, 4.15 is in the 20.04 repos. Or did you mean that if I remove the 5.4 kernel from my installation, 4.15 will no longer offer updates?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-04-20
The 4.15 kernel series is not supported on 20.04.
(It runs? Sure. Is it available to install from the official repositories? I don't think so, maybe. But it is definitely not a supported kernel.)
> This deletion default is new
Not new, at least 2 years old,
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2420393&p=13863950#post13863950]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2420393&p=13863950#post13863950")

That said, you should file a report to the devs:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Bugs]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Bugs")
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs")

Better to fix the issue (or find o than run obsolete software.

---

### Post by speartip on 2020-04-20
The 4.15 Kernel is an LTS kernel only for Ubuntu in 18.04. I've just checked my repo's on a fresh 20.04 install & the 4.15 kernel is not there. It will be in your Repo's because you have carried it forward from your 18.04 installation. As to whether it will continue to be updated, I doubt it, but can't say with 100% certainty.

---

### Post by mfox on 2020-04-20
> **speartip said:**
> The 4.15 Kernel is an LTS kernel only for Ubuntu in 18.04. I've just checked my repo's on a fresh 20.04 install & the 4.15 kernel is not there. It will be in your Repo's because you have carried it forward from your 18.04 installation. As to whether it will continue to be updated, I doubt it, but can't say with 100% certainty.
Hmm. If you're right, this could be a problem. I know that deadflwr is right in that I only see the 4.15 kernel because I upgraded from 18.04. (On another computer where I upgraded from 19.10 I see the 5.3 kernel but not the 4.15.) But what I see is a bunch of older and newer 4.15 kernels, not just the one I have installed (which is the latest). If it doesn't update in 20.04, would there be a way that I can get the update binaries from some other Ubuntu source and update them myself?

---

### Post by mfox on 2020-04-20
> **deadflowr said:**
> The 4.15 kernel series is not supported on 20.04.
(It runs? Sure. Is it available to install from the official repositories? I don't think so, maybe. But it is definitely not a supported kernel.)

Not new, at least 2 years old,
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2420393&p=13863950#post13863950]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2420393&p=13863950#post13863950")

That said, you should file a report to the devs:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Bugs]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Bugs")
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs")

Better to fix the issue (or find o than run obsolete software.

I installed the 20.04 beta over 18.04 on the day it was released. I have run Software Update every day, and the option to delete the 4.15 kernel only came up today. Maybe that was because today was the first 5.4 kernel update in 20.04?

I will report the bug; thanks.

---

### Post by speartip on 2020-04-21
It isn't a bug. By default your system keeps 2 kernels, the 2 latest. Because you now have another 5.4xx kernel installed, it is offering to uninstall the 3rd kernel, the oldest which is your 4.15xx kernel. This is by design, not a bug.

---

### Post by zika on 2020-04-21
> **mfox said:**
> Is there some way I can at least get Software Update to stop offering to delete the 4.15 kernel?Yes, make it &#8222;stick&#8220;, along with it's other parts, and You're safe with 4.15 whatever else new gets installed. Just watch, as new kernels get installed You will end up using them instead of 4.15 if You do not make that &#8222;stick&#8220; also... ;)

---

### Post by mfox on 2020-04-21
Well it seems that the decision has now been taken out of my hands. The Bionic repo that must have contained the 4.15 kernel files I needed to boot has been removed from my installation, and I didn't do it. When I look at what files are now available for that 4.15 kernel, I only have installed linux-headers-4.15.0-72 and linux-headers-4.15.0-72-generic. When I go to install the linux image, I get the following message:
> inux-image-4.15.0-72-generic:

Package linux-image-4.15.0-72-generic has no available version, but exists in the database.
This typically means that the package was mentioned in a dependency and never uploaded, has been obsoleted or is not available with the contents of sources.list

When I looked at the repositories listed, there were several unchecked ones that were Bionic, but all were source code. Is there a way to get the Bionic repository back to get the rest of 4.15 reinstalled and if so, would that cause any problems with the 20.04 installation. If not, I'm snookered if the devs don't fix whatever is wrong with the new kernel that causes my intolerably slow boot, wake from sleep and shutdown. I did look into the amdgpu-pro drivers, but they are not yet available for Ubuntu 20.04 and who knows when they will be?

---

