---
title: "13.04 Login Sound"
date: 2013-04-21
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by kuvanito on 2013-04-21
Dash/Applications/Startup Applications
Click on Add
Name:Startup Sound
Command:/usr/bin/canberra-gtk-play --id="desktop-login" --description="GNOME Login sound"
Click on Add and Close
Reboot PC 

this made me happy again.I missed that old beautiful sound,no more!

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-04-21
You mean the bongos?  Actually, i was kind of glad they took it off...i like the quiet when i boot up :)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-04-21
All I have are the drum sounds . Has the other sound been changed or is it the same as always ?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-04-21
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> All I have are the drum sounds . Has the other sound been changed or is it the same as always ?

The 'drums' are at the greeter, this is while logging/loading the user session

---

### Post by GameX2 on 2013-04-21
I've got a random login sound ! :D

```
#!/bin/bash
files=(/usr/share/gnome/autostart/*)
n=${#files[@]}
sounds="${files[RANDOM % n]}"
mplayer $sounds
```

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-04-21
Oh yeah... i know what you mean...the jungle drum beat...;)
don't miss it here :)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-04-21
I thought they were crickets or cicadas or some other noisy bug.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-04-22
> **deadflowr said:**
> I thought they were crickets or cicadas or some other noisy bug.

There was  a bass line that ended in sort of  a hissing insect wing sound . That is what I was writing about and what seems to be missing.

---

### Post by GameX2 on 2013-04-22
I have great memories of this login sound.  Actually, that was my first contact with Linux, Ubuntu 11.04 ! :)
I like this sound.

Better than this one, in my opinion!
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WFCQrCReGU](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WFCQrCReGU)

---

