---
title: "14.04 LightDM Splash Screen"
date: 2013-11-15
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by PJs Ronin on 2013-11-15
This is an image of my logon splash screen for a 14.04 partition.   I believe that the info in the top left quadrant is from the /etc/hostname file, but where does LightDM get the infor for the lower left quadrant, which in this case is incorrect?   This really is a Trusty partition.


[IMG]http://i42.tinypic.com/k33a1e.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-11-15
/usr/share/unity-greeter/logo.png

---

### Post by PJs Ronin on 2013-11-16
^^ ty

I guess sometime during the 14.04 cycle a new logo.png will avail... then again I might create my own.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-11-16
> **PJs Ronin said:**
> ^^ ty

I guess sometime during the 14.04 cycle a new logo.png will avail... then again I might create my own.

So long as you keep the same name then however you edit logo.png it will appear on the login screen at that location. I have done this myself. It will get overwritten when the revised logo.png is pushed out to us. Oh, by the way, it will be a while before the Saucy Salamander wallpapers are replaced by the 14.04 wallpapers.

---

### Post by PJs Ronin on 2013-11-16
> **grahammechanical said:**
>                          Oh, by the way, it will be a while before the Saucy Salamander wallpapers are replaced by the 14.04 wallpapers.
Once I started reading these Ubuntu+1 threads I became interested in getting on the bleeding edge bandwagon.   I don't have the skills to do serious testing, but I do like to at least see where Ubuntu is going.   I once made the mistake of doing a stupid "sudo yadda yadda ... " on my production partition, thinking it was the U+1 partition and came to all sorts of grief (thank the Great Pumpkin for backups) so I developed my own regime for wallpapers so I would always know where I am.   Images of my cat (yeah, I'm a cat guy) for the current production partition, beach scenes for the U+1 partition and flowers for the previous production partition.

Has saved my butt on numerous occasions.

---

