---
title: "[systemd] Partitions on disconnected drives may trigger emergency mode"
date: 2015-03-17
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by syntaxerror74 on 2015-03-17
```
Welcome to emergency mode!
```

This is what I had to  read many times the last days. The reason for all that was pretty  simple: the functionality here in Lubuntu that you can press 'S' to skip  searching for partitions that are on drives that are currently  disconnected is BORKED. Totally.

Instead, things have turned by 180 degrees now...

```
A starting job is running for dev-disk-by\x2-blahdiblah...
```

After waiting up to 90 seconds, I find myself in emergency mode.
The  reason is that I hate the udev(?) way of assigning non-fstab partitions  to **/media/user/labelname**. This may be great for special cases,  but for me who needs his audio collection on e. g. /media/myaudio1 or /media/myaudio2 this  is absolutely unusable, so I have them hardcoded in /etc/fstab nonetheless. Well, this worked until a few weeks ago, when the major trouble started, all of a sudden...

I guess systemd must have totally started disliking this hard-coding of partitions  since a few recent updates!! It will waste my time (and nerves) by  running umpteen "starting jobs" for partitions that are simply NOT  THERE!! (Because I physically disconnected them for a while for some  reason.)
It will stubbornly go top-down from your **/etc/fstab** and grind itself through ANY partition that is listed there, no matter if it exists in the current setup or not! And it had worked sooo perfectly 5 weeks ago...

The  old way was better (early Vivid was able to do that until they've  broken it beyond repair): only partitions that are actively connected  are loaded, the rest triggers a complaint "/media/somepartition not found,  press S to skip".
But this emergency mode thing is really about to become a major annoyance.

**Any way to bypass systemd entirely and boot via another method?**
I would prefer to not get back to systemd until it's working properly and not in that current "maybe today, maybe tomorrow" way.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-03-17
I do not like systemd either. I get a "failed to start Load Kernel Modules" error message and loading time is about 80 seconds longer.

You should have an option to load with upstart in the Advanced Options sub-menu. It is not the ideal solution but otherwise you will need to edit the Grub configuration files. The difference that I see between the boot parameters for the default loading with systemd and the boot parameters for the upstart option is the addition of

> init=/sbin/upstart

to the line

> linux /boot/vmlinuz blah blah 

after

> $vt_handoff

Things may get better by release day. There are also a couple of threads on this section of the forum about systemd. In one of those threads is a link to the kernel team mailing list of a post which explains how to revert back to upstart. 

Regards.

---

### Post by syntaxerror74 on 2015-03-17
Thank you so much! Yes I think I should switch to upstart then, until things have settled. As this has become unbearable for me. (Yes right, HAS BECOME. Early Vivid was "only alpha" but way more stable nonetheless. This madness didn't begin until in LATE updates of Vivid, not in the early ones. Somebody must have managed to get a totally broken systemd into current testing cycles...

BTW why does /boot/grub/grub.cfg shout at me "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE"? I have searched high and low, but some special options like "acpi_enforce_resources=lax" are **not** available with their cool "helper scripts". So to be able to change options after the /vmlinuz-3... statement I WILL have to edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-03-18
We do not edit grub.cfg. What we can do is edit some other grub files and then run

```
sudo update-grub
```

That will run a script that will run a Grub command (grub-mkconfig) which composes grub.cfg from those other files. My advice would be to wait to see how things turn out. If this issue does not get fixed for you, then you can think about reverting from systemd to upstart.

Meanwhile here is where we find Grub files that we can edit.

/etc/grub.d/
/usr/share/default/grub

I am not sure which file you need to edit to get the effect you want. 

> # If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.


That is the advice we see in these files.

Regards

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-03-18
Part of the problem seems to be that you have unmounted partitions in /etc/fstab. Why would you have unmounted partitions in /etc/fstab, when they are auto-mounted when the drive/partition is plugged in. Wouldn't be easier to create symlinks to mount points that are only active when the drives are plugged in?

---

### Post by zika on 2015-03-18
Isn't it just simple(r) to edit */etc/default/grub* and use```
update-grub
```?
As for  &#8222;failed to start Load Kernel Modules&#8220;: there is some module that You have that is making trouble, I'd guess NVidia or similar. Why not try ```
modules=dep
``` in */etc/initramfs-tool/initramfs.conf *?

---

### Post by syntaxerror74 on 2015-03-18
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Part of the problem seems to be that you have unmounted partitions in /etc/fstab. Why would you have unmounted partitions in /etc/fstab, when they are auto-mounted when the drive/partition is plugged in. Wouldn't be easier to create symlinks to mount points that are only active when the drives are plugged in?

No, in this case it would **not**, as I only disconnected them **temporarily**, for instance to narrow down a problem with BIOS hang-ups. A classic example is 2 controller cards at the same time, let alone from different vendors (SiI vs. Adaptec). Sometimes I've "merely" had to swap the slots they were connected to, and things magically worked. Sometimes it's simply the **order** which matters, i. e. the order those cards are recognized by the BIOS.
Well, and whenever I'd do these kinds of experiments, I would eliminate sources of additional problems by disconnecting *unrelated* drives, investigate and fix the problem, reboot Linux, check if everything is OK, and if an only if this is the case, I would reconnect the drive previously disconnected and do one final reboot.

But for that, I would rather not want to mess with /etc/fstab every time, but rely on the system which ought to detect that the drive/partition is *NOT* present and skip it -- or at least give me a way to skip it (as previously by hitting the 'S' key at the graphical logo screen).

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-03-18
> **syntaxerror74 said:**
> No, in this case it would **not**, as I only disconnected them **temporarily**, for instance to narrow down a problem with BIOS hang-ups. A classic example is 2 controller cards at the same time, let alone from different vendors (SiI vs. Adaptec). Sometimes I've "merely" had to swap the slots they were connected to, and things magically worked. Sometimes it's simply the **order** which matters, i. e. the order those cards are recognized by the BIOS.
Well, and whenever I'd do these kinds of experiments, I would eliminate sources of additional problems by disconnecting *unrelated* drives, investigate and fix the problem, reboot Linux, check if everything is OK, and if an only if this is the case, I would reconnect the drive previously disconnected and do one final reboot.

But for that, I would rather not want to mess with /etc/fstab every time, but rely on the system which ought to detect that the drive/partition is *NOT* present and skip it -- or at least give me a way to skip it (as previously by hitting the 'S' key at the graphical logo screen).

The problem is that the system may not see the drives/partitions, but by mounting them via /etc/fstab, you are insisting that the system mount the partition/drive. Taking a couple of seconds to comment out a line in /etc/fstab seems to me to be far quicker than waiting for the system to time out.

---

### Post by zika on 2015-03-18
I think that all that could be tuned with fine comb in udev rules.

---

