---
title: "24.04"
date: 2024-01-25
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by nanook2 on 2024-01-25
I recently upgraded to the development version of Ubuntu Mate 24.04 Noble.  In the process it removed pulse audio and added pipewire and my audio stuttered so badly as to be unusuable.

I've got a home brew i7-9700K cpu which I have clocked at 4.8ghz, 32g of RAM, about 22TB of disk, the OS is on a WD Black 2TB NVME drive, the larger rotory  drives are mostly used for archival purposes.  The motherboard is an Asus board with Intel HDA audio.  The audio on this board does not and never has worked well with timer based scheduling, it really needs to be interrupt driven to play smoothly without skipping.  And there in lies my issue.

When 24.04 deleted pulse and installed pipewire, audio went to hell in a hand basket, I know this is because pipewire by default uses timer scheduling and this does not work with my hardware.  In pulse in the past I had to add an argument to default.pa to inhibit timer based scheduling and force interrupts.

I was told pipewire 1.0, which is what is used with 24.04 would also have this capability but I can not find it in the documentation provided.

So I tried to uninstall pipewire and re-install pulse, but I ran into a problem, they have pipewire configured as a mate-dependency (which is stupid and annoying), somewhere I read about an ability to allow some low latency configuration for audio if you installed ubuntu-studio, so thought I'd give that a try.  Installed it and IT uninstalled pipewire and re-installed pulse audio, and while much better there is still some audio stuttering.  So I thought Ok, I'll go back and tell it not to use timer scheduling as I had it before but when I looked, there was no default.pa file where I previously had to add tsched = 0 to force interrupt driven scheduling.

Has anyone else found a solution to get picky hardware to work properly under 24.04?  The really embarrassing thing is that if I boot Windows, the audio is clean, no problem, and this is really backwards.  Linux should work well, Windows should suck.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2024-01-25
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu Development Version ***

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-01-25
It should go without saying, but you've had an account here since 2017, but with a low post count, so we can't tell what you really understand.

24.04 is alpha now. It hasn't been released.  That will happen in April - probably late April.  Historically, stability for testers like you has been hit or miss, especially when new subsystems are being included.  For people who need their system to work, waiting until 24.04.1 is released is recommended. That will probably be next August.

So, reporting issues is excellent, provided the understanding is that 24.04 is an alpha today and for the next few months.  Lots of things are still changing.  

**There's nothing embarrassing at all about unreleased software having issues. Nothing at all.**  _It is to be expected._  If you care about helping to fix issues, open a bug, provide the requested data and try the suggested fixes from the team.  Posting here isn't reporting a bug, BTW. Nobody here works for Canonical and I doubt Canonical will ever read it.

---

### Post by bobunderwood99 on 2024-01-25
Use pavucontrol to see if you have a "Pro Audio" profile available. That profile is added by Pipewire - one of the things it does is force IRQ-based scheduling.

[https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pipewire/pipewire/-/wikis/FAQ#what-is-the-pro-audio-profile](https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pipewire/pipewire/-/wikis/FAQ#what-is-the-pro-audio-profile)

---

