---
title: "17.04 Will not finish boot up after Updating"
date: 2016-12-15
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by reb682 on 2016-12-15
I have Kubuntu 17.40 on my desktop and today it showed 343 updates. After doing the updates I rebooted and it opened up to my desktop screen windo and then the picture disappeared. My NEMO files show and I can open and use the files. The bottom status bar that shows the icon to pull up the programs and the sound and cloud icons shows for about 5 seconds and then goes away. I opened a Terminal and did "sudo apt-get update" and went thru many updates in case it missed one. but I still have the same problem. I got 17.04 by mistake wen I was trying to upgrade to 16.10 several months ago. I would like to keep it but have to  get it so I can boot completely. Any help is greatly appreciated. Thank you..

---

### Post by Alan F on 2016-12-15
Quite honestly I think that you best plan would be to get a copy of the .iso for 16.10 and re-install a clean version.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-12-15
> **Alan F said:**
> Quite honestly I think that you best plan would be to get a copy of the .iso for 16.10 and re-install a clean version.

^^^
This. 17.04 is not due until April next year, is testing, expect breakage.

16.10 means you'll need to install 17.04 when it comes around. 16.04 LTS will take you to April 2021.

Unless you're intending to test and report your results then I'm not sure why you would want to be using 17.04. Expect breakage. It is definitely not ready for day to day computing, is not stable or reliable so avoid using for anything where breakage and downtime is going to be a problem.

---

### Post by acheronuk on 2016-12-15
Kubuntu have recently upload a whole new version of KDE Frameworks and Plasma.

Well over 100 separate packages all together.

This takes time to make it's way though the autopackagetests and migrate from -proposed to the -release pocket. While this happens you are likely to get partial updates of the Frameworks and Plasma stack, which may result in a desktop session not being possible or being broken. 

Unfortunately this is unavoidable unless you are willing to do quite inadvisable things such as have the -proposed repo enabled or run with our experimental staging ppas enabled.

---

### Post by MikeMecanic on 2016-12-15
> **reb682 said:**
> I have Kubuntu 17.40 on my desktop and today it showed 343 updates. Did you enable Proposed?  Do you have Kernel 4.9.0-11.12?

 I got 17.04 by mistake wen I was trying to upgrade to 16.10 several months ago. I would like to keep it but have to  get it so I can boot completely. Any help is greatly appreciated. Thank you..

First thing to try would be to reset KDE to factory settings.  See the last answer of this [link]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/109530/how-do-i-restore-my-kde-desktop-to-default#291098").
You should recover the task bar but you&#8217;ll have to redo the desktop setup the way you like.  
If that doesn&#8217;t fix your installation and you really want to keep it(you have problems since a week),then consider a [freshinstall]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/daily-live/"). The17.04 cycle is a pretty easy one, no big fluctuations.  


Goodluck,

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2016-12-18
Greetings,
I don't use K but I had the same problem with Unity earlier in the session and rebooted with previous kernel and all was ok.

---

