---
title: "14.04 &quot;early bird&quot; migration from XP, apps missing from USC?"
date: 2014-04-06
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by Z80A on 2014-04-06
Migrating a handful of machines to Ubuntu from Windows XP and aiming for having this done before Tuesday. Using 14.04 Beta 2 images and things work great, but I am strugling a bit finding some of the apps in Ubuntu Software Center that I have installed on 13.10 on other machines e.g. Skype. This also goes for Spotify after adding the PPA. Is this because of the non-released nature of 14.04 and yet to be updated PPA's and Ubuntu Software Center?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-06
Have you added the 'partner' repository?

---

### Post by awamunro on 2014-04-06
I think for Skype you need to go to the Skype website as it is not in the Trusty Repositories.
You may have to use the Sucy version.
Can't help with spotify.
Have you enabled the third party repos?

---

### Post by zika on 2014-04-06
About Spotify:```
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 94558F59
echo "deb http://repository.spotify.com stable non-free" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/spotify.list
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install spotify-client
```should do the job regardless of version...

---

### Post by Z80A on 2014-04-06
@zika That did the trick for Spotify - not sure what mistake I did before.

@mörgæs Right now working on a Lubuntu machine (making it Lubuntu Software Center, but settings are the same, I guess) and "partner" repository are enabled. I guess Skype is not in the PPA's for 14.04 yet.

@awamunro Would prefer to have as much as possible done through official Ubuntu software "channels" rather than installing DEB files (not updated automatically, right?).

These Windows XP machines will live on with L/Ubuntu, but not with me sitting near by (TeamViewer at best), so a sturdy and not too experimental installation would be good...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-04-06
Just a note, the Partner repositories aren't normally populated with the latest version of anything until the day of release.

---

### Post by Z80A on 2014-04-06
Yes, it seems I ran in to this, in many scenarios, very meaningful  restriction. I have a few other examples on software that is still "on hold".

Could have been nice though, if we had prepared for the  Windows XP EOL situation with some kind of "Early Bird" program allowing  access to support migration without too much non-standard settings  during early April, rather than having to wait for the official LTS release and have the XP machines ending up in potentially compromised with security breaches.

---

### Post by awamunro on 2014-04-06
> **Z80A said:**
> 

@awamunro Would prefer to have as much as possible done through official Ubuntu software "channels" rather than installing DEB files (not updated automatically, right?).


I think that the skype deb file installs the repo. and updates do come along, although there aren't many. There is no official Ubuntu Skype as far as I know.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-04-06
> **Z80A said:**
> Yes, it seems I ran in to this, in many scenarios, very meaningful  restriction. I have a few other examples on software that is still "on hold".

Could have been nice though, if we had prepared for the  Windows XP EOL situation with some kind of "Early Bird" program allowing  access to support migration without too much non-standard settings  during early April, rather than having to wait for the official LTS release and have the XP machines ending up in potentially compromised with security breaches.For how long before users of XP knew that the end is close? Why should anything in Ubuntu (let alone schedule) be accommodated for those late birds (to use Your term... ;))? What do You mean by &#8222;without too much non-standard settings&#8220;?
Is not current LTS available? Why using U+1 and complaining that is not finished yet? In the same manner end_of_life for XP was known for years Ubuntu has its own schedule well known and very punctual and predictable... What is wrong with current LTS?

---

### Post by Z80A on 2014-04-06
Yes, okay I see, maybe that came out wrong; I was simply speculating in avoiding an LTS upgrade in a few weeks on these machines by going directly for 14.04 rather than 12.04. Thanks for putting things in perspective... O:)

---

### Post by Sworddragon on 2014-04-06
> **zika said:**
> What is wrong with current LTS?

The release schedule should've been modified to take advantage of the end of Windows XP as many users are switching now. Having an up to date LTS release would be a much better argument than a non-LTS release or a 2 years old LTS release except Ubuntu isn't interested in catching as many Windows XP users as possible - then all is fine as it is.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-04-06
> **Sworddragon said:**
> The release schedule should've been modified to take advantage of the end of Windows XP as many users are switching now. Having an up to date LTS release would be a much better argument than a non-LTS release or a 2 years old LTS release except Ubuntu isn't interested in catching as many Windows XP users as possible - then all is fine as it is.

I think that 'sucking up' to Windows XP users would be a huge mistake. If they are intent on switching it certainly won't be a huge problem for them to wait a few days. ;)

---

### Post by Sworddragon on 2014-04-06
A few days with high risk as I would not be wondered if "the evil site" is holding back exploits until the last patchday for Windows XP has passed to take immediate advantage of zero-day exploits.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-06
> **Sworddragon said:**
> The release schedule should've been modified to take advantage of the end of Windows XP as many users are switching now. Having an up to date LTS release would be a much better argument than a non-LTS release or a 2 years old LTS release except Ubuntu isn't interested in catching as many Windows XP users as possible - then all is fine as it is.

The argument doesn't make a lot of sense. They can move up the release date but they can't work faster (supposedly they are already working full steam), so if they release it now it is the same as what you get from the daily build. There is nothing to stop you installing it now, whether you call it a release or a beta. It is the same thing.

XP users are using a 10+ years release, a two year old LTS would be spanking new for them (and Win7 is 5 years old). Besides, I think pushing a new and usually buggy release on these users on the first day would be sure fire way to ruin Ubuntu's reputation. Unlike many of you I don't have as much confidence on Ubuntu zeroth day releases based on my experience, I usually wait about one month or two after release to recommend it to others,--and use it as my main system,-- the caution has worked well.

I have installed a couple of 13.10 to replace Windows on friends' machines in the past few weeks (win7 and XP), it is solid and works well. But I also tested 14.04, it was simply not ready (despite claims of beta testers, it may be 'solid' for a beta, but not for a daily work machine) and I doubt that it would magically fix all bugs on 17th , as this usually never happens on release date (and new bugs will be reported as more people will be using/testing it) 

I want to provide the best experience for people I set up ubuntu for, so it is 13.10 for now. It won't take me long to reinstall in July when 13.10 reaches eol now that I have tweaked these machines and got to know them well.

---

### Post by Sworddragon on 2014-04-06
[list][*]I'm not sure if a Windows XP user who thinks about to switch to Linux wants really to use a pre-release which means more effort.
[*]Windows is a strong upstream related system which means the actuality depends how well the user cares about this while repository packages are too often outdated (especially on older releases like 12.04).[/list]

It is simple: We can make it as much easy as possible for users to migrate or be still a tinkerer system :P

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-04-07
Skype distributed the same version of its software, originally written for 8.04, for a few years.  I remember running the Skype for 8.04 on 10.x and 11.x desktops.  Like many proprietary apps, Skype appears to be built as a "static" binary, meaning it doesn't require compatible libraries be installed to work.  If there is a Saucy release for Skype, I'd give that a try.

---

