---
title: "13.04 Upgrade Stopped 3/4 way through"
date: 2013-04-04
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by brucethedog on 2013-04-04
Hi, newbie to Ubuntu.
Installed 12.10 to a new second disk on an Acer Aspire 8930 over 2 months ago. This PC has Vista as its main OS.
The default OS loaded though is Ubuntu.

Was working okay and able to get updates.

Yesterday I got the option to install 13.04. It requested to download over 900Mb of files and start off the process.

All seemed to go okay, though at times required manual intervention (click continue for example)

But then it stopped 3/4 way through and could not continue. It returned to Desktop.

I opened Terminal and did an update-manager -d, but it said it was up to date.

Version on About menu says 13.04

However some apps like Calculator and Sudoku dont work, cant recall the error, but related to path.

Other apps like MAME, Stellarium, GIMP are fine (I dont have a great deal on at the moment)

Are the errors I'm seeing in starting apps, due to incompatability to latest OS?

Is there a way to revert back to original 12.10 and test, or will daily updates take care till stable release?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-04-04
revert back means : fresh re-install from scratch (not a bad idea)

to try fixing it: boot on recovery mode, activate the network to get possible downloads, then select "continue" (one the the first menu lines, which try to repair the installation)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-04-04
> [COLOR=#000000]Yesterday I got the option to install 13.04. It requested to download over 900Mb of files and start off the process.[/COLOR]

That is worrying as 13.04 will not be released until 25th April. People should not be getting an option to upgrade until after 13.04 is offically released. There are still 20 days that are focused on fixing issues. Stuff that certain people wanted in 13.04 is being left out because the quality of the code was not up to standard. I cannot understand how it is possible that people are being invited to upgrade when development has not finished.

Regards.

---

### Post by brucethedog on 2013-04-04
GrahamMechanical, if you do an update-manager -d, do you get the option to download it?
It does at some stage, mention that it is a Beta and you can cancel it.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-04-04
> **brucethedog said:**
> GrahamMechanical, if you do an update-manager -d, do you get the option to download it?
It does at some stage, mention that it is a Beta and you can cancel it.

At this late stage of development, in my opinion, it is best to download a daily ISO image and install a fresh instance of Raring rather than upgrading. Yes, update-manager -d will upgrade but I do not think that it is advisable to do that so close to release time. The differences between Quantal and Raring are too great to risk problems. Unless, of course, we are testing the upgrade path. But still it would be best to wait to nearer the release time.

I first started using Raring by putting in a fresh install of Quantal and then changing the repositories from Quantal to Raring and then running update-manager -d as well as some other commands. Back then Raring was still very much Quantal. So there was not any difficulty.

A few months later I wanted another install of Raring and the ISO image was broken as far as I was concerned. So, I upgraded Quantal as you have done and there was a large download because of the big difference between the code branches. And it took a few updates for things to settle down.

When Raring is officially released 12.10 users will get an advert inviting them to upgrade. From  your post I thought that was what had happened to you. My mis-understanding.

Regards.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-04-04
The upgrade command has changed from previous versions if you plan on trying.[http://askubuntu.com/questions/222296/cant-upgrade-to-ubuntu-13-04-development-release](http://askubuntu.com/questions/222296/cant-upgrade-to-ubuntu-13-04-development-release)

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-04-04
I would NOT be trying an Upgrade right now as last time I checked they are still Uploading Beta 2 at the moment. One thing you could try is Downloading the .ISO and Upgrade using the Disk once they are done Uploading Beta 2.

---

### Post by kevpan815 on 2013-04-05
Forgot to mention that Cariboo907 usually recommends that you use the Command Line to Update and Upgrade your system, this is very important with Pre-Releases even in Beta Stage as the Ubuntu Updater can sometimes be Broken during Pre-Release Testing.

---

