---
title: "3.15rc1"
date: 2014-04-13
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by rtalcott on 2014-04-13
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.15-rc1-trusty/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.15-rc1-trusty/)

---

### Post by zika on 2014-04-14
Very good one, from the very start... Sure keeper it is...

---

### Post by lonniehenry-gmail on 2014-04-14
Wireless doesn't work for me.  BCM 4313 isn't recognized like in previous kernels.  I plug in my nubbin n usb and it then works.  I will try some other thing when I have time.

---

### Post by MacBooom on 2014-04-14
Ready in the past weeks that resume would be much faster, and they didn't lie, it became really fast.
Since i use it a lot, I'm really happy with nearly no wait time left after resuming with a mouse click after the auto suspend & power off.
Just feels like a instant power on.

---

### Post by fooman on 2014-04-14
woah,  nvidia drivers working on a rc1??  i don't recall seeing that before...this is amazing! :D

```
Current Date/Time: Mon Apr 14 06:55:08 EDT 2014
Distro Release: Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
Kernel Release: Linux 3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
Gnome Release: GNOME Shell 3.10.4
Unity Release: unity 7.2.0

OpenGL vendor string:   NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce GTX 480/PCIe/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  4.4.0 NVIDIA 331.67
```

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2014-04-14
> **fooman said:**
> woah,  nvidia drivers working on a rc1??  i don't recall seeing that before...this is amazing! :D

```
Current Date/Time: Mon Apr 14 06:55:08 EDT 2014
Distro Release: Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
Kernel Release: Linux 3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
Gnome Release: GNOME Shell 3.10.4
Unity Release: unity 7.2.0

OpenGL vendor string:   NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce GTX 480/PCIe/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  4.4.0 NVIDIA 331.67
```
+1 Pleasant surprise.;)
```
Linux me-Aspire-M3300 3.15.0-031500rc1-lowlatency #201404131835 SMP PREEMPT Sun Apr 13 22:44:23 UTC 2014 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GF119 [GeForce GT 520]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
```
The only thing I had to was restart  pulseaudio-x11

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-04-14
Yes, it does look promising.```
~$ lsb_release -a && uname -r
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
Release:	14.04
Codename:	trusty
3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
```

---

### Post by startas on 2014-04-14
Well, that's a little bit to far in the future, even "stable" 3.14 is not stable at all and breaks half of the system, need to wait for 3.14.11, so wanting anything from 3.15 is too much, if at least it will boot, it will be a miracle.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-04-14
> **startas said:**
> Well, that's a little bit to far in the future, even "stable" 3.14 is not stable at all and breaks half of the system, need to wait for 3.14.11, so wanting anything from 3.15 is too much, if at least it will boot, it will be a miracle.It really depends on a system... Many others, myself included, did not have any glitch even from 3.14 was in rc1... 3.15 is just a cherry on the cake...
Did You file any bug about those breakages or did You seek for help? Do You mean 3.14 on 14.04 since this forum is about U+1...? Let alone that we are trying 3.15... ;)

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2014-04-14
> **lonniehenry-gmail said:**
> Wireless doesn't work for me.  BCM 4313 isn't recognized like in previous kernels.  I plug in my nubbin n usb and it then works.  I will try some other thing when I have time.

Thanks for the heads up with this.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2014-04-16
Hi

@lonniehenry-gmail

I had a play with the wl driver for an hour or so last night and got it to build and work.

```
 matthew-S206:/home/matthew:0 % uname -r && lspci -nnk | pbl Wireless && nm-tool | pbl Device && ping -c1 192.168.0.1
3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11bgn Wireless Network Adapter [14e4:4727] (rev 01)
        Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation Device [14e4:0587]
        Kernel driver in use: wl
- Device: eth0  [matt_dlink] ---------------------------------------------------
  Type:              802.11 WiFi
  Driver:            wl
  State:             connected
  Default:           yes
  HW Address:        C0:14:3D:C7:03:C9

PING 192.168.0.1 (192.168.0.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.0.1: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=1.19 ms

--- 192.168.0.1 ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 1.190/1.190/1.190/0.000 ms
matthew-S206:/home/matthew:0 % 
```

BTW: If you're interested in what pbl is (above), it's a bash/zsh function i have declared in my aliases/functions file.

```
matthew-S206:/home/matthew:2 % declare -f pbl
pbl () {
        sed "/$1/,/^$/!d"
}
matthew-S206:/home/matthew:2 % 
```

I don't know if an offical patch has been released yet so if you interested in what i did to get it to build, here are the details.

I am assuming you have the same setup as me as i have been hacking this driver for a while because it has failed to build after a new kernel release before :)

You need to edit the file ```
/usr/src/bcmwl-6.30.223.141+bdcom/src/wl/sys/wl_cfg80211_hybrid.c
```

Goto to line number 1844. It should look like this

```
cfg80211_ibss_joined(ndev, (u8 *)&wl->bssid, GFP_KERNEL);
```

Delete that line and add these lines in its place.

```
#if LINUX_VERSION_CODE >= KERNEL_VERSION(3, 15, 0)
    cfg80211_ibss_joined(ndev, (u8 *)&wl->bssid, &wl->conf->channel, GFP_KERNEL);
#else
        cfg80211_ibss_joined(ndev, (u8 *)&wl->bssid, GFP_KERNEL);
#endif 
```

Save the file and then you need to build it (this assumes you are using the generic kernel and not the low-latency kernel. Change the commands below if required).

```
sudo dkms build -m bcmwl/6.30.223.141+bdcom -k 3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
```

After you have built it you need to install it.

```
sudo dkms install -m bcmwl/6.30.223.141+bdcom -k 3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
```

Finally load the module.

```
sudo modprobe wl
```

Obviously to get the module to build automatically every time a kernel is installed, a patch will need to be created and hooked into the dkms patches framework for the driver. 

I have not done this yet because, although i know it builds and works, i have not worked through the code enough to be 100% certain that it is the correct solution.

If you're not sure how to make a patch and hook it into the dkms framework then post back if your interested. I will go through the code some more tomorrow evening and, if i am happy, will produce a patch that we can use until an official patch is released.

On a different note, i have noticed that my Lenovo hangs when resuming from suspend under the .15 kernel. A hard reboot is necessary.

Interestingly, none of the resume hooks are being called and there does not seem to be much in syslog.

Is this affecting anybody else ?

Kind regards

---

### Post by lonniehenry-gmail on 2014-04-16
matt_symes -  I followed your instructions and it worked without a problem.  I now have some idea how to fix this in the future by altering the files if the problem happens with new kernels. I should be able to build against the new kernel using the altered bcmwl file. Thank you.

---

### Post by zika on 2014-04-16
Let me just put my 1st &#8222;complaint&#8220; on kernel in long time (not a big one, obviously): not working UDF support for DVD... ;) Took me a couple of minutes to figure it out, until I, finally, got the idea to try official 3.13... ;)

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2014-04-17
Hi

> **lonniehenry-gmail said:**
> matt_symes -  I followed your instructions and it worked without a problem.  I now have some idea how to fix this in the future by altering the files if the problem happens with new kernels. I should be able to build against the new kernel using the altered bcmwl file. Thank you.

I'm glad it worked for you as well.

Altering the code as we did is not really the best way to do it.

Ideally a patch is created and hooked into the dkms framework as the framework runs patches against the virgin code to update that code. It makes distributing changes easier.

But as i eluded to, i have make other changes in the past to this driver to get it work work against new kernels. I did not know if my setup was out of step with yours.

Also I should have been more clear in my last post; i was rather rushed yesterday. The changes we make should still build against future new .15-rcX and .15 kernels, but what we did was not the standard way of making and distributing changes.

I will make a patch, revert my changes to that file, and hook the patch into the dkms framework for the driver. I find it easier to keep track of changes i have made that way. I will do that over the easter weekend and post back after doing it.

In the  meantime, assuming the license will allow me - i must check, i intend to update grive (the Google cloud syncing tool) to allow symlinks, and ignore certain file types that are causing it to hang when syncing. I also intend to allow configuration of the syncing directory, so if the driver patch is not completed by next Tuesday you know why :)

Necessity is the mother of invention now that Ubuntu One is closing down and i'm moving away from Dropbox.

Kind regards

---

### Post by vinibali on 2014-04-17
its a bit buggy now.
my pc can not even wake up from S3 and the pulseaudio switches the relay in the Xonar! but everything else looks like ok

---

### Post by graham19 on 2015-02-23
> **matt_symes said:**
> 
Save the file and then you need to build it (this assumes you are using the generic kernel and not the low-latency kernel. Change the commands below if required).

```
sudo dkms build -m bcmwl/6.30.223.141+bdcom -k 3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
```

After you have built it you need to install it.

```
sudo dkms install -m bcmwl/6.30.223.141+bdcom -k 3.15.0-031500rc1-generic
```


just a quick note on this section, I had to change 3.15.0-031500rc1-generic to 3.16.0-30-generic for my version of kernel. I found this for my laptop using 

```
 uname -a 
```

apart from that change this was a really simple fix to follow and worked first time, cheers.

---

