---
title: "13.04 support for ATI graphic card"
date: 2013-04-12
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by c2tarun on 2013-04-12
Hi friends, 

13.04 version is almost final now. I want to ask few questions from those who are using Ubuntu 13.04
1. Ubuntu 12.10 used to overheat laptops with graphic cards, is this the case with 13.04 as well?
2. Ubuntu 12.10 had some issues in supporting ATI graphic cards, is this problem solved?
3. Last question, I looked at various videos and feedbacks of 13.04 and I am very impressed with it. I have 12.04 installed which is very stable and Unity 2D doesn't heat my laptop a lot. I wan't to switch to 13.04, but little skeptic because 12.04 gave my laptop a stability that no previous ubuntu's gave me. Is it worth switching to 13.04?

---

### Post by tdockery97 on 2013-04-12
Of course it will depend on what card you're using.  I have the ATI Radeon HD6310 and it installed fine on yesterday's (April 11) daily build of 13.04 using the Additional Drivers installer.  My temperature seems to run around 45C on the average when idle, and 52-55C under load.  For a laptop I think those temps are reasonable based on my experience using other laptops.  I've done all updates this morning, so I'm guessing we're at the kernel freeze now.  I don't think there should be any updates by final release that will bork the driver.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2013-04-12
I have 13.04 installed since March, with a ATI RADEON HD 2400 XT, and until today haven't experienced a single issue with it.

---

### Post by c2tarun on 2013-04-12
> **tdockery97 said:**
> Of course it will depend on what card you're using.  I have the ATI Radeon HD6310 and it installed fine on yesterday's (April 11) daily build of 13.04 using the Additional Drivers installer.  My temperature seems to run around 45C on the average when idle, and 52-55C under load.  For a laptop I think those temps are reasonable based on my experience using other laptops.  I've done all updates this morning, so I'm guessing we're at the kernel freeze now.  I don't think there should be any updates by final release that will bork the driver.

did you try playing videos?
Idle temperature of my laptop is 55 and under load 65 but if I play videos for long time, or stream videos from youtube then temperature increases to 75 degreeC
I live in India and right now its hot as hell here. But still 75 is too much I guess.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-04-12
75 is quite common (can goes to 100, and more very often with the more powerfull cards). But everytime compiz is used (like with the actual unity (3D)) then stability can be an issue with some cards and/or temp rising too much.
Does not forget that hardware (MB, cpu, video) needs fresh air; so let it coming in, and clean by removing possible dust and ....

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-04-12
> **c2tarun said:**
> Hi friends, 

13.04 version is almost final now. I want to ask few questions from those who are using Ubuntu 13.04
1. Ubuntu 12.10 used to overheat laptops with graphic cards, is this the case with 13.04 as well?
2. Ubuntu 12.10 had some issues in supporting ATI graphic cards, is this problem solved?
3. Last question, I looked at various videos and feedbacks of 13.04 and I am very impressed with it. I have 12.04 installed which is very stable and Unity 2D doesn't heat my laptop a lot. I wan't to switch to 13.04, but little skeptic because 12.04 gave my laptop a stability that no previous ubuntu's gave me. Is it worth switching to 13.04?

Question 1 is really a falsehood - Ubuntu 12.10 doesn't "overheat laptops with graphics cards". Maybe yours, but it's certainly not a general problem. In any case, I don't think anyone can answer that. Try 13.04 and see if it overheats your laptop; if it does, please post a bug report.

2. It depends what issue you're talking about. If you mean "there's no proprietary driver for my older ATI graphics card", then no, the issue is not solved because ATI won't make a driver for the older cards anymore. If you're talking about a specific issue such as "My HDMI-out doesn't work" or something like that, then your best bet is to simply try 13.04 and see if the problem exists. If it does, please post a bug report.

3. If you're happy with 12.04, you don't need to upgrade. 12.04 will be supported for another four years. I'm thinking I'll keep my computer on 12.04; it's been very stable for me too and I don't want to rock the boat, especially when 13.04 doesn't really offer many features over 12.04.

---

### Post by c2tarun on 2013-04-12
okay guys, thanks for replies, one last question. Is it possible to install the version of Unity in 13.04 in 12.04?

---

