---
title: "21.10 Upgrade questions"
date: 2021-09-20
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by yaminb on 2021-09-20
I just upgraded to 21.10 (development).

Side Note: It fixed some steam related game problems magically (Sonic All Star Racing works again).

Question: 21.10 has some 'key' features that are somewhat configuration based, such as
Enabling Wayland for Nvidia
Firefox defaults to a SNAP

It doesn't look like either of these were done. (I understand this is dev, and it is an upgrade; not a fresh install)

Is there a way to execute the 'scripts' needed that would be done for the 21.10 new install.

I recall having to do something similar in the last few distros where the home directory permissions were changed. Since I had an existing install, the permissions were not changed and I did them manually.
Is there an 'official' script for the wayland Enabling.

I've tried enabling wayland in the past as a trial and it always failed, so I'm hesistant to go down that path again of googling and trying random commands.
Similarly for firefox as a SNAP (i'd apt remove it it and then install it as a SNAP), but would that maintain all preferences and everything?

---

### Post by yaminb on 2021-09-20
The firefox to snap was pretty straight forward
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1288879/installed-firefox-to-migrate-from-classic-installation-to-snap](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1288879/installed-firefox-to-migrate-from-classic-installation-to-snap)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2021-09-20
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu Development Version** sub-forum.*

---

### Post by yaminb on 2021-09-20
Tried this guide:
[https://www.if-not-true-then-false.com/2021/debian-ubuntu-linux-mint-nvidia-guide/4/](https://www.if-not-true-then-false.com/2021/debian-ubuntu-linux-mint-nvidia-guide/4/)

It seems to fail when "
"nvidia-drm.modeset=1" is set in grub.

Same issue as I always had trying to do wayland.

spci | grep VGA
06:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation TU106 [GeForce RTX 2060 Rev. A] (rev a1)

---

### Post by yaminb on 2021-09-20
Actually perhaps a better way to ask this is where can i find the source code for whatever ubuntu installation script will run to configure wayland?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-09-20
> **yaminb said:**
> I just upgraded to 21.10 (development).

...
Firefox defaults to a SNAP

It doesn't look like either of these were done. (I understand this is dev, and it is an upgrade; not a fresh install)
...
Similarly for firefox as a SNAP (i'd apt remove it it and then install it as a SNAP), but would that maintain all preferences and everything?

**I personally wouldn't do anything**.  A lot of us use the *development* release, which allows us to actually **watch** as the *developers* do things.

My box still only has `firefox` as a deb package; though this box has Ubuntu and two *flavor *desktops installed as well (I'm using Lubuntu, but it's also got Xubuntu installed) which won't switch over during *impish* making it more complex for me to detect why something occurs.

I've done 2x QA-test installs of *impish* today; but it never occurred to me to look at what `firefox` was there (*I really don't care - it worked & that's what matters!*)... but a super quick look and it looks like it would likely be *deb* package (ie. [https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/impish-desktop-amd64.manifest](https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/impish-desktop-amd64.manifest)) as that matches the **non**-snap package I have on this box.

**My recommendation is do nothing**, and watch and you'll see the change, which can be instructive if you wish it to be.   

Note: I'm only speaking about *firefox* here; I can't help with the other issue sorry

---

### Post by yaminb on 2021-09-21
Yeah. I guess I'll just wait for whatever the do for wayland to happen.
Whenever I touch it, it screws up my system. I just hope they provide the upgrade path and not just enable wayland on fresh installs.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-09-21
I would presume that if you upgrade from a previous version of Ubuntu that has the .deb version of firefox as default, you will still have the .deb version in the upgraded 21.10 OS.

Surely the system would upgrade firefox the same as every other package that was in the old system. Only if you made a clean install would you get only the snap version of firefox, though I suppose it is possible that an upgrade could end up with both .deb and snap versions of firefox installed, and only when the final iso of 21.10 is finalised will anyone know for certain what this situation is going to be.

Of course, I might be completely wrong!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-09-21
An earlier thread on Firefox as a snap offered this link to an announcement on Ubuntu Discourse:

[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/feature-freeze-exception-seeding-the-official-firefox-snap-in-ubuntu-desktop/24210](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/feature-freeze-exception-seeding-the-official-firefox-snap-in-ubuntu-desktop/24210)

> This will only impact users of Ubuntu Desktop installing 21.10 or upgrading to 21.10.

I assume that during the upgrade the deb version will be removed and replaced by the snap version. I also assume that this will happen also to present 21.10 development installs. It has to happen because I do not see any clear commitment to continue to maintain the present deb version. 

> If you run one of the flavours, you won’t be affected - yet. The deb  will continue to be supported through the life cycle of 21.10, and the  deb to snap transition is scheduled to be completed in 22.04.

I take that to mean that the deb version will be supported for the flavours until some point during the 22.04 development period. We watch with interest and wonder what those developers will do who have an idealogical objection to Snap on their distribution. Will they start basing their distribution on Fedora? And get Flatpack shoved in their faces?

P.S. I also wonder if there is a parallel post on some Fedora blog about Firefox becoming a Flatpack only version in the coming months. 

> When Mozilla approached Canonical, they had some clear benefits in mind.

Has Mozilla also approached Redhat?

Regards

---

### Post by yaminb on 2021-09-21
I understand I mentioned firefox :), but that one was pretty quick to convert to snap keeping all preferences.
My major concern is wayland.

---

### Post by IanW on 2021-09-22
> **yaminb said:**
> I understand I mentioned firefox :), but that one was pretty quick to convert to snap keeping all preferences.
My major concern is wayland.

Wayland on Nvidia may have to wait for the 471 series proprietary drivers, as they haven't added GBM support in this week's release.

[https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NVIDIA-470.74-Linux](https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NVIDIA-470.74-Linux)

---

