---
title: "13.04 and extra themes?"
date: 2013-01-03
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by forcecore on 2013-01-03
will there be a themes installable in 13.04 that can be selected finally without some tweak tool, from appearance>themes.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-01-04
Are you asking for an opinion? That is all I can give.

Ubuntu is developed by a community. Canonical is the sponsor of Ubuntu and the Canonical developers allow plenty of space for community developers to add to Ubuntu. I have seen many invitations from Mark Shuttleworth himself for people to get involved in Ubuntu development.

If each release of Ubuntu came complete with everything that anyone could ask for and wish for then Ubuntu would lack a certain richness, in my opinion.

Regards.

---

### Post by A_T on 2013-01-04
> **grahammechanical said:**
> Are you asking for an opinion? That is all I can give.

Ubuntu is developed by a community. Canonical is the sponsor of Ubuntu and the Canonical developers allow plenty of space for community developers to add to Ubuntu. I have seen many invitations from Mark Shuttleworth himself for people to get involved in Ubuntu development.

If each release of Ubuntu came complete with everything that anyone could ask for and wish for then Ubuntu would lack a certain richness, in my opinion.

Regards.

In other words: "no" :D

---

### Post by kaldor on 2013-01-05
Canonical forked the GNOME Control Centre, right? If I'm right about that, then it isn't actually up to upstream to implement those features.

---

### Post by bird1500 on 2013-01-05
> **kaldor said:**
> Canonical forked the GNOME Control Centre, right? If I'm right about that, then it isn't actually up to upstream to implement those features.
It's hard to tell the difference between (heavily) customized and forked projects. Canonical often does the former, which could be qualified as the latter depending on others definition of "fork".
No matter the definition, it's no secret there's a split, competition and disagreement between the Canonical and Gnome devs.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-01-05
> **kaldor said:**
> Canonical forked the GNOME Control Centre, right? If I'm right about that, then it isn't actually up to upstream to implement those features.

Regardless, I do not see Canonical coming out with a full set of themes any time soon. Their attention is elsewhere. We already have the 13.04 default background image. Will the desktop get the Ubuntu mobile home screen/image? In 13.10 may be. Who knows.

Neither do I put the responsibility onto Gnome.

Even when Ubuntu gave us a choice of half a dozen themes many people wanted to install themes crafted by community developers. I think it is a good thing there is an opportunity for people to have a choice.

I am also of the opinion that choices will be limited on the Ubuntu phone and the Ubuntu tablet. It is practical to limit people's choice to break the OS on pre-installed Ubuntu devices.

Regards.

---

### Post by serdotlinecho on 2013-01-06
Something like this, right? Right click on desktop, Change Desktop Background...BAM, there you go your wallpapers, themes, icons, fonts customization.  No more gnome-tweak-tool, unsettings, myunity or any other 3rd party sudo add-apt-repository, sudo apt-get install gnome-tweak-tool and I don't like the Background settings when i'm using Gnome-shell. I'm prefer the background settings on Unity over Gnome-shell.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/zYN1p.png[/IMG]

Source: [http://browse.deviantart.com/?q=ubuntu+themes+mockup#/d532a34](http://browse.deviantart.com/?q=ubuntu+themes+mockup#/d532a34)

---

### Post by forcecore on 2013-01-06
> **serdotlinecho said:**
> Something like this, right? Right click on desktop, Change Desktop Background...BAM, there you go your wallpapers, themes, icons, fonts customization.  No more gnome-tweak-tool, unsettings or any other 3rd party sudo add-apt-repository, sudo apt-get install gnome-tweak-tool and I don't like the Background settings when i'm using Gnome-shell. I'm prefer the background settings on Unity over Gnome-shell.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/zYN1p.png[/IMG]

Source: [http://browse.deviantart.com/?q=ubuntu+themes+mockup#/d532a34](http://browse.deviantart.com/?q=ubuntu+themes+mockup#/d532a34)

5+ for this, i really agree that themes should be switchable without tools, just like old Gnome 2 was.

---

### Post by serdotlinecho on 2013-01-07
And people are crazy about this new unity customization desktop tools called "mechanig". Seriously, how many tools do we need?

---

### Post by PJs Ronin on 2013-01-07
I learned a long time ago to save my themes to a removable drive so that with a new Ubuntu release, and it's inevitable standard dark themes (I don't care where they come from, the gnome team or Canonical), I can bring brightness and happiness back to my DE.

Just look at the image serdotlinecho posted... there's more black polish there than on an Army parade ground.

---

