---
title: "3.10-rc5 is here..."
date: 2013-06-09
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by zika on 2013-06-09
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.10-rc5-saucy/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.10-rc5-saucy/)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-06-09
Hopes Saucy will get it that time into its archive

---

### Post by fooman on 2013-06-09
thanks....i'm in!! :D

Current Date/Time: Sun Jun  9 07:25:04 EDT 2013
Distro Release: Ubuntu Saucy Salamander (development branch)
Kernel Release: Linux 3.10.0-031000rc5-generic
Gnome Release: GNOME Shell 3.8.2
Unity Release: unity 7.0.0

OpenGL vendor string:   NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce GTX 480/PCIe/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  4.3.0 NVIDIA 319.23

---

### Post by levomac on 2013-06-09
Does the rc5 work with latest nvidia driver 319.23.I have tried it and I  load up to a desktop with unity not working.I know from other threads that this 3.10 kernel has not been working,
is there a way or patch to make it work?.

Thanks in advance
I am on 13.10 with nvidia gt 320m card on a hp laptop

---

### Post by fooman on 2013-06-09
the 319.23 driver from the ubuntu repos *is not* patched to work with 3.10 kernels....but the 319.23 driver from the xorg-edgers repo *is* patched and works perfectly!

[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

- after adding the repository and updating your packages,  you have to force-install the 319.23 driver from xorg-edgers,  because the default ubuntu version of the driver is newer and will be the one that gets installed.

---

### Post by levomac on 2013-06-09
> **fooman said:**
> the 319.23 driver from the ubuntu repos *is not* patched to work with 3.10 kernels....but the 319.23 driver from the xorg-edgers repos *is* patched and works perfectly!

[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

- after adding the repository and updating your packages,  you have to force-install the 319.23 driver from xorg-edgers,  because the default ubuntu version of the driver is newer and will be the one that gets installed.

I am using the xorg-edgers ppa , also tried resetting unity but stll no unity. I used

$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers

Update the local repos:

$ sudo apt-get update

Install Nvidia 319.23:

$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-319

How do i force-install the 319.23 driver from xorg-edgers?

Do you mean using -f

Thanks

---

### Post by fooman on 2013-06-09
i used synaptic to install.    here is how i did it (i am sure there are other ways):

in synaptic,  search for the nvidia 319.23 driver and click on it to highlight it in the list.  then in synaptic's toolbar,  click: packages > force version

a window will open and it will show the installed version....click the arrow at the end of the box  and in the drop-down,  choose the xorg-edgers version.  then click on the "force version" button.

after install is complete,  you can "lock" that version so it will not get updated to the ubuntu version every time you run an update.  you can "lock" the version through synaptic's toolbar: packages > lock version.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2013-06-09
> **levomac said:**
> Does the rc5 work with latest nvidia driver [...]
I know you didn't ask, but...

I'm running a nVidia Legacy card (GeForce 7600GT AGP) -- which requires 304.xx drivers -- which hasn't been patched.

The Linux 3.10 workaround was to remove the nVidia drivers, and install Nouveau drivers -- which is working great.

I *assume* this will work for all nVidia users.  

So, if you cannot find nVidia drivers that have been patched for Linux 3.10, you might want to go the Nouveau route.

Personally, I'm in no hurry to switch back to nVidia drivers.  Cannot see any difference(s) in performance, actually.  ;)

---

### Post by xeizo on 2013-06-09
> **fooman said:**
> i used synaptic to install.    here is how i did it (i am sure there are other ways):

in synaptic,  search for the nvidia 319.23 driver and click on it to highlight it in the list.  then in synaptic's toolbar,  click: packages > force version

a window will open and it will show the installed version....click the arrow at the end of the box  and in the drop-down,  choose the xorg-edgers version.  then click on the "force version" button.

after install is complete,  you can "lock" that version so it will not get updated to the ubuntu version every time you run an update.  you can "lock" the version through synaptic's toolbar: packages > lock version.

Thank you very much! :D  That did it!

[IMG]http://xeizo.com/blogg/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/Sk%C3%A4rmbild-fr%C3%A5n-2013-06-09-202728-1024x576.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by levomac on 2013-06-09
@ [**[COLOR=#000000]VinDSL[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1131082")

yeah I'll have to stick to nouveau as nvidia latest simply refuse to work.

@xeizo

lucky for you ,for me when i try the method advised by fooman using synaptic,I can't force install the 319 package after highlighting or after marking for install as the force install option is greyed out and thus can't be selected.

Any other suggestions.
Thanks

---

### Post by fooman on 2013-06-09
levomac,  don't know if it makes a difference....  but i did all that while using the default 3.9 kernel (all 3.10 kernels were completely removed) with the saucy version of nvidia 319.23 installed.  i then installed the xorg-edgers 319.23 driver using "force version".  when it completed,  i "locked" the version and *then* proceeded to install the 3.10_rc5 kernel.  sorry it didn't work out for you

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2013-06-09
> **levomac said:**
> @ [**[COLOR=#000000]VinDSL[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1131082")

yeah I'll have to stick to nouveau as nvidia latest simply refuse to work.[...]

Any other suggestions?
Make sure you don't have Nouveau blacklisted in one of your '/etc/modprobe.d/' conf files...  ;)


**Nouveau Blacklisted: Super slow and laggy...**
```
Current Date/Time: Sun May 26 10:45:04 MST 2013
Distro Release: Ubuntu Saucy Salamander (development branch)
Kernel Release: Linux 3.10.0-031000rc2-generic
Gnome Release: GNOME Shell 3.9.1
Unity Release: unity 7.0.0

OpenGL vendor string:   **[COLOR="#0000CD"]VMware, Inc[/COLOR]**.
OpenGL renderer string: **[COLOR="#0000CD"]Gallium 0.4[/COLOR][COLOR="red"] on llvmpipe (LLVM 3.2, 128 bits)[/COLOR]**
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 9.2.0

```


**Nouveau Enabled: Performs fast (or faster) than nVidia-304...**
```
Current Date/Time: Sun May 26 16:34:55 MST 2013
Distro Release: Ubuntu Saucy Salamander (development branch)
Kernel Release: Linux 3.10.0-031000rc2-generic
Gnome Release: GNOME Shell 3.9.1
Unity Release: unity 7.0.0

OpenGL vendor string:   **[COLOR="#0000CD"]nouveau[/COLOR]**
OpenGL renderer string:**[COLOR="#0000CD"] Gallium 0.4 on NV4B[/COLOR]**
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 9.2.0
```

---

### Post by Chanath on 2013-06-09
> **zika said:**
> [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.10-rc5-saucy/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.10-rc5-saucy/)

Thanks! It got installed without a hitch.:)

---

### Post by levomac on 2013-06-10
@fooman & VinDSL 

thanks

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2013-06-10
> **levomac said:**
> @fooman & VinDSL 

thanks
welcome

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-06-11
> **fooman said:**
> levomac,  don't know if it makes a difference....  but i did all that while using the default 3.9 kernel (all 3.10 kernels were completely removed) with the saucy version of nvidia 319.23 installed.  i then installed the xorg-edgers 319.23 driver using "force version".  when it completed,  i "locked" the version and *then* proceeded to install the 3.10_rc5 kernel.  sorry it didn't work out for you

This sequence worked for me.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2013-06-11
Up and running smoothly:```
~$ lsb_release -a && uname -r
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 13.10
Release:	13.10
Codename:	saucy
3.10.0-031000rc5-generic
```

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2013-06-14
Back in business with this version of the legacy nvidia driver:

```
paul@lubuntu-64:~$ apt-cache policy nvidia-304-updates
nvidia-304-updates:
  Installed: 304.88-0ubuntu3
  Candidate: 304.88-0ubuntu3
  Version table:
 *** 304.88-0ubuntu3 0
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ saucy/restricted amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
paul@lubuntu-64:~$
``` ;)

---

### Post by xeizo on 2013-06-14
Well, if not doing any gaming, the Gallium3D-driver really is VERY smooth nowadays. Actually better than the Nvidia-blob in 2D. Last time I tried it it was awful, not anymore. And it has the advantage of not limiting which kernels to use, currently running todays daily of kernel 3.10 with exactly zero problems. Mabe I'll continue to pass the blob, I do any serious gaming on a Windows-box anyway ....

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2013-06-15
> **paul_in_london said:**
> Back in business with this version of the legacy nvidia driver [...]
Thanks, Paul!

Been running the patched nVidia 304 drivers for 24 hrs.  

Looks like they patched several flavors, according to the changelogs, but I went with the one you recommended.

Working fine!  Cured a lot of (Nouveau) transparency issues in GS.

```
vindsl@Zuul:~$ apt-cache policy gnome-shell
  Installed: 3.9.2+git20130612.c6fe6eb7-0ubuntu1~13.10~ricotz0

vindsl@Zuul:~$ apt-cache policy nvidia.
nvidia-304-updates:
  Installed: 304.88-0ubuntu3

```

It's nice to know Nouveau is a workable fallback.

Haven't been able to test it in Unity.  Unity is still seg faulting on me (unrelated issue).  :(

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2013-06-15
> **VinDSL said:**
> Thanks, Paul!

Been running the patched nVidia 304 drivers for 24 hrs.  

Looks like they patched several flavors, according to the changelogs, but I went with the one you recommended.

Working fine!  Cured a lot of (Nouveau) transparency issues in GS.

```
vindsl@Zuul:~$ apt-cache policy gnome-shell
  Installed: 3.9.2+git20130612.c6fe6eb7-0ubuntu1~13.10~ricotz0

vindsl@Zuul:~$ apt-cache policy nvidia.
nvidia-304-updates:
  Installed: 304.88-0ubuntu3

```

It's nice to know Nouveau is a workable fallback.

Haven't been able to test it in Unity.  Unity is still seg faulting on me (unrelated issue).  :(

Hi Vin,

No worries. :)

Have never tried Nouveau actually so I'll have to do that some time.

Cheers,

Paul

---

