---
title: "Is ZFS on root making it into 19.10?"
date: 2019-09-27
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by bsg752 on 2019-09-27
The beta images do not appear to have a ZFS option in the manual partitioning dialog. Is basic ZFS on root being pushed to 20.04?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2019-09-27
see [https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/enhancing-our-zfs-support-on-ubuntu-19-10-an-introduction/12130/42?](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/enhancing-our-zfs-support-on-ubuntu-19-10-an-introduction/12130/42?)
i.e - whole drive

---

### Post by lammert-nijhof on 2019-09-27
Everything is ready except the installer, but it seems the devs are allowed an exception of the beta freeze. The devs say that they still working to get it ready, but  I have some doubts.
I already booted from zfs, since begin of this year. I installed zfs on ext4, moved the installation to zfs, made the system bootable and rebooted. 
I have upgraded my laptop last week from 18.04 to 19.04 to 19.10 and all systems work fine. In that upgrade process I detected a few minor errors in the 19.10 upgrade itself and I produced bug-reports.

What works is the detection of zfs installations (grub, update-grub, Initramfs etc.) and the installations are added to the grub menu. Afterwards you can select that installation and boot from it. I boot from a SSHD partition/datapool and I have two different distros of Ubuntu, each in its own zfs dataset and as last resort I have one small ext4 partition. I have my data partition at the last part of the disk.

Booting from ZFS and snapshots of the systems works fine, but snapshots are not yet automated as promised. I take the snapshots manually (CLI) and if needed I rollback those snapshots manually. I have done that twice. Today I did rollback Xubuntu 19.10 on my desktop to a snapshot from before the upgrade to 19.10. That rollback worked without any problem and I'm back to 19.04. So my daily driver the desktop is back on 19.04. I preferred to rollback, because Virtualbox did not yet support Linux 5.3. The laptop is completely on 19.10 and for Virtualbox I boot from Linux 5.2 instead of 5.3 through the advanced grub menu-entry.

For the rollback through the Grub menus, you will need a working installer, since that software depends on the dataset layout as generated by the installer. The current installer installer requires the whole disk and I doubt whether the installer supports multi-boots from Ubuntu distros. For my use the installer is too primitive and I will wait for 20.04, because:
- on the laptop SSHD I want systems and virtual machines at the begin of the disk and data more towards the end. The begin of a HDD is often 2x as fast, so I need two partitions.
- on the desktop my SSD is shared between the boot partition/datapool and the SSD ZFS caching functions (L2ARC and LOG). I have three striped HDDs (leftovers 2.5" 320GB, 3.5" 500GB and 1TB)  and also there I want the VMs at the begin of the disks and the data more towards the end.

I will try out the installer with Virtualbox, I already added a 40GB empty disk to a VM with a 18GB ext4 disk. I can see the dataset/folder layout and consider adapting my installations accordingly.

---

