---
title: "grub2 getting confused about btrfs root subvolume"
date: 2013-03-22
forum: Ubuntu Development Version
---

### Post by thomas_d_j on 2013-03-22
My root filesystem is btrfs, on device sdc1, subvolume "@root", which is also the default subvolume:

```
:~$ mount -l
/dev/sdc1 on / type btrfs (rw,compress)
-snip-


:~$ sudo btrfs subvolume list -a /
ID 256 gen 18200 top level 5 path <FS_TREE>/@root
-snip-

:~$ sudo btrfs subvolume get-default /
ID 256 gen 18202 top level 5 path <FS_TREE>/@root

:~$ cat /etc/fstab
-snip-
#### ROOT ####
UUID=b08f7d56-0fb3-47df-857b-c1fdc6365a41  /  btrfs  compress 0       1
-snip-

```

update-grub runs as normal:

```
cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.8.0-030800-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.8.0-030800-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.8.0-10-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.8.0-10-generic
-snip-
```

but is inserts the subvolume name into the paths:
```
:~$ cat /boot/grub/grub.cfg | head -n 150
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
-snip-
menuentry 'Ubuntu' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-simple-b08f7d56-0fb3-47df-857b-c1fdc6365a41' {
recordfail
	load_video
	gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
	insmod gzio
	insmod part_msdos
	insmod btrfs
	set root='hd2,msdos1'
	if [ x$feature_platform_search_hint = xy ]; then
	  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root --hint-bios=hd2,msdos1 --hint-efi=hd2,msdos1 --hint-baremetal=ahci2,msdos1  b08f7d56-0fb3-47df-857b-c1fdc6365a41
	else
	  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root b08f7d56-0fb3-47df-857b-c1fdc6365a41
	fi
	linux	/**@root/**boot/vmlinuz-3.8.0-030800-generic root=UUID=b08f7d56-0fb3-47df-857b-c1fdc6365a41 ro rootflags=subvol=@root   quiet splash $vt_handoff
	initrd	/**@root/**boot/initrd.img-3.8.0-030800-generic
}

```

When I try to boot, firstly grub fails to load.  I can work around this from grub rescue:
```
set root=(hd0,msdos1)
set prefix=(hd0,msdos1)/boot/grub
insmod normal
normal
```

But it still fails to boot because of the @boot in the linux and initrd lines above.  If I edit those manually then it boots fine.

Ideas?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-03-23
A couple of us experimented with btrfs several weeks ago. You might find our thread on our experiments interesting. In my case I noticed that update-grub when run from another Ubuntu install did not notice the Ubuntu on the btrfs partition. Also I could not get Ubuntu to boot when it was on a btrfs partition. EVen when the btrfs partition Ubuntu had control of Grub. 

I think that Grub cannot read the Grub configuration file if /boot/grub is on a btrfs formatted partition. I was thinking of setting up a small Ext4 or Ext3 boot partition and putting / and /home on a btrfs partition and seeing how that works. I have yet to run this experiment.

I am more the handyman type tester and not the engineer type tester. Technical language baffles me. Anyway - have fun trying.

Regards.

---

### Post by schragge on 2013-03-23
A warining from  [ArchWiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Btrfs): > Grub 2 can boot btrfs partitions, but the module is larger than e.g. ext4. This means that the core.img file made by grub-install might not fit between the MBR and the first partition. You can solve this by using GPT or simply putting an extra 1 or 2 MB of free space before the first partion. I guess that is why [thread=1389279]this howto[/thread] recommends using a separate */boot* partition.

---

### Post by thomas_d_j on 2013-03-27
Thanks for the replies.  Sorry for not responding earlier but I have been travelling.

Grub can indeed read /boot/grub, it is just looking in the wrong place.  If I manually edit the config to remove the surplus @root then it boots fine.

Also I did leave extra space before the first partition, so I'm pretty sure that's not the problem:
```
:~$ sudo fdisk -l /dev/sdc

Disk /dev/sdc: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x44fdfe06

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1            4096   959995951   479995928   83  Linux
/dev/sdc2       959995952   976773167     8388608   83  Linux

```

The problem seems to be with the update-grub routine not understanding btrfs subvolumes.  Instead of looking in /boot on subvolume @root of the btrfs filesystem, it is looking for @root/boot on subvolume @root.

It must be some sort of regression because it was working fine before recent updates.  I will run apt-get update again now to see if it is fixed.

---

### Post by thomas_d_j on 2013-04-07
An update on this:

The problem seems to be related to the binary *grub-mkrelpath* in /usr/bin.  This is called by both *grub-mkconfig* (update-grub) and *grub-install*.  The path returned by grub-mkrelpath has the default subvolume name prefixed to it:

```
~$ grub-mkrelpath /boot
/@root/boot

```

if I replace the grub-mkrelpath with a one-line script ```
echo $1
```

then update-grub and grub-install work correctly (although obviously this is not a good solution because it will fail in cases where grub-mkrelpath was required to return something different).

---

### Post by ventrical on 2013-04-08
> **grahammechanical said:**
> A couple of us experimented with btrfs several weeks ago. You might find our thread on our experiments interesting. In my case I noticed that update-grub when run from another Ubuntu install did not notice the Ubuntu on the btrfs partition. Also I could not get Ubuntu to boot when it was on a btrfs partition. EVen when the btrfs partition Ubuntu had control of Grub. 

I think that Grub cannot read the Grub configuration file if /boot/grub is on a btrfs formatted partition. I was thinking of setting up a small Ext4 or Ext3 boot partition and putting / and /home on a btrfs partition and seeing how that works. I have yet to run this experiment.

I am more the handyman type tester and not the engineer type tester. Technical language baffles me. Anyway - have fun trying.

Regards.


:)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2112829&highlight=btrfs](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2112829&highlight=btrfs)

---

