---
title: "11.04 Alpha 3 64Bit ATI/Unity questions"
date: 2011-03-06
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2011-03-06
Hi all,

Just installed Alpha 3 and gotta say I really quite like how unity is coming along!

I have a couple of issues however, that if can't be sorted out I'm ok (it is still in Alpha after all), though it never hurts to ask so:

1.) I have a ATI Radeon HD 5770 which in 10.10 was picked up fine, although since installing Alpha 3 it isn't recognized. I'd like to install the ATI drivers but additional drivers won't find anything to offer me.

2.) Should I have a transparent panel and some settings to tweak for unity? Or are those features still to come, or maybe something that requires the drivers perhaps?

Thanks in advance for any light that can be shed on this...

---

### Post by VastOne on 2011-03-06
There is a complete sub forum just for this discussion 

[_[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]Here at the Natty Narwhal Testing forum[/COLOR]_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394")

---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2011-03-06
Ahh sorry,

I did post without properly looking into it, so thanks for the link.

What I ended up doing was just installing compiz config, which I normally do AFTER putting the ATI drivers on... turns out that was all I needed to do.

I have my lovely 75% opacity panel now, the launcher backlight is toggled off and I'm switching viewports with Alt+1,2,3,4 as I like to so all is well for now!

I'll investigate more into the ATI/nvidia stuff later to get up to speed.

Again, unity is rocking along nicely.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-03-06
Thread moved to "*Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion*"

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-03-06
As usual with most testing releases, ATI/AMD haven't released drivers that work with the latest Xorg-xserver yet, they usually release new drivers shortly before the RC is released, so it just a matter of waiting until they do so.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-03-06
> **outerspacerace said:**
> I'll investigate more into the ATI/nvidia stuff later to get up to speed.

You may not need to unless you are interested in gaming. The default open source ATI driver just keeps getting better and it seems as though you have got the settings you want with ccsm and the default driver. I wouldn't even dream of installing the fglrx driver on either of my two machines with ATI graphics.

Enjoy! :)

---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2011-03-09
Thanks coffeecat,

I thought that had to be what's going on and yes, I'm happy!

I don't do any gaming and enjoy seeing a much smoother boot experience, especially after todays upgrades :)

---

### Post by nystire on 2011-03-09
Have they fixed the problem with ATI cards not activating their fan properly which has been plaguing laptop users since at least Karmic?

---

### Post by Martijn3 on 2011-03-10
> **nystire said:**
> Have they fixed the problem with ATI cards not activating their fan properly which has been plaguing laptop users since at least Karmic?
Nope, I can still cook a egg on my laptop while using Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-03-10
> **Martijn3 said:**
> Nope, I can still cook a egg on my laptop while using Ubuntu.
You might want to try dynpm... [http://xorg.freedesktop.org/wiki/RadeonFeature](http://xorg.freedesktop.org/wiki/RadeonFeature)

---

