---
title: "11.04 beta2 live"
date: 2011-04-16
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by cybergalvez on 2011-04-16
I wanted to take a look at 11.04, mainly to see if it would see my fake raid setup, and to see what unity looks lie but I don't have a spare partition so I tried the live DVD. When it stated it loaded in clasic mode no 3d no unity. Am I out of luck? 
BTW my video card is an nvidia 7200

---

### Post by VMC on 2011-04-16
> **cybergalvez said:**
> I wanted to take a look at 11.04, mainly to see if it would see my fake raid setup, and to see what unity looks lie but I don't have a spare partition so I tried the live DVD. When it stated it loaded in clasic mode no 3d no unity. Am I out of luck? 
BTW my video card is an nvidia 7200

You have to install one of the 3d drivers. Run *jockey* from the dash or terminal, then install one of the two.

---

### Post by cybergalvez on 2011-04-16
I did that, but then it wanted to reboot, which since its a live disk means that I lost the drivers it just installed.

---

### Post by sparker256 on 2011-04-16
> **cybergalvez said:**
> I did that, but then it wanted to reboot, which since its a live disk means that I lost the drivers it just installed.
Is it possible to use a usb thumb drive? It is what I have used for a couple of years to test out new versions.

Bill

---

### Post by cybergalvez on 2011-04-17
not a bad idea I will have to dig out one if my older thumb-drives and use that. I am assuming if I install on a thumb-drive it will leave my current system alone?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-04-17
You can test the unity login from the live cd/dvd with nvidia by installing the nouveau 3d drivers, then instead of a restart do a logout, login.
 Use ubuntu as user name, no password. Depending on how much ram you have it will give a good to fair representation

---

### Post by sparker256 on 2011-04-17
> **cybergalvez said:**
> not a bad idea I will have to dig out one if my older thumb-drives and use that. I am assuming if I install on a thumb-drive it will leave my current system alone?
I use startup disk creator on a 8G thumb drive. I reserve 2G and it allows me to install proprietary drivers to allow unity to work.

Bill

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-04-18
When you're up and running, check whether gparted "sees" your raid array. If it doesn't, using synaptic package manager install kpartx, then try gparted again.

---

