---
title: "Mounting share from win 7 in Ubuntu 11 Not Working"
date: 2010-12-28
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by indefactorX on 2010-12-28
Installed samba and smbfs

Checked workgroup name

Can see host computer in network places under workgroup

ensured all sharing permissions were enabled within win 7

when i click the computer i want to connect to, i'm prompted to enter a username & password

when i enter it, it closes, then asks me again for username and password


Is there any solution for this issue? I've been searching for a few hours

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-12-28
Have you tried connecting any other way, such as Places - Connect to Server ???

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-12-28
Do you have "Windows Live Sign-in assistant" or "Windows Live Essentials" installed on Win7?

Samba has a problem with it and the only solution until the samba fix passes down to us is to uninstall them.

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-12-28
AFAIK you need to explicitly add a permission for "Guest" to the Windows 7 share if you want password-free access.

---

### Post by indefactorX on 2010-12-28
> Have you tried connecting any other way, such as Places - Connect to Server ???

Sure have, to no avail, even tried connecting using ip address instead of computer name

> Do you have "Windows Live Sign-in assistant" or "Windows Live Essentials" installed on Win7?

Samba has a problem with it and the only solution until the samba fix passes down to us is to uninstall them.


No to assistant, Did not know about the problem with essentials however, I will try un-installing that

> AFAIK you need to explicitly add a permission for "Guest" to the Windows 7 share if you want password-free access.

Don't want password free access, needs to be password protected

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-12-28
Oh, sorry for the misunderstanding. :)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-12-28
Are you getting something similar to the screenshots?

You have to use the username and password for the system you are connecting to.

---

### Post by indefactorX on 2010-12-28
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Are you getting something similar to the screenshots?

You have to use the username and password for the system you are connecting to.

Yes... repetitively and I have entered the appropriate username and pass for this

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-12-28
I normally don't setup shares on Windows systems, as everything is stored on my server, but I'll give it a try tomorrow and see what I can come up with.

---

### Post by indefactorX on 2010-12-28
I have un-installed live essentials and still am incapable of connecting to the computer

i should note that from my windows box, I can access shared files from my ubuntu box but the computer to be used for sharing will remain the windows box

***CORRECTION.... Now I cannot access the ubuntu box from any windows box anymore
***CORRECTION again... Guest username can access the ubuntu box from the windows box, and so can desktop user level accounts (For some reason don't require a password even tho the user account is password protected)

---

### Post by e-rebus on 2010-12-28
Do you have the "homegroup" feature enabled in Windows? I don't think it works with anything but Windows 7. You need to disable that and you the old way of sharing files, that still works as before.

---

### Post by indefactorX on 2010-12-28
not exactly sure what you mean... but both Ubuntu box & windows box are on the same workgroup

---

### Post by e-rebus on 2010-12-29
Windows 7 has this new "homegroup" feature enabled by default, which supposedly makes it easier to share files... if you have another W7 machine that is. While it is enabled I don't think you will be able to access your shares from Ubuntu. Take a look at your network center in windows, see if you can disable that homegroup stuff. Homegroup has a another autogenerated password.

---

### Post by indefactorX on 2010-12-29
i just disabled homegroup, still same issue

---

### Post by florus on 2010-12-29
I am having the same problem using 10.10 .  It only started a couple of weeks ago, and for no obvious reason, so I suspect a Windows update as the culprit. My Ubuntu computers talk to each other quite happily, so it must be a Windows issue.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-12-29
I believe it is a Win 7 issue, I can connect to the shares, but can't access any folders in the shared directory

**Update:** After setting up the shares, and a reboot, they all seem to work. see the screenshots for what I did.

---

### Post by indefactorX on 2010-12-29
You're further than i am, and i've enabled Everyone as well just to test

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-12-29
I unfortunately I didn't document all the changes, as I can access the share from XP without a password, but from Natty, I have to enter the workgroup and password.

---

### Post by indefactorX on 2011-01-03
Abandoned :/ loaded win 7 on this comp

---

### Post by florus on 2011-01-03
I have tried everything and cannot get Windows 7 to allow a Linux computer access. One thing I will not do - and that is go back to Windows. Even if I have to transfer data on a USB stick, I am staying with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-01-03
This is what I did to get file sharing with anything but Window s 7 to work. I needed to turn off the home group in order for Win 7 to see my File server running Lucid and samba and nfs file sharing, go to Control Panel_>Network & Sharing Center

 [[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/da41Ul.jpg[/IMG]](http://imgur.com/da41U)

Next click Change homegroup And sharing options

[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/IPBxwl.jpg[/IMG]](http://imgur.com/IPBxw)

Then click Change advanced sharing settings, make sure the following options are set:

[LIST=1]
[*]Turn on network discovery
[*]Turn on file and printer sharing
[*]Turn on sharing so anyone with network access can read and write files in the Public Folders
[*]Enable file sharing for devices that use 40 or 56 bit encryption
[*]Turn off password protected sharing
[*]Use user accounts and passwords to connect to other computers
[/LIST]

[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/KQhPwl.jpg[/IMG]](http://imgur.com/KQhPw)

Once your done setting things click Save changes. Next set up a shared folder.

Go to whatever directory you want to share and right-click and select properties_>sharing, click the advanced setting and give everyone full control

[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/1KbVYl.jpg[/IMG]](http://imgur.com/1KbVY)

[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/zLxdD.png[/IMG]](http://imgur.com/zLxdD)

Next Click the share button and make sure that everyone was read write permissions. 

Reboot, and you should be good to go.

---

### Post by florus on 2011-01-03
Been there, done that, no change. Windows 7 refuses to recognise the password. :confused:

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-01-03
Are you using the Win 7 password?

---

### Post by florus on 2011-01-04
Yes, I am using the same Widows 7 username and password that I have always used. My computers are dual boot, and I can access Windows 7 from XP and Vista, but since I never use them except to update TomTom, this is not particularly useful except as an indicator that the network is functioning properly.

---

