---
title: "11.04 Bluetooth Problem"
date: 2011-04-11
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by cap10Ibraim on 2011-04-11
Today I installed beta1 the bluetooth was working as expected but after updating my system , I see bluetooth disabled !! 
I this done on purpose ?!

---

### Post by devguy on 2011-04-14
> **cap10Ibraim said:**
> Today I installed beta1 the bluetooth was working as expected but after updating my system , I see bluetooth disabled !! 
I this done on purpose ?!

Same thing happened to me.  Worked fine on initial 11.04 Beta 1 install, and after updating, it doesn't work.  I'm currently updated all the way to Beta 2 configuration.  The bluetooth icon displays in the notification bar, but it will no longer detect devices.  If I go to preferences and try to turn on the bluetooth with the big button, it doesn't fix it.

Running an HP DM1z with the RT5390 wifi card and using the patched drivers to make it work.  The bluetooth module is part of the wifi module.

---

### Post by synlub on 2011-04-22
This workaround solved the problem for me:
[LIST=1]
[*]sudo killall bluetoothd
[*]sudo bluetoothd
[/LIST]

But still this has to be fixed on the final release :D (it's already submitted as bug by many people)

---

### Post by christoph411 on 2011-04-22
> **synlub said:**
> This workaround solved the problem for me:
[LIST=1]
[*]sudo killall bluetoothd
[*]sudo bluetoothd
[/LIST]

But still this has to be fixed on the final release :D (it's already submitted as bug by many people)

I have the same problem, my bluetooth worked flawlessly in beta 1 (I was so impressed because it didn't work at all in 10.10!) but after updating it just stopped working and unfortunatly this solution didn't work for me.   :cry:

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2011-04-22
Hello,

> **christoph411 said:**
> I have the same problem, my bluetooth worked flawlessly in beta 1 (I was so impressed because it didn't work at all in 10.10!) but after updating it just stopped working and unfortunatly this solution didn't work for me.   :cry:

I had the same problem after some updates on maverick. I'm still on it and I tried this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10385441&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10385441&postcount=2)

I do not think that giving it a try on natty will do any harm.

Regards!

---

### Post by isantop on 2011-04-26
Nope, that has to do with an inconsistent Bluetooth connection. The bug report that synlub refers to is this one:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/762964](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/762964)

Downgrading to the latest Maverick version of Bluez (4.69 instead of 4.91) seems to workaround the issue, but defeats the point of having updating anyway. Plus, you have to lock it at 4.69, which prevents the real fix from being installed when it's ready.

---

### Post by VanHammersly on 2011-04-27
Same issue.  I downgraded to bluez for Maverick and bluetooth is working.

---

