---
title: "11.04 Beta no Unity desktop"
date: 2011-04-04
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by penn07 on 2011-04-04
I have installed Ubuntu 11.04 Beta onto a IBM T42 laptop. but I dont see the new unity desktop. Am I missing something? I presume it may be the age of the hardware.  I tried the same live CD on a new Toshiba laptop and all OK.  Any help would be gratefully received.  ):P

---

### Post by dzsobacsi on 2011-04-04
Same here. I have tried to install it to a VirtualBox virtual machine.

---

### Post by penn07 on 2011-04-04
> **dzsobacsi said:**
> Same here. I have tried to install it to a VirtualBox virtual machine.

I resolved this by Updating installation and installing Unity 2D

[B]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:unity-2d-team/unity-2d-daily

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get install unity-2d-default-settings

[/B]

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-04-04
You need 3D drivers to use the regular unity desktop.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-04-04
move to natty

---

### Post by untenops on 2011-04-04
I have the same problem, no unity.  My old pc has a NIVIDA 5200 with 256mb of video RAM.  Shouldn't this work?

---

### Post by walt.smith1960 on 2011-04-04
> **untenops said:**
> I have the same problem, no unity.  My old pc has a NIVIDA 5200 with 256mb of video RAM.  Shouldn't this work?

I have an NVidia 8400GS with 512. video RAM.  The Nvidia 2D driver is enabled by default, an experimental 3D version is available.  I'm sticking with the 2D version.

---

### Post by pjman on 2011-04-06
I'm having a similar problem on my ThinkPad T60. Unity works fine with a live cd/usb. Upon a reboot of my upgrade Unity does not show the panel at the top or left. Where the panel should be at the top I can click on invisible icons (me-menu, time/date, power, etc.).

I've followed a couple of suggestions in other threads like resetting the profile settings in CCSM with no luck.

Not sure what else to try...

---

