---
title: "11.04 beta 2 crashes on shutdown (or suspend)"
date: 2011-04-16
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by maturin on 2011-04-16
I just finished installing xubuntu 11.04 beta 2 (64 bit) on an EEEPC (w/ Atom N550).

While everything seems to be working fairly well (a few little things to sort out yet), whenever I try to shutdown the laptop (or put it into suspend), the computer freezes up.  Totally unresponsive - the only way to get it going again is to power off (I've even tried various SysRq sequences).  Using the "shutdown" command from the command line doesn't work either.

Anyone have any advice?


(I tried filing a bug report, but the bug reporting procedure seems to have gotten insanely complicated (I've filed bug reports elsewhere before), so I thought I'd try here).

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-16
How much physical RAM do you have, and how big is your swap partition?

Also, if you open Gparted, does it show that your swap partition is mounted?

---

### Post by maturin on 2011-04-16
I have 2 GB memory installed.

Strangely, there are two swap partitions (2 and 4 GB).  Both mounted.  I only ever set up one during the installation.  But that does remind me that I had to do a hard reboot after the installation routine finished (it wouldn't shut down properly).

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-16
Well, you certainly don't want 2 swap partitions. Can you post a pic of your partitions in Gparted & attach them using the paper clip in the toolbar of your next post.

Also, you may want just a little more than 2GB of swap, but dont really need 4. So that's up to you. Give this a quick read to help you decide.
[[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq[/COLOR]]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq")

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2011-04-16
Moved to Natty.

---

### Post by maturin on 2011-04-16
I've always gone with the 2 times actual memory rule for my swap (I started with Slackware years ago).

Anyway, I've attached the gparted picture.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-16
It looks like right now, only the 1.99Gb swap prtn is mounted/being used. 
I believe I would delete sda7 and edit fstab to auto mount the other swap prtn if you want 2x your physical RAM. It may or may not have something to do with the problem you posted about, but you're definitely not using the swap prtn that's 2x your RAM.

---

### Post by Danimoth on 2011-04-18
I have the same issue with Ubuntu + Unity. 
When I try to shutdown or suspend(or hibernate, whatever happens when I close my laptop lid) the very top of the screen shows a stripe of random pixels and at that point I have to hard shutdown. 

I have 4GB RAM & 4GB swap partition.

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-18
It could just be a bug in Natty, as it is still in development. I would suggest reporting the bug. 
You may actually find an answer by doing that.

---

### Post by Danimoth on 2011-04-19
Also occurs when I try to log-out.
I opened a bug report here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/766272](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/766272)

---

### Post by maturin on 2011-04-22
I kept trying things, but wasn't getting anywhere and the symptoms started to get worse - I'd get random freezes and other weird lock-ups.  So I finally gave up and moved back to 10.10 (which is working fine on another laptop).

I was rather surprised when I encountered the same problems (completely clean install).  Some searching finally uncovered the fact that the driver for the wireless adapter (Ralink RT3090) in my netbook is flaky (putting it mildly!).  It often causes crashes on shutdown, suspend, or when adjusting networking.  I "assume" this was probably my problem when trying 11.04.  If I upgrade to 11.04 sometime before too long I'll post a follow up (For now I just disabled the internal wireless and am using a USB wireless, and everything's fine).

For those who are interested, the bug report ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/541620/+index?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/541620/+index?comments=all)) shows it's being worked on, but it doesn't appear to be completely resolved yet (though a few people seem to be able to get it working right).

---

