---
title: "11.04 freezes as desktop loads"
date: 2011-04-13
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-13
I have just been playing with 11.04. The live cd works, although I noted that the bar at the top is not formed correctly, with it being too high and only the very bottom edge of it can be seen.

Once installed and rebooted the machine seems to load fine. The log in page appears, and I am able to log in ok. However as the panel, and unity start to appear on the screen, along with a notification regarding wireless connections the system freezes. The cursor moves with the mouse, but is unresponsive to clicks, the keyboard is unresponsive, the notification window stays on the screen, and all i can do is press and hold in the power button to power down the machine. (this machine run 10.10 flawlessly)

I tried the daily build and although i noted the top panel was now correct in the try/install option page, once installed the system still crashes.

Any help to trouble shoot this would be appreciated.

---

### Post by donniezazen on 2011-04-13
System resources is being used in colossal amount in Natty.

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-14
Really? but if that is the case, why don't get the "spinning" cursor, which would indicate the system is busy, rather than frozen.

This seems to be a untiy issue, as the live cd doesn't use unity ans works perfectly well on the same hardware.

The hardware is a 1.8ghz intel dual core processor, with a intel chipset, and a Nvidea 7300 graphics card.

still needing help to trouble shoot this

jonny

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-14
i'm not sure but your 7600 card may have some hard time running all the unity system, stay with classic desktop:

with synaptic:
- remove/purge ubuntu-desktop (doing a right click)
- remove/purge compiz
- remove/purge unity

check into "additional driver" that your video card is well activated, then reboot

Later, in a few weeks, when unity2d & compiz will be fixed, you probably be able to use unity2d without trouble, but at time devs are focussed on 3d.

---

### Post by lucazade on 2011-04-14
Your nvidia 7600 should be enough for Unity (also a 6000 series should be ok)
[http://www.inalogic.com/component/content/article/34-general/63-demystifying-unitys-graphics-hardware-requirements](http://www.inalogic.com/component/content/article/34-general/63-demystifying-unitys-graphics-hardware-requirements)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DemystifyingUnityGraphicsHardwareRequirements](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DemystifyingUnityGraphicsHardwareRequirements)

You can try Unity2d.. it is in a good state also at the moment because it is developed from a different team of unity3d.


How do I know my GPU can run Unity?
There is a test program in Natty for that. Run this command: 

```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p 

```
It will tell you if your system has the required capabilities for Unity. This is the same program we run at boot time to decide if Unity will be started or if a fall-back should run instead.

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-14
many thanks for the replies...

Falling back to classic would be great but i have no session option in the login screen, and once i proceed passed login the system is completely U/S.. 

Clearly this issue needs some trouble shooting so I can understand what is happening and if required report a bug in launchpad.

Any help would be appreciated

Jonny

---

### Post by iiiears on 2011-04-14
Can you log in using safe mode? Use ESC during boot up.
Did you hear the login sounds.(sound driver okay?)

Can you switch to a console Ctrl+Alt+F2?
Check var logs for errors. Use nano to open them.

What does "top" tell you about what process is using the cpu?

Experiment with blacklisting drivers one at a time.

/etc/modprobe.d/

Just curious did you add more than one desktop manger?  example gnome+kde
Added any scripts to bash.rc or cron/crontab that aren't working?

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-14
I will try safe mode and see what happens.. 

The installation is vanilla beta.iso direct form ubuntu homepage, md5 match and disc checked for burn errors.

When i could not get it to boot i formatted HDD, and started over with yesterdays daily build beta2.iso, again a vanilla install.

As this is a test rig i have not got any speakers attached atm, but will try some earphones later so see if it making any noise.

Once booted past login and desktop freezes it is completely unresponsive, apart from the cursor moving with the mouse, CTRL+ALT+F2 does NOT bring up a console.

One thought is i have a belkin usb dongle which works out the box in 10.10, and has done since about 8.04, but i will reboot with that removed just to eliminate it as a possible cause.


Thanks again for your help 

Jonny

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-14
Ok booting into recovery and then safe/low graphics mode got the desktop to load. During this i got a message to select classic mode when logging in.

Rebooted, an maybe i'm being dumb, but at log in screen i have no way of selecting my session type.. so proceeded as normal.

On loading desktop froze again, but this time CRTL+ALT+F2 did drop me into a console.

ok what next??

---

### Post by treasonvoice on 2011-04-14
Hi Jonnywombat.

Similar issues are being experienced with other nvidia cards. A similar thread is open regarding the geforce 7400 go which has the exact same problem as you are experiencing. There do appear to be issues with drivers, so that might be a reason. Why this (unity) has been pushed through with so many bugs, even though Nvidia are very supportive of Ubuntu, is unknown. One can only hope that they get it sorted ASAP.

Anyway, I've seen someone write that they have been able to use the experimental driver or Nouveau, whichever it is.

In the meantime, you should be able to change your login settings within safe mode to ensure that you can choose your desktop environment. Once you have the option, select classic mode (no effects). This should work as it is a failsafe as far as I can see.

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-14
Thankyou treasonvioce..

I was thinking it was a graphics card driver issue, and was going to look in the x-org edgers ppa for the latest bleeding edge drivers to install. 

All the machines in my house are Nvidea based because over the years I have found them to be least troublesome to use with linux in general and ubuntu specifically, but an issue like this would be a potential show stopper to my way of thinking. 

A machine capable of running 10.10 with full compiz effects and awn with 3d effects should not be turned into a 2ft high white plastic brick in this manner, so lets hope it is sorted soon.

Thanks again.. 

Jonny

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-14
arggghhh ffs,

Who thought it would be a good idea to have the session options hidden from the bottom of the login screen until after you have selected a user..

so used to clicking and then entering password, that i never even looked, until now...

OK selecting classic still causes a freeze but classic no effects works

will have a play with drivers and see what happens...

---

### Post by treasonvoice on 2011-04-14
EDIT: no clue why this was posted in reply to the above post. Clicked the wrong button perhaps. My bad.

No problem. Also refer to these two little pages for someone else struggling with this problem.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/756492](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/756492)

and 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1727062](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1727062)

It's the same person posting on launchpad... so hopefully this allows you to keep track of it.

Enjoy and good luck

---

### Post by treasonvoice on 2011-04-14
OK. I've been playing around and on my part I have good news. Hopefully it works for you too. I can't believe it was this simple.

[http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/UbuntuPackages](http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/UbuntuPackages)

I went here and had a look around at what they were saying and the first couple of paragraphs gave me an idea...

It seems I had both drivers installed at the same time (nvidia and Nouveau).

The issue is this: they can't really co-exist in some cases.

So I went to Jockey/Additional drivers and removed the nvidia driver, the one that says (recommended). It takes a couple minutes, but I kind of have all day. :)

Then I went to synaptic and looked up nouveau. The driver package is called something like xserver-xorg-video-nouveau. I re-installed that (after having removed the nvidia driver). Then i rebooted and tried Unity and it WORKED!

So i'm hoping the same works for you. Try it, let me know if it works. 

Good luck my friend.

---

### Post by jonnywombat on 2011-04-14
ok i followed your instructions, but forgot to go back to the additional drivers to enable the "experimental" driver.

Once i did that then I rebooted again and yes i have unity working too. 

Thanks very much for your help with the work around but IMHO this should not happen.

Have u posted your workaround to lauchpad?

---

### Post by treasonvoice on 2011-04-14
> **jonnywombat said:**
> ok i followed your instructions, but forgot to go back to the additional drivers to enable the "experimental" driver.

Once i did that then I rebooted again and yes i have unity working too. 

Thanks very much for your help with the work around but IMHO this should not happen.

Have u posted your workaround to lauchpad?


I agree that if they are going to release a new Desktop Environment, then at least ensure that it runs with proprietary drivers or have the driver it does work with set as default. How hard can it be.

Glad that I could help. I'm actually a relative noob with the ubuntu community (despite having been using and experimenting with Ubuntu for the past two years), so I actually have no clue how to post it to launchpad... unless i do that under the bug report which I linked to, which should be simple enough. Otherwise, its your turn to instruct me.

I'm actually impressed... the 3d unity environment works faster with nouveau than 2d unity did with nvidia.

---

