---
title: "11.04 noifty-osd location"
date: 2011-04-13
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jon4248 on 2011-04-13
Ubuntu 11.04 is great, loving the new interface...and its fast on my Acer Aspire one D250, something that is bothering me though is I can't seem to change the location of the notification bubbles,...moving them to the bottom right would be perfect for me as I am using a netbook.
I did a bit of research and found a ppa (ppa:leolik/leolik) with a patched version of nofity-osb that allows you to change the location, unfortunately it is not available for 11.04 yet, does anyone know how i can simply change the location of this? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by nilarimogard on 2011-04-13
Leolik maintains a PPA with a patched NotifyOSD that you can place anywhere on the screen and other features, but it's not available right now - he always publishes it after the final Ubuntu version is released (because until then, the NotifyOSD package gets lots of updates which would overwrite his package). 

More info [here]("http://www.webupd8.org/2010/10/tweak-notifyosd-notifications-in-ubuntu.html") (but again: you'll be able to use it for Natty after the final version is released).

---

### Post by jon4248 on 2011-04-13
> **nilarimogard said:**
> Leolik maintains a PPA with a patched NotifyOSD that you can place anywhere on the screen and other features, but it's not available right now - he always publishes it after the final Ubuntu version is released (because until then, the NotifyOSD package gets lots of updates which would overwrite his package). 

More info [here]("http://www.webupd8.org/2010/10/tweak-notifyosd-notifications-in-ubuntu.html") (but again: you'll be able to use it for Natty after the final version is released).


AHHHH okay I understand now...thanks.

---

