---
title: "11.04 Display resolution problem"
date: 2011-04-04
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by dakkar9999 on 2011-04-04
Hi, well I've done the upgrade to 11.04 Beta.  For the most part it's pretty smooth but I have one big problem.

My laptop is attached to a secondary monitor.  When hooked up both screen are great but when I try to use the laptop without the attached monitor (because sometime you want to leave the office!), then the resolution is all wrong in fact unusable.  If I look in the display configuration, it detects both the laptop and the secondary display as one huge screen instead of 2 separate screens.  

The video card is NVidia GeForce 9600M GT.

Thanks!

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-04-04
Moved to NNT&D

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-04-04
Does it make any difference if you click the detect displays button?

---

### Post by dakkar9999 on 2011-04-04
Actually I can't even function without the second monitor attached.  When booting without second screen attached everything is fine until I log in.  The Unity bar looks fine but everything else is stretched.  Menus are unusable to the point that I can't even log out or restart.  I have to force power down the laptop.

Where is that detect display button?

---

### Post by dakkar9999 on 2011-04-04
Ok making some progress...or not!

If I disable twinview and replace that option by separate x screen then when I reboot without the second display attached my laptop display is fine...

Not so much a solution as a work around.  But at least until a proper fix, I can work!

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-04-04
I actually haven't taken my laptop out of the office lately but I think I may have a related issue or at least some information for you. 

I have a satelitte l505 laptop and external acer monitor. I don't clone the displays but rather extend the desktop. If I don't match up the resolutions of the two monitors carefully, I have an issue.

You can move the mouse off the top of the laptop monitor. The panel is correctly at the top of the screen on both monitors. Windows that open are often placed such that the top of the window is off of the top of what I can see on the laptop monitor.

In monitors, one of the windows that opens partially off the top of the display, I can press detect monitors and it does seemingly nothing. If I set the resolutions of both monitors to the same low resolution all works fine but I can't stand the resolution. I currently am using 1366x768 (16x9) on the laptop and 1280x800 (16x10) on the external. If I set the external to 1600x900 (16x9) displays shows the external get taller and when set like that the problem gets worse than when the external is set to the lower 16x10 resolution. Go figure.

I installed ARandR and that went fine until I tried to launch it. I have a bug report [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/750427](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/750427) in on it not being able to run. I'm looking for someone to help me understand this better and to help me solve it if it doesn't require ARandR. It seems that compbiz is no longer installed with natty and I don't know if it would help me if I installed it. This install is from the daily build I downloaded April 3.

---

### Post by dakkar9999 on 2011-04-05
Hi,  Nope, looks like different a different problem.  Everything works fine when both screens are connected (both with different resolutions).  It's only when I go to a single display (the laptop) that it goes all stretched.

Also, Unity need compiz to run.  When I was trying to fix my problem, I removed all compiz packages from my computer and Unity just dissapeared.  Had to reinstall both compiz and the Unity panel.  Although there is definately some problems with compiz as it crashes all the time.

---

### Post by marioangler on 2011-04-19
Hello All. I switched to Ubuntu 10.10 some 6 months ago and have been getting the hang of it, like it very much. I am an above average user but no computer programer. I  use and s-video cable to connect with my tv and view movies and videos from my laptop, so here is my problem: when I updated to 11.04 through the synaptic manager now everything works except s-video out, this BUMS because I cant watch my "You Baby can Read" videos with my son on the big tv. I hate the fact of having to use the windows partition again after I explained to my wife how wonderful Natty Narwhal would be :(, but I know its fixable 'cause it used to work.

On Function+F8 the laptop screen does change resolution like before but the TV screen goes black. If I Function+F8 again for a brief second there you can see the computers desktop background in the TV but then it goes black again and the laptop return to full 1600 X 1200 display.  The monitor or display manager does seem to recognize a the s-video out connection because its clickable and i can change display sized, but the tv screen is just black, except for when, like I said before, click FN + F8 and for a brief second the desktop bg can be seen on the TV and the it goes black again.

Im at work right now so will try to post the config specs later today, any help is greatly appreciated. Im REALLY looking forward to proving my wife wrong by making this work.  :)

---

