---
title: "11.04 and ati mobility radeon"
date: 2011-04-15
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by hornedfiend on 2011-04-15
11.04 beta2 installer won't even start on a mobility radeon 3470 with 256 vram (results in a black screen).
After managing to install it using nomodeset and i915.modeset=0 xforcevesa, I can only use the classic desktop and ubuntu sais that my fglrx drivers are already installed, but my monitor resolution is 1024x768 (it should be 1280x800).
Once i remove the drivers Ubuntu stops working entirely, including recovery mode (booting with any flags results in a black screen, from which I can only shutdown the laptop).
10.10 and opensuse 11.4 install and work flawlessly.

---

### Post by tormod on 2011-04-15
Can you please file a bug on this?

BTW, the i915 module is for Intel cards, so that option is not of much use in your case. It can be expected that without KMS (nomodeset) you are not getting the right resolution.

This is not the easiest issue to debug, but if you have a working 10.10 you can install the natty kernel on it (alongside the original kernel) and see what happens when you boot it. Afterwards you can select the original kernel again, and now you can fish out the log files corresponding to the natty kernel boot.

---

### Post by ndstate on 2011-04-17
What is the best way to file a bug for this if you can't install natty?  I manually tried to report a bug in the natty area of launchpad, but it just forward me to a documentation page about filing reports.  The bug report can be found at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/763909](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/763909) but I dont think its in the right place, any advice would be appreciated.  Thanks

---

### Post by tormod on 2011-04-17
> **pmp6nl said:**
> What is the best way to file a bug for this if you can't install natty?  I manually tried to report a bug in the natty area of launchpad, but it just forward me to a documentation page about filing reports.  The bug report can be found at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/763909](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/763909) but I dont think its in the right place, any advice would be appreciated.  Thanks
Bugs are not filed against a specific release like natty, but per package. If the problem is the video driver you can use "xorg" or if you know, the driver for your card, in your case the xserver-xorg-video-ati. Actually the video mode setting and what usually is causing black screens nowadays is in the kernel (the "linux" package) but filing it on the card specific driver brings it to the attention of the Ubuntu X team and they can relay it to the kernel.

What is important is to be precise about the information you give. For instance, not only the card's market name, but its PCI ID. This is given by lspci -nn. For the symptoms, be precise about what you see on the screen and at which points it turns wrong. If it is "black", find out if it is a black color, or backlight off, or monitor powered down.

Some good pointers are [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelBoot](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelBoot) or [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/BlankScreen)

---

### Post by lavinog on 2011-04-19
> **hornedfiend said:**
> 11.04 beta2 installer won't even start on a mobility radeon 3470 with 256 vram (results in a black screen).
After managing to install it using nomodeset and i915.modeset=0 xforcevesa, I can only use the classic desktop and ubuntu sais that my fglrx drivers are already installed, but my monitor resolution is 1024x768 (it should be 1280x800).
Once i remove the drivers Ubuntu stops working entirely, including recovery mode (booting with any flags results in a black screen, from which I can only shutdown the laptop).
10.10 and opensuse 11.4 install and work flawlessly.

Just curious if I am having the same problem:
How are you starting the installer?
I have an ATI 3650, and the live cd will start to load the live environment but will restart the computer the moment it shows the desktop wallpaper.
I have tried the nomodset setting on the live cd, but that is all i have tried so far.

---

