---
title: "11.04 completely crashes out on me"
date: 2011-04-10
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by TomAnkcorn on 2011-04-10
when playing games
(minecraft/supertuxcart)
11.04 completly freases on me even alt,prtscn, RESUB doesnt restart it!

here is a video example
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KiM_1ahvi_k]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KiM_1ahvi_k")
if you listen you can also hear that the audio is stuck in a loop and I cant get the keyboard and mouse to move.

This happens on classic and unity. not sure if its a common problem.

If anybody knows a fix i would love to be linked to it :popcorn:

or if not how would I report this?

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-04-10
Have you tried it on Classic with No Effects?

---

### Post by TomAnkcorn on 2011-04-10
just have now...
still crashes. could it be something to do with open gl?

---

### Post by TomAnkcorn on 2011-04-11
bump 
I still having the problem....
not really urgent (I shouldnt be playing games atm got a load of a level exams coming up)but it would be nice to have it fixed for the sake of other people :)):P

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-11
its time to watch logs closely to let you know whats happen

/home/user/.xsession-errors (unhide with ctrl+h)
/var/log  or system/admin/logviewer menu

and /var/crash to report if any (double click on it)

---

### Post by TomAnkcorn on 2011-04-11
it the .xsession-errors I have 
```
(nautilus:1352): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: g_value_get_object: assertion `G_VALUE_HOLDS_OBJECT (value)' failed
```
```
(nautilus:1352): GConf-CRITICAL **: gconf_value_free: assertion `value != NULL' failed

```
over and over again not really sure what that is could be because the screen flickers out occasionally? (like once every 1-5 mins)

```
** (<unknown>:1346): WARNING **: Unable to fetch children: Method "Children" with signature "" on interface "org.ayatana.bamf.view" doesn't exist
```
probably an aplication running so not related but who would name a method Children :lolflag:

```
(<unknown>:1346): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: g_signal_handler_disconnect: assertion `G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed
```

documents about 22kb is that normal? for having 11.04 installed for about 3 days

im just checking the other logs now

---

