---
title: "In 11.04 Shift doesn't work with some keys"
date: 2011-01-31
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by HelpyHelpperton on 2011-01-31
My own fault for installing 11.04 while it's still in testing but...

some of the keys don't work!  Ex: left shift doesn't work for e-y, for l or for >

Right shift doesn't work for the opposite key of >. This is my only real problem because I can't code statements like #include >studio.h> at all.

It's probably not the keyboard because it worked fine in windows a few days ago.

Pic of Saturn from the Hubble for your trouble.  Thx mucho

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-02-01
set your prefs into: system pref keyboard

---

### Post by HelpyHelpperton on 2011-02-02
I've been fiddling with sys>pref>keyboard settings for a while and nothing I do is effective.  Editing layouts doesn't work.  Someone suggested unbinding all the shortcuts that contain shift by changing system>pref>keyboard shortcuts but this is ineffective.

---

### Post by HelpyHelpperton on 2011-02-10
Maybe I didn't understand the user who tried to answer my problem but I think he was saying to go change the keyboard settings through routine avenues.

Anyway, my solution for anyone in a similar situation is to get a new keyboard.  

The previous keyboard used the outdated pre-USB keyboard port, btw.

---

### Post by zika on 2011-02-11
> **HelpyHelpperton said:**
> My own fault for installing 11.04 while it's still in testing but...

some of the keys don't work!  Ex: left shift doesn't work for e-y, for l or for >

Right shift doesn't work for the opposite key of >. This is my only real problem because I can't code statements like #include >studio.h> at all.

It's probably not the keyboard because it worked fine in windows a few days ago.

Pic of Saturn from the Hubble for your trouble.  Thx mucho

Same here. I thought that it was due to new ps/2>USB adapter.
Can You get {<>} with (right)Alt-{,.} ?

---

