---
title: "11.04 Upgrade problem"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by senthilkumartk on 2011-01-27
Hi,

I have recently upgraded to 11.04 from 10.10.
After the upgrade the screen freezes at the grub.
It does not respond to the key strokes also.
I have ubuntu 9.10 live cd. 
I am able to boot from the live cd and to restore Grub
i issued the command 
sudo grub
find /boot/grub/stage1 
it returned 
Error 15: File not found

I have only ubuntu on my system(no dual booting)
can i restore my grub using the 9.10 live cd?
(Grub version on 11.04 is 1.99 and grub version on 9.10 live cd is 0.97)


Thanks in Advance,
Senthil.

---

### Post by Jack Brown on 2011-01-27
hi, am beginner,

so can offer few suggestions:

before installing 11.04, did you already have grub2?  (v0.9x is legacy grub, very different from current grub2)  9.10 might already have grub2 though?

1.) you can go what might be fastest/simplest way: backup all your files by navigating to them using a liveCD (try a current one, if 9.10 doesnt work) and an external or network storage
 and then reinstall 11.04 clean.


if you already have 
**GRUB 2 (>=1.90)**

i guess you could go into terminal through live cd and try 

sudo update-grub

[Here's link]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275") ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)) 
to the grub2 basics in this forum... very informative...  
**Part13** in there deals with reinstalling grub2.

Good luck...

(you are cutting edge, getting the latest unreleased version for an upgrade)

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-01-27
11.04 is an alpha, and usually best run in a virtual machine because of all the crashes. You should be able to boot from the 9.10 live cd, but I would recommend going to a friend's house and getting the 10.10 iso onto a cd or usb.
I really doubt you'd want to keep 11.04, as it is unstable and only in alpha. Get 10.10. Turn back!!!! Before it's too late!!!

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-01-27
Moved to NNT&D. Please post threads in the proper section.

Thanks,
uRock

---

### Post by Jack Brown on 2011-01-27
what IwantFroyo posted is wise.  Good idea to try it on virtual...  going to do that one of these days..

here's link

[[SIZE=4][COLOR=black]HOWTO: Purge and Reinstall Grub 2 from the Live CD[/COLOR][/SIZE]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099")

---

