---
title: "11.04 no window headers, can't move windows"
date: 2011-03-24
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Rikeshar on 2011-03-24
Hello everyone. I know that 11.04 is still in testing, but I'm pretty sure this is something I did, and not a general bug. I was playing around with Compiz settings when suddenly my windows lost their headers... the bars with the minimize, maximize, etc buttons. Because they're gone, I can't move windows around! Any idea on what I might have done, or how to fix it?

I'll attach an example:

---

### Post by false truths on 2011-03-24
This is something that happens to me in Ubuntu 10.10 and Ubuntu 11.04 on occasion. There are two things that usually cause it.

The first is a setting in Compiz. Go to CCSM and make sure the Window Decorations plugin is on, and revert its settings to the default. This should restore the window decorations.

If the plugin is already on and the settings are already where they should be, then open up a terminal and enter "compiz --replace". This will force Compiz (and by extention, Metacity/Emerald) to restart. Once you've done that, you're safe to close the terminal, which will force another restart to Compiz. After this, your window decorations should be restored.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-24
> **false truths said:**
> 
If the plugin is already on and the settings are already where they should be, then open up a terminal and enter "compiz --replace". This will force Compiz (and by extention, Metacity/Emerald) to restart. Once you've done that, you're safe to close the terminal, which will force another restart to Compiz. After this, your window decorations should be restored.
Simply run it via the Alt+F2 dialog instead.

Greetings.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-03-24
Moved to the "*Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion*" forum.

---

### Post by Rikeshar on 2011-03-24
Thank you for putting me in the right place, moderator!

Okay, so the window decorations was off. I re-enabled it and now I have the window headers, however I still can't move the windows.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-24
Then please check "~/.xsession-errors" for error messages, it seems like Compiz' "Move Window" plugin fails to run.

Btw., are you able to resize windows, by pulling their borders?

---

### Post by Rikeshar on 2011-03-24
Thanks for the reply Krytarik, I was just on my way to solve the thread out. The move windows plugin -was- disabled -_-  

Leave it to the simple things to make us feel dumb!

---

### Post by HaRabAS on 2011-03-24
> **Krytarik said:**
> Then please check "~/.xsession-errors" for error messages, it seems like Compiz' "Move Window" plugin fails to run.

Btw., are you able to resize windows, by pulling their borders?

i got this error the first time i opened this firefox today. i can't move or minimize or close all windows, though i can minimize manually by dragging the arrow icon on the bottom right corner of the window.

i tried this command and it says:

[B][I]bash: /home/tyrone/.xsession-errors: Permission denied
tyrone@computer2:~$ sudo ~/.xsession-errors[/I][/B]


PS: I have ubuntu 10.04 for a week then upgraded about 5days ago to 10.10. installed compiz fusion 3days ago, together with some themes.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-24
@HaRabAS: "~/.xsession-errors" is a log file, just open it with the text editor. Also, please start a new thread about your issue, because this one was about Natty 11.04, and it is already solved.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-03-24
@HaRabAS, this is the Natty Testing & Discussion sub-forum, the problems being discussed and solved here may not work on older versions.

---

### Post by HaRabAS on 2011-03-25
> **cariboo907 said:**
> @HaRabAS, this is the Natty Testing & Discussion sub-forum, the problems being discussed and solved here may not work on older versions.

oh ok, sorry my bad...

my problems are fixed though, just did PURGE COMPIZ, restarted. was surprised compiz is still on the pulldown menu and my windows are working fine.

---

### Post by bwitherell on 2011-04-03
I had the same issue regarding not being able to move windows in 11.04. This came after compiz crashed on me. I restarted it and then i was not able to move my windows around.

It ended up being that the move windows plug-in was disabled for me as well.

So, there is anther person on this thread who feels dumb :)

Thanks to the OP and everyone else on this thread!

---

### Post by TheNerdAL on 2011-04-08
This happened to me as well. Well, first I tried exiting a window, and it froze. I couldn't move any windows, then the borders disappeared. After that, an error came up saying compiz closed unexpectedly, and it gave me an option to restart. So I restarted, and everyone was back to normal.

---

