---
title: "NVIDIA proprietary driver won't work on my PC"
date: 2011-04-25
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2011-04-25
I installed both 32bit and 64bit Ubuntu Natty today, and both worked with the nouveau driver, but when I installed the proprietary driver none of the systems will boot. My driver is the nvidia 9300, integrated into my pc motherboard. Is anyone else having this problem? I have all the latest updates and installed the latest nvidia-current from the repositories.

I submitted a bug report to [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/770559](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/770559).

Cheers,

Matt

---

### Post by conradin on 2011-04-25
Aw Yeah! I have that issue too. Soo...
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-270.41.06-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-270.41.06-driver.html)
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-270.41.06-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-270.41.06-driver.html)
ah, so those should work, but youll prolly have a problem. 
My issue is that I can install that driver, and it will work fine for 1 session. When I reboot, it doesnt work anymore. So Im thinking..
the card is a bit older yeah, and Linux has changed a bit in the last few years, so maybe the driver install is writing files to the wrong location or something??
no idea, give the driver downloads a try though and get back to us.

---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2011-04-25
Yea I tried that already. The drivers from the nvidia site don't work they have to be installed from the package manager. The package manager provides the same version as the nvidia website so it doesn't really help.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-04-25
Never had integrated nvidia, but just curious based on bug report where you say "boot into text mode to remove the nvidia-current driver"
(no mention of removing the xorg.conf for nvidia driver

So after you install nvidia-current and before rebooting (where it currently fails), have you tried running this first?
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2011-04-25
Yeap I tried running that too which created a Xorg.conf file, but I got the same result I'm afraid. (Maverick didn't need the Xorg.conf file with the nvidia driver anyway)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-04-25
> **matthewbpt said:**
> Yeap I tried running that too which created a Xorg.conf file, but I got the same result I'm afraid. (Maverick didn't need the Xorg.conf file with the nvidia driver anyway)
Then there may be an issue with the integrated graphics..

At least here I've always needed some sort of xorg.conf w/ nvidia-current though it didn't have to be the big nvidia created one, ex. my current one (at this point maybe better than the nvidia created one which has a lot of unneeded sections

> Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

It's possible your bug may be marked incomplete due to almost no add. added info - may have been  better to file like 
```
ubuntu-bug nvidia-current
```

---

### Post by groovomata on 2011-04-25
I'm trying out Natty, however I can login but only the 'classic' desktop. I have an Nvidia GeForce 7300, and was able to run cool graphics effects on previous versions. But now I'm getting something similar where when I try to activate the current version of the nvidia driver in the Additional Drivers window, it says "This driver is activated but not currently in use." 
I ran
> sudo nvidia-xconfig
and got this result:
> Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Device section "Default Device" must have a Driver line.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'
When I look at my xorg.conf file there indeed does not seem to be a "Default Device" line in the Device section:
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.06  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Mon Apr 18 15:15:12 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
So what should I do? Should I edit the file and add in a Default Device line with a Driver? Does anyone have any ideas?
Thanks,
Erik.

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-26
> **groovomata said:**
> 
When I look at my xorg.conf file there indeed does not seem to be a "Default Device" line in the Device section:

So what should I do? Should I edit the file and add in a Default Device line with a Driver? Does anyone have any ideas?
Thanks,
Erik.

The file /etc/X11/xorg.conf does not need such a line.
Your xorg.conf seems to be OK.

So just reboot and Nvidia proprietary drivers are in use.
Note, that installing these drivers will automatically blacklist nouveau even if those are installed.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-04-26
> **groovomata said:**
> I'm trying out Natty, however I can login but only the 'classic' desktop. I have an Nvidia GeForce 7300, and was able to run cool graphics effects on previous versions. But now I'm getting something similar where when I try to activate the current version of the nvidia driver in the Additional Drivers window, it says "This driver is activated but not currently in use." 
I ran ...


If your having issues running unity then you should approach from that viewpoint, what jockey says i wouldn't particularly pay any attention to. Here on all my installs it says the same thing and the nvidia-current drivers, compiz, unity, ect. are all fine. (inc. a 7800 AGP card
It's most likely the drivers are installed for you - can you use any of the compiz effects in the Classic login?

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-26
> **matthewbpt said:**
> Yeap I tried running that too which created a Xorg.conf file, but I got the same result I'm afraid. (Maverick didn't need the Xorg.conf file with the nvidia driver anyway)

Maverick needs that too, no exception there.
To get Nvidia proprieatary drivers to work, you must run
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```.

Of course if the file /etc/X1/xorg.conf has already been configured, you do not need to run that again (when updating nvidia-current).

---

### Post by groovomata on 2011-04-27
Thank you for your responses. 
I ran > sudo nvidia-xconfig and rebooted and it still says  "This driver is activated but not currently in use". As well, unfortunately, I'm not getting any compiz effects. 
It would be nice to try out the Unity desktop but I automatically get booted into the classic desktop.
Thanks,
Erik.

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-27
> **groovomata said:**
> Thank you for your responses. 
I ran  and rebooted and it still says  "This driver is activated but not currently in use". As well, unfortunately, I'm not getting any compiz effects. 
It would be nice to try out the Unity desktop but I automatically get booted into the classic desktop.
Thanks,
Erik.

Please run it again and post here all the verbous info you get from terminal.

---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2011-04-27
> **mc4man said:**
> Then there may be an issue with the integrated graphics..

At least here I've always needed some sort of xorg.conf w/ nvidia-current though it didn't have to be the big nvidia created one, ex. my current one (at this point maybe better than the nvidia created one which has a lot of unneeded sections


It's possible your bug may be marked incomplete due to almost no add. added info - may have been  better to file like 
```
ubuntu-bug nvidia-current
```
That xorg.conf file isn't really needed, it's there to stop the nvidia splash screen appearing when the driver is loaded.

---

### Post by groovomata on 2011-04-27
Thank you, here it is:
> erik@erik-laptop:~$ sudo nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

erik@erik-laptop:~$ 


---

### Post by groovomata on 2011-04-27
I also checked out /etc/modprobe.d/ and noted that the nouveau driver is blacklisted in the file "nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf".

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-28
> **matthewbpt said:**
> That xorg.conf file isn't really needed, it's there to stop the nvidia splash screen appearing when the driver is loaded.

Nope,
without the file /ect/X11/xorg.conf nvidia drivers are not loaded.
There must be this line in the "Section Device":
```

    Driver         "nvidia"

```

Even if you have the xorg.conf file, the nvidia splash screen (logo) will get loaded.
To prevent it, you need to put these lines in the "Section Screen":
```

    Option         "NoLogo" "True"

```

---

### Post by groovomata on 2011-04-28
> **Harry33 said:**
> Nope,
without the file /ect/X11/xorg.conf nvidia drivers are not loaded.
There must be this line in the "Section Device":
```

    Driver         "nvidia"

```

Even if you have the xorg.conf file, the nvidia splash screen (logo) will get loaded.
To prevent it, you need to put these lines in the "Section Screen":
```

    Option         "NoLogo" "True"

```

I looked in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and there is indeed a line in the Section "Device" for > Driver         "nvidia"
I'm not sure what to do next. Perhaps I'll burn the official 11.04 release and see if that fixes the problem.
Anyone have any ideas?

---

