---
title: "10.10 upgrading to 11.04 [IS IT SAFE]?"
date: 2011-01-10
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by WarrenSH on 2011-01-10
I just googled "Ubuntu 11.04" & I did not see anything saying it was a sable release from [http://ubuntuforums.org](http://ubuntuforums.org) 

I was thinking about upgrading to it via Alt+F2 & update-manager -d

I read that this was Natty Narwhal Alpha 1 does it run good with out any crashes? I would be installing the update on a 32bit laptop with 2 gigs ram & 300gig HD 

I just want to know if I should do it now or wait till a better release comes out.

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2011-01-10
WarrenSH

Natty narwhal is not 'officially released', hence it is still in 'alpha'

Also the fact that is it called 11.04 should tell you something, the release versions off ubuntu follow the yy.mm (that 2 digit year. 2 digit month) form. so you can immediately tell that 11.04 will not be 'officially' stable until april.

That said however, if you are feeling brave, and want to join the testing team, I'm sure they would be only too happy to have you along for the ride.

I would recomend you head over to the [Threads in Forum : Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394") forum.

Read through the various stickies, search for any specific things that may be of 'stability' interest to you. Then jump into testing out on your platform / hardware.

You may also want to 'dual boot' into the testing version. That way you won't loose any of the stability of 10.10, but will have all the nice new stuff of 11.04. You can simply create a symbolic link to your personal files.
But only files, don't sym link to the settings of the different sofware, create copies and see what breaks - otherwise you may put in a fix on the tesing version, and break up the stabe!

Good luck.

David

---

### Post by marl30 on 2011-01-10
If you're not prepared to deal with a whole host of bugs and instability issues, it is recommended that you not upgrade. Upgrading might not even work since this is still an alpha 1 development version. If you just want to test it out, you can install it in VirtualBox along with the guess additions. That's what I have done.

---

### Post by West201 on 2011-01-11
Were you able to completely log on ? 

I upgraded to Natty 11.04, but was not able to get past the login screen. The grub look great though, but I had go back to 10.10 for the reason I couldnt get pass to login option

Let me know how it turn out :)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-01-12
> **jessejj89 said:**
> upgraded to Natty 11.04, but was not able to get past the login screen. The grub look great though, but I had go back to 10.10 for the reason I couldnt get pass to login option


There is **no support** for pre-release versions apart from the specific development forum.

Part of the conditions of downloading and installing all pre-release versions is that you **stay out of the normal forums** and** only** post issues in that specific development forum.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-01-12
Moved to NNT&D

---

### Post by VeeDubb on 2011-01-12
Here's the simple, straight forward answer.

No.

It's not.

It is perfectly safe in the sense that it won't cause your pants to catch on fire or call lightening down from the sky, but it won't work well.

Why?

Because it's still alpha.

Pre-alpha means [COLOR="Magenta"]**"this thing isn't even ready for wide spread testing.  It will almost certainly not work as intended.  Don't even try unless you're a developer or just really bored."**[/COLOR]

Alpha (where we are now) means [COLOR="Red"]**"we know this thing isn't even complete and is full of bugs, but it's functional enough for the brave and/or technically skilled to play with and help us fix the bugs."**[/COLOR]

Beta means [COLOR="DarkOrange"]**"we think we've got the really major bugs worked, and it will probably work for a lot of folks but we need to get more testers to iron out the wrinkles."**[/COLOR]

Release candidate mean [COLOR="YellowGreen"]**"we think we've basically got it ready to ship, but there might be a couple of bugs here and there."**[/COLOR]

Stable release means [COLOR="Green"]**"it's a stable release."**[/COLOR]


Decide which one of those sounds like something you want on your system, and don't upgrade until it's there.


I've run development versions of several releases and this has always been true.  I have two systems at home.  One with 10.10, and one with 11.04.  That way I still have a working system WHEN (not if) the one with 11.04 gets broken by an update.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2011-01-12
> **WarrenSH said:**
> I just googled "Ubuntu 11.04" & I did not see anything saying it was a sable release from [http://ubuntuforums.org](http://ubuntuforums.org) 

I was thinking about upgrading to it via Alt+F2 & update-manager -d

I read that this was Natty Narwhal Alpha 1 does it run good with out any crashes? I would be installing the update on a 32bit laptop with 2 gigs ram & 300gig HD 

I just want to know if I should do it now or wait till a better release comes out.

Alpha's by definition are not stable.  They are not safe.  Yes they crash.  If they were stable and safe and had all the updates, then they could be released.

Same with Beta's.  Not stable, not safe, may crash.

I'm interested in helping with the debug process so I make another partition to install the unstable partially updated not running right yet version.  At this point, Unity won't run on three of my four test pc's, and on the one where it will, Natty desktop disappears frequently - both Unity and gnome.  It's a compiz bug.

So at Alpha and Beta time expect crashes and failures.  That's the development process, finding and fixing these bugs.

Jerry

---

### Post by ronacc on 2011-01-12
and always read the stickies at the top of the active developement forum .[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394) in this case and scan over atleast the first couple of pages in the forum to see what is being discussed as problematical currently and use the "search this forum" function to see if your problem is being discussed . and most important have fun :)

---

