---
title: "2.6.38 Catalyst 1.11 fglrx and HD6xxx cards"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2011-01-27
Us unfortunates that leaped ahead and bought the latest HD6xxx cards are suffering a lack of full support from fglrx Catalyst 1.11 with the current released kernels.

I have read on the ATI wiki that 2.6.38 will offer full support.

Are we able to begin to test this yet?

Is anyone testing Natty with 2.6.38 and AMD HD 6xxx?

If so what driver are you using and is it working?

---

### Post by Seren on 2011-01-27
> **BrokeMahPC said:**
> Us unfortunates that leaped ahead and bought the latest HD6xxx cards are suffering a lack of full support from fglrx Catalyst 1.11 with the current released kernels.

I have read on the ATI wiki that 2.6.38 will offer full support.

Are we able to begin to test this yet?

Is anyone testing Natty with 2.6.38 and AMD HD 6xxx?

If so what driver are you using and is it working?

Catalyst 11.1 only supports kernel up to 2.6.37

On the other hand, kernel 2.6.38 + latest mesa should provide an initial support for HD 6xxx but it is going to be very basic (maybe 20% of the Catalyst speed and features).

See [http://www.x.org/wiki/RadeonFeature](http://www.x.org/wiki/RadeonFeature) is rather up to date for the open source driver features.

What you can hope is than Catalyst 11.2 or 11.3 will support kernel 2.6.38. What usually happens is that Ubuntu got a Catalyst version working one or two weeks before the official release.

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2011-01-27
Thank you that clears things up for me. I will just force 1.11 to work and carry on waiting.

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2011-01-27
11.1 already supports 2.6.38.

Have a look here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1672882](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1672882)

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2011-01-27
^^ You are right!
The Arch Linux boys say Catalyst 1.11 works well on 2.6.38rc2 - I guess I need a caveat on what GFX cards they mean though.

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2011-01-31
Just an update on this:
If you follow the install advice from the ATI Wiki the .deb files it creates get put into your home folder and you can't uninstall the driver as the files are not where they are supposed to be.
Aticonfig cannot be found and does not work and the advice on the wiki to solve that did not work:
**[SIZE=2][B]Aticonfig not found after installation & "module does not exist" after boot**[/SIZE][/B]


Looks like Catalyst 1.11 is something different. I am left with not being able to fully uninstall it and not knowing how to proceed.

---

### Post by jaansson on 2011-01-31
I followed the guide on the ati wiki, and it got fully installed. It seems like it's working, but it's having some "ATI unsupported hardware" or something like that watermark in the bottom right. (I bought a laptop with HD6xxx today :lolflag: ) It's weird though, as you stated, that it's supposed to work with 2.6.38 according to [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Hardware](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Hardware) . Maybe we won't see it until 11.2. Or someone will take their tip and hack the control file. (I'm not up for the task :p )

---

