---
title: "11.04 upgrade on Unity?"
date: 2011-04-20
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by tubunu on 2011-04-20
I've decided to give Unity another chance before I make up my mind which display manager to stay with. I am trying to upgrade my 10.10 netbook installation to 11.04, but here are the problems I'm encountering:

- Alt+F2 doesn't work
- *update-manager-d* doesn't work in the Terminal or GnomeDo either

So how can I upgrade to the latest beta? Thanks.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-04-20
Ubuntu 11.04 is still in testing.  This forum is for Released versions of Ubuntu.

You would probably get faster and better responses if you posted your 11.04 questions to the Natty Development forum.

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-20
> **tubunu said:**
> 
- *update-manager-d* doesn't work in the Terminal or GnomeDo either.

update-manager -d (space between r and -) or was that just a typo?

FWIW I did an upgrade on my netbook (HP Mini - Atom) and it worked very well - just had a few weird dependencies where natty depended on older versions than maverick, but downgrading those packages solved it all.

---

### Post by tubunu on 2011-04-22
Thanks, it might be the missing space, I don't think I put it there. (duh!) I'll try that.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-04-22
a clean install is better, left over settings cause all sorts of problems.

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-23
> **kerry_s said:**
> a clean install is better, left over settings cause all sorts of problems.

True, and leftover deprecated and old packages may give unnecessary and even false alarms of unmet dependencies.

---

