---
title: "11.04 Loss of indicator applet"
date: 2011-04-08
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ex-wirecutter on 2011-04-08
For some reason the indicator applet in the top right hand corner of my desktop has disappeared so I can no longer see date ,time , wireless connections , etc. I did get a brief message saying it had shut down unexpectedly and did I want to reload , to which I answered yes  , but nothing . Otherwise than that Natty Narwhal is working fine (so far).

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-08
> **ex-wirecutter said:**
> For some reason the indicator applet in the top right hand corner of my desktop has disappeared so I can no longer see date ,time , wireless connections , etc. I did get a brief message saying it had shut down unexpectedly and did I want to reload , to which I answered yes  , but nothing . Otherwise than that Natty Narwhal is working fine (so far).

This is a known persisting bug in libappindicator and notification area in the panel.
It has also been discussed here on the forum recently.

Here is the bug report (741385):
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libappindicator/+bug/741385](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libappindicator/+bug/741385)

There was another bug in ubuntu-mono related to this, which is fixed now, but the broken notification area did not got fixed.

Anyway, there is a good workaround for this:
downgrade the package libappindicator1 (0.3.0-0ubuntu1)
to the previous version (0.2.99-0ubuntu1),
then reboot.

You can find the working libappindicator1 here (select the architecture first, 32-bit or 64-bit):
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libappindicator/0.2.99-0ubuntu1](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libappindicator/0.2.99-0ubuntu1)

---

### Post by ex-wirecutter on 2011-04-08
Thanks for the info , glad it's nothing I've done. Just wondering if you could spare the time to go into how exactly I do this?  It's no problem to download the tar. file , then what please ? By the way I've also noticed the drop down box on the on/off button only says "suspend" and "hibernate" the words shut down and restart are both missing . Is this part of the same problem ?

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-08
> **ex-wirecutter said:**
> Thanks for the info , glad it's nothing I've done. Just wondering if you could spare the time to go into how exactly I do this?  It's no problem to download the tar. file , then what please ? By the way I've also noticed the drop down box on the on/off button only says "suspend" and "hibernate" the words shut down and restart are both missing . Is this part of the same problem ?

I give you info how to downgrade libappindicator1 on 64-bit setup.
Go to this link:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libappindicator/0.2.99-0ubuntu1](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libappindicator/0.2.99-0ubuntu1)
Click on section Builds this link:
  amd64
Then download from the section Built Files this file:
  libappindicator1_0.2.99-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb

Then close all applications and open terminal.
Go to the directory where you downloaded the deb file.
Then run this:
```
sudo dpkg -i libappindicator1_0.2.99-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb
```
Then reboot and you are done.

---

### Post by ex-wirecutter on 2011-04-12
Thanks for that Harry , but I must have done something wrong as 11.04 became unstable and crashed . Fortunately is was only on a test bench computer so nothing lost . I think I'll wait for the next release and try again .  Cheers .

---

