---
title: "11.04 update makes my PC unusable"
date: 2011-01-26
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by hansmex on 2011-01-26
I AM ANGRY

That said, let me explain what happened. I installed the newest updates to 11.04 and restarted my PC. I wasn't too happy about what I saw, especially the sliding menu at the left side of the screen.

[B]But what REALLY bothers me is that the top menubar isn't there anymore. This makes my computer more or less useless, because I do not have access anymore to my programs, not even can I open a terminal.
[/B]
I really, really hope someone has a solution for this!!
Thanks in advance for your help!!

Hans

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2011-01-26
11.04 is still in alpha so its not quite ready for regular use yet but you can try getting your panels back if thats whats missing by pressing alt+f2 and typing gnome-panel, if you need a terminal you can press alt+f2 and type gnome-terminal, if on your next reboot you are missing the panels again just do alt+f2 and gnome-panel again and then add gnome-panel to your list of startup programs as a workaround

---

### Post by hansmex on 2011-01-26
Thank you for the answer and suggestions.

Alt-F2 doesn't give **any** response.
I can't access the top bar, so I can't restart my computer, unless by turning off the power.

Any other suggestions?

Hans

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-01-26
Please post your Natty Narwhal queries here..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394)

If you don't want or expect breakage, don't run a development release.

Try 10.04 the current Long Term Support release or 10.10 - the current non LTS release. 

Thread moved to Natty forum.

---

### Post by khamil8686 on 2011-01-26
try ctrl+alt+f1 and then running gnome-panel, then switch back by pressing ctrl+alt+f7, hopefully it will run gnome-panel in your graphical console, i havent tried it personally but ive read in other posts it has worked for others and for restarting your computer try holding down ctrl+alt+print screen and typing REISUB, its a safer way to reboot in that it unmounts your hard drive first and then shuts down instead of just cutting the power by holding down the power button, hopefully this helps :)

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-01-26
> **khamil8686 said:**
> try ctrl+alt+f1 and then running gnome-panel, then switch back by pressing ctrl+alt+f7, hopefully it will run gnome-panel in your graphical console, i havent tried it personally but ive read in other posts it has worked for others and for restarting your computer try holding down ctrl+alt+print screen and typing REISUB, its a safer way to reboot in that it unmounts your hard drive first and then shuts down instead of just cutting the power by holding down the power button, hopefully this helps :)

It is always possible to choose a different session from login window (gdm) after a reboot.
Choose Ubuntu-classic session.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-01-26
> **hansmex said:**
> I AM ANGRY

> **Harry33 said:**
> It is always possible to choose a different session from login window (gdm) after a reboot.
Choose Ubuntu-classic session.

@hansmex, I have a suggestion. Log into classic desktop the way Harry33  suggests then, before you do anything else, go to System >  Preferences > Keyboard > Layouts tab > Options. Then enable the  ctrl-alt-backspace key combination for killing the x-server. That means  that the next time the Unity desktop becomes unusable (and there will be  a next time), you will be able to use this to log out gracefully and in  again to the classical desktop so that you have a GUI to do updates and  repairs.

There have been  several occasions over the last few weeks when I was glad I had  done this. I didn't get angry each time Unity broke or gave me problems  because I had read all the warnings about **Natty being in alpha and not to use it on a production system**.

In fact, the whole point of running a development release is to stress  it in order to see when and where it breaks so that one can help by  discussing and reporting bugs. At this stage of development it is very, very unwise to try to rely on it for routine stuff.

---

### Post by sgage on 2011-01-26
I have found that when Unity freezes up on me, Ctl-Alt-PrtScr-K always brings me to the login menu. Then I log into Classic Desktop (no effects) until I cool down and am ready to try Unity again :-)

---

### Post by hansmex on 2011-01-26
@sage
Ctrl-Alt-PrtSc-K brings a login screen, where I can choose HANS or OTHER. HANS leads to the normal problem screen, OTHER is a dead end.

@harry33
Ctrl-Alt-F1 gives a Terminal window. 
Typing gnome panel answers with:
*(gnome-panel:3245): Gtk-WARNING**: cannot open display*

Ctrl-Alt-F7 brings a screen with:
[I]speech dispatcher disabled: edit/etc.....
* starting the Winbind daemon winbind
* starting bluetooth
* starting NTP server ntpd
* PulseAudio configured for per-user sessions
Saned disabled: edit /etc/default/saned
*enabling additional executable binary formats binfmt-support
* starting web server apache2
* checking battery state.....
[/I]
Remark: It's a PC, not a portable computer.
And that's where it stops and nothing happens.
Pressing Ctrl-Alt-F7 doesn't have any effect, so I use Ctrl-Alt-Del to force a restart/reboot.

I'm not sure what is a "login window (gdm)", unless it's the same window as the one I described @sage.

@coffeecat
Sorry, I can't try your suggestions.

@all
The good news is that in the brown bar the icons at top-right are now responding to clicking  them = network, sound, mail, time/date, IM and a small square that offers the possibility to 
[I]- Lock Screen
- Guest session
- Switch from HANS
- Logout
- Suspend
- Hibernate
- Restart
- Shut down[/I]

So, if anyone has any good ideas, I'm open to try just about anything to whip some sense into the computer :-)
Once again, thanks for your help so far.

Hans

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-01-26
> **hansmex said:**
> @sage
Ctrl-Alt-PrtSc-K brings a login screen, where I can choose HANS or OTHER. HANS leads to the normal problem screen, OTHER is a dead end.

<snip>

@coffeecat
Sorry, I can't try your suggestions.


You've misunderstood. At the login screen, choose your username (presumably Hans). Then, before you type in your password, you will see at the bottom of the screen where you can choose either 'desktop edition' (which is Unity) or 'classic edition' (which is classic gnome). Choose classic and you can log into the ordinary gnome desktop, where you can apply updates which might very well mend some of the breakage.

In fact you don't need to enable ctrl-alt-backspace. Ctrl-Alt-PrtSc-K, as sage suggests, does just as well.

---

### Post by sgage on 2011-01-26
When you get to the login screen, click on Hans. Then, before you enter your password, look at the bottom of the screen and you should see a place where you can specify what kind of session you want. It doesn't appear until you click on a login name.

[edit: whoops! coffeecat beat me to it]

---

### Post by hansmex on 2011-01-26
@coffeecat

THANK YOU !
That was indeed the solution. I now have a normal, classic desktop (no effect) where everything works as planned.

Thank you and all others for your help!

And if anyone may be in doubt: after 15+ years of Windows I made the switch to Ubuntu. A bit hesitant at first, but believe me, I will NEVER go back !!
I still have a Windows laptop, but it's been months since it was last powered up.

THANKS

Hans

---

