---
title: "11.04 alpha1 black border on right side of screen"
date: 2010-12-08
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jaco223 on 2010-12-08
hi all

i'm testing 11.04 alpha1. i noticed when i first booted up and logged in unity showed on the left side, which seems normal. after i enabled desktop effects to normal unity flashed went away came back and now i notice a black border on the right side of my screen. is this normal?

using imac 24" 4GB RAM 2.4GHz...dual core. 

any thoughts?

thanks,

jaco

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-12-09
Screenshot?

---

### Post by jaco223 on 2010-12-09
cariboo

here's a screen.....

as i said after installing all was well, no border to the right. after going through change desktop background
and checking normal desktop effects, unity disappeared for a moment, came back and the border to the right appeared.

thanks,

jaco

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-12-09
What is the width of your background image compared to the width of the screen resolution? Does changing the color of the solid background change the color of the black border? Does the black border disappear if the background is stretched to fit the screen?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-12-09
Do you virtual screens setup? This is the same background on my netbook.

---

### Post by jaco223 on 2010-12-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Do you virtual screens setup? This is the same background on my netbook.

@ron ....geez i feel like an idiot :) stretching and zooming gets rid of the border....not sure of the dimensions. scaling causes the
border to show. i had the image set to scale. is this normal behavior? cariboo...no virtual screens.

@cariboo ...thanks as always for your assistance!

jaco

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-12-09
Been there - done that. Don't feel bad. I know best the things I've done wrong in the past.

---

