---
title: "11.04 Unity vs Ubuntu Netbook"
date: 2011-03-30
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-03-30
There has been some Unity hate going around, and this is a thread to clarify the differences between Ubuntu Netbook Unity and Natty Narwhal Unity.
11.04 Unity:
- Window hide is now default.
- Applications manager has different application areas.
- Seems smoother.

UN Unity:
- Panel mode is default.
- Categorized, slower application areas.
- Pulling a launcher from the application area sometimes leaves you with no launcher picture.

Please, correct me if I'm wrong and add on to this.
Note: I based the 11.04 Unity from the new beta released just today.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-03-30
> **IWantFroyo said:**
> There has been some Unity hate going around, and this is a thread to clarify the differences between Ubuntu Netbook Unity and Natty Narwhal Unity.
11.04 Unity:
- Window hide is now default.
- Applications manager has different application areas.
- Seems smoother.

UN Unity:
- Panel mode is default.
- Categorized, slower application areas.
- Pulling a launcher from the application area sometimes leaves you with no launcher picture.

Please, correct me if I'm wrong and add on to this.
Note: I based the 11.04 Unity from the new beta released just today.

First off the beta hasn't been released yet, you are still using alpha 3. Secondly, there isn't a separate netbook edition any more. I really don't see a lot of difference, between Maverick and Natty, aside from the improvements from being based on compiz, instead of mutter. The speeds really aren't that much different, but otherwise it pretty well works the same.

There may be a few other differences I haven't seen yet, as the last time I reinstalled Natty on my netbook was January 8th.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2011-03-31
Interesting insights!

I won't spend a lot of time quoting/editing your posts, to prove a point, and/or claim some hollow victory.

I never played around with the netbook interface, but...

I've played with the Unity interface, to no end.  I find it quite compelling.

The funny thing is, I've found that hiding the Unity Dashboard (default) is a fail!  Loser!!!

If ppl would do this one thing -- never hide the dashboard -- they would be happy with Unity -- guaranteed!  Winner!

As soon as I set the Dashboard hide to "NEVER", Unity became workable.

I am now *thinking* about defeating the Universal Menu (default) but I haven't quite given up on it, yet.  I find it mildly irritating - that's all.

Did the netbook version have a Universal Menu system?  I suspect not...

If not, then we have accidentally stumbled up the *fix* for Unity Unhappiness -- a regression to Unity Netbook Edition.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2011-03-31
On this netbook I run full screen applications 99% of the time.  When I want to start something I go to the top left corner and wake up the Unity stuff.

Selecting "Applications" gives a screen full of "hieroglyphics" chewing up tons of real estate and spacing the text application titles out making them slow to read.  Screenful after screenful on this netbook.

If I happen to remember how to spell an application keying in the first few letters on search works O.K.  Then if I want I can pin the application to the launchbar.

I'm running Unity because this is Alpha/Beta time and we're supposed to be looking for bugs.

When something screws up - install has had tons of problems - I crank up Ubuntu 10.10 Meerkat.  I'm amazed at how fast I can get things done with 10.10 on this netbook - less windows, less keystrokes, less mouse actions.

According to the powers that be, Unity is supposed to attract more users to Ubuntu.  We'll find out...

Jerry

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-03-31
Hi!

I have a Dell mini9.

I'm testing Xubuntu 11.04 because it faster and gives me a little more real estate.

Most likely will use X on this machine.

KegHead

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-04-01
> First off the beta hasn't been released yet, you are still using alpha 3.
I was using the beta, although I don't know how official it was. There was a list of Ubuntu 11.04 early betas, put up the day I made this. I guess you do have a point- I don't know if it's the same beta as what is on ubuntu.com right now.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-02
Hi!

Switched over to 11.04/b1 Ubuntu desktop on my mini9.

Now sold on Unity.

I'd like to remove it.

Any simple solution?

KegHead

---

