---
title: "11.04 and nvidia drivers...."
date: 2011-04-14
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Hagar55 on 2011-04-14
I did it again and installed a beta on my aging (dinosoar) desktop system.

it had an nvidia FX5200 graphics card wich was poor when I bought it and beyond obselete now but it worked fine untill now.

I cannot get into unity, well I can but then I don't have unity bar but a black spot.

Now 11.04 installs the nouveau driver by default if go to additional drivers.

Is there a way to install the nvidia drivers ?

---

### Post by s.fox on 2011-04-14
Thread moved to  [Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394")

---

### Post by erikdstock on 2011-04-14
I have similar problems with my HP DV6113us and its NVIDIA GeForce Go 6150 UMA graphics card. Neither classic nor unity work in 3d mode although 10.11 worked with compiz out of the box. In my case the main problem is that windows open 90% of the time as big blank white rectangles--there have been other problems as well but this one was what made the system unusable and i've since forgotten about the others.

Since you already have upgrade I would suggest running your choice of desktop in 2d mode right now. Start with classic and if you really want to switch to unity you can install unity-2d from the software center. And hope that they fix this nvidia stuff before the launch...

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-04-14
No proprietory drivers after last install of natty.
I was advised in additional drivers of:
experimental 3D support for NVIDIA cards.
This driver provides a highly experimental 3D acceleration for NVIDIA graphics cards, as a free alternative to the proprietary driver.
You need to restart your desktop session after installation.

Thats when my pc would boot to a blank screen in ubuntu mode.
(I used failsafe graphics mode to get into gnome)

After installing updates yesterday.
There were amongst the updates NVIDIA related and nouvea and experimental.

After a few reboots:
I am now booting straight into unity mode ubuntu with full support for my fx5200 card. and no noticeable problems.

The resolution is superb on my 24" monitor > the best it has been, photos are now clearer than any previous installation of either windows or ubuntu.

---

### Post by treasonvoice on 2011-04-14
> **erikdstock said:**
> I have similar problems with my HP DV6113us and its NVIDIA GeForce Go 6150 UMA graphics card. Neither classic nor unity work in 3d mode although 10.11 worked with compiz out of the box. In my case the main problem is that windows open 90% of the time as big blank white rectangles--there have been other problems as well but this one was what made the system unusable and i've since forgotten about the others.

Since you already have upgrade I would suggest running your choice of desktop in 2d mode right now. Start with classic and if you really want to switch to unity you can install unity-2d from the software center. And hope that they fix this nvidia stuff before the launch...


Hiya folks. I found a little workaround because 3d Unity wasn't working on my nvidia Geforce 7400 Go with the current nvidia drivers. Believe it or not, nouveau is now fully functional and works slightly better (it seems). Please don't hate me for saying it. See if it works for you... if it doesn't, it won't kill your system. 

Here's a link to a similar problem. Hope it works out. Let me know.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1728379](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1728379)

Good luck!

---

### Post by treasonvoice on 2011-04-14
Wow. Beat me to it... :) I just figured it out today so I'm trying to tell the world.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-14
270.41 from x-swat ppa work well too :)

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-04-14
> **erikdstock said:**
> I have similar problems with my HP DV6113us and its NVIDIA GeForce Go 6150 UMA graphics card. Neither classic nor unity work in 3d mode although 10.11 worked with compiz out of the box. In my case the main problem is that windows open 90% of the time as big blank white rectangles--there have been other problems as well but this one was what made the system unusable and i've since forgotten about the others.
Exact same problem here, hopefully you found the bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/752445](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/752445)

For me at least, the free Nvidia drivers (Nouveau) also give a passable Unity experience, albeit with no quite so slick 3D. But that's better for the time being than those white windows. The maximise bug I mention in that report was a Unity problem and the release came out Monday.

---

### Post by erikdstock on 2011-04-14
hmmm... removing the jockey driver via jockey gave an install error and nouveau was already there, so in synaptic i removed the nvidia-common package  (i think) and then reinstalled the nouveau. now i boot to a black screen although i can ctl-alt-f1 to a terminal. advice?

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-14
Nvidia-current_270.41.03 is right now available also from Natty repos.
See here:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/270.41.03-0ubuntu1](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/270.41.03-0ubuntu1)

There is, however, a dkms.conf addition to the one in X Updates (or xorg-edgers) and it is this one:

>  * debian/dkms.conf{.in}:
    - Prevent builds with kernels newer than the ones we ship. This
      makes sense as we do not update drivers to add the support for
      kernels that are not in Ubuntu. This will reduce the amount of
      bug reports which are generated when DKMS fails to build modules
      for unsupported kernels.

---

### Post by thonuz on 2011-04-14
I have a GTS 250 that will work for about 10 minutes after which I get a total freeze-up and have to pull the plug. I have also tried the latest ppa drivers with same results, so I assume its something only Natty related as it worked before in Ubuntu and others. 
I can't keep killing the machine like this so I'm going back to a stable distro.

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-14
> **thonuz said:**
> I have a GTS 250 that will work for about 10 minutes after which I get a total freeze-up and have to pull the plug. I have also tried the latest ppa drivers with same results, so I assume its something only Natty related as it worked before in Ubuntu and others. 
I can't keep killing the machine like this so I'm going back to a stable distro.

You could try the Ubuntu Classic session w/o Compiz.
Might work that way better.

---

### Post by Yumi on 2011-04-14
Howto uninstall Compiz? I believe I use the classical layout and last time I removed compiz via Software-Centre I had no Desktop at all and could only use the dot promt.

Michael

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-15
> **Yumi said:**
> Howto uninstall Compiz? I believe I use the classical layout and last time I removed compiz via Software-Centre I had no Desktop at all and could only use the dot promt.

Michael

Uninstalling Compiz also means you'd better uninstall Unity too.
But trying out Ubuntu Classic session "with no effects" does not mean you have to uninstall anything.
I myself do not have either Unity nor Compiz installed and I am using Ubuntu Classic session only.
That desktop is very fast and responsive with Nvidia graphics card powered by proprietary drivers.

BTW I do all installations and uninstalling with Synaptic only.

---

### Post by Hagar55 on 2011-04-17
I updated the system yesterday and when I rebooted I got....nothing.
Where I should've got the startup screen the monitor just went the sleep and that's it...

So in installed natty from scratch this time instead of the update I did.
Now the nouveau drivers is installed everything seems to work although slowly...there is noticeable lag.

If I try to log into Unity I get a blank bar again with nothing in it so that doesn't work at all.

If you get the nvidia drivers as a package do you deactivate the Nouveau driver first or do you have do more to not have the two drivers slug it out...?

---

### Post by lucazade on 2011-04-17
> **thonuz said:**
> I have a GTS 250 that will work for about 10 minutes after which I get a total freeze-up and have to pull the plug. I have also tried the latest ppa drivers with same results, so I assume its something only Natty related as it worked before in Ubuntu and others. 
I can't keep killing the machine like this so I'm going back to a stable distro.

I have a gts250 and I have freeze-up as well, but only with nouveau drivers.
with proprietary drivers no freeze.
There is a bug report for this
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/nouveau/+bug/696427](https://bugs.launchpad.net/nouveau/+bug/696427)

---

### Post by Yumi on 2011-04-17
I get freezes on a classical desktop. Program stops and no CPU activity is recorded. But I am able to open the system manager and stop the process then restart the program without the need for a hard reset of the machine. Joint the bug.

Michael

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-04-17
I would like to know the right installation of drivers for my nvidia fx5200 card.
I have no icons in my left unity panel. I presume this is video card related.
Which drivers would be best to install.
Nouveau and related in software centre.
Nvidia drivers.
Is the `experimental 3d support for nvidia drivers' offered in `additional drivers' Nouveau related?

Do you need to uninstall/re-install the drivers?

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-18
> **Hagar55 said:**
> 
...
If you get the nvidia drivers as a package do you deactivate the Nouveau driver first or do you have do more to not have the two drivers slug it out...?

Install nvidia-current from Natty repos (with Synaptic) or if you do not even get X started, then from console:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
```

Do not forget to run this command too:

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

The installation will automatically blacklist nouveau.

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2011-04-18
> **Duncan Williams said:**
> I would like to know the right installation of drivers for my nvidia fx5200 card.
I have no icons in my left unity panel. I presume this is video card related.
Which drivers would be best to install.
...
Do you need to uninstall/re-install the drivers?

This nvidia proprietary driver from Natty repos works with Nvidia FX 5200:
nvidia-173.
You can install it from terminal:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-173
```

After installation you need to run this too:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

Then reboot.

This will automatically blacklist nouveau drivers.

---

### Post by erikdstock on 2011-04-18
> **Duncan Williams said:**
> 
Is the `experimental 3d support for nvidia drivers' offered in `additional drivers' Nouveau related?

Do you need to uninstall/re-install the drivers?

experimental 3d support in jockey is indeed nouveau. if you have that option and nvidia is giving you problems then you might have more luck with a switch.
Most instructions deal with removing nvidia packages but this did not work for me--probably my fault. 

What worked for me was first disabling the nvidia driver in "additional drivers," then selecting experimental 3d support.

 This of course was after i had lost my entire destop except the terminals, purged and reinstalled xorg-xserver, ubuntu-desktop, the other xorg package...

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-04-18
went to nouveau in software centre and installed all nvidia related.
Have good clear 1920 by 1080 video display (24" monitor).

However there is no icons in left panel of unity.

I tried to change to nvidia in software centre (173) and got this:
_**[screenshot]("http://files.myopera.com/DuncanWilliams/usercss/Screenshot-Untitled%20Window.png")**_

---

### Post by ricsi-pontaz on 2011-04-18
> **thonuz said:**
> I have a GTS 250 that will work for about 10 minutes after which I get a total freeze-up and have to pull the plug. I have also tried the latest ppa drivers with same results, so I assume its something only Natty related as it worked before in Ubuntu and others. 
I can't keep killing the machine like this so I'm going back to a stable distro.

I have the same video card and it is works for me out of box. Intresting.

---

