---
title: "11.04 &quot;Natty Narwhal&quot; Beta 1"
date: 2011-04-02
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by yogiman.uk on 2011-04-02
Just a quick note for anyone thinking of try 11.04 beta on a Toshiba Tecra M5.

Don't bother.

3 separate installation attempts and each ended with the same issues.

Every time the machine boots and gets into the desktop and then crashes in some way, either the top menu doesn't load, the icon bar on the left doesn't load the desktop crashes constantly and offers to send bug reports that it then fails to send.

Very strange as the Live cd seems pretty stable.

Also attempting to do any updates causes the update manager to crash.

:( First beta that I couldn't actually test properly.... :(

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-04-02
I sympathise. However, you must remember that this is a beta release. It is in a state of change. I'm sure there will be problems with some hardware, it is almost inevitable at this stage.
I would also suggest that it is not safe to use Update Manager when using a beta release - use synaptic instead, as it gives more details regarding what will be removed during an update.
I think you've done quite well running and installing a beta on a Toshiba machine, bearing in mind their acpi problems :-)

---

### Post by sammiev on 2011-04-02
Much the same here on a Toshiba 650. Natty loads perfect into VM but for a clean install to run along side of Win7 fails before it could install the gurb menu. I can still boot into win7 but no other options are available. It just crushed on install of Natty, so not sure what the error was or could be. I'm sure glad I have a full system backup of my computer so trying different things are a lot easier. GL :)

---

### Post by JuergenHartl on 2011-04-02
Tried to install in a VM (VirtualBox 4) with the same result.
Towards the end the installers crashes. I tried the DVD iso and the CD image.
This was really the first time a Ubuntu beta would not install in a VM.

---

### Post by yogiman.uk on 2011-04-02
> **Quackers said:**
> I sympathise. However, you must remember that this is a beta release. It is in a state of change. I'm sure there will be problems with some hardware, it is almost inevitable at this stage.
I would also suggest that it is not safe to use Update Manager when using a beta release - use synaptic instead, as it gives more details regarding what will be removed during an update.
I think you've done quite well running and installing a beta on a Toshiba machine, bearing in mind their acpi problems :-)

Sorry I did mean Synaptic, just hadn't had a lot of sleep at that point.

Don't know why you think Toshiba Laptops are a problem, I've been using Toshiba Laptops since Ubuntu 6.x never had a problem running Ubuntu at all, normally installs perfectly every time regardless of it being a beta or not.

Now Sony they have given me loads of problems and HP.

Thanks for the reply.

Cheers

Yogiman!

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-04-02
Thanks for your comments :-) As you can see form my sig I have a Vaio. I have not had any problems at all with several versions of Linux on this laptop. I have, however, advised many people with Toshibas to use the acpi=off boot option when having difficulty booting Ubuntu live cd's. 
It just goes to show that variations occur :-)

---

### Post by yogiman.uk on 2011-04-02
It certainly does. My old VAIO just freaks out.

But I have about 100+ toshiba laptops at my work and all run Ubuntu great!

Cheers again :)

---

### Post by sammiev on 2011-04-02
I have 3 Toshiba all no more than 18 months old. All run 10.10 great. Will only play with one on Natty 11.04 until I can prove it's stable. GL :)

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-04-02
Moved to NNT&D.

Have you tested the image to make sure it is good?

---

