---
title: "11.04 Beta - VMware Player Crashing on Open"
date: 2011-04-22
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Mr. Tux on 2011-04-22
I'm running a beta of 11.04, and I just updated my system.  After a reboot, I could no longer open up my Windows 7 virtual machine in VMware Player.  VMplayer crashes when I try to open up the virtual machine.  A update to a software package that was just released must have caused this because I did a full update yesterday too, and VMplayer worked today before I updated my system again.  I think the virtual machine might actually be starting, but just the window for it dies because I can still hear Windows booting up after a minute or two.  Does anyone know how to pull of a list of recently updated packages?  This is the terminal output when I try to open my virtual machine:

```
jared@jared-laptop:~$ vmplayer 
Logging to /tmp/vmware-jared/setup-3052.log
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.38-8-generic/misc/vmmon.ko
supported:      external
license:        GPL v2
description:    VMware Virtual Machine Monitor.
author:         VMware, Inc.
srcversion:     E3E1CF871CA4C3D90799510
depends:        
vermagic:       2.6.38-8-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.38-8-generic/misc/vmnet.ko
supported:      external
license:        GPL v2
description:    VMware Virtual Networking Driver.
author:         VMware, Inc.
srcversion:     2B4EDE3FA7EF8212DBBF653
depends:        
vermagic:       2.6.38-8-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.38-8-generic/misc/vmblock.ko
supported:      external
version:        1.1.2.0
license:        GPL v2
description:    VMware Blocking File System
author:         VMware, Inc.
srcversion:     400149ED038D22A87322D56
depends:        
vermagic:       2.6.38-8-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 
parm:           root:The directory the file system redirects to. (charp)
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.38-8-generic/misc/vmci.ko
supported:      external
license:        GPL v2
description:    VMware Virtual Machine Communication Interface (VMCI).
author:         VMware, Inc.
srcversion:     A332EC5BECB386E33233230
depends:        
vermagic:       2.6.38-8-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.38-8-generic/misc/vsock.ko
supported:      external
license:        GPL v2
version:        1.0.0.0
description:    VMware Virtual Socket Family
author:         VMware, Inc.
srcversion:     30E957C8B85A577264B0300
depends:        vmci
vermagic:       2.6.38-8-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.38-8-generic/misc/vmmon.ko
supported:      external
license:        GPL v2
description:    VMware Virtual Machine Monitor.
author:         VMware, Inc.
srcversion:     E3E1CF871CA4C3D90799510
depends:        
vermagic:       2.6.38-8-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 

(vmware-unity-helper:3090): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0

(vmware-unity-helper:3090): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0

(vmware-unity-helper:3142): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0

(vmware-unity-helper:3142): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0
jared@jared-laptop:~$ 
```

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-04-22
Ubuntu 11.04 is still in testing.  This thread is reserved for Ubuntu versions that have already been released.

You will get better and faster responses if you post your 11.04 questions to the Natty Development forum.  That is located at: Other Community Discussions --> Development & Programming --> Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion

thanks

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-04-22
#VMware as I know it does not work will with Unity, 3D, compiz at all. Use Gnome in 10.10 or 10.04 that is stable in VMware. 
#Will not even run docky well in stable versions. 
#VMware is nice but does have its limitations.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2011-04-22
Running WinXP as a guest to host Ubuntu 11.04 Beta 2 and VMware Player 3.1.4 works extremely well, just as fast as native.

Try an update and reboot and see it that helps.

---

### Post by dcolebatch on 2011-04-22
Hey Frank,  

Can you tell us what build of VMWare Player and which kernel you're running?

I'm trying to run VMWare Player version 3.1.4 build-385536 on Ubuntu 11.04 (2.6.38-8-generic) but not having any luck.

I can select my VM, but as soon as I click Run, it crashes.  

The following is displayed on the console:

```

(vmware-unity-helper:17481): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0

(vmware-unity-helper:17481): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0


21:03 ~ $  <-- yep, there's a prompt shown before these next warnings:


(vmware-unity-helper:17534): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0

(vmware-unity-helper:17534): GLib-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.28.6/./glib/goption.c:2132: ignoring no-arg, optional-arg or filename flags (8) on option of type 0
```

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2011-04-22
I'm running the same as you. Did you do an update today? and then a reboot?

---

### Post by dev.null on 2011-04-23
I'm having exactly the same issue. You select the VM from the player interface, when you tell it to play that VM a window pops up briefly, then disappears.

A minute or so later you hear the windows login-prompt sound and ps ax shows it's running - just no visual.

Workaround I'm thinking of - copy VM to "good" machine and set it up w/ vnc. The guest is Windows 7, maybe it already comes w/ RDP enabled? - I can't remember. Either way, start the machine and use remote control across the vmnet.

This **isn't** a direct compiz problem. I was using compiz on 10.10 w/out any issues w/ vms. The only reason I went w/ 11.04 was this new laptop video didn't play well in 10.10 and the upgrade made all the video work.

Maybe something about compiz is "improved" that is causing the break, but to say player doesn't work with compiz is false.

Also, I'm using ubuntu classic, maybe some parts of unity are still loading, but I'm not sure this problem is a direct unity issue.

---

### Post by dcolebatch on 2011-04-23
@fjgaude, mine is a fresh install of 11.04 after I bought a new SSD, with all updates applied and a reboot.  I can confirm VMWare Player worked fine on this laptop with 10.10 just a few days ago.

I too am trying to launch a Windows 7 VM to run some corporate apps.

---

### Post by dev.null on 2011-04-23
> **dcolebatch said:**
> @fjgaude, mine is a fresh install of 11.04 after I bought a new SSD, with all updates applied and a reboot.  I can confirm VMWare Player worked fine on this laptop with 10.10 just a few days ago.

I too am trying to launch a Windows 7 VM to run some corporate apps.

Yeah, I did 10.10 on the laptop just a few days ago, vmware was fine but all my video drug along.

So I upgraded to 11.04 figuring it was good-to-go by now. I setup a couple ppas for some other reasons before trying vmware, thought maybe they interfered (kernel enhancements for the Intel i5 and SandyBridge). So I did a complete re-install last night w/ natty beta 2, no additional ppas, and vmware player still doesn't work.

Looks like now the VM doesn't even start...

---

### Post by dcolebatch on 2011-04-23
> **dev.null said:**
> 

Looks like now the VM doesn't even start...

Mine has yet to start on 11.04, I was surprised to read that yours started but in a headless mode.

In my experience with VMWare on linux, I generally have to be at kernel -1 in order for the modules to even compile. I was pleasantly surprised to see it install smoothly, alas, it was too good to be true!

---

### Post by dev.null on 2011-04-23
Just tried an experiement:


1. Created new VM, Windows 7, matching my old VM (not x64, my current vm is not x64). Told it I'd install the OS later.

2. Boots just fine. The netboot comes up after the bios screen, etc. The original VM doesn't get this far.

3. Copied the old vmdk to the new VM folder. Added it as disk, deleted original disk, change new disk to scsi 0:0.

4. boot new VM, same behavior as before, screen flashes and goes away. Now no VM running in the background.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2011-04-23
For a few hours about two days ago I had the same experience of the VM starting killed the Player console. I updated 11.04 and the issue went away. Player 3.1.4 is required to work with 11.04 kernel.

I'm running WinXP as a guest.

---

### Post by al_089 on 2011-04-24
Also having this problem on 11.04 with 7.1.14.. same error for glib goption..

---

### Post by rawlink on 2011-04-25
I am also running into this issue. At this point I am looking into back rev'ing to 10.10.

I have found that with the guest running in the background as some have experienced in this thread, I can right click on the vmware tray icon and choose "shutdown vms". I think you need to have the tools installed in your guests to do this. This at least avoids the need to kill the vmware machine process.

I run into the vmware workstation/player crash mostly when I am pausing or unpausing vms. If I have successfully shut down all backgrounded VMs, I can usually start one and only one VM (not unpausing, actually booting). Any attempt at starting a second VM will cause the UI to crash.

You will find that the .log files in your VM directory (where all the .vmdk and .vmx files are located), will probably help to figure out what is going on. It seems like there are problems with the communication between the VM processes and the VMWare Workstation/Player interface.

I have to get work done, so I am not going to dig into this any further myself (I just need to get back to a working configuration). Hopefully somebody will find this information helpful.

-Kenneth

---

### Post by rawlink on 2011-04-25
I figured out the problem. This issue was caused by the update of the overlay-scrollbar package (at least that's what caused it for me).

You will need to downgrade your overlay-scrollbar packages from the 0.1.9 version to 0.1.7.

I accomplished this by opening a terminal and performing the following steps:

[LIST=1]
[*]cd /var/cache/apt/archives
[*]sudo dpkg -i overlay-scrollbar_0.1.7-0ubuntu1_all.deb liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0_0.1.7-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb
[/LIST]

Note that this step will only work if you still have the old packages in your apt cache. Otherwise you will need to download these packages (if they still exist) from an ubuntu mirror and install them using step 2 above.

I hope this helps. I filed a bug in launchpad (#770625).

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/overlay-scrollbar/+bug/770625](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/overlay-scrollbar/+bug/770625)

---

### Post by AhronZombi on 2011-04-25
> **rawlink said:**
> I figured out the problem. This issue was caused by the update of the overlay-scrollbar package (at least that's what caused it for me).

You will need to downgrade your overlay-scrollbar packages from the 0.1.9 version to 0.1.7.

I accomplished this by opening a terminal and performing the following steps:

[LIST=1]
[*]cd /var/cache/apt/archives
[*]sudo dpkg -i overlay-scrollbar_0.1.7-0ubuntu1_all.deb liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0_0.1.7-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb
[/LIST]

Note that this step will only work if you still have the old packages in your apt cache. Otherwise you will need to download these packages (if they still exist) from an ubuntu mirror and install them using step 2 above.

I hope this helps. I filed a bug in launchpad (#770625).

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/overlay-scrollbar/+bug/770625](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/overlay-scrollbar/+bug/770625)


good job, thanks for the fix. i can do without the fancy overlay scroll bar till it is fixed

---

### Post by heroprotago on 2011-04-26
You can also disable the theming of vmware player - see
[http://developers-developers-developers.blogspot.com/2011/04/ubuntu-1104-vmware-player-dies-when.html](http://developers-developers-developers.blogspot.com/2011/04/ubuntu-1104-vmware-player-dies-when.html)
works fine for me

--
hero

---

### Post by ioca100 on 2011-04-26
> **heroprotago said:**
> You can also disable the theming of vmware player - see
[http://developers-developers-developers.blogspot.com/2011/04/ubuntu-1104-vmware-player-dies-when.html](http://developers-developers-developers.blogspot.com/2011/04/ubuntu-1104-vmware-player-dies-when.html)
works fine for me

--
hero

Thank you, it is all right again.

---

### Post by Fintan on 2011-04-27
> Mine has yet to start on 11.04, I was surprised to read that yours started but in a headless mode.

In my experience with VMWare on linux, I generally have to be at kernel -1 in order for the modules to even compile. I was pleasantly surprised to see it install smoothly, alas, it was too good to be true!

I concur.

I tried on my kubuntu 11.04 today. Nada.

I have posted a thread here:
[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3116474.msg260687;topicseen#msg260687]("http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3116474.msg260687;topicseen#msg260687")

If I get any feedback I'll let you know.

Edit:
I went ahead and downloaded the patch:
[http://www.russo79.com/vmware7.1.3-patch-kernel-2.6.37.sh]("http://www.russo79.com/vmware7.1.3-patch-kernel-2.6.37.sh")

Then did:
> sudo ./vmware7.1.3-patch-kernel-2.6.37.sh
from the directory I downloaded the patch to.

Now everything is working fine

I hope this helps someone here :)

---

