---
title: "OS missing from grub menu"
date: 2011-03-24
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-24
I have 2 Natty installs (sda5 and [noparse]sda8)[/noparse]. I use the sda5 install every day for the usual daily uses. It is booted up 95% of the time I am using my laptop.
I last booted up the sda8 install about 10 to 12 days ago. I noticed earlier that it was missing from the grub menu. This has happened before on occasions, but a sudo update-grub always brought it back. But today it was a struggle.
The first update-grub did not find it. Neither did the second. I tried to mount the file system but it "failed to mount". Curious!
I opened gparted, which found the partition and did not report any problems with it. I ran the "check" from gparted anyway. The file system was reported as clean. 
I had to run update-grub another 3 times before it found the sda8 install. I am now booted into that installation and it's fine. In fact I'm updating it as I speak.
Has anbody else had this happening to them?
Thanks

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2011-03-24
I had noticed some oddities but I'd also been fiddling with grub-customizer (a lot) so I basically did this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10562947&postcount=31](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10562947&postcount=31)

And after totally reinstalling grub all seemed fine. I don't know if my assumption about my "playing around" caused the problem or not :confused:

Just a few notes:

Both "/etc/default/grub" and "/etc/grub.d" are regenerated by purging and then reinstalling 'grub-pc' & 'grub-common', but /boot/grub is NOT that's why I include "mkdir /boot/grub".

Also it's probably not totally necessary to purge 'grub-customizer', 'startupmanager', and 'ubuntu-tweak', but I just figure it's best to purge anything I've used to modify anything even remotely associated with grub.

I've not had much time to play the past few days and hadn't even updated Natty in two days but I notice that there are grub updates today. The changelog is lengthy:

> grub2 (1.99~rc1-5ubuntu1) natty; urgency=low

  * Resynchronise with Debian.  Remaining changes:
    - Adjust for default Ubuntu boot options ("quiet splash").
    - Default to hiding the menu; holding down Shift at boot will show it.
    - Set a monochromatic theme and an aubergine background for Ubuntu.
    - Apply Ubuntu GRUB Legacy changes to legacy update-grub script: title,
      recovery mode, quiet option, tweak how memtest86+ is displayed, and
      use UUIDs where appropriate.
    - Fix backslash-escaping in merge_debconf_into_conf.
    - Remove "GNU/Linux" from default distributor string.
    - Add crashkernel option.
    - Bypass menu unless other OSes are installed or Shift is pressed.
    - Allow Shift to interrupt 'sleep --interruptible'.
    - Reduce visual clutter in normal mode.
    - Remove verbose messages printed before reading configuration.
    - Suppress kernel/initrd progress messages, except in recovery mode.
    - Handle filesystems loop-mounted on file images.
    - Ignore devices loop-mounted from files in Linux grub.d scripts.
    - Show the boot menu if the previous boot failed.
    - Don't generate device.map during grub-install or grub-mkconfig.
    - Adjust upgrade version checks for Ubuntu.
    - Suppress "GRUB loading" message unless Shift is held down.
    - Adjust versions of grub-doc and grub-legacy-doc conflicts.
    - Fix LVM/RAID probing in the absence of /boot/grub/device.map.
    - Look for .mo files in /usr/share/locale-langpack first.
    - Make sure GRUB_TIMEOUT isn't quoted unnecessarily.
    - Build-depend on qemu-kvm rather than qemu-system for grub-pc tests.
    - Use qemu rather than qemu-system-i386.
    - Add a grub-rescue-efi-amd64 package.
    - On Wubi, don't ask for an install device, but just update wubildr
      using the diverted grub-install.
    - Enable lua from grub-extras.
    - Incorporate the bitop library into lua.
    - Add enum_pci function to grub module in lua.
    - Check hardware support before using gfxpayload=keep.
    - Build part_msdos and vfat into EFI boot images.
    - Put second and subsequent Linux menu entries in a submenu.
    - Preferred resolution detection for VBE.
    - Set vt.handoff=7 for smooth handoff to kernel graphical mode.
    - Don't ask where to install if upgrading and core.img doesn't exist.
    - Drop the default priority of grub2/linux_cmdline to medium.
    - Build with gcc-4.5 on ppc64.
    - Add apport hook for ProblemType = 'Package'.

 -- Colin Watson <cjwatson@ubuntu.com>  Wed, 23 Mar 2011 23:51:04 +0000


---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-03-24
Part of updating grub includes grub-probe/os-prober. One or both may not be able to run properly if a device can't be mounted during the update process. That may have been the problem, but it's just a guess, and it doesn't explain why it wouldn't mount in the first place.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-24
Thanks for the info kansasnoob.
I don't have GrubCustomizer, Ubuntu-tweak or startup manager installed, so that is not an issue here. (I do all my grub customising the old way - following drs305's excellent guides).
I have, though, re-installed grub a few times by booting into the sda5 system and running ```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
``` though I have not purged for quite some time. This is so that the sda5's grub remains in control of booting everything, which I prefer, due to the major customisations done to it (and the fact that all my isos are bootable from that menu).
I'll see how things go for a while. Thanks.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-24
> **drs305 said:**
> Part of updating grub includes grub-probe/os-prober. One or both may not be able to run properly if a device can't be mounted during the update process. That may have been the problem, but it's just a guess, and it doesn't explain why it wouldn't mount in the first place.

Thanks drs305, yes, I see that. As you say, that doesn't explain why the partition refused to mount, even though fsck said it was ok. 
maybe something got twisted up somewhere! Dunno :confused:
It's all back to normal for the moment though :-)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-03-24
maybe you hit that issue:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/os-prober/+bug/704538](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/os-prober/+bug/704538)

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-24
Yes, dino99, it would seem so!
I don't know why the sda8 partition was not mounting at the time. All my other OSes were mounting fine and they were picked up by os-prober. As I said earlier, fsck reported the partition as clean but it still would not mount for some reason.
I think your conclusion is probably correct. If the partition won't mount, os-prober won't find the OS in that partition. Which does sound reasonable to me. If the partition won't mount os-prober won't be probing it :-)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-03-24
have you use gconf-editor or mountmanager to tweak the system ? Maybe compare fstab & mtab

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-24
The only thing I can recall is using gconf-editor to disable screen-lock and screensaver-lock. Nothing else.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-03-24
> **Quackers said:**
> The only thing I can recall is using gconf-editor to disable screen-lock and screensaver-lock. Nothing else.

one thing i remember is about os-prober updated during maverick A2: without any hardware change, while upgrading it, my hdds were switched: sda-> sdc, sdb-> sda, then the grub menu issue appeared (both are pata)

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-03-24
That's strange, unless you had a usb flash drive plugged in at the time, maybe.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-03-24
> **Quackers said:**
> That's strange, unless you had a usb flash drive plugged in at the time, maybe.

no external reader, but kernel have hard time during boot time to discover usb and sata hardware, so i dont know exactly if its an os-prober or kernel issue. (maybe related to my jmicron chipset)

---

