---
title: "10.10 to 11.04 no task bar no dock on the lft"
date: 2011-04-21
forum: Natty Narwhal Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by strategy on 2011-04-21
[http://i53.tinypic.com/287dun5.png](http://i53.tinypic.com/287dun5.png)

There is no dock thing on the left. No task bar on the top. Nothing. It said the upgrade was successful. Everything went good without a problem. Except when i turned it on, logged in. And there were no menus. :( Please help me find a way to fix it or get back to 10.10

---

### Post by strategy on 2011-04-21
Anyoneeee??????????????????

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-04-21
Let's move the thread to the Natty forum where you might be more likely to get some help.

But please do not bump your posts before 24 hours have passed without reply.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-04-21
Have you tried installing drivers via System> Administration> Additional Drivers?

The only way to go back to 10.10 is to run a clean install.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-04-21
At the log-in screen, what session are you selecting?

---

### Post by strategy on 2011-04-22
> **uRock said:**
> Have you tried installing drivers via System> Administration> Additional Drivers?

The only way to go back to 10.10 is to run a clean install.
I cant even get into that. There are no panels. And i dont wanna do a clean install. I have so much data on the comp.
> **lidex said:**
> At the log-in screen, what session are you selecting?
I am selecting ubuntu. I am able to get into ubuntu classic and the panels show up. Should i try what the top guy said? Or should i just wait for the full release and upgrade it from ubuntu classic session?
Thanks for replying btw. I appreciate it the help guys!!!:KS :)

---

