---
title: "6.10: Netinstall floppies"
date: 2007-01-31
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by Curufir on 2007-01-31
A few people have found the previous versions of these useful so here are the Edgy x86 Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Xubuntu/Server floppies. If you can use another method to install (e.g. Mini ISO, tftp boot, etc) then try that first. These floppies are more of a special case get-out-jail free card for people without CD drives or CD burners. If anyone out there feels like mirroring 9mb of very low traffic files then I'd sure like you to get in touch (Most errors happen with people trying to put the image files back together).

**Preparation:**
Get 6 1.44mb good floppy disks. By good I don't mean the one you've been using as a coaster for the past year, I mean good enough that you can write to them without errors.

Get all the files I've posted on this thread.

*NOTE: These are **_NOT_** zip files, they just have the .zip extension, do not attempt to extract them. The forum code won't allow me to upload something that's 1.44mb in size directly, however it will allow files with a .zip extension up to 920kb in size. Therefore I've split each disk into 2 parts and labelled them with a .zip extension. The disk parts are all labelled disk<disk>.<part>.zip. Don't let yourself get confused, don't believe the icons in your file manager, they are **NOT** zip files. Use the instructions to rebuild the disk images.*

**Rebuild:**
Thanks to me being forced into splitting the images you'll have to put them back together to get the real disk images. This is a very simple operation:
```

Windows:
copy /b boot.1.zip+boot.2.zip boot.img
copy /b disk1.1.zip+disk1.2.zip disk1.img
...

Linux:
cat boot.1.zip boot.2.zip > boot.img
cat disk1.1.zip disk1.2.zip > disk1.img
...
```

**Write:**
Now write the images onto your real floppy disks. It's probably a good plan to label the disks :) .
These are image files, they contain an image of the whole floppy disk, they must be written out to the disk (Similar to burning a CD from an ISO image).

Windows:

Use the free utility RawWrite [http://www.chrysocome.net/rawwrite](http://www.chrysocome.net/rawwrite)

Linux:
```

dd if=/path/to/image of=/dev/fd0

```


**Install:**
Set your computer to boot from a floppy drive in the BIOS. If you can't do this then you REALLY shouldn't be using this guide.

Insert the disk that has been written with boot.img and reboot. After a short delay you'll get asked to insert disk 1 and press a key, the disk will be read and you will be asked for disk 2, etc. After all disks are read the Ubuntu installer will start.

It's the text only installer so don't get scared when you see lots of kernel messages rushing by while it's booting. After answering a few questions and downloading the base system you will be given the option to install Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Xubuntu/Server/etc.

After selecting your preference do not panic when the progress bar stays at 6%. The installer must download a large number of files to your system before they can be installed. How long this takes will depend on your download speed (Around 1 hour at 255kb/s).

After installation be sure to remove all floppies and alter your BIOS to boot from the appropriate hard-drive.

**Notes:**
This HOWTO uses modified GRUB code to support composing an initrd from multiple files. Do not complain to the GRUB devs about bugs.

This is a network install. No supported network card = no install. The supported hardware is the same as that for the Mini ISO.

The installer uses <space> to select an option (You'll need this when selecting video modes), the cursor keys for navigation and the enter key to hit a button.

These disks are effectively a floppy version of the Mini ISO install CD, the only difference being a smaller kernel image (I couldn't fit the Mini ISO one on one disk).

I don't take any credit for the excellent work someone else did putting together the Mini ISO system.

**Common Mistakes:**
Treating these files as though they are zip archives. They aren't, they are just big blocks of data with filenames that happen to end in .zip.

Downloading the forum error page. The forum requires you to be logged in before you can download files. If you hit 'save as' and wind up with a file less than 720kb then this is probably the reason why.

Not being in the right directory when rebuilding. Usually this just affects folks that are unused to the command line. On Windows you can get a command prompt with Start->System->Accessories->Command prompt. Use the command 'cd directory' to change directory (No apostrophes, use the name of the directory you want to change to). 'dir' will give a list of files/directories in the current directory.

Copying the image files into a disk instead of writing them to the disk. In theory this shouldn't be possible (Unless you have some 2.88mb disks lying around), but if you find yourself getting a 'disk full' error then it's likely this is what you're trying to do.

Out of disk space. Usually only a problem when installing in a virtual machine. The install requires a minimum of 2.5gb disk space. You'll know when you run out because the installer will just hang there doing nothing, but ctrl-alt-f2 will still give you a busybox shell. Don't get confused with the "This thing has been sitting on 6% for hours" download part of the install.

Unsupported network card. The Mini-ISO (Which this guide copies) supports a nice range of cards, but by no means all the cards supported in a full install. If you're using exotic hardware or something that is only supported via the restricted modules then you're likely to be out of luck. If you're feeling really adventurous then you can try downloading the appropriate modules (Use modules built for 2.6.17-10-386), copy them to a floppy, press "Go Back" in the installer at some point (After the network configuration fails would be good :) ), start a shell, mount the disk, modprobe the modules, close the shell and restart network configuration (I believe you'll also want a lunar eclipse, 3 virgins and a live chicken).

Using the wrong disk. If GRUB gives tells you "Error 15: File not found" then chances are you've put the wrong disk in. You did label them...didn't you?

Using bad floppies or having a junked floppy drive. This is probably the number one thing that people have got caught out by in previous versions of this guide. Floppies are temperamental little things at the best of times, even after they've just been bought from the store. If you hear the disk drive grinding away when writing out the image then it might, I say might, be an indication of a bad floppy. If you have problems then try replacing the disk the install stops on and try again.
```

aa644704d5251b304f1a23083c9eb291  boot.img
8afd1b03c2ae2541749396ea7a77c56d  disk1.img
a2fb9e2eb5cdbc27589764e25c8d1a13  disk2.img
98f639fee8f68739119f0967c12adef0  disk3.img
4c055f660d8cac486dd04552e5d24806  disk4.img
e6a49dd7c2da752e97e77e6b42818650  disk5.img

```

---

### Post by Curufir on 2007-02-01
boot.img
disk1.img

These are **NOT** zip files. See the instructions for how to recompose the .img files.

---

### Post by Curufir on 2007-02-01
disk2.img
disk3.img

These are **NOT** zip files. See the instructions for how to recompose the .img files.

---

### Post by Curufir on 2007-02-01
disk4.img
disk5.img

These are **NOT** zip files. See the instructions for how to recompose the .img files.

---

### Post by SilverWave on 2007-02-02
Ok all that gets downloaded is a small stub - not the 720kb files.
Not being cheeky but they do dl for you ok?
Anybody else having this issue or just me?

I can dl other files ok I have tried save as link and ff flashgot and webdownloader...

---

### Post by gorilla_king on 2007-02-02
silverwave when i download it it's the full 720kb but when i try to ope  it, it wont. heres the output
```
[/home/thomas/Desktop/disk4.1.zip]
  End-of-central-directory signature not found.  Either this file is not
  a zipfile, or it constitutes one disk of a multi-part archive.  In the
  latter case the central directory and zipfile comment will be found on
  the last disk(s) of this archive.
zipinfo:  cannot find zipfile directory in one of /home/thomas/Desktop/disk4.1.zip or
          /home/thomas/Desktop/disk4.1.zip.zip, and cannot find /home/thomas/Desktop/disk4.1.zip.ZIP, period.
```
but i think thats due to the way they are packed and thats why you should use the command line ways of unarchiving

---

### Post by Curufir on 2007-02-02
gorilla_king:

They are not archives. They certainly aren't zip files.

What each of these files actually represents is one half of a disk image for a 1.44mb floppy.

The forum puts limits on how big files can be depending on the extension they get uploaded with. It allows around 920kb for files with a .zip extension so I just split the image files into two and uploaded the pieces with a .zip extension.

The instructions tell you how to put the files back together into disk images. If someone comes along with a mirror for the full sized files then this step will become unnecessary.

SilverWave:

Odd, I can dowload them fine. The forum does require you to be logged in to download files. That would explain not getting a 720kb file, you'd be dowloading the html page saying you aren't logged in.

---

### Post by SilverWave on 2007-02-03
> **Curufir said:**
> gorilla_king:

Odd, I can dowload them fine. The forum does require you to be logged in to download files. That would explain not getting a 720kb file, you'd be dowloading the html page saying you aren't logged in.

Working now - must have been a log on issue thanks for the help.

I ran md5sum against the rebuilt files and they are all ok :)

```
 md5sum -c check.md5
boot.img: OK
disk1.img: OK
disk2.img: OK
disk3.img: OK
disk4.img: OK
disk5.img: OK

```

Now I can dig out that old pc and give this ago :KS

---

### Post by Curufir on 2007-02-03
> **SilverWave said:**
> Now I can dig out that old pc and give this ago :KS

Good luck, let me know how it turns out. I've run through the full Ubuntu install whilst checking the disks, but one install doesn't really prove anything. It'll be interesting to see someone else get through it.

---

### Post by SilverWave on 2007-02-04
> **Curufir said:**
> Good luck, let me know how it turns out. ...

Ran through install today...

Your side of of it works fine (thanks).
e.g. the netinstall from the mirror pulls in the software repartitions the hard drive installs grub etc.

I can log in and access the console after boot up.

I can not boot up into gnome, this is probably a hardware issue with video card.
starting...
em:17179569.184000 acpi unable to locate rsdp
em:67.613159 codec read timeout (final) at 0xe014=0x7c [0x0]
etc....

It was always a long shot with the ancient hardware I had to test it on - but the good news is I have another way out if I find myself in trouble and have had practice installing via floppies and the text based install.

Again thanks for putting this guide together I have learned a lot :)

---
I may have a look at the hardware issues later but tbh it may be more trouble than its worth  - to give you an idea this old box is a K6 (500mhz) with 2656mb ram, 2x30gb HD's, Oh yeah and a 3dfx Voodoo 3000 AGP card :D

---

### Post by EL CHAVO on 2007-03-02
I tried your floppies on an older Toshiba Satellite laptop with a broken cdrom, and it worked perfectly! I installed Kubuntu and it all seems to be well. Thanks for your efforts!

---

### Post by Curufir on 2007-03-02
Thank you for the feedback.

---

### Post by __markus__ on 2007-03-28
On [this page]("http://www.imhorst.net/wp-content/uploads/2007/03/Netinstall-Floppies.zip") one can find the images in one zip file, so you do notz have to do all the downloading and "cating"

Markus

---

### Post by okamogu on 2007-04-23
Thanks to Curufir for providing the netinstall boot floppies.

I already downloaded the files and created the floppies, but did not yet try to install Ubuntu  as I want to doublecheck whether these floppies would install version 6.10 or whether one can also choose to install version 7.04 of Xubuntu. Just want to make sure that I don't kill my openSUSE 10.2 installation by installing Xubuntu 6.10 and not 7.04. Thanks.

---

### Post by Lucho77 on 2007-06-01
CURUFIR ROCKS!!
I am following your couple of 'Netinstall floppies' (5.10 and this one 6.10) both of them worked for me, THANK YOU.
Just want to let you know I had some trouble to build 'disk1.img' in the 6.10 version thread.
I used my '5.10 version computer' which I built from your floppies (now converted to 6.10), and had trouble because when I used the 'cat' command it showed lines and lines of weird characters like if I was using it to see an *.exe file, I hope you know what I mean, even I tried in my other computer with '6.10 version on it, and it did the same,
BUT, I solved this just using an XP computer with 'rawrite', other than that everything went smooth.

Thank you very much for doing this, really appreciated.
I am looking forward to see your 'floppy files' for the '7.04 version' (wink)

---

### Post by Zumlin on 2007-11-01
Great Idea. Now i have a "serious" use for my old (120MHz) laptop. 

But, unfortunatelly, I have a problem. After booting from floppy I got the message "Grub". Nothing else. What went wrong?

---

### Post by Joyzer on 2007-11-03
That is exaxtly the same as I get "Grub", on my IBM X20.

---

### Post by leonurid on 2009-06-07
Dear curufir,
I'm trying to install ubuntu on a 7-year old DELL Latitude notebook. I've prepared all the tiny floppies according to your recipes. But I'm not much more than a Windows computer fool, and so I did as good as I could. 
Inserted into the notebook, nothing more happened than getting the word GRUB typed on th screen. Following your recommendation, i waited a little while of about half an hour, but nothing else happened.
I tried to check the floppies. Windows explorer showed nothing as content, but it indicated the following loading of the floppies:
Boot floppy               245 kB
Disk 1                      224 kB
Disk 2                      436 kB
Disk 3                      474 kB
Disk 4                      348.16 kB
Disk 5                      348.16 kB
Maybe the floppies are corrupt, or is the drive, as you suspegt in your article.
Anyway, I don't have much more instruments or software or knowledeg to check the quality of home prepared floppies. For instance: Once I made Windows related floppies, almost all of them are OK.
After now spending more than 3 hours on my attempt to overcome Windows I'm close to give up. I don't have enough computer knowledeg to solve the difficulties described above.
Maybe you can give me a quick answer for helping me.
Sincerely,
Hubert Smuda, Germany

---

### Post by Superhabicht on 2009-09-12
Hi everybody,

I was trying to do a net install on my old toshiba portege m3500.
Everything works fine with the boot sequence until it searches for the download archive on the ubuntu server. I always get the message that the server is not reached or that there is a wrong release file. The DHCP address should be working but it seems that the server is not reached...

Can someone help.
Thanky a lot.

Superhabicht

---

