---
title: "Setting up your dialup modem (aka winmodem)"
date: 2006-11-27
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-11-27
So you are having problems with your modem to dial out? Please see the following link for instructions on how to set up winmodems:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto)

Brief information about dialup modems in Linux:
[quote=https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto/Which]
Basically, there are two types of modems:

   1. **Software modems** (a.k.a Winmodems), which are usually delivered as PCI or USB devices or builtin with desktop PCs and laptops these days: Some of these are not supported under Linux, some are. If you bought your computer or modem recently (since ~ 2000), chances are, that you have one of this kind. A Winmodem is a combination of hardware known as chipset (much less than in a true pure hardware modem) and software (written for the Windows operating systems family). A Linmodem is a Winmodem working under the Linux kernel. This can be accomplished thanks to the Linmodems.org project. You can use the scanModem tool to find out which driver you need to get your winmodem to work under Linux.

   2. **Hardware modems**, which are connected to the serial port for example and process the raw modem commands themselves: they have become very rare, but are well supported.
[/quote]

The common procedure (which usually is hard and frustrating) would be:
[LIST=1]
[*]Go to the wiki page linked above
[*]Decide whether your modem is a hardware or a software modem
[*][If using softmodem] Learn how to use the scanModem tool, and use it to find out if your modem is supported in Linux
[*][If using softmodem] After checking the ModemData.txt output of scanModem, go to a relevant subsection of th e wikipage for instructions on your modem
[*]Use one of the options provided in the wiki to set up and configure your dialer
[/LIST]


***EDIT (HTL) :** The contents of the ModemData.txt file generated by scanModem might be a bit obscure for newcomers. If you do not understand it, you can send an email with the file attached to the [linmodems.org](http://linmodems.org) discuss@ mailing-list where nice volunteers - including myself ;) - will help you.*

---

