---
title: "Gpredict Installation"
date: 2005-12-24
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by Sapper2ID on 2005-12-24
I'm still not clear on how to install the different types of packages. I've dl the .tar.gz and extracted gpredict 5 to my home directory. I tried following the install text and seem to be missing most of these libs. I looked by searching synaptic.How do I get them in Breezy?

Instructions:


In order to compile and install Gnome Predict from source you will need
the following libraries:

* gnome-libs and gnomeui-libs 1.4 (NOT 2.0!)
* GConf 1.0.4
* gdk-pixbuf and libgnomecanvaspixbuf 0.8
* gnome-vfs and libgnome-vfs 1.0
* gnome-print and libgnomeprint 0.25
* libgal 0.11

If you are using a fairly new linux distribution and you have Gnome installed,
these libraries are probably installed already. Note, however, that you will
also need the header files which are usually included in the so called develop-
ment packages, ie. gnome-libs-devel, gnome-print-devel etc. If you are unsure,
just go on to the next section - you will be notified during compilation, if
you need any of the above libraries.


2. Installation
---------------

To install Gnome Predict from source you type:

./configure --disable-nls
make
su [enter root password]
make install

(If you got the source code from the CVS repository, you should run './autogen.sh'
instead of './configure'.)
If you don't get any errors during these steps, Gnome Predict should be installed

This is the output from running ./configure --disable-nls


ron@ubunturon:~$ cd gpredict-0.5.2
ron@ubunturon:~/gpredict-0.5.2$ ./configure --disable-nls
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for gawk... gawk
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking whether to enable maintainer-specific portions of Makefiles... no
checking for style of include used by make... GNU
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... a.out
checking whether the C compiler works... yes
checking whether we are cross compiling... no
checking for suffix of executables...
checking for suffix of object files... o
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... yes
checking for gcc option to accept ANSI C... none needed
checking dependency style of gcc... gcc3
checking for library containing strerror... none required
checking how to run the C preprocessor... gcc -E
checking for egrep... grep -E
checking whether gcc needs -traditional... no
checking for gcc... (cached) gcc
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... (cached) yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... (cached) yes
checking for gcc option to accept ANSI C... (cached) none needed
checking dependency style of gcc... (cached) gcc3
checking for ranlib... ranlib
checking for gcc... (cached) gcc
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... (cached) yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... (cached) yes
checking for gcc option to accept ANSI C... (cached) none needed
checking dependency style of gcc... (cached) gcc3
checking for ANSI C header files... yes
checking for dirent.h that defines DIR... yes
checking for library containing opendir... none required
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking for gnome-config... no
checking for gnomeConf.sh file in /usr/local/lib... not found
configure: error: Could not find the gnomeConf.sh file that is generated by gnome-libs install
ron@ubunturon:~/gpredict-0.5.2$


Thanks for any help you can give.

---

### Post by Gael on 2005-12-24
This woked to me:

sudo apt-get  install gnome-libs-data libgnomeui-0 gconf libgdk-pixbuf2 libgdk-pixbuf-dev gnome-vfs-extfs libgnomevfs2-common libgnomeprint15 libgnomeprint-data libgnomeprint-dev libgnome-vfs0 libgnome-vfs-common libgnome-vfs-dev libgal-dev libgal2.0-6 libgal2.0-common libgal-data
hamlib3 hamlib-dev

---

### Post by Sapper2ID on 2005-12-24
Thanks!
I had to add a hamlib but got it to work. So cool.

You also taught me that I could put all those commands together, I didn't know that. Plenty of times I wish I could have done that. This was worth the pain in the a.. just to find that out.

---

### Post by patrick295767 on 2006-05-05
I got an error : installation!
configure: error: /bin/sh './configure' failed for vflow

would you know what it is ? 

How can I install gnome-libs-devel ?


```
checking for executable suffix... no
checking for gcc option to produce PIC... -fPIC
checking if gcc PIC flag -fPIC works... yes
checking if gcc supports -c -o file.o... yes
checking if gcc supports -c -o file.lo... yes
checking if gcc supports -fno-rtti -fno-exceptions ... no
checking if gcc static flag -static works... -static
checking if the linker (/usr/bin/ld) is GNU ld... yes
checking whether the linker (/usr/bin/ld) supports shared libraries... yes
checking command to parse /usr/bin/nm -B output... ok
checking how to hardcode library paths into programs... immediate
checking for /usr/bin/ld option to reload object files... -r
checking dynamic linker characteristics... Linux ld.so
checking if libtool supports shared libraries... yes
checking whether to build shared libraries... yes
checking whether to build static libraries... yes
checking for objdir... .libs
creating libtool
loading cache /dev/null
checking what warning flags to pass to the C compiler... -Wall -Wunused
checking what language compliance flags to pass to the C compiler...
checking for pthread_create in -lpthread... yes
checking for fftw... configure: error: FFTW not found. Please check your installation!
configure: error: /bin/sh './configure' failed for vflow

```
  
Thank you !!

---

### Post by alexohara1 on 2006-06-11
im getting a similar problem cant find gnomeConf.sh file 
im trying to set up internet connection with buntu 5.04
and have no idea what im doing im new to linux and buntu(old windows user)
i found a package called gnome-dialup-0.4.5.tar.gz im trying to install it
using the terminal i cant use  synaptic cause i downloaded this file from another pc onto a memory stick, then placed it on the desktop on the laptop, extract it and thats it now im stuck....
i have tried these two things below but get all sorts of error perhaps im in the wrong directory???these things below where done in the folder of the unzipped package above
sudo apt-get -f -y install fftw-dev
this reads the package list and builds a dependency tree then says cant find package fftw
sudo apt-get build-essential
this says invalid operation build essential
so whats happening???
or can someone tell me how to connect or set an internet connection
any help would be appreciated
regards alex

---

### Post by smoothcne on 2006-07-06
[QUOTE=Gael]This woked to me:

sudo apt-get  install gnome-libs-data libgnomeui-0 gconf libgdk-pixbuf2 libgdk-pixbuf-dev gnome-vfs-extfs libgnomevfs2-common libgnomeprint15 libgnomeprint-data libgnomeprint-dev libgnome-vfs0 libgnome-vfs-common libgnome-vfs-dev libgal-dev libgal2.0-6 libgal2.0-common libgal-data
hamlib3 hamlib-dev[/QUOTE]

Here's what I'm getting when I run this command string:

S501295:/home/# apt-get -f install gnome-libs-data libgnomeui-0 gconf libgdk-pixbuf2 libgdk-pixbuf-dev gnome-vfs-extfs libgnomevfs2-common libgnomeprint15 libgnomeprint-data libgnomeprint-dev libgnome-vfs0 libgnome-vfs-common libgnome-vfs-dev libgal-dev libgal2.0-6 libgal2.0-common libgal-data

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
gnome-libs-data is already the newest version.
libgnomeui-0 is already the newest version.
gconf is already the newest version.
libgdk-pixbuf2 is already the newest version.
libgnomevfs2-common is already the newest version.
E: Couldn't find package libgal2.0-6

Any idea why libgal2.0-6 can't be found? I'm running Dapper right now, could this be part of my problem? I've tried this on both Breezy and Dapper and it's killing me, I can't figure this out. Please help!! ](*,)

---

### Post by smoothcne on 2006-07-06
Disregard the above post, I just installed the package in Synaptic and even though it's not the latest release, it works fine. Smooth

---

