---
title: "HOWTO: Spice up your boot text [font resolution and color]"
date: 2005-07-18
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by dudinatrix on 2005-07-18
I'm a sucker for tiny, sharp and colorful. [K]ubuntu's boot is big and bland out of the box. This thread will help you make it look better! This will not give you a splash image or hide the boot text, it will only make it look better.

[b]Difficulty:  Quick, easy and painless.  2 edits, no installs.

[color=Sienna] UPDATE:  Screenshot example added below. [Click here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=347303#post347303") for a detailed post and sample files to produce output.[/color]
[/b] 
**STEP 1: Increase resolution (optional)**
- Edit /boot/grub/menu.lst
- Add vga=792 to your default boot option.

Example:
```
title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.10-5-k7 Default 
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/vmlinuz root=/dev/hde6 ro quiet splash **vga=792**
initrd		/initrd.img
savedefault
boot
```


**STEP 2: Colorize "[ [color=YellowGreen]ok[/color] ]" ... these instructions will make it green**
- Edit /lib/lsb/init-functions
- Find the log_end_msg () function, all the way at the bottom of the file
- Add GREEN=`$TPUT setaf 2` below RED=`$TPUT setaf 1`
- Change  ```
echo "$UP$END[ ok ]"
``` to   ```
echo "$UP$END[ **${GREEN}**ok**${NORMAL}** ]"
``` 

Here's the full function, changes bolded.
 ```
log_end_msg () {

	# If no arguments were passed, return
	[ -z "$1" ] && return 1

	# Only do the fancy stuff if we have an appropriate terminal
	# and if /usr is already mounted
	TPUT=/usr/bin/tput
	EXPR=/usr/bin/expr
	if [ -x $TPUT ] && [ -x $EXPR ] && $TPUT hpa 60 >/dev/null 2>&1; then
		COLS=`$TPUT cols`
		if [ -n "$COLS" ]; then
			COL=`$EXPR $COLS - 7`
		else
			COL=73
		fi

		UP=`$TPUT cuu1`
		END=`$TPUT hpa $COL`
		START=`$TPUT hpa 0`
		RED=`$TPUT setaf 1`
		**GREEN=`$TPUT setaf 2`**
		NORMAL=`$TPUT op`
		if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
			echo "$UP$END[ **${GREEN}**ok**${NORMAL}** ]"
		else
			echo -e "$UP$START $RED*$NORMAL$END[${RED}fail${NORMAL}]"
		fi
	else
		if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
			echo "   ...done."
		else
			echo "   ...fail!"
		fi
	fi
	return $1
}

```

[b]STEP 3: You're done!  Reboot!
[/b]- Reboot, and your resolution should be increased.  Your [ [color=YellowGreen]**ok**[/color] ] messages should now be green.

Personally, I like this much better. Its simple to add colors and change colors.. just use the above as a base and take it from there! Enjoy :)

You can add MUCH more color than this. For example... To see my latest init-functions file, which produces the output in the crappy screenshot attached, [click here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=347303#post347303"). Download the attachment, and replace your init-functions file with mine. Backup first, as always!! Get creative, and post your init-functions file to share with the rest of us.

Thanks to [this thread]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=41709&page=1&pp=10&highlight=boot+resolution") for getting me started.

[color=RoyalBlue]**- DavidG**[/color]

(P.S. This is my first HOWTO \\:D/)

---

### Post by csowm5je on 2005-07-18
Thanks.

---

### Post by alvinpd on 2005-07-18
cool and simple...

---

### Post by rpgcyco on 2005-07-18
Cool, thanks for that. :)

- Rpg Cyco

---

### Post by m0biu5 on 2005-07-18
What they said - love the increased res. =)

---

### Post by bored2k on 2005-07-18
I personally haven't done this nor I pretend to, but I wanted to point this out: if anyone's having problems with the vga=792 resolution, try vga=791. That's the one that worked when I installed splashy (wich I removed because I missed the text), not 792.

I would only do this trick if I made the text color black, but then I'd miss out on errors.

---

### Post by TravisNewman on 2005-07-18
It should be pointed out that the green "ok" messages violate standards for color blindness compatibility, so if you plan on releasing a distro any time soon, don't include that ;)

I myself kinda like it.

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-07-19
I was actually thinking about this just this morning and you beat me to it. Thanks. BTW, in my /lib/lsb/init-functions I had to add the following line as you have it written in your sample:

> GREEN=`$TPUT setaf 2`

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-07-19
Hi-- 
I'm a PPC user (yaboot instead of grub)--I look at my .conf and it is "similar" to yours--
Question--Do you think that changing the line--

append="quiet splash"  to append="quiet splash vga=792"

might work or bork my .conf? (check the init message and fgcolor-- thats why I'm interested)

Here is the complete yaboot--


## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2
init-message="Welcome to Ubuntu Linux!"
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=7
root=/dev/hda7
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
fgcolor=light-green
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hda9

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-07-19
[QUOTE=panickedthumb]It should be pointed out that the green "ok" messages violate standards for color blindness compatibility, so if you plan on releasing a distro any time soon, don't include that ;)

I myself kinda like it.[/QUOTE]

hmm... SuSE 9.2 had it  :? 

i like it too  :)

---

### Post by skyboy on 2005-07-19
Nice trick, thanks :)
.. it's useless but I love those

---

### Post by Heliode on 2005-07-19
Cool, thanks! I was looking for something like this since I switched from Gentoo, which basically had this. 

Slightly related; Any idea how you get a tux-penguin in the top of the screen for the number of processors you have right after the kernel is loaded? (Like Gentoo and Knoppix do?)

---

### Post by dudinatrix on 2005-07-19
Glad you guys like it! Like the post above me, I'd also like to have the Tux graphic at the top. Useless tweaks are my favorite. :)  If I figure it out I'll post it here.. but if anyone else can do it, let us know how!

[QUOTE=autocrosser]Hi-- 
I'm a PPC user (yaboot instead of grub)--I look at my .conf and it is "similar" to yours--
Question--Do you think that changing the line--

append="quiet splash"  to append="quiet splash vga=792"

might work or bork my .conf? (check the init message and fgcolor-- thats why I'm interested)
[/QUOTE]

I'm not a PPC user, so take what I say with a grain of salt. It looks like what you suggested will work. If nothing changes, try vga=791. Worst case scenario, if it doesn't boot, just get into recovery mode and change the .conf back and you should be fine. Good luck!

---

### Post by minio on 2005-07-19
For rsolution and colour depth i found [this HOWTO](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Framebuffer:Bootsplash:Grubsplash#Smaller_fonts_on_framebuffer_for_greater_area). When you scroll the page down you will found table of kernel mode numbers for the 'vga=' parameter. It is for gentoo but i think it should work for Ubuntu also.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-07-19
Well--I tried append="quiet splash vga=792" , append="quiet spash vga=791"---no luck--booted fine (and normal)--then I tried adding the line append="vga=792" , append="vga=791"---still no luck.... O- PPC boots with the penguin logo in the top bar area--I'm a dual 1G system--so I have two O:) 


I'll take a look at the Gentoo info--I've used their site before--tried to install the 2004.3 release--never worked well for me :neutral: 

(edit)--took a quick look at the Gentoo info--looks like what I need--at work right now, so I'll work with on it this evening!!

Thanks for all the input!!!

Cheers!!
Dean

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-07-19
[QUOTE=autocrosser]Hi-- 
I'm a PPC user (yaboot instead of grub)--I look at my .conf and it is "similar" to yours--
Question--Do you think that changing the line--

append="quiet splash"  to append="quiet splash vga=792"

might work or bork my .conf? (check the init message and fgcolor-- thats why I'm interested)

Here is the complete yaboot--
[/QUOTE]

I think that should work, but just to be safe I would advise that you first backup your yaboot.conf file before changing the line. Then try it. If anything goes wrong you can change back to the backed up version.

---

### Post by cutOff on 2005-07-19
[QUOTE=skyboy]Nice trick, thanks :)
.. it's useless but I love those[/QUOTE]
I agree.

Thanks a lot for the tip!

---

### Post by FLeiXiuS on 2005-07-19
This was very awesome, I grew up with RedHat and loved the colorful boot.  Ever since that, every other distro out there didn't use it.  I'm guessing users found it blinding?  But I liked it.  Thanks.

The only problems I have had was with the resolution / tux logo.  Ubuntu hasn't seemd to like a really high resolution.  On the other hand, knoppix loved it :-P.  I'll figure it out..

---

### Post by danf_1979 on 2005-07-19
I got plenty of problems with vga=792 and vga=791. For example when I reached gnome I would click on a menu and see nothing, then pass my mouse over the invisible menu and it would appear. Same with desktop icons. There were no icons on my desktop until y passed my mouse over them...
3dfx voodoo3 here... 1024*768 max res in xorg.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-07-20
Well--I tried the Gentoo info--added a line  vga=0x317  still no change. I guess I'm going to look at a boot splash--either splashy (have seen some good info on the Breezy forum) or work with the info from [http://www.bootsplash.org/](http://www.bootsplash.org/)

I really like the verbose mode pic in the main page!!! 
( [http://www.bootsplash.org/verbose-mode.jpg](http://www.bootsplash.org/verbose-mode.jpg) )

If I find info on how to change the yaboot.conf--I'll post them here---

Cheers!!
Dean

---

### Post by darkmatter on 2005-07-20
Nice little hack. Now Ubuntu looks like a Linux box while booting instead of a DOS error. They should make the settings a default for breezy, it would help in smoothing migration by preventing coronary arrest. :smile:

---

### Post by lotusleaf on 2005-07-20
Cool idea/thread, thanks.  :mrgreen:

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-07-20
hmm...

it works, but the resolution is "hourglassing" my screen during bot/shutdown, and in the virtual consoles...

any way to make the resolution slightly bigger, but still nice and small?

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-07-21
Thought I would share another little edit...just for fun. I made the brackets that surround the red "fail" or green "ok" blue. Here's the edit to my /lib/lsb/init-functions:

> # Only do the fancy stuff if we have an appropriate terminal
    # and if /usr is already mounted
    TPUT=/usr/bin/tput
    EXPR=/usr/bin/expr
    if [ -x $TPUT ] && [ -x $EXPR ] && $TPUT hpa 60 >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        COLS=`$TPUT cols`
        if [ -n "$COLS" ]; then
            COL=`$EXPR $COLS - 7`
        else
            COL=73
        fi
        UP=`$TPUT cuu1`
        END=`$TPUT hpa $COL`
        START=`$TPUT hpa 0`
        RED=`$TPUT setaf 1`
	GREEN=`$TPUT setaf 2`
	BLUE=`$TPUT setaf 4`
        NORMAL=`$TPUT op`
        if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            echo "$UP$END${BLUE}[ ${GREEN}ok${BLUE} ]${NORMAL}"
        else
            echo -e "$UP$START $RED*$NORMAL$END${BLUE}[${RED}fail${BLUE}]${NORMAL}"
        fi
    else
	if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            echo "   ...done."
        else
            echo "   ...fail!"
        fi
    fi
    return $1
}


The important parts, of course, are where you see "BLUE." You are all smart...probably don't need to say any more. Just be sure to spell TPUT right...I did a typo and had to use a live cd to unmount the hd from read only and remount it as read/write and edit the file because my computer wouldn't boot. Not difficult, but a bit time consuming.

---

### Post by wabble on 2005-08-18
[QUOTE=panickedthumb]It should be pointed out that the green "ok" messages violate standards for color blindness compatibility, so if you plan on releasing a distro any time soon, don't include that ;)

I myself kinda like it.[/QUOTE]

The director of the it department at my old job told me (if i remember correctly) that ibm had done research on the color use for their terminals (you know as/400?) and found out that green was the color that was minimal on making your eyes tired of all colors  :wink:

---

### Post by mcduck on 2005-08-19
yeah, at one time many computer monitors had a button that changed the image to green/black to save your eyes.

Anyway, should we bann all colors and meake a B/W distro because everybody can't see every color? I don't think so, as long as the color is not the only thing giving information to user. /I mean using green/red balls at boot instead of ok/failed-text would be a problem to colorblind people, but with text that shouldn't be any problem as long as they can still read ;) And for us that can see all colors green/red texts can be quite helpful, and at least they look better so I think this feature should be used as default..

Thanks for the tip, I've been missing this feature.

---

### Post by Belutz on 2005-08-19
nice tips...
i love it :D

---

### Post by myha on 2005-08-22
Hi!

Awesomw stuff, thanks!

Does anyone know howto color other console stuff? Like hostname in diffrent color, user,... I know gentoo has this by default.

---

### Post by Rodrigo on 2005-08-22
Superb, Thanks!

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-08-26
If you find the framebuffer to be to sluggish (as I did) you might want to try [SVGATextMode](http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/utils/console/!INDEX.html) instead. Much snappier.

---

### Post by duminas on 2005-09-09
Nice howto, sir.
I realize I'm bumping, buuuuuuuuuuut figured I'd show mine off (the relevant function)..

```
[size=2]log_end_msg (){
    [ -z "$1" ] && return 1
    TPUT=/usr/bin/tput
    EXPR=/usr/bin/expr
    if [ -x $TPUT ] && [ -x $EXPR ] && $TPUT hpa 60 >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        COLS=`$TPUT cols`
        if [ -n "$COLS" ]; then
            COL=`$EXPR $COLS - 7`
        else
            COL=73
        fi
        UP=`$TPUT cuu1`
        END=`$TPUT hpa $COL`
        START=`$TPUT hpa 0`
        RED=`$TPUT setaf 1`
	WHITE=`($TPUT bold; $TPUT setaf 7)`
	CYAN=`$TPUT setaf 6`
	PRPL=`$TPUT setaf 5`
	GREEN=`$TPUT setaf 2`
        NORMAL=`$TPUT op`
        if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            echo "$WHITE$UP$NORMAL$END${CYAN}[${GREEN} ok ${CYAN}]$NORMAL"
        else
            echo -e "$WHITE$UP$NORMAL$START $RED*$NORMAL$END${PRPL}[${RED}fail${PRPL}]$NORMAL"
        fi
    else
	if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            echo "   ...done."
        else
            echo "   ...fail!"
        fi
    fi
   return $1
}[/size]
```Probably too much zest, but hey, it looks nice to me.
Thanks again, sir.

---

### Post by dudinatrix on 2005-09-12
duminas has a nice idea.... post your init-functions file if you've got a unique one! All of the boot and shutdown text customization (aside from the resolution) occurs in the /lib/lsb/init-functions file. It's actually pretty flexible. Just recently, I changed all of the text to blue, yellow and green.. and moved the "ok" or "fail" to the left side of the screen rather than the right. See the screenshot (crummy quality, phone shot, but you get the point!). Personally I really like the yellow text, it livens things up a lot, and produces some nice variation on the screen. It's much easier to read.

I cleaned up the init-functions file a bit, and moved all the color options to the top of the file, making them accessible throughout. It could probably be cleaned up more, but it was enough for me.

I've attached two versions of my init-functions.  **Just BACKUP your original init-functions and replace them with mine below. Simply rename it back to your original to go back to normal.**

**init-functions-front.txt (remove the .txt)**: Produces output in screenshot. Results "success, fail" are shown on the left side of the screen before each item. Colorful and easy to read.

**init-functions-yellow.txt (remove the .txt)**: Standard output with colors.  Results "[ ok ], [ fail ]" are on the right side, like the default.  This just adds color.

---

### Post by benplaut on 2005-09-13
bah... broken in breezy  :mad:

---

### Post by dudinatrix on 2005-09-13
[QUOTE=benplaut]bah... broken in breezy  :mad:[/QUOTE]
Ahh bummer. What happens in breezy, nothing? Seems strange, I wouldn't think init-functions be so different that it would break. What did you try to do?

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2005-10-06
Is there info on how to do this with other colors since your guide only explains how to do it with green. when i try to change green to another color is not seen as that color it stays with green when using this guide..

---

### Post by darkmatter on 2005-10-06
[QUOTE=dudinatrix]Ahh bummer. What happens in breezy, nothing? Seems strange, I wouldn't think init-functions be so different that it would break.[/QUOTE]

The init functions in Breazy have been rewriten for use with usplash. Here is the  init-functions in Breezy

```
# /lib/lsb/init-functions for Debian -*- shell-script -*-
#
#Copyright (c) 2002-03 Chris Lawrence
#All rights reserved.
#
#Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
#modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
#are met:
#1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
#   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
#2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
#   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
#   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
#3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of other contributors
#   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
#   without specific prior written permission.
#
#THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
#ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
#IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
#ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
#FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
#DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
#OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
#HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
#LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
#OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
#SUCH DAMAGE.

start_daemon () {
    local force nice pidfile exec
    set -- `POSIXLY_CORRECT=1 getopt "fn:p:" $*`
    force=0
    nice=0
    pidfile=/dev/null

    for i in $*; do
        case $i in
            -f)  force=1; shift;;
            -n)  nice=$2; shift 2;;
            -p)  pidfile=$2; shift 2;;
            --)  shift; break;;
        esac
    done

    exec=$1; shift

    if [ $force = 1 ]; then
        /sbin/start-stop-daemon --start --nicelevel $nice --quiet --startas $exec --pidfile /dev/null --oknodo -- $*
    elif [ $pidfile ]; then
        /sbin/start-stop-daemon --start --nicelevel $nice --quiet --exec $exec --oknodo --pidfile "$pidfile" -- $*
    else
        /sbin/start-stop-daemon --start --nicelevel $nice --quiet --exec $exec --oknodo -- $*
    fi
}

pidofproc () {
    local pidfile line i pids= status
    set -- `POSIXLY_CORRECT=1 getopt "p:" $*`
    pidfile=

    for i in $*; do
        case $i in
            -p)  pidfile=$2; shift 2;;
            --)  shift; break;;
        esac
    done

    if [ -z "$pidfile" ]; then
        pidfile=/var/run/$(basename "$1").pid
    fi

    if [ -f "$pidfile" ]; then
        read -d "" line < "$pidfile"
        for i in $line; do
            if [ -z "$(echo $p | sed 's/[0-9]//g')" -a -d "/proc/$i" ]; then 
                pids="$i $pids"
            fi
        done
        if [ -n "$pids" ]; then
            echo "$pids"
            return 0
        else
            return 2 # program is dead and /var/run pid file exists
        fi
    elif [ -x /bin/pidof ]; then
        /bin/pidof -o %PPID $1
        status="$?"
        [ "$status" = 1 ] && return 3 # program is not running
        return 0
    else
        return 4 # program or service is unknown
    fi
}

# start-stop-daemon uses the same algorithm as "pidofproc" above.
killproc () {
    local pidfile sig status
    set -- `POSIXLY_CORRECT=1 getopt "p:" $*`
    pidfile=

    for i in $*; do
        case $i in
            -p)  pidfile=$2; shift 2;;
            --)  shift; break;;
        esac
    done

    if [ ! $pidfile ]; then
        pidfile=/var/run/$(basename "$1").pid
    fi

    if [ $2 ]; then
        sig=$(echo $2 | sed -e 's/^-\(.*\)/\1/')
        sig=$(echo $sig | sed -e 's/^SIG\(.*\)/\1/')
        /sbin/start-stop-daemon --stop --pidfile "$pidfile" --signal $sig --quiet
        status="$?"
        [ "$status" = 1 ] && return 3 # program is not running
        return 0
    else
        /sbin/start-stop-daemon --stop --pidfile "$pidfile" --retry 5 --quiet --oknodo
    fi
}

log_success_msg () {
    if type usplash_write >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        usplash_write "STATUS $*" || true
    fi
    echo " * $@"
}

log_failure_msg () {
    if type usplash_write >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        usplash_write "STATUS $*" || true
    fi

    TPUT=/usr/bin/tput
    if [ -x $TPUT ] && $TPUT hpa 60 >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        RED=`$TPUT setaf 1`
        NORMAL=`$TPUT op`
        echo " $RED*$NORMAL $@"
    else
        echo " * $@"
    fi
}

log_warning_msg () {
    if type usplash_write >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        usplash_write "STATUS $*" || true
    fi
    TPUT=/usr/bin/tput
    if [ -x $TPUT ] && $TPUT hpa 60 >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        YELLOW=`$TPUT setaf 3`
        NORMAL=`$TPUT op`
        echo " $YELLOW*$NORMAL $@"
    else
        echo " * $@"
    fi
}

#
# NON-LSB HELPER FUNCTIONS
#
# int get_lsb_header_val (char *scriptpathname, char *key)
get_lsb_header_val () {
        if [ ! -f "$1" ] || [ -z "$2" ]; then
                return 1
        fi
        LSB_S="### BEGIN INIT INFO"
        LSB_E="### END INIT INFO"
        sed -n "/$LSB_S/,/$LSB_E/ s/# $2: \(.*\)/\1/p" $1
}

# int log_begin_message (char *message)
log_begin_msg () {
        if [ -z "$1" ]; then
                return 1
        fi

        if type usplash_write >/dev/null 2>&1; then
	    usplash_write "TEXT $*" || true
        fi

	# Only do the fancy stuff if we have an appropriate terminal
	# and if /usr is already mounted
	TPUT=/usr/bin/tput
	EXPR=/usr/bin/expr
	if [ -x $TPUT ] && [ -x $EXPR ] && \
		$TPUT xenl >/dev/null 2>&1 && \
		$TPUT hpa 60 >/dev/null 2>&1; then
	    COLS=`$TPUT cols`
	    if [ -n "$COLS" ]; then
		 COL=`$EXPR $COLS - 7`
	    else
		 COL=73
	    fi
	    # We leave the cursor `hanging' about-to-wrap
	    # (see terminfo(5) xenl, which is approximately right).
	    # That way if the script prints anything then we will
	    # be on the next line and not overwrite part of the message.

	    # Previous versions of this code attempted to colour-code
	    # the asterisk but this can't be done reliably because
	    # in practice init scripts sometimes print messages even
	    # when they succeed and we won't be able to reliably know
	    # where the colourful asterisk ought to go.
	    
	    printf " * $*       "
	    # Enough trailing spaces for ` [fail]' to fit in; if the
	    # message is too long it wraps here rather than later,
	    # which is what we want.
	    $TPUT hpa `$EXPR $COLS - 1`
	    printf ' '
        else
	    echo " * $*"
	    COL=''
        fi
}

# int log_end_message (int exitstatus)
log_end_msg () {

    # If no arguments were passed, return
    [ -z "$1" ] && return 1

    if type usplash_write >/dev/null 2>&1; then
        if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            usplash_write "SUCCESS ok" || true
        else
            usplash_write "FAILURE failed" || true
        fi
    fi

    if [ "$COL" ]; then
        printf "\r"
	$TPUT hpa $COL
	if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
	    echo "[ ok ]"
	else
	    printf '['
	    $TPUT setaf 1  # red
	    printf fail
	    $TPUT op  # normal
	    echo ']'
        fi
    else
	if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            echo "   ...done."
        else
            echo "   ...fail!"
        fi
    fi
    return $1
}

```

---

### Post by bens on 2005-10-08
In brezzy change then line:
	    echo "[ ok ]"
to:
	    printf '[ '
	    $TPUT setaf 2  # green
	    printf ok
	    $TPUT op  # normal
	    echo ' ]'

---

### Post by Xk2c on 2005-10-17
[QUOTE=bens]In brezzy change then line:.....[/QUOTE]


Thank you very much. I´ve searched for this patch since I first booted breezy.  :)

---

### Post by Elrond on 2006-02-10
[QUOTE=bens]In brezzy change then line:
	    echo "[ ok ]"
to:
	    printf '[ '
	    $TPUT setaf 2  # green
	    printf ok
	    $TPUT op  # normal
	    echo ' ]'[/QUOTE]

Where again do I change this? (yes I know in file /lib/lsb/....)
I need to know what line do I have to change....

---

### Post by hornett on 2006-06-27
Sorry to ressurect this thread, but I was wondering if it is possible to apply this change to Dapper?

the log_end_message is what is called by the init scripts, and it looks like this:

```
log_end_msg () {
    # If no arguments were passed, return
    [ -z "$1" ] && return 1

    # Only do the fancy stuff if we have an appropriate terminal
    # and if /usr is already mounted
    if log_use_fancy_output; then
        RED=`$TPUT setaf 1`
        NORMAL=`$TPUT op`
        if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            echo "."
        else
            /bin/echo -e " ${RED}failed!${NORMAL}"
        fi
    else
	if [ $1 -eq 0 ]; then
            echo "."
        else
            echo " failed!"
        fi
    fi
    return $1
}
```

Unfortunately, changing this function makes no change to the screen output!! And besides, the function surely would display "failed!" not "fail" as I actually get from my test script...

```
#!/bin/bash

. /lib/lsb/init-functions

log_begin_msg "Testing with 0 as my value..."
log_end_msg 0

log_begin_msg "Testing with 1 as my value..."
log_end_msg 1

```

And nowhere can I find the OK message that is shown when the command completes successfully..! ](*,)

---

### Post by hornett on 2006-06-27
[QUOTE=hornett]Sorry to ressurect this thread, but I was wondering if it is possible to apply this change to Dapper?[/QUOTE]

OK, figured this out if anyone is interested....

Somehow the functions are instead being called from /etc/lsb-base-logging.sh so  you can remove line 107 in the log_end_message function and insert the following lines:

```
#            echo "[ ok ]"
            printf '[ '
            $TPUT setaf 2  # green
            printf ok
            $TPUT op  # normal
            echo ' ]'

```

:D Thank me later ;)

---

### Post by myha on 2006-06-28
[QUOTE=hornett]Sorry to ressurect this thread, but I was wondering if it is possible to apply this change to Dapper?
[/QUOTE]
I am wondering this too, if anyone has a solution please post it here... The standard output is so boring....  :/

---

### Post by Sir_Yaro on 2006-07-25
> **myha said:**
> I am wondering this too, if anyone has a solution please post it here... The standard output is so boring....  :/

here is solution and its works great 
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1188438&postcount=41](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1188438&postcount=41)

---

### Post by LadyDoor on 2006-09-10
Is there any thought of updating this for Dapper? It's pretty-factor is much reduced now.

--Door

---

### Post by Xk2c on 2006-09-10
> **LadyDoor said:**
> Is there any thought of updating this for Dapper? It's pretty-factor is much reduced now.

--Door

in Dapper the file has changed to :
**/etc/lsb-base-logging.sh**

in there replace:[INDENT]**echo "[ ok ]"**[/INDENT]

with:[INDENT]
[B]printf '[ '
$TPUT setaf 2  # green
printf ok
$TPUT op  # normal
echo ' ]'[/B]
[/INDENT]

HTH

---

### Post by drol on 2006-09-15
Hi!

I am just curious, but is there any way to make the colours bright?

> 
$TPUT setaf 2  # green


I suppose, anything in this line has to be added...?

drol

---

### Post by Xk2c on 2006-09-15
Can´t tell if this colors are more "customizable", sorry.

---

### Post by sfhwq['chvS[WR on 2006-12-17
Hi,

Earlier i tried to change the bootimage ect. Now all these packages like usplash ,splashy and splashy-themes are a little bit messed up.
After Grub comes the message "Starting...", then a blank screen and then just for half a secound 2 or 3 colorized lines before the login promt.

All i want is a black backgound, white text and an [ OK ] in green or a [ FAILED ] in red at the right from directly after Grub until my x-server starts

Please help me because i really don't have a clou how to do it.

P.s.: I have Edgy Eft installed.

---

### Post by Xk2c on 2006-12-17
> **daywalkerdha said:**
> All i want is a black backgound, white text and an [ OK ] in green or a [ FAILED ] in red at the right from directly after Grub until my x-server starts

remove "splash" from your kernel options in /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

### Post by sfhwq['chvS[WR on 2006-12-18
Hi,
i did that earlier  but that's where the bootlogo has been removed. The problem is still the same

---

### Post by southernman on 2007-08-18
Dragging this post up yet again... modified the hack for Dapper if anyone is interested.

As was posted above:
> printf '[ '
$TPUT setaf 2 # green
printf ok
$TPUT op # normal
echo ' ]'

To get blue brackets surrounding the "ok" text, modify the above to look like this:
```

$TPUT setaf  4 # blue
printf '[ '
$TPUT setaf  2 # green
printf ok
$TPUT setaf  4 # blue
echo ' ]'
$TPUT op  # normal
```

Important notations: 

1- Make sure there are two (2) spaces between setaf / op and the # sign... if you don't - you'll need a rescue cd to get in and make the changes.

2- If the cursor wraps to the next line, it will flash as blue... don't worry, it goes back to white

wOOt! My first hack. Although small, it's encouraging none-the-less!!! :D

---

### Post by kish on 2007-08-19
Thats wonderful
I would like to add these

Vga value for various res

640×480 - 785
800×600 - 788
1024×768 - 791
1152×864 - 355
1280×1024 - 794
1600×1200 - 798

---

### Post by xasx on 2007-11-02
Does anyone know how this can be done under Gutsy?

And: Is there a way to define these colors when using usplash?

Thanks
xasx

---

### Post by jamieshanks on 2007-11-12
Hi xasx,

Yep, the green OK and white [] works with Gutsy, I just did it :)

Jamie

---

### Post by FoolishGhoul on 2008-02-18
hi folks, good work it seems, only on my gutsy box it doesn't seem to apply...

i don't have an /etc/lsb-base-logging.sh file, and the /lib/lsb/init-functions is not helpful either.

what i want should be really simple - and that is to turn **_all_** the text green

...got a bit of green theme going on... :-)

---

### Post by Adnarim on 2008-02-23
@FoolishGhoul: I'm using Gutsy myself and everything works fine. The file does exist here.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-03-08
Could someone please summarise how to do this in Gutsy? I'm confused now and I don't want to botch up my installation. :<

I understand the file we want to change is now /etc/lsb-base-logging.sh, but what to change and where?

I'd love to get mine to display as [http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=2356&d=1126560896](http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=2356&d=1126560896) does. This includes getting the success/fail text all the way to the left.

---

### Post by Yes on 2008-03-08
For anyone who wants to do this in Gusty or Hardy, there's currently a bug where adding the vga= line to your bootoptions will result in a black bootup screen and ttys.  Here's the bug page: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/129910](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/initramfs-tools/+bug/129910).  I got it working thank's to Caravel's post (which I can't seem to find anymore), but only at 1024x768 (my native resolution is 1440x900).

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-03-08
I got the vga lines to work after adding
```
fbcon
vesafb
nvidiafb
```
...to /etc/initramfs-tools/modules, and commenting vesafb and nvidiafb in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer.

I don't know which of fbcon/vesafb/nvidiafb did the trick, but now my vga=0x031a option works.

But, again, could someone please explain what I need to do to get purdy colors and possibly left-aligned ok/failed stamps during the boot - in Gutsy? This thread would've helped greatly if it weren't written for earlier versions, and the changes needed to make it work in Dapper+ are only fragments from which I can't piece together much. :<

```
$TPUT setaf  4 # blue
printf '[ '
$TPUT setaf  2 # green
printf ok
$TPUT setaf  4 # blue
echo ' ]'
$TPUT op  # normal
```

...where?? :confused:

---

### Post by Xk2c on 2008-03-08
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1483546&postcount=45](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1483546&postcount=45)

the location and the things needed to be changed haven't changed since then.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-03-09
Okay, there it is, thanks. My apologies, I'm not very knowledgeable in the order of releases pre-Feisty, having only recently discovered (K)Ubuntu, so I hope you can appreciate my confusion.

I take it there is no way to have the [OK] mark aligned to the left of the message?

Perhaps if I copy/pasted some of those lines from log_end_message() to log_begin_message()?

edit: Also, what happens if I "mess up" that file? Naturally I'll be keeping a backup, but will it end up in a state where the system won't boot, or merely in a state where there's no tty output at startup?

---

### Post by martinbc on 2008-11-08
I tried this, but then my keyboard stopped working, after restoring the old init-functions file the keyboard started working again, why is this?

Any ideas?

(Using Ubuntu 8.10, 2.6.27-7-generic)

---

### Post by Ace_NoOne on 2009-01-08
> **Zorael said:**
> what happens if I "mess up" that file? Naturally I'll be keeping a backup, but will it end up in a state where the system won't boot, or merely in a state where there's no tty output at startup?
I'm not an expert, but worst case you boot from a live CD (e.g. your Ubuntu installation disc) to restore your backups.

I'm not quite sure how to do this on my Intrepid machine though, as the *log_failure_msg* function looks a bit different there:
```
log_failure_msg () {
    if log_use_fancy_output; then
        RED=`$TPUT setaf 1`
        GREEN=`$TPUT setaf 2`
        NORMAL=`$TPUT op`
        /bin/echo -e "${RED}*${NORMAL} $@"
    else
        echo "$@"
    fi
}
```

---

### Post by sh4d0w808 on 2009-01-09
Yes, I see a little bit different implementation in Hardy also, like Ace_NoOne in Intrepid.

Can somebody explain, how to change this function in these systems?

---

### Post by port on 2009-01-15
Did anyone find out how to get this working in 8.10 ?

---

### Post by ´silas on 2009-01-18
The latter one made my keyboard and touchpad non-functionable :( I'm becoming quite good at re-installing ubuntu xD

---

### Post by ley_lines on 2009-01-18
> **´silas said:**
> The latter one made my keyboard and touchpad non-functionable :( I'm becoming quite good at re-installing ubuntu xD

I did that yesterday as well. But you dont have to re-install. If you made a backup of your original init-functions file then go into your text mode before gdm and remove the new file and restore the back up. I named the original init-functions.bak and entered these commands:

sudo rm lib/lsb/init-functions
sudo mv lib/lsb/init-functions.bak lib/lss/init-functions

and then reboot

---

### Post by pgodfrey on 2009-02-05
@ port.  I too am looking to do this to my install but haven't figured out how too just yet.  I tried replacing the 'init-functions' with the file a few pages back 'init-functions-front.txt' but ended up with a useless interface.  Fortunately I backed up my original file.  :)

I'm getting bored looking at the splash screen and look forward to all the scrolling text when booting.......I suppose it's an ADHD thing...I like blinky lights too.


Phil


*edit*

Got the splash off and lots of text displayed - still working on the color

Looking at my /boot/grub/menu.lst file -- I removed **quiet splash** and that seemed to take care of the splash screen leaving just **ro**.


Mine looks like this (with the exception of my UUID...it's not actually a bunch of asterisks. 

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-11-generic
uuid		=********-****-****-****-************
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-11-generic root=UUID=********-****-****-****-************ ro vga=792
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-11-generic
boot


If I put in **ro single vga=792**, halfway through the boot it popped up a menu asking me if I wanted to repair the system.

vga=792 on my 1440x900 laptop screen looks compressed and wide.  It's nice because most of the text doesn't have to wrap around to the next line.

---

### Post by sectorek on 2009-03-14
everything is more less ok. I mean resolution is much better now. At least log is looking much better with VGA 792 on my 1600x900 LCD. But i cant get colors to work.

Im using ubuntu 8.10. Any ideas?

---

### Post by SketchyClown on 2009-03-21
> **pgodfrey said:**
> 
Looking at my /boot/grub/menu.lst file -- I removed **quiet splash** and that seemed to take care of the splash screen leaving just **ro**.


Mine looks like this (with the exception of my UUID...it's not actually a bunch of asterisks. 

## ## End Default Options ##

title        Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-11-generic
uuid        =********-****-****-****-************
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-11-generic root=UUID=********-****-****-****-************ ro vga=792
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-11-generic
boot


If I put in **ro single vga=792**, halfway through the boot it popped up a menu asking me if I wanted to repair the system.

vga=792 on my 1440x900 laptop screen looks compressed and wide.  It's nice because most of the text doesn't have to wrap around to the next line.

If you look at your ***/boot/grub/menu.lst*** and look at the 2nd kernel entry, you will see that it has the ***ro single*** listed there. That's your recovery/single user console. Leave*** single ***off of the first entry to avoid getting that popup menu about repairing on normal bootup.

Since you have a ***1440x900*** display you can set the framebuffer to use that resolution by adding either ***vga=0x365 ***or*** vga=868***, the codes used for 1440x900.

As for the boot colors, I am still stumped as well. I have tried using the info here, and while I haven't messed anything up with these tips yet, I still have no colors.

---

### Post by stoner_di on 2009-06-06
My problems:

1.I want to ask someone tried to incorporate the bootup logo (in a mini tux top left of the display to load the system).
Perform all necessary for this:
- when compiling the kernel, I select this:

Support for frame buffer devices FB->VESA VGA graphics support FB_VESA

Select all in the:

Console display driver support ->

selct all in the:

Bootup logo LOGO->

-in the GRUB, in the file menu.lst fix this row:

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.29.3 root=UUID=d5b52903-5.... video=vesafb vga=0x0323 ro quiet

-in the file /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer.conf, comment this row:

#blacklist vesafb

-in the file /etc/initramfs-tools/modules, add:

fbcon
vesafb

-in the end update initramfs this command:

update-initramfs -u

In all my UBUNTU not load boot logo!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by prvul on 2009-06-13
> **stoner_di said:**
> My problems:

1.I want to ask someone tried to incorporate the bootup logo (in a mini tux top left of the display to load the system).
Perform all necessary for this:
- when compiling the kernel, I select this:

Support for frame buffer devices FB->VESA VGA graphics support FB_VESA

Select all in the:

Console display driver support ->

selct all in the:

Bootup logo LOGO->

-in the GRUB, in the file menu.lst fix this row:

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.29.3 root=UUID=d5b52903-5.... video=vesafb vga=0x0323 ro quiet

-in the file /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer.conf, comment this row:

#blacklist vesafb

-in the file /etc/initramfs-tools/modules, add:

fbcon
vesafb

-in the end update initramfs this command:

update-initramfs -u

In all my UBUNTU not load boot logo!!!!!!!!

Same situation here. I tried everything that could find on net (including everything stoner_di mentioned above), but was unable to get tux logo on boot.

Is this maybe because ubuntu uses upstart as init system?

Is that hard to get this "native" linux feature on ubuntu system?

On most slackware based distros just adding vga=790 to kernel line solves the problem.

Any help would be appriciated

---

### Post by stoner_di on 2009-06-14
&#1058;hank you, Friend. 
Nobody else wants to talk about it.
My searches for TUX bootup logo continue. Maybe somewhere in the init fails there is a ban on his appearance. No one developer to help?

---

### Post by Plasma_NZ on 2010-03-26
Yet another person dragging this old topic up again...


Anyone tried on 9.10 64bit ? if so - shout out please .. :D

---

### Post by calin_ionut on 2011-06-13
Anyone got it work? "TUX logo at boot" 

Today i installed BURG Bootloader - it`s very nice - and i was wondering if someone know how to make ubuntu boot up in text like [this]("http://www.twam.info/wp-content/uploads/2009/05/cute_tux.png"). 

I have modified:

```

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

```

to

```

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=""

```

but it`s a mess up. 

If someone have a solution plese post it.

Cheers!:popcorn:

---

