---
title: "HowTo: ATI FGLRX Dual Monitor &quot;Big Desktop&quot; Mode"
date: 2006-04-11
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by asdf25 on 2006-04-11
"Big Desktop" is where both monitors run on the same X server, and you can move windows between them and other such useful stuff.

This isn't really much of a HowTo, just an example xorg.conf you can use. It took me a long time to figure out, and I saw some other posts of people trying to get it to work, so here it is.

I haven't tried to get TV-out working, so if someone gets that working it'd be a good thing to post here. Also, I'm using a Radeon 9800 Pro.

Also, you'll have to change the BusID lines if your card isn't at "1:0:0"; you can see where it is by running "Xorg -scanpci". I think it'll be "1:0:0" for most people though.

# File: xorg.conf
# File generated by fglrxconfig (C) ATI Technologies, a substitute for xf86config.

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Server Layout"
	Screen      0  "Screen0"
	InputDevice    "Mouse1" "CorePointer"
	InputDevice    "Keyboard1" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	ModulePath "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
	RgbPath      "/etc/X11/rgb"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"

	SubSection "extmod"
		Option	    "omit xfree86-dga"   # don't initialise the DGA extension
	EndSubSection
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	#Load  "ddc"  # this is probably safe to turn on
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Keyboard1"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "AutoRepeat" "500 30"
# Specify which keyboard LEDs can be user-controlled (eg, with xset(1))
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xfree86"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc101"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Mouse1"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor1"
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Graphics Adapter"
	Driver      "fglrx"

# === disable PnP Monitor  ===
    Option                              "NoDDC" # this probably isn't necessary?


    # vendor=1002, device=4e45
	Option	    "no_accel" "no"
	Option	    "no_dri" "no"


	Option	    "mtrr" "off" # disable DRI mtrr mapper, driver has its own code for mtrr
	#Option	    "TVHSizeAdj" "0"
	#Option	    "TVVSizeAdj" "0"
	#Option	    "TVHPosAdj" "0"
	#Option	    "TVVPosAdj" "0"
	#Option	    "TVHStartAdj" "0"
	#Option	    "TVColorAdj" "0"
	#Option	    "GammaCorrectionI" "0x00000000"
	#Option	    "GammaCorrectionII" "0x00000000"
# === OpenGL specific profiles/settings ===

	Option	    "Capabilities" "0x00008000"
# Note: When OpenGL Overlay is enabled, Video Overlay
#       will be disabled automatically
# === Video Overlay for the Xv extension ===
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
# === OpenGL Overlay ===
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
# === Center Mode (Laptops only) ===

	Option	    "CenterMode" "off"
# === Pseudo Color Visuals (8-bit visuals) ===
	Option	    "PseudoColorVisuals" "off"
# === QBS Management ===
	Option	    "Stereo" "off"
	#Option	    "StereoSyncEnable" "1"
# === FSAA Management ===
	Option	    "FSAAEnable" "no"
	#Option	    "FSAAScale" "1"
	#Option	    "FSAADisableGamma" "no"
	#Option	    "FSAACustomizeMSPos" "no"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosX0" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosY0" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosX1" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosY1" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosX2" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosY2" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosX3" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosY3" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosX4" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosY4" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosX5" "0.000000"
	#Option	    "FSAAMSPosY5" "0.000000"
# === Misc Options ===
	Option	    "UseFastTLS" "2"
	Option	    "BlockSignalsOnLock" "on"
	Option	    "OverlayOnCRTC2" "0"
	Option	    "IgnoreEDID" "off"
	Option	    "HSync2" "31.5-70" 	#Second monitor horizontal sync
	Option	    "VRefresh2" "50-75" 	#Second monitor vertical sync
	Option	    "ScreenOverlap" "100"	# Pixels for Overlapping. Set to 0 to disable
	Option	    "NoTV" "yes"
	Option	    "TVStandard" "NTSC-M"
	Option	    "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	Option	    "ForceGenericCPU" "no"
	Option	    "KernelModuleParm" "agplock=0" # AGP locked user pages: disabled
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "Horizontal,Reverse"
	Option	    "ForceMonitors" "crt1,crt2,notv"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Graphics Adapter 2"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "ATI Graphics Adapter"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen1"
	Device     "ATI Graphics Adapter 2"
	Monitor    "Monitor1"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		#Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
# Access to OpenGL ICD is allowed for all users:
# Access to OpenGL ICD is restricted to a specific user group:
#    Group 100    # users
#    Mode 0660
	Mode         0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Blarion on 2006-04-11
Wicked cool, but can't you do essentialy the same thing using multiple desktops?

---

### Post by asdf25 on 2006-04-12
[QUOTE=Blarion]Wicked cool, but can't you do essentialy the same thing using multiple desktops?[/QUOTE]
Not sure what you mean... the only other dual monitor setup I saw was the one where each monitor runs on a seperate X server and you can't move windows between them.

---

### Post by zachtib on 2006-04-12
cool, ill give it a try when i get home

---

### Post by jsoverson on 2007-10-22
F'in brilliant. I've been tweaking around with this for hours and this xorg.conf set me in the right direction. Thanks a million.

---

### Post by pHr34kY on 2008-03-10
I managed to get this going with a slightly different approach:

```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	Option	    "Dualhead" "true"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Device0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "horizontal"
	Option	    "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Device1"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Device0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen1"
	Device     "Device1"
	Monitor    "Monitor1"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

```

I'm running an onboard Radeon HD3200 on an AMD790G chipset. The primary (left) screen is on DVI and the other on VGA. So far it works a treat -  even with Compiz on both displays!

This is running on Hardy Alpha 6, and as you can see, the config file is very minimal.

---

### Post by pHr34kY on 2008-03-30
...I left one thing out of the above config.

You need to specify "TexturedVideo" to get hardware accelerated video playback:

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier  "Device0"
        Option      "DesktopSetup" "horizontal"
        Option      "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"
        Option      "TexturedVideo" "on"
        Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by pschless on 2008-05-23
Phreaky's config *almost* worked for me...  when I restart X, the login screen is dual-ed correctly (laptop lcd has login prompt, second monitor is extended to the right).  However, after I login, the monitors are switched to 'clone' mode, and I cannot figure out how to get it to keep the extended (rather than cloned) mode..

Anybody else run into this issue or know how to solve it?

---

### Post by wootah on 2008-05-23
Interesting. I have an ATI card and I have been trying to get a dual head setup with TV-Out where I can use composition on both along with compiz. I can use two outputs (one is an actual TV) and get accelerated graphics on both (running Nexuiz on a TV is kinda cool :)) but compiz refuses to work when setup like that. If I remove everything related to using two outputs (and just use my primary monitor) then compiz works fine.

Insights?

PS: The thread that I have been talking on in relation to this is [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=796539]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=796539")

---

### Post by aswart on 2008-07-17
Hi

I have an extra monitor (Phillips 107S) plugged into my Acer notebook (with ati mobility radeon X700).  I run hardy and installed the latest ATI driver.  I can obtain a 'big desktop', swop them arround in different configurations, but I cant get my notebook LCD to be the primary display.  The login screen always appears on the external screen.  Also, in the ATI Catalyst control centre, my notebook screen is identified as "Phillips 107S" and the Phillips identified as the default monitor.

How can I change the default monitor to be my notebook LCD?  Running "aticonfig --swap-screens=on" has no effect on the default monitor.  I end up always having my toolbars and login screen on the external monitor...

any help appreciated!

---

### Post by bjtuna on 2008-10-21
> **pschless said:**
> Phreaky's config *almost* worked for me...  when I restart X, the login screen is dual-ed correctly (laptop lcd has login prompt, second monitor is extended to the right).  However, after I login, the monitors are switched to 'clone' mode, and I cannot figure out how to get it to keep the extended (rather than cloned) mode..

Anybody else run into this issue or know how to solve it?


I ran into the exact same issue.  And, phreaky's config is really just the output of 
```
aticonfig --dtop=horizontal --overlay-on=1
```

I haven't figured out a workaround yet.

---

### Post by patrickballeux on 2008-10-21
I am using the Catalyst tool without having to play in the xorg.conf file at all.

I simply enabled the dual screen using the tool from ATI/AMD.  This makes it easier.

Remember that you may have to disable compiz to be able to use the dual screen.

---

### Post by bjtuna on 2008-10-21
Okay so far I found that, for some reason, GNOME decided to switch my resolution back to what it was when I just had one screen (1680x1050).  If I use the "Screen Resolution" preference app to switch it to 3360x1050, I get Big Desktop back.

---

### Post by Permafrost91 on 2008-11-28
Running 8.10 64bit with Radeon 9600 graphics card. Trying to get a dual screen setup working (two Samsung 15" LCDs, same model but different versions). FGLRX enabled.

I can get the same output on both screens but I can't get the two screens to be dual-head, side-to-side. The Screen Resolution tool identifies the monitor as a 15" Samsung correctly only if one screen is attached or I use the open-source radeon driver (because then only one of the screens is enabled). If both monitors are attached with fglrx, it displays "unknown."

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Permafrost91 on 2008-11-29
I tried upgrading the ATI drivers using the latest 8.5 driver from the ATI website following the instructions provided in the Ubuntu wiki (the instructions were for Hardy, no Intrepid instructions found). The driver compiled/installed without complications but X.org wouldn't start after a reboot so I reverted to fglrx provided in the repo.

I also tried playing with aticonfig a little bit but everytime I change the default xorg.conf created after activating the fglrx driver using the Hardware Drivers tool, X.org won't start.

This is really frustrating. Both screens show the desktop with the fglrx driver but not with the open-source radeon driver. This is frustrating because (1) the radeon driver supposedly has good support for 3-D acceleration as well as multi-head for the RV350 chip and (2) I'd prefer using the open-source and not the ATI supplied driver for moral reasons.

I'm at a loss. Any and all help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by F W Adams on 2009-02-27
Thanks pHr34kY, worked for me, and looked very short, always a good sign providing it works.

Using ATI HD 2600 XT, two DVI's, two identical monitors at 1280 x 1024

encrypted 8.04

ps
had previously messed about for many hours

---

### Post by F W Adams on 2009-02-28
Looks as if I was a bit premature with my last post, I thought it would be easy to fix the one remaining trivial looking problem but it wasn't. I now have a working dual setup with panels / desktop on the RHS. The other screen on the LHS. The only problem is that the screens are joined at the outside edges, not the inside ones. How do I fix this starting with the xorg.conf file given below. I already tried starting again with "sudo aticonfig --initial=dual-head --screen-layout=left" but couldn't get it to work, though it seemed a simple enough test of aticonfig. I also tried guessing a few things but they mostly had no effect or stopped it working at all. Is there a list somewhere of what these commands actually do and their default settings somewhere.

xorg.conf:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	Option	    "Dualhead" "true"
#  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
#	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Device0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "horizontal"
	Option	    "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Device1"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Device0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen1"
	Device     "Device1"
	Monitor    "Monitor1"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

```

Obviously I can swop the monitors over to solve the mouse movement problem but I need to retain the system on the RHS. Thanks.

ps I achieved this on NVIDIA on my previous computer.

---

### Post by configureitout on 2009-04-17
Hello all,

I am very much a beginner in the world of desktop unix, and even more so in realm linux.  I just started playing with ubuntu today, and got it running on my work desktop (Dell) from a USB flash drive (how fun!), and then on an old gateway M320 laptop (sweet!), and now I am struggling to get it running on my primary home system, an intel p5 3.2ghz, with two viewsonic 21" 1280x1024 heads connected to the DVI and VGA ports of an ati radeon 9800 pro w/128mb.  There is actually another ati radeon 9200 installed as well, but gnome doesn't seem to notice it for the 3rd monitor which is fine as I rarely use it.  

Given that I have become very fond of using dual monitors however, and now that I have spent many hours hacking on the xorg.conf and fiddling with the drivers, I was hoping someone could enlighten me as to how to get compiz up and running on the big desktop.  

Duals works fine until I try to use the ati driver (fglrx), where the screens get garbled after choosing to extend the desktop using the ati configuration tool, but I accept the setting anyway (blindly), restart (ctrl-alt-f1 to access shutdown -r), it appears that it's going to work (login screen allows mouse to move across both screens, but after logging in, the screen garbles, blanks out, looks like its going to work (background image stretches as it should), then blanks out again before returning to mirror mode.  The xorg.conf file remains as I left it despite using the ati tool to configure for extended desktop (perhaps the two things are separate?).  my xorg.conf file is exactly identical to the one provided by pHr34kY earlier in this thread (including the textured option).

Anyway, I have gotten to the point where I am thinking about banging my head on the desk in frustration.  I will be very thankful to anyone that can offer a solution to getting compiz to play nice with dual monitors connected to the ati radeon 9800 pro w/128mb.  

Thanks!

---

### Post by rodbotic on 2009-04-24
@configureitout, you probably have your configuration correct.
the problem is with ATI. ATI will only let you have a 3d window that is 2048x2048. so with dual screen that is 1280x1024 + 1280x1024. that is 2560x1024. which is much wider then 2048, but if you stack them ontop of each other(1280x2048) you should find it will work fine. 

I had this issue when I started too. it drove me nuts, then I went to the compwiz forums and found my answer. 

cheers, Rod

---

### Post by jmw86069 on 2009-09-14
rodbotic - Just wanted to say "thank you"! :-)

Compiz can take configurations that result in one "big screen" equal to or less than 2048x2048. I have two 1440x900 monitors, so they fit atop each other:

[ 1440x900 ]

[ 1440x900 ]

Only problem is that they're beside each other... annoying.

Actually another problem, dragging windows between screens works only one direction. Drag from main to child screen, it stops in the middle. Alt-F7 works, but *only* if the window has been dragged to the border. Dragging from child to main screen appears to work fine though. Anyone heard of this issue?

I keep wanting to keep compiz -- but at some point isn't it getting too hard to keep hacking stuff around it to keep it alive? Do NVidia owners have the 2048x2048 limit? Maybe it's an ATI fglrx thing.

---

### Post by pHr34kY on 2009-09-26
Hey guys,

I just discovered that my previous config does not work in Karmic Koala (well, it's Alpha 6 right now). However, I found the RadeonHD driver how works for my HD3200 chipset, and the xorg.conf is relatively simple. This new config also works for fglrx.

**Step 1** - Install radeonhd or fglrx
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-radeonhd
```

-OR-

```
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
```

**Step 2** - Specify 'radeonhd' or 'fglrx' in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. With some luck, it will boot, but most likely in 'clone' mode.

**Step 3** - Run xrandr to get the names of the attached monitors. For me, it was VGA-1 and DVI_D-1 under radeonhd, and DFP2 and CRT1 under fglrx:

```
~$ xrandr
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 2560 x 1024, maximum 2560 x 1280
**VGA_1** connected 1280x1024+1280+0 338mm x 270mm
   1280x1024      60.0*+   75.0     59.9  
   1024x768       75.1     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        75.0     72.8     66.7     60.0  
   720x400        70.1  
**DVI-D_1** connected 1280x1024+0+0 338mm x 270mm
   1280x1024      60.0*+   75.0     59.9  
   1024x768       75.1     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        75.0     72.8     66.7     60.0  
   720x400        70.1
```


**Step 4** - Substitute the display names in this (relatively short) xorg.conf file:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Driver		"radeonhd"             # specify "fglrx" here if the proprietary driver is to be used
        Option		"DRI"                  # not required for fglrx
	Option		"AccelMethod" "EXA"    # not required for fglrx
	Option		"Monitor-**DVI-D_1**" "Monitor1"
	Option		"Monitor-**VGA_1**" "Monitor2"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor1"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor2"
	Option		"RightOf" "Monitor1"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection
```

Both drivers support 2D hardware acceleration and Xvideo (with similar performance). However, only fglrx supports 3D acceleration (e.g. OpenGL games or desktop effects). At the time of writing, the 2D acceleration in radeonhd is somewhat experimental, and I found it prone to glitches. Your results may vary.

---

### Post by jmw86069 on 2009-10-06
An update on my previous experiences, I now have the ATI Catalyst fglrx drivers working with 3D and Compiz effects enabled, for dual-screen double-wide!

The "trick" if you can call it that is basically to treat fglrx like any other garden variety driver (as it should be.) I'll explain.

fglrx now supports randr 1.2, which means xrandr can control the layout. The ATI Catalyst Control Center (amdccce) is not the tool to use.

The only thing I had to add to my xorg.conf file was the "Virtual" line to the "Screen" section, which specified my max desktop for two monitors combined.  For me:

Virtual 2880x900

I still had "Modes 1440x900" -- for me I have a laptop and monitor both happen to be 1440x900.

The quirk is that you have to use Alt-F7 to move windows across monitors.  Twice.  It gets stuck at the border, but the next time it goes through.  Go figure.  But I can live with that for now, 3D effects are nice, generally moving windows around is much more efficient.

---

### Post by galaphile361 on 2009-10-06
Hi all-

Been working with Ubuntu ~1 year now... running 7.04 on a Dell Latitude D620 (not sure if the drivers are ATI/nVidia/other - how do I check that?  I don't want to be asking this question in the wrong thread.).  Trying to get a viewSonic monitor set up side by side.

First question - I can't "un-clone" the monitors.  I click the box in "Screen Resolution," but I'm still looking at the same thing on both screens.  Tried following the steps on here ([http://www.howtoforge.com/dual-monitor-setup-on-ubuntu7.10](http://www.howtoforge.com/dual-monitor-setup-on-ubuntu7.10)) but the two screens are still mirrored, so I went back to my original xorg.conf (which I've linked).  Any ideas from here?

Also, am I bound to 1280*1024 on the external monitor just because that's the highest resolution my laptop can handle?  When this machine ran WindowsXP, I had the resolution up to 1600*1200... it'd be nice to get the extra space back.

Any help is greatly appreciated.  Thanks,
Daniel

---

### Post by F W Adams on 2010-04-30
Hi

Has anyone got big screen working with ATI under 10.04?

It was working perfectly under 8.04, upgraded to 10.04, and using the same xorg.conf as before it just operated as two separate screens. Nothing I did in ATICONFIG seemed to help with this.

Finally I tried "System/preferences/monitor". When I ticked same image in all monitors it partially fixed it. The mouse would move between the screens properly which it didn't do before. When moving windows they would go off the edge of one screen but would not appear on the second screen so completely unusable. After more messing about "System/preferences/monitor" now will only recognize one monitor. Even detect monitors will not detect two monitors any more. Are there some files not known to me hiding somewhere that define some of these things. I don't mean xorg.conf in /etc/X11 as this was fine.



.. Now I loade

 and

---

