---
title: "Telstra pre-paid wirless broadband setup ubuntu"
date: 2009-06-28
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-06-28
tonight i had a client bring me their pc running 8.04 with a telstra prepaid wireless usb dongle for the internet & asked if i could get it working

i went hunting on the net and i found the following instructions.

i followed them too the letter and it worked fist time. i will copy/paste the document here for keep sake. another happy client who lives with out windows:P 

one thing i have discovered from this, you need to let the ubuntu pc boot all the way up first and *THEN* plug in the usb modem before you try and connect or it wont work.


taken from here
[http://www.matt-barrett.com/](http://www.matt-barrett.com/)


I bought one of these today with the MF 626 USB modem and after a few hours of trying different things got it working sufficiently on Ubuntu 8.10
 Here is how to get it working:
 
[LIST=1]
[*]When you first plug the modem into a Windows computer it will install the drivers and the user interface. The Telstra Connection Manager will automatically launch.
[*]Close the Telstra Connection Manager. Using the device manager find the com port of the modem. Open Hyperterminal and connect to the modem with these settings:
Hyperterminal Configuration Settings
115200 - Bits per second
8 - Data bits
None - Parity
1 - Stop bits
None - Flow Control
[*]Send these commands to the modem by copying them and then in Hyperterminal right click and paste. AT+ZOPRT=5 AT+ZCDRUN=8
[*]On Ubuntu install gnome-ppp for connecting to the modem. 
 sudo apt-get install gnome-ppp
[*]Open the gnome-ppp config file gedit ~/.wvdial.conf

and paste the following code into it.
 [Dialer Defaults] Modem = /dev/ttyUSB3 ISDN = off Modem Type = USB Modem Baud = 7200000 Init = ATZ Init2 =  Init3 =  Init4 =  Init5 =  Init6 =  Init7 =  Init8 =  Init9 =  Phone = *99# Phone1 =  Phone2 =  Phone3 =  Phone4 =  Dial Prefix =  Dial Attempts = 1 Dial Command = ATM1L3DT Ask Password = off Password = off Username = na Auto Reconnect = off Abort on Busy = off Carrier Check = off Check Def Route = off Abort on No Dialtone = off Stupid Mode = on Idle Seconds = 0 Auto DNS = on ;Minimize = off ;Dock = on ;Do NOT edit this file by hand!

You may need to change the number at the end of the second line depending on your setup. If you cant connect to the modem restart and run

  ls /dev |grep ttyUSB It will be the last device that gets listed.

 
[*]Save and close gedit
[*]Open /etc/init.d/rc.local in gedit sudo gedit /etc/init.d/rc.local and add these lines
 modprobe -r usbserial modprobe usbserial vendor=0x19d2 product=0x0031 Save and close 
[*]Restart with modem unplugged and plug modem in after starting.
[*]Open Gnome-PPP and click connect. You should now be online.
[/LIST]
========================================================

Also at the same web site it shows how to use the Telstra MF 626 wireless prepaid broadband adaptor to send / receive sms

Before you can do this you should have disabled the ISO mode on the modem from the instructions [here]("http://www.matt-barrett.com/?p=5"). (these are the instructions above)

 You can send and receive SMS using the modem that comes with Telstra prepaid mobile broadband by using a program called Phone Manager which can be installed in gnome. You can install it with
 sudo apt-get install gnome-phone-manager Once it is installed you can
 n access it in Applications > System Tools > Phone Manager.
 Open phone manager and its icon will appear in the notification area. Right click on the icon and go to preferences.
 When you are in preferences, click on the connection tab.
 Select the phone connection as ‘Other Port’ and enter the port as the port that your modem is using. It is probably ‘/dev/ttyUSB3&#8242; but could be something else. You can use ‘ls /dev |grep ttyUSB’ to help you find the correct port. It will usually be the last one that is listed from the command.
 Close the preferences window. You will now be able to send and receive SMS messages using your mobile broadband modem.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-07-02
as a quick update to this, my client brought their pc back to me tonight

for some strange reason everytime we plugged in the telstra dongle for internet connection the pc would totally lock up

so, i ran the 9.04 cd and tested it with 9.04 and i can connect with 9.04 no worries it works "out of the box" so to speak with the telstra next g prepaid wireless internet

so i have backed up the clients data and wiped off 8.04 and installed 9.04 and restored their data and tested it and it is running fine

put this down to a learning experience

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-07-03
another update

i found after i installed 9.04 to the client hdd i could no longer use the the usb wireless pre paid modem

so i went hunting and found this

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1147685](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1147685)

i had to do what poster #1 & #7 said and now it works like a charm

---

### Post by d_singo69 on 2009-10-30
I found to get my prepaid Telstra usb modem to work I followed the instructions here

[http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=6327](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=6327)
:D

---

