---
title: "Brief HOWTO: &quot;Upgrade&quot; (by reinstalling) from Dapper to Feisty"
date: 2007-04-17
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by motin on 2007-04-17
The official way is to upgrade Dapper to Edgy and then upgrade to Feisty from there. This, however, are some brief notes of what I did in order to upgrade from Dapper to Feisty by installing Feisty on top of my old install, and thus skipping a timeconsuming double upgrade that may or may not be possible as well as possibly leave you without a long-term stable system. 

After the upgrade process which took about a full business day, most of my applications and all of my settings are intact since I kept a backup of the /home, /root, /etc, /var/spool/cron/crontabs/ and /opt directories. 

Anyways - get on with the notes:

[SIZE="5"]Preparation[/SIZE]

Estimated time: 2 hours to set-up, a night to let everything get finished copying and maybe one more hour to wrap things up. 

First, acquaint yourself with the programs "debfoster" and "grsync" alternatively rsync. Then backup all or the most important parts of your current installation:

1. Run debfoster thouroughly and store a copy of the keepers file in $HOME
2. Clean and organize all files on the hard drive (optional but will save backup time and space and it is needed anyhow and you know it)
3. Grsync'd the /home, /root, /etc, /var/spool/cron/crontabs/ and /opt directories to an USB partition or a network place

To be really sure you can revert back in case of massive failure I suggest you either (Recommended! Remember - I won't for a second garauntee that anything of this works for you and I take no responsibility of a data loss due to insuffient backuping - Sorry) :
1. Grsync the rest of your folders to an external location as well
and/or
2. Make snapshots of all partitions using [DriveSnapshot]("http://www.drivesnapshot.de/en/index.htm") for Windows (included in the BartPE disc)

[SIZE="5"]Installation[/SIZE]

Estimated time: 4 hours of mainly watching funny video clips on the net: [http://www.videoboom.com](http://www.videoboom.com) / [http://www.videoboom.se](http://www.videoboom.se)

1. Download and burn the Feisty Desktop CD
2. Start in Live CD mode
3. Install over your existing installation using the same partitions and mount points as before. My setup was as specified by the attached screenshot. 
4. After installation do not reboot yet. First restore the /home, /root, /etc, /var/spool/cron/crontabs/ and /opt directories from your backup. You can install grsync in Live CD mode if you wish. 
5. Restart and find your desktop intact, desktop effects successfully allows to be enabled and that some updates were available (personal subjective experiences...)
6. Install these updates and restart your system

[SIZE="5"]Restore previously installed applications[/SIZE]

Estimated time: Around 2 hours if you have a fast internet connection. 

This part is totally subjective and just an example of what I did - starting at around 22 oclock:
1. Opened my keepers file from before and removed the kernel-specific parts (anything containing "2.6.15")
2. Used "sudo apt-get install <space-separated-package-list>" to check if I can install the remaining packages, removing every package that gets an error message subsequently. The result is a gigantic apt-get install command with all installable packages in it. The list of packages that couldn't be found with the ordinary sources.list are in the bottom of this document. 
4. Installed all packages using the gigantic command. [start 2240 finish 2352]

Except for some packages from the not-installed list, I found upgrading my system done! 

Packages that needed more sources.list than the ordinary ones:
```
amormd2
automatix2
cinelerra
computertemp
cpuspeedy
fcc
freevo
fuse-source (in order as it is generated by some kernel module-installer-app)
gngeogui
googleearth
icecast-client
icecast2
kdar
ktoon-0.8
libclamav1
libdevmapper1.01
libdivx0-binary libdivxdecore0-binary libdivxencore0-binary
libdvdcss2
libgalago-cil
libguppi16
libobby-0.3-0
libpoppler0c2
libsexy1
libsvn0-dev
libswt3.1-gtk-java
libtorque
libvisual0.2
linuxdcpp
lives
matrox-tvout
mozilla
mozilla-acroread
nvu
picasa
skype
timidity-patches-eaw
torque torque-client
tvbrowser
w32codecs 
xorg-edit
xserver-xorg-driver-all

```

Skipped manually:
```
xserver-xgl
xserver-xorg-air-core

```

Packages not able to be installed due to errors:
```
dvr

```

Replacements needed to be done from the old keepers-list to be able to install in feisty:
```
bonobo-activation -> libbonobo2-common
mencoder-386 -> mencoder
mplayer-386 && mplayer-686 -> mplayer

```

Note: I don't know why - but have missed very few of the packages that didn't get installed and all of them have been successfully been installed by Automatix2. 

[SIZE="5"]Restore previous functionality (+a lot that wasn't possible before)[/SIZE]

This is actually only a personal Tomboy-note I wrote the weeks after the install of what I did. It is in Swedish but should give some idea of what I did manually in order to have all my required functionality. 

1. VNC-server på :0 och :1
2. Fusemount - ordna ägaregenskaper på fuse-filen och lägga till motin i fuse-gruppen mm
3. Installera kdar manuellt via paketen från Dapper eftersom kdar inte finns i Feisty-repos
4. Satte upp pppoe även utanför RP-PPPoE - Nu behövs inte sistnämnda utan NetworkManager tar hand om detta istället
5. PDF-Printer ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283198))
6. S-Video med i915! ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361124](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361124)) (endast svartvitt än så länge men iaf det)
7. Lägga till skrivarna från nätverket (inloggning till MSHOME är oväsentligt, till halvnya använde jag Administratör/lösenordet)
8. Lägga tillbaka amarok på musikspelarknappen (inaktivera gnome-genvägen för denna knapp - så tog gamla genvägen åter kraft)
9. Använd automatix2 för att installera senaste Picasa, Google Earth, Screem, Azureus samt Lägga tillbaka systemövervakaren på ctrl-alt-del
10. Installera Thunderbird 2.0 RC1 mha [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=278206](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=278206) (fast med "/opt/thunderbird/run-mozilla.sh /opt/thunderbird/thunderbird-bin" i /usr/bin/thunderbird.sh) och thunderbird ist för sunbird givetvis

Sorry for the inclarity but I wish it is better than nothing!

You are welcome to come with suggestions to any of this and I'll try to change the guide after them. Too bad this post isn't wiki-enabled.

---

