---
title: "HOWTO Install Acronis True Image Server 9.1.3530 on Ubuntu Hardy"
date: 2008-06-09
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by zolero on 2008-06-09
_**A.) General intro**_

This HOWTO is an adapted translation of the original russian forum thread and blog entry discussing installation of Acronis True Image Server 9.1.3530 on Ubuntu Hardy written by TAcuMopo.
I've followed the original post, and combined informations from there with some other resources. As a result I was able to install Acronis on my Ubuntu Hardy box. Then I've made this translation/adaptation because I've think about people should find this useful. Thus the method is fully working, but credits goes to above mentioned thread poster. Some changes were made by me (command code accuracy, config additions, package reupload and additions from Acronis official and some other open source knowledge bases). Original russian thread and blog can be read here:

    [http://tacumopo.blogspot.com/2008/05/acronis-backup-ubuntu.html](http://tacumopo.blogspot.com/2008/05/acronis-backup-ubuntu.html)
    [URL="http://forum.ubuntu.ru/index.php?topic=2145.msg59784"]http://forum.ubuntu.ru/index.php?topic=2145.msg59784
[/URL]
NOTE: If decided to follow this HOWTO, you have to be superuser to do all the steps described below. This can happen by switching to root from the console (issuing command: su or sudo su), or logging in as superuser directly from gdm login (if you have setted up this option earlier in /etc/gdm/gdm.conf-custom).


_**B.) System preparation**_

This step or part of it can be overjumped if the system already meets the necessary conditions and configuration settings needed to correctly install Acronis on your box.

**1.) Downloading the needed Acronis software packages** (if you don't have them already)

    [http://rapidshare.com/files/121110084/Acronis_TIS_9.1.3530_Linux_Full.tar.bz2](http://rapidshare.com/files/121110084/Acronis_TIS_9.1.3530_Linux_Full.tar.bz2)

**NOTE:** There isn't just the installer package itself, but also a DKM framework, two additional SnapAPI26 kernel module packages, the Acronis TIS Linux user guide in PDF format and few additional tricky files... ;)  Since I've got success with this package, I recommend it.

Download it in a place comfortable to you, for example to **Desktop**. I assume for the following steps that this is the package's download location.

**2.) Installing the tools necessary for building, compiling and converting kernel-related modules**

    ```
# apt-get install alien build-essential gcc-3.4 libstdc++5 linux-headers-'uname -r' linux-restricted-modules-'uname -r' linux-source rpm
```**3.) Then create rpm database** by entering following command to avoid RPM error message issues: 

    ```
# rpm --initdb
```**4.) Making DKMS's chckconfig executable** to avoid later complaints about module install incapacity

    ```
# touch /sbin/chkconfig
```    ```
# chmod +x /sbin/chkconfig
```

**5.) Unpacking the kernel source tree:**

    ```
# cd /usr/src && tar xjvf linux-source-2.6.24.tar.bz2
```


_**C.) Now we go to install Acronis and preparing it's behavior**_ for the upcoming first run on our Ubuntu box. Unpack the downloaded package (if it isn't done yet):

    ```
# cd ~/Desktop && tar xjvf Acronis_TIS_9.1.3530_Linux_Full.tar.bz2
```    ```
# cd ~/Desktop/Acronis_Linux_Full/Acronis_SFX_Setupkit
```Checkout installer file permissions by issuing ***ls -all***. It must be executable (rwxr-xr-x or 755). If doesn't, do it now.

    ```
# chmod +x Acronis_TISL_i686_Setup
```

**1.) Install seqvence**

    ```
# ./Acronis_TISL_i686_Setup
```Installer script'll present you with an x-window graphical interface install menu and asks you for the registration serial number. Enter the code which you've obtained from Acronis (if applicable).
Alternatively there are few generated by me with the keygenerator included in the package under **../Tricky_Files directory**. Or even better, generate one yourself (you need to have wine installed to do this) :D

In the second install step select (check out) both True Image Server and Rescue Media Builder, then hit **"Next"**.

Finally you'll be prompted about compiling kernel SnapAPI module. _**Just skip this**_ and exit setup.

**2.) Preparing initial RAW device nodes in /dev**

        For accomplishing this we simply execute the shell script mkrawdev.sh located under the ../RAW_Device folder in our downloaded package. It check out the presence of raw device nodes, and if it find that they're missing will create them.

    ```
# cd ~/Desktop/Acronis_Linux_Full/RAW_Device && ./mkrawdev.sh
```Now we are ready to do the tricks... Let's do it!


[U][B]D.) Building and installing SnapAPI26 kernel module
[/B][/U]
**1.) Installing an alternate Dynamic Kernel Module Support (DKMS) framework**

    ```
# cd ~/Desktop/Acronis_Linux_Full/DKMS_SnapAPI26
```    ```
# rpm -Uhv dkms-2.0.16-1.noarch.rpm --force --nodeps
```

**2.) Removing original SnapAPI26 source package.** It is old and buggy.

    ```
# dkms remove -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.0 -all
```[B]

3.) Checking out if removal was correct[/B], and if don't we going to correct this manually in all targeted locations. If there is a folder or tarball snapapi26 inside any of them, we'll remove the old files lying around.

```
    # cd /usr/src && ls

    # rm -rf /usr/src/snapapi26-*

    # cd /usr/lib/Acronis/kernel_modules && ls

    # rm -rf /usr/lib/Acronis/kernel_modules/snapapi26-*

    # cd /var/lib/dkms && ls

    # rm -rf /var/lib/dkms/snapapi26

```

**4.) Unpacking replacement module source**

    ```
# rpm -Uhv snapapi26_modules-0.7.35-1.noarch.rpm --force --nodeps
```After executing the command above we can receive the following error message:

    ```
ERROR: Module snapapi26 does not exist in /proc/modules
```Don't panic! This is normal since we've completely removed the old source. We have to instruct DKMS to load the new sources in their respective target paths (/usr/src and /var/lib/dkms).

    ```
# dkms ldtarball --archive=/usr/lib/Acronis/kernel_modules/snapapi26-0.7.35-all.tar.gz
```

**5.) And now comes the cherry on the top of the cake...! BUILD & INSTALL**

    ```
# dkms build -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.35 -k 'uname -r' --config /boot/config-'uname -r' --arch 'uname -m' --kernelsourcedir /usr/src/linux-source-2.6.24
```    ```
# dkms install -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.35 -k 'uname -r' --config /boot/config-'uname -r' --arch 'uname -m' --kernelsourcedir /usr/src/linux-source-2.6.24

```Now (if everything went OK) you'd jump to Applications/System Tools menu and you should find three new launchers there: Acronis True Image Server; Acronis Web Site, and Bootable Rescue Media Builder. That's it gals and guys... :)


_**E.) Possible post-install issues and their antidots**_
 
**1.) After installation the software complains that it cannot find any hard drives.**

**SOLUTION:** Check if devfs is enabled on your system. In case it is not, you should activate devfs support by issuing the following:
 
    ```
# mkdir /devfs && mount -t devfs devfs /devfs 
```**OPTIONALLY** you can make devfs support permanent by adding this line to your /etc/fstab file: 

    ```
devfs    /devfs    devfs    defaults    0    0 
```[B]

2.) Can't launch Acronis tasks as normal user[/B]

This issue is very normal since Acronis True Image Server is a system administration task. Only superuser can do such actions on a system. But for the sake of God! We are in Ubuntu, and have sudo and gksu... Thus...

**SOLUTION:** Edit your desktop application launchers. Press Alt+F2 and type in (as root; otherways you have to do it with gksudo in front):

    ```
gedit /usr/share/applications/TrueImage.desktop
```Edit the line beginning with "Exec=" to look like this:

    ```
Exec=gksudo /usr/sbin/trueimage
```Do the same trick for **MediaBuilder.desktop**, then edit **TrueImage.[www.desktop]("http://www.desktop")** to look like this:

    ```
Exec=firefox %U http://www.acronis.com/enterprise/products/ATISLin/
```

_**FINAL NOTICE:**_ I'm not an Acronis tech, and don't provide anyone with technical support on Acronis usage and/or other related issues. I've put this crap togheter in a hope to help the community.
In neighter circumstances I can be responsible if you lose data, your pet or your head, nor if you disappear in the Bermuda's Triangle with your comp alltoghether...
You can't blame me for anything what was wrong here.
You can or can not follow my instructions and use Acronis software. Choice is exclusively yours.

Cheers, Zolero.

---

### Post by say2sky on 2008-06-09
This is good howto and let ubuntu user can easier try Acronis True Image which is famous in Windows domain.

I also hope to know the performance especially speed between Acronis True Image in raw mode and native linux command dd.

I know it is really an another good choice for linux user and I will try it later. Thanks.

---

### Post by bfharreguy on 2008-07-29
hello, it's very exelent, but how to do use devfs?? in ubuntu!!! bye

---

### Post by markackerman8@gmail.com on 2008-08-21
Hello and Thanks in advance,

I am a newbie and I have finally got my laptop in a descent state (6 weeks of newbie frustration but glad to be out of windows:):):):) ...)

now I want to back it up with a gui ...Acronis

I get to the stage "Building and installing SnapAPI26 kernel module"

but my acronis AcronisTrueImageAgentLinuxEnterprise.i686 doesnt have anything about a SnapAP....where can I download it....the drl above doesnt get me anywhere????????

Thanks Mark

---

### Post by phpcitizen on 2008-09-08
One thing
# dkms remove -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.0 -all

should be:
# dkms remove -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.0 --all

---

### Post by v.sakko on 2008-09-17
Hi,

I'm having a problem on the third step.  Any help is greatly appreciated!

$ sudo rpm --initdb
error: can't create transaction lock on /var/lib/rpm/__db.000

I looked, and the /var/lib/rpm folder doesn't exist, and my assumption is that this command is supposed to create it and the file...  What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by zolero on 2008-09-26
> **v.sakko said:**
> Hi,

I'm having a problem on the third step.  Any help is greatly appreciated!

$ sudo rpm --initdb
error: can't create transaction lock on /var/lib/rpm/__db.000

I looked, and the /var/lib/rpm folder doesn't exist, and my assumption is that this command is supposed to create it and the file...  What am I doing wrong?

It seems that your **rpm** configuration is somehow wrong. My suggestion is to uninstall the package (with **dpkg --purge**, or **"Mark for complete removal"** if Synaptic is used), then reinstall it in usual way. Hopely this will fix your issue.

---

### Post by s0bda on 2009-03-02
Successfully installed, but unable to start Linux Agent
Tried starting the service manually:
(/etc/init.d/acronis_trueimage_agent start)
but says it doesn't exist.

i looked in the etc/init.d/   and there is no acronis anything.

i just need the agent running on the ubuntu box so it can be backed up to central acronis true image server runing on windows server.  when i connect from windows server says computername/ip doesn't reply

please help.

---

### Post by mohammedali on 2009-10-03
I tried to build in Ubuntu 9.04 Server.But it shows an error when build it.The command which I used to build is here:

sudo dkms install -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.35 -k 'uname -r' --config /boot/config-'uname -r' --arch 'uname -m' --kernelsourcedir /usr/src/linux-source-2.6.28

and the Output is :

Error! The directory /lib/modules/uname -r doesn't exist.
You cannot install a module onto a non-existant kernel.

Can anybody help ??

---

### Post by mohammedali on 2009-10-03
I replaced 'uname -r' with 2.6.28-15-server .Now it shows difference error.Here is the outpu:

mohammedali@MyServer:~$ dkms build -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.35 -k 2.6.28-15 --config /boot/config-2.6.28-15 --arch i686 --kernelsourcedir /usr/src/linux-source-2.6.28
dkms.conf: Error! No 'DEST_MODULE_LOCATION' directive specified.
dkms.conf: Error! No 'PACKAGE_NAME' directive specified.
dkms.conf: Error! No 'PACKAGE_VERSION' directive specified.

Error! Bad conf file.
Your dkms.conf is not valid.
mohammedali@MyServer:~$

Please help me !!

---

### Post by roadkilla on 2010-01-14
> **mohammedali said:**
> I tried to build in Ubuntu 9.04 Server.But it shows an error when build it.The command which I used to build is here:

**sudo dkms install -m snapapi26 -v 0.7.35 -k $(uname -r) --config /boot/config-$(uname -r) --arch $(uname -m) --kernelsourcedir /usr/src/linux-source-$(uname -r)**

and the Output is :

Error! The directory /lib/modules/uname -r doesn't exist.
You cannot install a module onto a non-existant kernel.

Can anybody help ??

this should do the trick for dkms, but I'm having a hard time making the install program work because someone has made the **--force-debian** mandatory for the rpm installation to work... :(

Good Luck

---

