---
title: "HOW-TO: Building your own Java 1.5 package"
date: 2005-10-15
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by humanity_to_others on 2005-10-15
This How-to is based on [ that]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=70428")  and [ that thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76702") and [ this page ]("http://serios.net/content/debian/java/with-java-package.php")

[**_[color=#3e6b8a]Download JRE 5.0 Update 6[/color]_**]("http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/download.jsp")

[B]```
sudo apt-get install fakeroot java-package java-common
fakeroot make-jpkg jre-1_5_0_06-linux-i586.bin
sudo dpkg -i sun-j2re1.5_1.5.0+update06_i386.deb
sudo update-alternatives --config java
java -version
```[/B]
```
java version "1.5.0_06"
Java(TM) 2 Runtime Environment, Standard Edition (build 1.5.0_06-b05)
Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM (build 1.5.0_06-b05, mixed mode, sharing)
```

You can try java at [this page]("http://serios.net/content/applets/viewinfoawt.php")

> **RastaMahata]It's important to notice I was presented with the following question when I executed the update-alternatives command line (I installed j2sdk):```
There are 3 alternatives which provide `java'.

  Selection    Alternative
-----------------------------------------------
      1        /usr/bin/gij-wrapper-4.0
*+    2        /usr/lib/jvm/java-gcj/bin/java
      3        /usr/lib/j2sdk1.5-sun/bin/java
```The user should select the one that has the word SUN on it. In my case, number 3.  said:**
> 
[QUOTE=fishfork]Thanks for your effort, but you should know this information is [already available on the wiki](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats#java).
[QUOTE=dastrike]*graphfixpunk*,
The *java-package* package is located in the *multiverse* section on Ubuntu, which is by default not present (not active at least) in one's sources.list
So edit your /etc/apt/sources.list, add the multiverse section (or just uncomment the commented-away lines specifying them) and then run **apt-get update**

And it is unnecessary to explicitly specify *fakeroot* and *java-common* to be installed because:
- *fakeroot* is a dependency of *java-package* and will thus be installed when installing java-package
- *java-common* is provided by the package that is generated by make-jpkg.

For highly detailed installation instructions see the instructions I have written: 
[Ubuntu Java JRE/JDK installation with java-package]("http://wiki.serios.net/wiki/Ubuntu_Java_JRE/JDK_installation_with_java-package") - this is essentially mentioned already in the initial post of this thread yes, but I have now created separate instructions for Ubuntu as it was a bit cluttered to maintain both Debian and Ubuntu instructions in the same document.[/QUOTE]

And non-repo way howto: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76754](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76754)

---

### Post by geearf on 2005-10-16
thanks for this howto, very usefull I think.

---

### Post by RastaMahata on 2005-10-16
great howto. :P The easiest java install so far :D

---

### Post by RastaMahata on 2005-10-16
It's important to notice I was presented with the following question when I executed the update-alternatives command line (I installed j2sdk):```
There are 3 alternatives which provide `java'.

  Selection    Alternative
-----------------------------------------------
      1        /usr/bin/gij-wrapper-4.0
*+    2        /usr/lib/jvm/java-gcj/bin/java
      3        /usr/lib/j2sdk1.5-sun/bin/java
```The user should select the one that has the word SUN on it. In my case, number 3. ;) Good luck.

---

### Post by Samuel on 2005-10-16
thankyou, worked a charm :D

---

### Post by Joey French on 2005-10-16
Awesome. Worked like a charm!

---

### Post by garnertr on 2005-10-16
All that I can say is THANK YOU SO MUCH.  I've been tearing my head out trying to get JAVA installed and you did it thank you, thank you, thank you!!!

Book-marked this page for future reference...

:)

---

### Post by m9dhatter on 2005-10-17
i cant seem to find the java-package debs... where do i find it?

nevermind. i added multiverse to my sources.lst

---

### Post by Roybotnik on 2005-10-20
Thanks for this guide.  Easiest java install I would have to say.

---

### Post by squibbon on 2005-10-20
done everything but when i...

eric@UbuntuHR3:~/Desktop$ java -version
Error occurred during initialization of VM
java/lang/NoClassDefFoundError: java/lang/Object

BUT NOW i can run LimeWire. What happen? =)

---

### Post by blu.gecko on 2005-10-20
im not sure what went wrong here but this what I got in the fake root section

root@ubuntu:/home/blu # fakeroot make-jpkg /home/blu/jdk-1_5_0_05-linux-i586.bin
You are real root -- unfortunately, some Java distributions have
install scripts that directly manipulate /etc, and may cause some
inconsistencies on your system. Instead, you should become a
non-root user and run:

fakeroot make-jpkg /home/blu/jdk-1_5_0_05-linux-i586.bin

which will allow no damage to be done to your system files and
still permit the Java distribution to successfully extract.

Aborting.


eh?

---

### Post by blu.gecko on 2005-10-20
Ok, dont scorn me Im still learning, but I figured out the reason I couldnt do it is becuse I was trying to do it under a root terminal (that should have been obvious)
but I have the file compiled and it is the newest version, so if anyone wants it, I have the latest version and I will post it to my site if anyone wants to download it.

thanks for all the help

mmills

---

### Post by fishfork on 2005-10-21
[QUOTE=humanity_to_others]This How-to is based on [ that]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=70428")  and [ that thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=76702") and [ this page ]("http://serios.net/content/debian/java/with-java-package.php")[/QUOTE]

Thanks for your effort, but you should know this information is [already available on the wiki](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats#java).

---

### Post by blu.gecko on 2005-10-21
can you route me to the how-to to change a bin file into a deb file, I have the pro version of a application the a friend of mine just gave to me but I want to make it into a ubuntu ver like I did with the java bin file, if it is at all possible.

blu.gecko:rolleyes:

---

### Post by tomach on 2005-10-22
hmmm i have a question where should i extract java file and next : after compilation it will creat some folders , should i copied for ex everhging from jav.../bin to usr/bin ?? end so on...?
i know it doesnt matter cos java will work anyway but i wanna have order in my linux and professional view;)

---

### Post by jonrkc on 2005-10-23
I use Ubuntu Hoary 5.04.

I followed the instructions in this thread, and received the messages about Java being installed, and they read just as in the example at the top of this thread.  But Firefox would not recognize the Java plugin even though I placed it in the plugin directory in Firefox, in ~/.mozilla/firefox/plugins, in all the other mozilla libraries I could find...

The test always comes up as plugin missing, with the box to "download the plugin," which leads only to the home page of Netscape 8.0!  

It used to be fairly easy to install Java; you just downloaded it from Sun, said "yes" to their twenty-page terms of use, installed it, copied the plugin to the Firefox plugin directory, and it WORKED.

Why, I wonder, is it so difficult now--and why has it worked for others here right off the bat, but not for me, following the same instructions?

I also went to the Wiki page and followed the instructions there.

I did these things at least five times with always the same results.

I really don't WANT Java, but I need it if I'm going to run OpenOffice.org version 2.0, which won't even do simple customizing without Java, unlike previous editions which didn't need Java for much of anything.

If there was another office suite half as good, that didn't require Java, I'd just go to it, but there isn't.

I don't know what to ask, since I followed these instructions to the letter and Java was definitely installed but won't work.  There was no reference here to an environment variable for Java; is that perhaps what's needed?  If so, what variable is it, so that I could issue it with the path to the Java files?

Any suggestions gratefully received!

---

### Post by jonrkc on 2005-10-23
Just to let you know I did get Java to work, by following these instructions and piling a bunch of experimentation on top.  It took me about ten tries altogether, but finally I have the latest JRE working, both in Firefox and, what I was most worried about, in OpenOffice.org ver. 2.0.

I suspect the crucial thing I had to do for my own setup was to set CLASSPATH to the directory containing the JRE files.  But I can't swear to it.  I changed too many variables too many times to know what finally did the trick.

Thanks for all the suggestions in this thread (and some others!) though.  Without those I doubt that I'd have it going yet.

---

### Post by [censored] on 2005-10-25
That's all pretty simple. But isn't there more to it? Don't we have to set up java environment variables like $JAVAHOME etc?

---

### Post by ishtvan222 on 2005-11-14
Can i take the .deb package that this makes and install it on a fresh install of ubuntu that is not connected to the internet? Or do I have to have extra packages to run it?

Thanks

---

### Post by ishtvan222 on 2005-11-15
Looks like it works. Thanks.

---

### Post by graphfixpunk on 2005-11-24
whenever I

sudo apt-get install fakeroot java-package java-common

it gives me

patrick@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install fakeroot java-package
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
E: Couldn't find package java-package

anybody know how to fix this im on breezy badger 5.10 right now

---

### Post by dastrike on 2005-11-25
*graphfixpunk*,
The *java-package* package is located in the *multiverse* section on Ubuntu, which is by default not present (not active at least) in one's sources.list
So edit your /etc/apt/sources.list, add the multiverse section (or just uncomment the commented-away lines specifying them) and then run **apt-get update**

And it is unnecessary to explicitly specify *fakeroot* and *java-common* to be installed because:
- *fakeroot* is a dependency of *java-package* and will thus be installed when installing java-package
- *java-common* is provided by the package that is generated by make-jpkg.

For highly detailed installation instructions see the instructions I have written: 
[Ubuntu Java JRE/JDK installation with java-package]("http://wiki.serios.net/wiki/Ubuntu_Java_JRE/JDK_installation_with_java-package") - this is essentially mentioned already in the initial post of this thread yes, but I have now created separate instructions for Ubuntu as it was a bit cluttered to maintain both Debian and Ubuntu instructions in the same document.

---

### Post by fourhead on 2005-11-28
HELP!

I found so many how-tos on how to install Java, but they all say you have to apt-get install java-package - but there's no "java-package" in my apt-get. I have all the repos enabled that the default sources.list had (on 5.10). What am I missing? i want to install IBM JDK on PPC and AMD64.


Tom

---

### Post by humanity_to_others on 2005-12-01
Updated for new java and integrated with your useful tips thanks all.

---

### Post by eliman on 2005-12-10
Fantastic! This solved my Java issues with zero fuss. Thanks!

---

### Post by btdown on 2005-12-13
Thank you for the update instructions for update 6! Very helpful!
BT

---

### Post by newbun2 on 2005-12-16
Fourhead, copy this sources.list and it should work..
[http://www.psychocats.net/linux/sources.php]("http://www.psychocats.net/linux/sources.php")

---

### Post by fwendt on 2006-02-09
Please note that the suggestions above is splendid but not enough to get default java applications like ant to run with the specified jvm/jre/sdk. This is because of two reasons:

1. You should also set at the other java related alternatives in /etc/alternatives, namely:
[LIST]
[*]jar
[*]jarsigner
[*]java
[*]javac
[*]javadoc
[*]javah
[*]javap
[*]javaws
[/LIST]

Use [FONT="monospace"]update-alternatives --config <tool-here>[/FONT]
2. The make-jpkg does NOT update /etc/jvm braking packages such as ant, which will still try to use the jvm first listed in this file (which most commonly is gcj). I found this out while running ant and junit.

/etc/jvm:```
# This file defines the default system JVM search order. Each
# JVM should list their JAVA_HOME compatible directory in this file.
# The default system JVM is the first one available from top to
# bottom.

/usr/lib/jvm/java-gcj
/usr
```

---

### Post by franonubu on 2006-02-22
Helloo,
I am vey newbie through linux and moreover ubuntu.
so I have downloaded the jre..., on the Desktop. Then wrote the first commnad but it seems some problem are happening. 

Do you have an idea how to fix this things?

Here is the message.

sudo apt-get install fakeroot java-package java-common
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
fakeroot is already the newest version.
W: Couldn't stat source package list [http://packages.freecontrib.org](http://packages.freecontrib.org) breezy/free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/packages.freecontrib.org_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: Couldn't stat source package list [http://packages.freecontrib.org](http://packages.freecontrib.org) breezy/non-free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/packages.freecontrib.org_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_non-free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: Couldn't stat source package list [ftp://ftp.free.fr](ftp://ftp.free.fr) breezy/free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.free.fr_pub_Distributions%5fLinux_plf_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: Couldn't stat source package list [ftp://ftp.free.fr](ftp://ftp.free.fr) breezy/non-free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.free.fr_pub_Distributions%5fLinux_plf_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_non-free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: You may want to run apt-get update to correct these problems
E: Couldn't find package java-package

---

### Post by geearf on 2006-02-28
[QUOTE=fwendt]Please note that the suggestions above is splendid but not enough to get default java applications like ant to run with the specified jvm/jre/sdk. This is because of two reasons:
[/QUOTE]
Thanks for this post, it is very interesting.

---

### Post by daredevil on 2006-03-01
this also can be useful

```
http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/142
```

---

### Post by Tom^ on 2006-03-08
How to install IBM java?

make-jpkg ibm-java2-jre-50-linux-i386.tgz
Creating temporary directory: /tmp/make-jpkg.XXXXk6F4WO
Loading plugins: blackdown-j2re.sh blackdown-j2sdk.sh common.sh ibm-j2re.sh ibm-j2sdk.sh j2re.sh j2sdk-doc.sh j2sdk.sh j2se.sh sun-j2re.sh sun-j2sdk-doc.sh sun-j2sdk.sh

No matching plugin was found.
Removing temporary directory: done

---

### Post by WelterPelter on 2006-03-08
[QUOTE=franonubu]Helloo,
I am vey newbie through linux and moreover ubuntu.
so I have downloaded the jre..., on the Desktop. Then wrote the first commnad but it seems some problem are happening. 

Do you have an idea how to fix this things?

Here is the message.

sudo apt-get install fakeroot java-package java-common
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
fakeroot is already the newest version.
W: Couldn't stat source package list [http://packages.freecontrib.org](http://packages.freecontrib.org) breezy/free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/packages.freecontrib.org_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: Couldn't stat source package list [http://packages.freecontrib.org](http://packages.freecontrib.org) breezy/non-free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/packages.freecontrib.org_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_non-free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: Couldn't stat source package list [ftp://ftp.free.fr](ftp://ftp.free.fr) breezy/free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.free.fr_pub_Distributions%5fLinux_plf_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: Couldn't stat source package list [ftp://ftp.free.fr](ftp://ftp.free.fr) breezy/non-free Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/ftp.free.fr_pub_Distributions%5fLinux_plf_ubuntu_plf_dists_breezy_non-free_binary-amd64_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: You may want to run apt-get update to correct these problems
E: Couldn't find package java-package[/QUOTE]

You have probably figured this out in the week since your post, but in case you haven't, this is a problem with synaptic. Your sources list is having some trouble. Have you tried running 'sudo apt-get update'?

---

### Post by cab1024 on 2006-03-23
My errors:
> chuck@saltydog:~$ sudo apt-get install fakeroot java-package java-common
Password:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
java-common is already the newest version.
The following extra packages will be installed:
  binutils debconf-utils debhelper dpkg-dev gettext html2text intltool-debian
  make po-debconf
Suggested packages:
  binutils-doc dh-make debian-keyring cvs gettext-doc
Recommended packages:
  gcc c-compiler curl libmail-sendmail-perl libcompress-zlib-perl
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  binutils debconf-utils debhelper dpkg-dev fakeroot gettext html2text
  intltool-debian java-package make po-debconf
0 upgraded, 11 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 21.3kB/4542kB of archives.
After unpacking 16.1MB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
Get:1 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) breezy/multiverse java-package 0.26 [21.3kB]
Fetched 21.3kB in 0s (41.3kB/s)

which means I've already sort of installed the latest Java, but more remains to be installed. then lots of unpacking, followed by:
> Setting up java-package (0.26) ...
chuck@saltydog:~$ java version "1.5.0_06"
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: version
chuck@saltydog:~$ Java(TM) 2 Runtime Environment, Standard Edition (build 1.5.0_06-b05)
bash: syntax error near unexpected token `TM'
chuck@saltydog:~$ Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM (build 1.5.0_06-b05, mixed mode, sharing)


Any idea how to make this work? I'm still getting the plug-in link in Firefox. I should note that I have done the Firefox 1.5.1 installation, so maybe what's needed is not getting copied to the *right* Firefox? But I think the instruction page had me delelte the original 1.07 Firefox.

---

### Post by bigken on 2006-04-09
Worked for me strait forward no hassle guide thx :p

---

### Post by clantoncs on 2006-12-21
Piece of cake!  Thanks for this!  

It's important to note, though, that the new jre download page is here:

[http://www.java.com/en/download/linux_manual.jsp]("http://www.java.com/en/download/linux_manual.jsp")

Also, this is the tenth update, so if you follow this tutorial you should change all the "06"s to "10"s.

Awesome tutorial!

---

### Post by navneeth on 2007-02-03
Thanks for this HOW-TO. It works!

---

### Post by jackn on 2008-04-26
Thank you, humanity-to-others.

When I tried to follow the instructions, the first download seemed to work well, 
When, however, I tried to run the second command, I got an error message:```
:~$ fakeroot make-jpkg jre-1_5_0_06-linux-i586.bin
Error: The file "jre-1_5_0_06-linux-i586.bin" does not exist.

```

Indeed, a 'find' came un with nothing.

Can anyone please help?

---

