---
title: "HOWTO: Install Opera in Ubuntu Hoary"
date: 2005-06-09
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by joh on 2005-06-09
[SIZE=7]Moved![/SIZE]

The Howto is moved to the Ubuntu Wiki, and is updated to a newer version of Opera.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperaBrowser](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperaBrowser)

Feel free to comment it here.

---

This is the install instructions for the Opera Internet Suite (Web browser +++)

This installs Opera, adds a menu icon and changes the default file handler from kexec to gnome-open.

Please give feedback if you have any tricks to make Opera integrate better with the Ubuntu desktop.

---

1. wget
[ftp://ftp.sunet.se/pub/www/clients/Opera/linux/802/final/en/i386/static/opera-static_8.02-20050727.1-qt_en_i386.deb](ftp://ftp.sunet.se/pub/www/clients/Opera/linux/802/final/en/i386/static/opera-static_8.02-20050727.1-qt_en_i386.deb)
2. sudo dpkg -i opera-static_8.02-20050727.1-qt_en_i386.deb
3. sudo gedit /usr/share/applications/opera.desktop
4. Insert the following lines into the file:
 
```
[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=Opera Web Browser
GenericName=Web Browser
Comment=Surf the Internet in a safer, faster, and easier way
Exec=opera %u
Terminal=false
MultipleArgs=true
Type=Application
Icon=/usr/X11R6/include/X11/bitmaps/opera.xpm
Categories=Application;Network
MimeType=text/html;image/gif;image/jpeg;image/png
```

5. Save the edited file.
6. mkdir ~/.opera
7. gedit ~/.opera/filehandler.ini
8. Insert the following lines into the file:

```
Opera Preferences version 2.0
; Do not edit this file while Opera is running
; This file is stored in UTF-8 encoding
[Settings]
Default File Handler=gnome-open exec,1
Default Directory Handler=gnome-open exec,1
```

9. Save the edited file.
10. Open Opera with Application -> Internet -> Opera Web Browser


**To set Opera as the system default browser and mailreader. Follow this steps:**
1. Go to System | Preferences | Preferred Applications
2. Under the Web Browser tab select "Custom" and, in the Command box, enter:

```
opera -newpage "%s"
```

3. Under the Mail Reader tab select "Custom" and, in the Command box, enter:

```
opera -newmail "%s"
```

---

### Post by donar73 on 2005-06-09
Thx, works perfectly!  :)

---

### Post by joh on 2005-06-09
Thats nice :)

I'm glad you are happy with it!

---

### Post by Spug on 2005-06-19
[QUOTE=joh]Thats nice :)

I'm glad you are happy with it![/QUOTE]
 Ah, thanks for the tips about how to change the default file handler. Much appreciated.

---

### Post by sempsteen on 2005-07-10
thanks to joh for this perfect how-to!

---

### Post by centremco on 2005-07-19
What exactly do you have to do different when using kubuntu?
Just leave the last step? (gnome-open)
Or even do the last step, but type something different than gnome-open?

thx for the howto btw, very usefull!

---

### Post by kagashe on 2005-07-19
> 3. sudo dpkg -i opera_8.0-20050415.6-shared-qt_en_sarge_i386.deb
This line needs to be corrected as follows:
3. sudo dpkg -i opera_8.01-20050615.5-shared-qt_en_sarge_i386.deb

kagashe

---

### Post by joh on 2005-07-21
[QUOTE=centremco]What exactly do you have to do different when using kubuntu?
Just leave the last step? (gnome-open)
Or even do the last step, but type something different than gnome-open?

thx for the howto btw, very usefull![/QUOTE]

Drop the last step. KDE's kexec is default in Opera.

---

### Post by Copter on 2005-07-26
thnx a lot! works great :)

---

### Post by craigevil on 2005-07-27
Works great even in XFCE.

---

### Post by SynapseR on 2005-07-28
Is there a time-limit for using Opera ?
Do you have to "buy" it ?

--
SynapseR

---

### Post by Xian on 2005-07-28
There is no time limit on the free version.
Use it and upgrade as often as you wish.

---

### Post by tymek666 on 2005-07-29
Is there any way to install i386 opera on amd64?
It's my favourite browser but there's no amd64 version for download  :(

---

### Post by Xian on 2005-07-29
Have you tried just installing the Opera [8.02 Tarball](ftp://ftp.opera.com/pub/opera/linux/802/final/en/i386/shared/opera-8.02-20050727.5-shared-qt.i386-en.tar.bz2)?

---

### Post by Psycs on 2005-07-31
Very nice HOWTO, thanks! I like the fact that you already edited it to work for Opera 8.02.

Good job \\:D/

---

### Post by tymek666 on 2005-07-31
[QUOTE=Xian]Have you tried just installing the Opera [8.02 Tarball](ftp://ftp.opera.com/pub/opera/linux/802/final/en/i386/shared/opera-8.02-20050727.5-shared-qt.i386-en.tar.bz2)?[/QUOTE]
Yes, I've tried but it doesn't work :(

---

### Post by Xian on 2005-07-31
[QUOTE=tymek666]Yes, I've tried but it doesn't work :([/QUOTE]
The qt-shared version needs the libqt3c102-mt package.
Is that installed on your system?

If nothing else works use the [Opera-8.02-static](ftp://ftp.opera.com/pub/opera/linux/802/final/en/i386/static/opera-8.02-20050727.1-static-qt.i386-en.tar.bz2) release.

---

### Post by tymek666 on 2005-07-31
Thanks a lot Xian, now it works :)

---

### Post by Ali_Baba on 2005-08-02
Nice HOWTO joh,Opera is working just fine now :)

---

### Post by Madpilot on 2005-08-16
[QUOTE=Ali_Baba]Nice HOWTO joh,Opera is working just fine now :)[/QUOTE]
 There is a Ubuntu-specific Opera .deb now - why is 8.02 linked to the sarge deb?

Thanks for the .desktop files and file-manager fix, those are great.

---

### Post by cowlip on 2005-08-16
[QUOTE=Madpilot]There is a Ubuntu-specific Opera .deb now - why is 8.02 linked to the sarge deb?

Thanks for the .desktop files and file-manager fix, those are great.[/QUOTE]
 Hi, isn't that build static qt?

---

### Post by Madpilot on 2005-08-16
[QUOTE=cowlip]Hi, isn't that build static qt?[/QUOTE]

No idea, I've already deleted the 8.02 deb I pulled down a while ago.

What's a 'static build', anyway?

---

### Post by sonic20 on 2005-08-21
Thank you for your instructions, but I have not been able to completely install Opera.

Everything appears to be going OK and I get no errors, but there are no icons to start  the program.  

I was able to start the program by going to a terminal and typing Opera.

Any help is appreciated, but I an really new and step by step appriciated.  Using Gnome.

---

### Post by raggamuffin on 2005-08-27
[QUOTE=sonic20]Thank you for your instructions, but I have not been able to completely install Opera.

Everything appears to be going OK and I get no errors, but there are no icons to start  the program.  

I was able to start the program by going to a terminal and typing Opera.

Any help is appreciated, but I an really new and step by step appriciated.  Using Gnome.[/QUOTE]
 OK, I followed this guide (except that I omitted the last step, as I'm on Kubuntu) and everthing seemed to go okay...but when I try to run opera, all I get is this error message...

> opera: Preference initialization failure. Generic failure (-1)

Anybody have any idea how to fix this?

---

### Post by Phantasman on 2005-08-30
Thanx, works great. ;-)

---

### Post by iiJeebz on 2005-08-31
[QUOTE=joh]This is the install instructions for the Opera Internet Suite (Web browser +++)
<snip>

Thanks so much... following the very limited instructions at Opera's site was hopeless, whereas yours worked perfectly first time (just had to change filename to current ver)

Now, if only I understood what I did, heh... 

Thanks Again,

iiJ

---

### Post by mcduck on 2005-08-31
Thanks for great HOWTO. You had perfect timing, as opera.com was giving away free registration codes today and I finaly got a chance to test this browser.

Anyway, I'm not sure if I like this or hate it. Making it do things my way seems pretty impossible. And it uses Qt so it looks very bad, I've never found a good black Qt-theme to fit my GTK-theme.. And whatever I do, it won't use fonts I choose for menus.. And blocking ads seems to need some hacking.

I think I'll keep Opera anyway. In a month ore two I think I can make it usable ;)

---

### Post by Galoot on 2005-08-31
Incidentally, If you love Opera like I do, you might want to make it your default browser and your default mail reader, too. Here's how to do that (in Gnome):

Go to System | Preferences | Preferred Applications

Under the Web Browser tab select "Custom" and, in the Command box, enter```
opera -newpage "%s"
```

Under the Mail Reader tab select "Custom" and, in the Command box, enter```
opera -newmail "%s"
```

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-04
[QUOTE=Galoot]Incidentally, If you love Opera like I do, you might want to make it your default browser and your default mail reader, too. Here's how to do that (in Gnome):


Thanks! I added it to the HOWTO.

---

### Post by majikstreet on 2005-09-04
Opera is ugggggly!

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-04
[QUOTE=majikstreet]Opera is ugggggly![/QUOTE]

Its a QT/KDE application, so yes, it does look ugly in GNOME. But beside of the looks, its a damn good browser!

---

### Post by GameManK on 2005-09-04
[QUOTE=Galoot]Incidentally, If you love Opera like I do, you might want to make it your default browser and your default mail reader, too. Here's how to do that (in Gnome):

Go to System | Preferences | Preferred Applications

Under the Web Browser tab select "Custom" and, in the Command box, enter```
opera -newpage "%s"
```

Under the Mail Reader tab select "Custom" and, in the Command box, enter```
opera -newmail "%s"
```[/QUOTE]

for KDE, this is in settings:/ or in Control Center, KDE Components > Component Chooser

[QUOTE=majikstreet]	Opera is ugggggly![/QUOTE]
pick a skin you like and it looks great!
the only issue i have is the menus stay dark-windoze-gray, anybody know how to change that?

---

### Post by Jaymac on 2005-09-07
[QUOTE=raggamuffin]OK, I followed this guide (except that I omitted the last step, as I'm on Kubuntu) and everthing seemed to go okay...but when I try to run opera, all I get is this error message...

Anybody have any idea how to fix this?[/QUOTE]

Yeah I'm getting the same error.. I wasn't on my previous install but I reinstalled Ubuntu and tried to put Opera back on and keep getting:

> john@ubuntu:~$ opera
opera: Preference initialization failure. Generic failure (-1)

I've tried everything I can think of.  Anyone???

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-07
It might be that your preferences is broken in some way.

Try to remove the .opera folder to see if that helps. Remember that this deletes all your bookmarks and mail, but it is possible to restore it again.

```

cd ~
mv .opera Desktop/opera_backup
 
```

Now try to start Opera, and it will create a new .opera folder. If it workes, then the preferences was probably the problem. And you can import the mail from the opera_backup foler on your Desktop.

If it didn't help, follow this to restore the old configuration:
```

cd ~
rm .opera -r
mv Desktop/opera_backup .opera
 
```

---

### Post by paul cooke on 2005-09-07
> Online party: You crashed the house!

Tuesday, 6. September 2005, 09:05:37

Our ten-year anniversary online party is over and we've spent the last few days cleaning up. We've never had so much fun cleaning up, though, because this was a fantastic party...!


In 24 hours, more than three million people got their free registration codes

In 24 hours, half a million people downloaded Opera from our servers (a new all-time high).

looks like it was a very successful campaign...  ;-) of course slashdot getting in on the act probably pushed the numbers way up...

 Yup, I'm one of those 3 million with a free reg code...  :grin:  basically cos my existing reg code for an older version didn't work any more...  :???:

---

### Post by America's Reject on 2005-09-11
I get this error after doing all of this.

Opera encountered a problem during plug-in setup.
Plug-ins will not work properly.
Check your installation.

Could not start plug-in executable 'operamotifwrapper'.
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/operamotifwrapper-3
Please install Motif.

Plug-in path
(Path can be modified in Preferences dialog)

/usr/lib/opera/plugins
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins

---

### Post by AndyKi on 2005-09-13
[QUOTE=joh]It might be that your preferences is broken in some way.

Try to remove the .opera folder to see if that helps. Remember that this deletes all your bookmarks and mail, but it is possible to restore it again.

```

cd ~
mv .opera Desktop/opera_backup
 
```

Now try to start Opera, and it will create a new .opera folder. If it workes, then the preferences was probably the problem. And you can import the mail from the opera_backup foler on your Desktop.

If it didn't help, follow this to restore the old configuration:
```

cd ~
rm .opera -r
mv Desktop/opera_backup .opera
 
```[/QUOTE]
 Thanks for all the good instructions.  I originally tried to install and setup from the Ubuntu wiki instructions.  Install seemed OK - no errors.  Creating the opera.desktop file went as advertised.  But I got an error (don't remember exact wording) when I tried to create the filehandler.ini file.  Apparently the instruction was supposed to creat the directory and file at the same time, but it didn't happen.  I stumbled around and created the directory manually, then changed to it and created the file.  Opera appeared in the Applications menu, but nothing happened when it was clicked.  Went back to the wiki and clicked the link to this thread.  Felt good when I saw your instructions to create the directory and file individually. Saw where someone tried to run Opera from a terminal window, so I tried that.  I got the " opera: Preference initialization failure. Generic failure (-1)" error.  Found your suggestion to remove the .opera folder and tried that.  It ran from a terminal window the first time, now it runs from the applications menu.  Thanks again for your help.

Now - on to plugins so video links work!

---

### Post by Galoot on 2005-09-13
[QUOTE=AndyKi]Now - on to plugins so video links work![/QUOTE]
You could find worse HOWTOs [than these](http://www.opera.com/linux/docs/plugins/install/). I finally decided I needed video last night and went there. Worked without a hitch.

I get video in an external program, mind you, not right in the browser. To which I say... so what?

---

### Post by AndyKi on 2005-09-17
Thanks!  Haven't tried it yet - just now reading the site.  But it looks very informative.

---

### Post by Madpilot on 2005-09-20
This howto has been added to the Ubuntu wiki at [http://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperaBrowser](http://wiki.ubuntu.com/OperaBrowser) - thanks to everyone who's work went into getting Opera into Ubuntu!

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-20
Opera has become free. It is free as in beer, but anyway: You can get Opera without ads free of charge!

---

### Post by dabear on 2005-09-20
[QUOTE=joh]Opera has become free. It is free as in beer, but anyway: You can get Opera without ads free of charge![/QUOTE]
 Well maybe if you run Hoary you can, but it [breaks with breezy](http://my.opera.com/community/forums/topic.dml?id=102853)

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-20
[QUOTE=dabear]Well maybe if you run Hoary you can, but it [breaks with breezy](http://my.opera.com/community/forums/topic.dml?id=102853)[/QUOTE]

It is because they have det the Ubuntu Breezy package as default for Ubuntu. If you use Warty or Hoary, use the Debian Sarge package instead.

---

### Post by jdonat on 2005-09-20
[QUOTE=joh]It is because they have det the Ubuntu Breezy package as default for Ubuntu. If you use Warty or Hoary, use the Debian Sarge package instead.[/QUOTE]

well I hope that's not the breezy package, because it doesn't work in breezy either. libqt3c102....  is not in the repositories.

---

### Post by dabear on 2005-09-20
Try the sarge package, I got opera installed this way on breezy

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-21
I have no idea what they have done.

Breezy uses the new C++ ABI and Opera should depend on libqt3-mt 

Hoary and Warty uses the old ABI and depends on libqt3c102-mt

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-21
Hmm,

They have changed he default Ubuntu package from the one that is compatible with Breezy, to the one which is compatible with Hoary and Warty. It is not possible to choose.

They will probably add the Breezy package when it is released.

This is the files you need:
[B]
Warty/Hoary: [/B]
- opera_8.50-20050916.5-shared-qt_en_sarge_i386.deb
- Available under Ubuntu and Debian Sarge in the download section
- Depends on the package libqt3c102-mt

**Breezy **
- opera_8.50-20050916.6-shared-qt_en_etch_i386.deb
- Available under Debian Etch and Debian Unstable
- Depends on the package libqt3-mt

---

### Post by Name on 2005-09-21
I get this error when trying to start opera.


/usr/lib/opera/8.50-20050916.6/opera: error while loading shared libraries: libs tdc++.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

---

### Post by joh on 2005-09-21
[QUOTE=Name]I get this error when trying to start opera.


/usr/lib/opera/8.50-20050916.6/opera: error while loading shared libraries: libs tdc++.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory[/QUOTE]

You need the package libstdc++6

Install it with synaptic, or apt:
```
apt-get install libstdc++6
```

Are you sure this package isn't installed by default? Which version of Ubuntu are you using?

---

### Post by moerl on 2005-09-21
Would someone sum up for the newb how to install the latest Opera release using Breezy? I just installed Ubuntu yesterday and am completely new to Linux AND Ubuntu and am trying to get used to dealing with packages as opposed to the way Windows deals with installations and files..

I have "opera_8.50-20050916.6-shared-qt_en_etch_i386.deb" downloaded to my home folder. I just have no idea what to do with it. Is there a way to open Synaptic and then direct it to the aforementioned package to get it to install it that way? Or am I supposed to find the package I just mentioned in the repositories?

Thanks

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-09-21
[QUOTE=moerl]Would someone sum up for the newb how to install the latest Opera release using Breezy? I just installed Ubuntu yesterday and am completely new to Linux AND Ubuntu and am trying to get used to dealing with packages as opposed to the way Windows deals with installations and files..

I have "opera_8.50-20050916.6-shared-qt_en_etch_i386.deb" downloaded to my home folder. I just have no idea what to do with it. Is there a way to open Synaptic and then direct it to the aforementioned package to get it to install it that way? Or am I supposed to find the package I just mentioned in the repositories?

Thanks[/QUOTE] Assuming that .deb is on your desktop, open a terminal and type these two commands. ```
cd Desktop
sudo dpkg -i opera_8.50-20050916.6-shared-qt_en_etch_i386.deb
```

---

### Post by yang_hui1986527 on 2006-04-05
it is good

thank you

---

### Post by jdarias on 2007-05-11
Everything works great here except for the gnome-open setting. I still see a windows-like open box. Can someone help?

Feisty
opera 9.20

---

### Post by angrykeyboarder on 2007-05-13
> **jdarias said:**
> Everything works great here except for the gnome-open setting. I still see a windows-like open box. Can someone help?

Feisty
opera 9.20

No, but thanks for asking. ;)

That's a "feature".

---

### Post by rhanex on 2007-12-01
thanks a lot!

---

