---
title: "HOWTO: HSF/HCF Modems"
date: 2004-11-04
forum: Outdated Tutorials &amp; Tips
---

### Post by gecko on 2004-11-04
HOWTO: HSF/HCF Modems

To install support for these specific modems you need the development environment setup on ubuntu as they have to compile a module for the driver. To prepare your system for this use the following commands

sudo aptitude install build-essentials
sudo aptitude install linux-headers

Download the drivers from [http://www.linuxant.com](http://www.linuxant.com) which are relevant for your system. You need the debian source package. Open a terminal window and install the drivers with the following command.

sudo dpkg -i <debian package>

Regards

Gecko

---

### Post by NickR on 2004-11-22
If you get an "ERROR: hcfpci driver not active" message when trying to configure the modem then enter . . .

lsmod|grep hcf     

That should list hcfpciengine, hcfpciserial, hcfpciosspec and hcfpcihw.  If it doesn't then enter the following . . .

sudo modprobe hcfpcihw

Good luck!

---

### Post by bobterri on 2005-04-20
When I do what you suggest above, I get the following:

sudo dpkg -i  hcfpcimodem_1.05full_i386.deb
(Reading database ... 83844 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace hcfpcimodem 1.05full (using hcfpcimodem_1.05full_i386.deb) ...

Removing hcfpci driver from /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/
Unpacking replacement hcfpcimodem ...
Setting up hcfpcimodem (1.05full) ...
Conexant HCF controllerless PCI modem driver, version 1.05full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hcfpciconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Debian-3.1 linux-2.6.10-5-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/build] /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/build

Building modules for kernel 2.6.10-5-386, using source directory
/lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/build. Please wait...
done.

ERROR: no device detected by hcfpci driver
dpkg: error processing hcfpcimodem (--install):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
 hcfpcimodem

What's the deal?

lspci output is:

lspci
0000:00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8375 [KM266/KL266] Host Bridge
0000:00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8633 [Apollo Pro266 AGP]
0000:00:0a.0 Communication controller: Conexant HSF 56k HSFi Modem (rev 01)
0000:00:0e.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
0000:00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
0000:00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
0000:00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
0000:00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 82)
0000:00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8235 ISA Bridge
0000:00:11.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
0000:00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 50)
0000:01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]

It looks like my modem is recognized as a "Communication controller" and not a "modem."

---

### Post by TravisNewman on 2005-04-20
Moving to the appropriate forum section

---

### Post by chettyk on 2005-04-20
[QUOTE=bobterri]When I do what you suggest above, I get the following:

It looks like my modem is recognized as a "Communication controller" and not a "modem."[/QUOTE]

I think you need to make sure you have a chipset that is supported by Linuxant. Take a look at the Linuxant webpage "Identifying your modem" ([https://www.linuxant.com/drivers/modemident.php](https://www.linuxant.com/drivers/modemident.php) ). That page also gives a downloadable 'scanModem', a modem detection script.

I had trouble installing the Debian package for my HSF modem. For both HCF and HSF modems, Linuxant has installation packages that you can download and run. The installation packages then download the appropriate package and compile them if needed. You'll find the installation package(s) under 'Download' in the sections devoted to HCF and HSF modems on the Linuxant website. 

As previous posts have pointed out, be sure that you have installed the 'build-essentials' and 'linux-headers' packages.

---

### Post by kransky_dan on 2005-04-22
thats all well and good if you get the drivers working and hopefully you do, i did but they only operate at 14.4kbs because linuxant are stingy f$#*s and want you to pay for the full working drivers. if any one had any ideas or a full working licence key please let me know, you will heap others too!!!!
thanks

---

### Post by wavecite on 2005-04-25
can i use this drivers for my usb external modem? or i need to buy the right drivers to that site? help..

---

### Post by chettyk on 2005-04-25
[QUOTE=wavecite]can i use this drivers for my usb external modem? or i need to buy the right drivers to that site? help..[/QUOTE]

I suspect not. But you could download the  'scanModem' script referred to in my earlier post (which gives the URL for Linuxant page from where it can be downloaded) and run it to see if your modem is detected.

---

### Post by hagan on 2005-05-26
Hi,
I have the problem, that I can not go into standby or suspend anymore when I have the modules loaded. Does anyboda else expirience the same problem?

Regards
Hagan

---

### Post by shmk on 2005-06-07
I have installed the offiacial conexant drivers but still a problem.
Everytime a start the modem there is a really bad noise, the connection is fine but the continuose noise makes me mad. Some solution ?

PS: to connect I'm using wvdial.

---

### Post by az on 2005-06-07
Any questions about this proprietary driver should be directed to the company from which you bought it.  They are supposed to support their driver.

---

### Post by bijaz on 2005-07-21
[QUOTE=gecko]HOWTO: HSF/HCF Modems

..
sudo aptitude install build-essentials

..

Gecko[/QUOTE]

This should be:

 sudo aptitude install build-essential

---

### Post by poision_heart on 2007-11-01
Hi buddy i ve compaq v3000z laptop with conexant modem.It not detected by ubuntu gutsy n i am new here.Well i downloaded drivers from linuxant.com n installed it on gutsy.Everything went well but while config i lost my sound.Can anyone pls guide me how to config modem n how to make it work along with my sound too?

---

### Post by stunningman on 2007-12-26
well i tried using generic driver from [www.linuxant.com](www.linuxant.com) it worked well but i counld only get 14.4 kbps speed.
It goes like this:
1.download generic driver (full)
before installing uninstall the previous driver
2.open the content by double clicking it.it will start installing with packege manager automatically
3.now after it gets install
4.open terminal
5.now type sudo nano /etc/wvdial.conf
6.now put values to configure wvdial.
7.press ctrl-o to write,press enter
8.press ctrl-X

---

### Post by stunningman on 2007-12-26
again open terminal type sudo wvdial and your problem will be solved

---

