---
title: "Can`t get 3D effects in Gutsy"
date: 2007-12-07
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by PaulFXH on 2007-12-07
I had used Feisty on an old Dell Desktop 4550 with a NVidia GeForce 4 MX 420 card and everything, including Compiz-Fusion worked perfectly.
Now I've just upgraded to Gutsy and have a weird problem with desktop effects.
On bootup, a message pops up saying I`m running in "Low graphics mode". So, when I go into /etc/X11/xorg.conf to change the screen resolution from 800x600 I see this at the top of this file:
> # This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
OK, so I run 
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
and after reboot, the screen comes up in 1280x1024 resolution which is what I want.
Now, I want to get desktop effects working (Compiz-Fusion is installed and "running" -- but without 3D effects.
I have already installed the appropriate NVidia driver (x86-96.43.01). When I click System>Preferences>Desktop Effects>Enable 3D driver I get a message asking me to reboot the computer.
However, after reboot, the screen comes back in 800x600 resolution.(and the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file has reverted to what it was originally i.e. before I used the code above to generate a "real" xorg.conf file) and when I enable desktop effects, a message tells me that desktop effects can't be enabled despite the fact that System>Administration>Restricted Drivers Manager shows the NVidia accelerated graphics driver as being in use.
Any clues as to what's going on here and how I can get in Gutsy what worked fine in Feisty (i.e. 1280x1024 resolution with full 3D effects)?

I should maybe mention that I had previously upgraded from Feisty to Gutsy on my MacBook and this worked like a charm with no problems at all.

---

### Post by Grishka on 2007-12-07
try setting up your display in nvidia-settings panel. save your settings to xorg.conf. back it up first, just in case.

---

### Post by PaulFXH on 2007-12-08
Thanks for the reply.
However, my problem seems to be that whenever I make a change, any change, to my xorg.conf file, dexconf shows up and regenerates a sort of  "default" xorg file in its place with a low-graphics screen resolution and the "nv" rather than the "nvidia" graphics driver.
So, doing what you recommend simply won't work as this change will just lead to dexconf showing up again and bringing me back to square one.
Anybody else seen this?

---

### Post by PaulFXH on 2007-12-08
Just in case anybody`s interested, I solved this by doing a clean install of Gutsy (I use a /home so didn`t lose a lot by clean-installing).
Then I tried the same upgrade (Feisty>Gutsy) on a much more modern Dell (E520) and got exactly the same problem.
Weird.
Anyway, I`m now pretty sure I can sort this as well by clean-installing which I`ll do tomorrow.
Anybody else had similar experiences?

---

### Post by StephUb on 2007-12-09
From what i know, the upgrade to Gutsy can introduce a lots of bug.

And by the way Ubuntu web-site was saying to prefer a clean install than an upgrade too.

Bottom line, always have a separate /home and do clean install every new version..

---

### Post by PaulFXH on 2007-12-09
> Bottom line, always have a separate /home and do clean install every new version..
OK, but I was able to upgrade from Feisty to Gutsy on my MacBook without any serious problem a few weeks ago. So, the upgrade DOES work at least sometimes.

---

