---
title: "Nvidia separate X-Screens"
date: 2007-11-29
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by doctor_jag on 2007-11-29
Just trying to feel out what other people have done for this problem.  I am trying to show video on my TV (seperate X-screen) while at the same time having my desktop clear to work.  I can't seem to get the video to play on the TV without moving the file over and opening it on the seperat x-screen.
 > 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Apr 16 20:38:05 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Basic Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 
    Screen      1  "Screen1" LeftOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: xconfig, VertRefresh source: xconfig
    Identifier     "Television" 
    HorizSync       30-50
    VertRefresh     60
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 85.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 120.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Screen          0
    Option  "NoLogo"        "true"
    Option  "RenderAccel"   "true"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier      "Device1"
    Driver "nvidia"
    Screen 1
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Television"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option   "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO"
    Option  "TVStandard" "NTSC-M"
    Option  "ConnectedMonitor" "TV"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "800x600"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x960 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection



Thanks,

Josh

---

### Post by D-EJ915 on 2007-11-29
So what exactly are you doing "moving the file over" etc.?  I'm confused as to what you're saying.

---

### Post by doctor_jag on 2007-11-30
I am trying to output video to the TV automatically using VLC while having the controls on the desktop.  I can move the video over to the TV / separate x screen and start it but I am trying to eliminate this step.  I have played around with VLC's video output settings to output to the separate x screen without success.

---

### Post by as0l0 on 2007-12-24
can you do;

DISPLAY=:0.1 vlc -whatever

?

---

### Post by doctor_jag on 2007-12-25
Was spending too much time trying to get it to work.  Thanks for the advice.  I swapped out the ubuntu machine with a windows machine.  The windows nvidia drivers are a little more fine tuned.

---

### Post by nymusicman on 2008-02-01
I know you gave up and went back to windows but this is what I did. I'm just sorry I didn't catch your question sooner. So for a little insight here is my setup. I have twinview running my monitor and screen and I made a little script to put in /usr/bin. You can name it whatever you want.

#!/bin/bash
vlc --x11-display :0.0 --fullscreen --no-wx-embed "$@"

from here you basically just play around with where your tv is. funny enough my tv should be :0.1 but :0.0 is where it finds it. I also use vnc on display :1 and this command allows me to use my palm pilot as a remote control with Palm VNC. Have fun. Remember too, when you take the time to play around enough you'll find you can do things with linux that just kick the pants off of windows capabilities.

---

