---
title: "Desktop Effects not working in Feisty/AMD64"
date: 2007-04-19
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by Rizlaw on 2007-04-19
After upgrading from Edgy to Feisty without incident this morning, I tried out "Desktop Effects". Enabling wobbly windows and the Cube, disabled any ability to move or resize windows. The three boxes in the upper right corner of a window were missing.

My hardware: Shuttle SN25P, AMD FX-55, 2GB Crucial XMS PRO DRAM, Nvidia 6600GT using proprietary driver.

So much for the hoped for eye-candy.:(

---

### Post by jaimz on 2007-04-19
that happened to me because I didn't  had;  Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
in the device section for the xorg.conf file

might be your problem aswell

edit - I forgot to say that this worked for my ATI x800

---

### Post by Rizlaw on 2007-04-20
Thanks Jaimz. I will try it, but a note to the Ubuntu developers. What's the point of providing this "preview" of desktop effects, without also informing everybody that modifications to the xorg conf file must be made which are not obvious to any but the more technically sophisticated users of Ubuntu?:confused:

---

### Post by Nozem on 2007-04-20
I have the same problem as Rizlaw. For me, Jaimz'  tip didn't work.. I still miss the top of each window/program I open. Funny thing is.. it did work for me yesterday. I've been manually editing xorg.conf however, since Ubuntu switched to a low resolution every time I booted and for some reason and every setting I tried after loading the Nvidia-configuration program (with ' sudo nvidia-settings') failed to save. Now the high resolution stays, but the desktop effects are problematic.

I'll post my xorg.conf for more information. The only lines I edited were:

- The 'Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true" bit, under Device
- The ' Option metamodes'  line, to include 1280x1024, under Screen
- The line Modes under screen. I removed 1600x1200, that was set as a first option in the line.



> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:28 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6800"
    Option 	   "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1280x1024 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-04-20
A couple of things:  It specifically states that beryl is incompatible with Xinerama.  If you have two monitors I would suggest twinview, which is compatible with  beryl.

Where did you get the "Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true" bit" stuff?

I would get rid of that and add```
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
``` to your device section instead.

Then restart X.

---

### Post by Nozem on 2007-04-20
Thanks rsambuca, that did the trick for me.. You, sir, are a scholar and a gentleman! :)

Now I'll go and try find out why I'm only left with one workspace.. Can't spin the cube, even though it is enabled.

---

### Post by Rizlaw on 2007-04-20
> **rsambuca said:**
> A couple of things:  It specifically states that beryl is incompatible with Xinerama.  If you have two monitors I would suggest twinview, which is compatible with  beryl.

Where did you get the "Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true" bit" stuff?

I would get rid of that and add```
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
``` to your device section instead.

Then restart X.

Rsambuca,

Your recommendation seems to partially work. I now have functional wobbly windows [for what that's worth], but I still don't see any workspace "cube" effect. Do you need to do something else to make the "cube" effect work? I have read in another post that "Ctl + Altl + left arrow" shows the cube, but that doesn't work for me. The best I can get using "Ctl + Altl + Up arrow" is a smaller flat display of each application on the desktop, but no cube effect. I can then switch between apps using the left and right arrow keys.

Does anyone know if there is documentation somewhere explaining which key combinations peform the various Compiz visual effects? I stumbled upon "Alt + scrollwheel": which will render various levels of active window transparency so that you can see the desktop background.

---

### Post by Nozem on 2007-04-20
Rizlaw,

I found that to get the cube, you need to set more than one workspace. This can be done using the Compiz manager, wich you need to install separately. Open up a terminal and type:

sudo apt-get install gnome-compiz-manager

After installing, go to System -> Preferences -> GL Desktop. Click the ' Workspaces'  tab, and set the number of viewports to 4. After this the cube should work. Note that you can also tweak a set of other options from here, including key-combinations for functions.

---

### Post by Rizlaw on 2007-04-20
Nozem,

Thanks. I've finally figured out how to make the cube work, but this only gives rise to more questions:

1. I can rotate the cube (Ctl+Alt+left mousebutton), but each time I let go of the buttons the cube snaps to a flat full screen side of the cube - in may case a 1920x1200 side . Is it possible to have the cube stop, for example, on a corner showing two sides of the cube so that  windowed apps can be dragged/moved from one cube surface to the anothe cube surface? In other words, is it possible to set this up so that when you release the [Ctl+Alt+left mouse button], the cube remains in the position you rotated it to?

2. Is is possible to make the cube smaller, so that you can view the entire cube (all sides) within a 1920x1200 desktop? How?

3. I have searched Google, the Compiz.Org Forum and Ubuntu Forums and I can't find one up to date Guide on how to configure Ubuntu/Feisty's version of Compiz. Does such a document exist? If I properly understand what I am reading on the Compiz Forum, Ubuntu Feisty has neither the most recent version of Compiz, nor all of the pieces (plugins).

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-04-20
> **Rizlaw said:**
> Nozem,

Thanks. I've finally figured out how to make the cube work, but this only gives rise to more questions:

1. I can rotate the cube (Ctl+Alt+left mousebutton), but each time I let go of the buttons the cube snaps to a flat full screen side of the cube - in may case a 1920x1200 side . Is it possible to have the cube stop, for example, on a corner showing two sides of the cube so that  windowed apps can be dragged/moved from one cube surface to the anothe cube surface? In other words, is it possible to set this up so that when you release the [Ctl+Alt+left mouse button], the cube remains in the position you rotated it to?

2. Is is possible to make the cube smaller, so that you can view the entire cube (all sides) within a 1920x1200 desktop? How?

3. I have searched Google, the Compiz.Org Forum and Ubuntu Forums and I can't find one up to date Guide on how to configure Ubuntu/Feisty's version of Compiz. Does such a document exist? If I properly understand what I am reading on the Compiz Forum, Ubuntu Feisty has neither the most recent version of Compiz, nor all of the pieces (plugins).

1.  Not that I know of.  It will display one desktop when you let go of the buttons.

2. There is in Beryl, I don't know about compiz.  In beryl, it is in the beryl-manager settings.

---

### Post by oskvaz on 2007-04-20
I did the changes posted by Nozem with the correction of Rsambuca and my Compiz works like a charm.

Thank you guys!!!

---

### Post by DarkDancer on 2007-04-20
Rizlaw,

    If you grab the thing you wanbt on a different surface and drag it to the edge, the cube should flipshowing the window on both sides for a moment, then moving over to the other desktop. At least mine does... ;)

---

### Post by Rizlaw on 2007-04-20
After searching high and low, I found a very good guide, which I think, will help a lot of folks out with Compiz setup using Nvidia or ATI cards. The Guide can be found at:

                           [http://technowizah.com/2006/10/debian-how-to-aiglx-compiz.html](http://technowizah.com/2006/10/debian-how-to-aiglx-compiz.html)

---

