---
title: "7.04 to 7.10 upgrade = no more desktop effects."
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by itloke on 2007-10-18
Hi. I recently upgraded from Ubuntu 7.04 to 7.10.
In 7.04, I had desktop effects enabled, and now, in 7.10, it tells me that desktop effects cannot be enabled.

My gfx card is an Integrated Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 3000.

Any suggestions on how to enable it? 

Cheers, Loke.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2007-10-18
Look in 

System --> Preferences --> Appearance

Go to the Visual Effects tab.

Tear it up, dude!

:popcorn:

---

### Post by mattstazys on 2007-10-18
I have a similair problem with my ATI x1650 PRO card. 

I would say the best site to start is the compiz site , under documentation and then follow your card maker.

I havnt had any results, i just made the problem worse :lolflag:

---

### Post by aJayRoo on 2007-10-18
Some drivers are blacklisted by compiz-fusion. I don't really know much about this but when desktop effects stopped working on my ati card (it had previously worked fine) I edited '/usr/bin/compiz' and removed ati from the blacklist list in that script. I'm guessing that this probably isn't a good idea but it worked for me! Might be worth a go if this is what is happening to you too.

---

### Post by itloke on 2007-10-18
Cheers for that aJayRoo! :)
I just removed my card from the blacklist, and then it worked.
All good now in 7.10 :)

---

### Post by aJayRoo on 2007-10-18
Cool, I'm glad you got your eye-candy back! I'm not sure how this hack will work out long term, or how it will behave with updates, but since it is a simple change I guess nothing too bad could come of it... famous last words? :)

---

### Post by adityakavoor on 2007-10-18
can i have the exact path of the file to edit ?

---

### Post by adityakavoor on 2007-10-18
see [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=579530")

---

