---
title: "Windows maximize across dual monitors with compiz"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by 0thvarun on 2007-10-23
When I enabled "Custom" Visual Effects in Gutsy, my windows maximize across both monitors. I didn't have this problem with Feisty (I just upgraded). When I disable "Custom" Visual Effects, I don't have this problem.

I have an nVidia card and am using the driver from the Restricted Drivers Manager. I have attached my xorg.conf. It was generated by nvidia-settings, but I moved the "TwinView" and "metamodes" Options from the "Screen" section to the "Device" section.

Thanks for taking the time to read this and help me out.

---

### Post by 0thvarun on 2007-10-23
I don't know if I did the right thing to fix it, but I was able to.

What I did was remove the driver that came with gutsy (sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common linux-restricted-modules*) and then installed the driver from the nvidia website. Then, under System -> Appearance -> Preferences -> General Options -> Display Settings I re-checked "Detect Outputs" (I had unchecked it before). And it worked. 

Not sure how or why. But it worked. If anyone can explain the how or why, it would be much appreciated! :-)

---

### Post by PureLoneWolf on 2007-10-26
Did you ever figure this out.  I have a 6800Ultra and currently maximising anything (including moving video to full screen) spans across both monitors.  In XP it simply maximises to the screen it is being displayed on, leaving me to work merrily away in the other screen.

I will have to see if disabling custom visual effects works for me.  Hopefully it will.

Additionally, how did you install from the Nvidia website - It seems to want text mode whenever I try

I am a n00b I know....

Cheers for any help

---

### Post by 0thvarun on 2007-11-29
Damn, I'm really sorry I took this long to reply. I guess I stop visiting forums once my problem is solved :-$

>Did you ever figure this out.
Did you try what I did? I sort of stumbled across that solution, I'm still not sure how/why it worked.

>Additionally, how did you install from the Nvidia website - It seems to want text mode whenever I try
You're right, it needs text mode to install the drivers. This is how I do it. I'm not sure if it's the best, or even right, way, but it works for me. I'm assuming you're in X.

1) Download the drivers from the NVidia website to a known location.
2) Press Ctrl+Alt+F1. This will get you to a console.
3) type /etc/init.d/gdm stop. This will shutdown X.
4) type sh NVIDIA-installerxxxxxxxxxxxxx (whatever the filename is). This will kick off the install. It's pretty straightforward, except you might have to have the script compile a kernel module for you.

I typed that off the top of my head, I hope I got it right. Let me know if you have any other questions. I'll try and check this thread again, and hopefully this time in less than a  month!

---

