---
title: "7.04 Firefox addon Swiftfox and Desktop Effects"
date: 2007-04-20
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by lassegs on 2007-04-20
Hi.

Been playing with 7.04 and whoa! This is great. But I get the weirdest error. 
I have a very basic setup, installed nvidia drivers, activated Desktop Effects, installed compiz extras and install gnome compiz prefrences. 

Then I go on to update my Firefox with some kick *** add-ons. I install Adblock Plus (a obvious musthave), and then configure it. Then I install Fasterfox. Haven't tried it before because I used Swiftfox until I realized the licensing issues. 

I go to Tools -> Add-ons -> Fasterfox -> Preferences  and then it happens: The thing around the window (window border, called metacity in regular Gnome, Emerald in Beryl, dunno what its called in Compiz) suddenly crashes. This happens every time. I have to restart desktop effects to get it back on. 

This is the wierdest thing. It doesn't happen with the other Add-ons i have. Anyone know how i can troubleshoot this? Anyone wanna test if they get the same problem? 

Cheers
Lasse

---

### Post by mgmiller on 2007-04-20
I just tried your suggestion to crash the window borders, but it seems to work fine in my system.  I just upgraded from edgy to feisty with nvidia drivers.  I have always used faster fox.  No problems.  I did have some issues getting compiz to work correctly though.  
I had to add 1 line to xorg.conf 
In the  Section "Device", I added:
```
Option 		"AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
```
The above item fixed my not having window borders when the compiz was switched on.
It still ran very sluggish and had many visual anomalies under the cursor until I did the following.
I had to remark out 2 lines that I had needed to make my curser stop shaking and to speed things up:

```
#	Option 		"NvAgp" "2"
#	Option 		"HWCursor" "off"
```

Notice, that these 2 items should NOT be in the xorg.conf anymore.

After doing these things, compiz works great!

---

### Post by lassegs on 2007-04-20
Nah, I didnt have any of those errors. 

How do i start compiz from a terminal, or does it generate some kind of log?

---

