---
title: "Another cry for help on desktop effects"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by anef on 2007-11-05
Hello everyone,
 I know that there are a plenty of help requests about desktop effects but I think mine is 'new'.

After spending a lot of time, I managed to install nvidia drivers and xgl on my laptop. The laptop has a Geforce4 420 Go, Linux is Ubuntu 7.10.

When I start a gdm session from the command line, I see a graphic/splash-screen with a huge nvidia graphics, then the gdm session login dialog.

After logging in, if I go to System -> Preferences -> Appearance -> Visual Effects
and click on either Normal or Extra (or custom)
THEN
- for 1 seconds all the windows on the screen lose their borders and title bars
- the screen goes blank, uniform white
- after one minute the "previous" screen is back and "No effect" is still selected in the preference dialog.

I hope that you can help me. I know how tedious similar help requests are,  but *please* at least tell me what log files I should read (I find no errors in X or gdm logs).

Thanks.
anef

---

### Post by kevinatkins on 2007-11-05
Hi,

the borderless windows issue is, i think, solved by adding some options to your gfx card device config in /etc/X11/xorg.conf...

here's a copy of the relevant section from my xorg.conf file:

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia GForce 6100"
        Boardname       "nv"
        Busid           "PCI:0:13:0"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
        Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
        Screen  0
EndSection

Try adding the two 'option' lines under the 'driver' line and see if that helps... 

cheers.

---

### Post by anef on 2007-11-06
Thank you very much for your answer.

I have those two options enabled. The only difference is in the Busid (almost obviously), but the value I have is correct for my laptop. Unfortunately I cannot find a single log file with error messages corresponding to my attempt of enabling the desktop effects.

GL is running since I am able to see the various demo animations, as specified in many sites.

When I was much younger, linux installation and X configuration were painful but very rational: by reading one or two guides everyone was able to have everything running correctly. What happened?

I will post my config files tonight.

Ciao,
 anef

---

### Post by anef on 2007-11-06
In a gdm session I tried and run compiz in a bash shell.
I had the same behaviour: windows without border/titles and white screen.
Hitting CTRL-C to stop compiz I was able to read some error messages at last.
They are:

/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Warn: pixmap 0x32001b3 can't be bound to texture
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Info: Couldn't bind redirect window 0x3400020 to texture

[repeate n times]

After compiz exit, I do not have window border/titlebars, cannot move windows, etc. etc.
My xorg.cong file follows:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:20 PST 2006


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice"       "DFP-0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

I am using nvidia drivers: NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9631-pkg1.run, installed by 'sudo sh ...'.

Hope someone understands what is happening, I am about to give up :-(

Thanks.
Ciao,
 anef

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2007-11-06
I got it all going (eventually) with my card - geforce4 mx440 - I had the driver installed from the restricted driver manager - I didn't download the driver from nvidia. 

at one point I had used envy which worked - but I actually ended up uninstalling everything nvidia and compiz related, then starting again from restr drivers and synaptic

---

### Post by anef on 2007-11-06
I had already done what you propose here, but decided to try again.
The conclusion is: now I can run in low resolution only.

1. I downloaded, installed, and run envy
2. Envy installed the same driver that I tried, but performed a lot of other things, removed some packages, added others.
3. After envy my gdm session refused to run: at X startup, I had a typical screen corresponding to a wrong memory access I had to edit the xorg.conf file in order to modify an option. More in detail I had to set "UseDisplayDevice" to "DFP-0", because envy set it to the value "DFP" and correct some screen resolution that envy got wrong.
4. After that modification I was able to run X and gdm using the accelerated driver.
5. However, when I clicked on "Enable desktop effects", the manager told me that I should have been using another driver. I told him to install it.
6. After a required reboot, I cannot run X in high-resolution mode.

My current xorg.conf file follows:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:38:46 PST 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Layout0"
  	Screen "Screen0" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Keyboard0"	"CoreKeyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Mouse0"	"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	Rgbpath		"/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"dbe"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"type1"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Mouse0"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"no"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	
	# generated from default
	Identifier	"Keyboard0"
	Driver		"kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Vendorname	"Unknown"
	Modelname	"Unknown"
	Horizsync	28.0	-	51.0
	Vertrefresh	43.0	-	60.0
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Device0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Defaultdepth	32
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
	Option		"DisableGLXRootClipping"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"UseDisplayDevice"	"DFP-0"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	32
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

I tried to disable some modules, remove some options... but STILL I cannot have X in high-resolution... and I cannot understand why. All of the options are similar to the correct xorg.conf file that I was using before using envy and installing the restricted driver.

Maybe I am just tired from work (I used to manually configure X ten years ago, it was much easier), this problem is so absurd...

anef

---

### Post by psyopper on 2007-11-06
The problem is that you used Envy. Envy is a hit or miss script, and when it misses, it misses BIG time.

1. Jump back into your xorg.conf and change the driver line to "vesa" instead of "nvidia".

2. Restart X (ctrl-alt-backspace)

3. Open the Envy installer and tell it to uninstall itself.

4. Use the driver in the Restricted Driver Manager

---

### Post by anef on 2007-11-07
> **psyopper said:**
> [ ...]
4. Use the driver in the Restricted Driver Manager

What you told me to do corresponds to my first attempt.

The problem is that when I used the restricted driver installed by the restricted driver manager, I received "could not enable desktop effects" message when I tried to enable them. By using an ubuntu restricted driver I was able to run in high resolution (which is, by the way, 1024x768, not that high), but nothing more.

I give up: I do not need compiz, but I do need my time :-), it's better not wasting it.

Thanks to all of you for your answers.

anef

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2007-11-07
> I do not need compiz, but I do need my time , it's better not wasting it.

I left compiz for 6 months before I bothered with it, so I know what you mean - when you say
> 
I had already done what you propose here, but decided to try again. 

you redid envy - which is not what I did. When you feel you've got enough time and patience try doing what I did in the end - which is to remove everything nvidia and compiz related and reinstall with synaptic and restricted driver.

Before I removed it al I just could not, however many times I tried get the restricted driver to actually install the driver properly - it kept telling me it was installed but X wouldn't start.
That's when I did the remove and reinstall thing - everything was fine after that.

Anyway good luck :D

---

### Post by anef on 2007-11-07
> **forestpixie said:**
> 
you redid envy - which is not what I did. When you feel you've got enough time and patience try doing what I did in the end - which is to remove everything nvidia and compiz related and reinstall with synaptic and restricted driver.

Tonight I will make another attempt following your procedure. Just a question since this will be my last attempt. I hope you can read my question before I start the procedure.

Does the following procedure correspond to what you did?
0a. Start linux, stop X, modify X to make it use the basic driver vesa.
0b. Uninstall envy using its own procedure.
1. Remove compix-related packages.
    Basically I open the package manager, look for *compiz*, remove all of the search results.
2. Remove nvidia related packages as at point (1).
3. Install restricted driver by allowing ubuntu to choose the one it thinks correct;
4. Install compiz.
5. Reboot like in windows ;-)

Looking forward to read your answer...
Thank you for your time.
anef

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2007-11-07
nearly - this is what I did

1 - make a backup of xorg.conf from a terminal

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/xorg.conf.*date*
```

2 - in synaptic - searched for nvidia - removed any that were installed, making a note of which were installed, I've just checked mine I removed these from mine - the other files that were installed I didn't remove.

> linux-restricted-modules-2.6.22-14-generic
nvidia-glx
nvidia-kernel-common

I DIDN'T remove any others.

3 - in synaptic - searched for compiz - removed any that were installed
scrnshot shows which I removed

4 - uninstall envy if you have it and reboot, it'll shout it's got no graphics - I let it start with vesa.

5 - I can't remember exactly what the message is - I think it's about needinglinux-restricted-modules-2.6.22-14-generic, but start restricted driver - it won't work - install with synaptic the file it needs.

6 - open restricted drivers and enable the graphic card - let it install and restart.

7 - make sure that nvidia is working properly, from what I've found if nvidia-settings is ok in terminal then the driver has installed. 

8 - reinstall the compiz files 

then I could get compiz working properly. Looks a lot written down but it didn't take any longer than 30 minutes.

Hope that helps in some way - good luck :)

---

### Post by anef on 2007-11-07
Thanks for the detailed instructions, but they did not work.

I performed each single step and received each error msg you reported.

But, after having installed the restricted driver, I am where I was before: I cannot run X in high-resolution mode. The VESA driver is always selected. The xorg.conf driver is similar to the one created by the nvidia installer that used to work. This one, anyway, does not.

If I try to start the GUI from the command line, via 'startx', I receive a message about a sort of incompability between the nvidia kernel module and X. The nvidia module is newer and the installation of the 9631 is adviced. I have already tried that version (furthermore, if I install it, perfectly working with nvidia splash screen and glx demos, when I reboot the laptop I am back to the VESA driver.

I am sorry but I give up: the new Fedora is being published in two days. May be I will be luckier.

Thanks.
anef

---

