---
title: "Weird issues with Compiz"
date: 2007-11-02
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by kevindubrow on 2007-11-02
Hi, when I try to enable Compiz I get an error saying that the effects can not be enabled. I have looked on a bunch of other posts but do not see my issue, so I was wondering if someone could help me out.

**When I type "compiz" in the terminal I get this message:**
~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 


**When I try to skip the blacklist check on my card I get this message:**
~$ SKIP_CHECKS=yes compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting gtk-window-decorator
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap is missing
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0
[B]
My .xorg file is:[/B]
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"type1"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
	Option		"SHMConfig"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to 
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
	# /dev/input/event
	# for USB
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to 
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
	# /dev/input/event
	# for USB
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to 
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
	# /dev/input/event
	# for USB
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

[B]My video card: ATI Radeon Xpress 200M (Edit: According to Wikipedia, my card has been "renamed as Radeon Xpress 1150 for AMD notebooks")
[/B]

Any ideas? Thanks so much.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-11-02
Does [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3632146](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3632146) help? I don't have an ATI card myself, so I can't really help much. It has something to do with fglrx being a bad boy.

---

### Post by kevindubrow on 2007-11-02
Thanks for the link. I don't know if it is going to work...I hit a snag along the lines of me having no driver and looking at a text prompt on my Linux partition. haha, but I should get it taken care of soon

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-11-03
While not officially supported by Canonical, Envy can often help when X doesn't load because of videocard drivers.

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by kevindubrow on 2007-11-03
Is there a way in which I can install and run this in a textual interface? Thanks a lot for your help.

---

### Post by pienose on 2007-11-03
I am having a simelar problem, there was an upgrade for compiz today so I installed it. All still working, using emerald theme but then after a restart all my theme and effects dissaperd! when I go to the effects tab on apperance and click on custom (I have ccsm) I get the error- "Desktop effects could not be enabled"

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-11-03
Sure, but again, this is not the driver package supplied by Canonical - it downloads the drivers from the manufacturer and installs it. If you upgrade your kernel, you **will** need to run it in text mode to get X running again. 'sudo envy -t'; not very hard to remember, and just running 'envy' will show a help message to remind you of the -t argument.

Working Internet connection required.

```
$ wget http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/ubuntu/envy_0.9.8-0ubuntu10_all.deb
$ sudo dpkg -i envy*.deb
(if errors of unsatisfiable dependencies):
$ sudo apt-get install -f
```

---

### Post by kevindubrow on 2007-11-03
It doesn't sound like a good idea then...I'll have to get Ubuntu's driver somehow.

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-11
I have the exact sasme problem:
When trying to start compiz I get this:
```
~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 1002:4e45 (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x1024) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting emerald
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format

```
The important line is this which canceled usage of direct rendering for compiz and use indirect instead which lags as hell for me.

Well, but strnagly my ATI crad supports it
```
 ~$ glxinfo|grep pixmap
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap
```

I allready added fglrx to my compiz whitelist at nano /usr/bin/compiz line 54.

Driver 8.42.xx is installed correctly ```
~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9500 PRO / 9700
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6958 Release
```

So.. can anybody help me or give me a hint what to do?

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-14
BUMP BUMP BUMP.. still doesn't work

---

### Post by Espreon on 2007-11-14
If you wanna use CF/Compiz/Beryl with fglrx you need to install XGL, do this in the terminal:

```

sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl

```

Then after it finsihes installing hit CTRL,ALT,Backspace, log back in and enjoy.

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-14
> **Espreon said:**
> If you wanna use CF/Compiz/Beryl with fglrx you need to install XGL, do this in the terminal:

```

sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl

```

Then after it finsihes installing hit CTRL,ALT,Backspace, log back in and enjoy.

This is wrong. The latest ATI drivers have AIGLX support.
You just have to make sure AIGLX is unsed and the composite extension is enabled, but I suggest you to have alook at my attached xorg.conf.

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-16
BUMP forgot to attach it *g*

ANY solutions to the initial problem?

---

### Post by hughjake on 2007-11-16
I think you will find all the answers at this site

[http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion#comments](http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion#comments)

for whitelisting
in gnome

sudo gedit /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager

in KDE

sudo kate /etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager

add this line at the end

WHITELIST=fglrx

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-16
I allready whitlisted fglrx..

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-19
On the suggested page is NOTHING about fixing problems of this kind, just how to setup certain aspects properly.

---

### Post by Forlong on 2007-11-19
What's the output of ```
fglrxinfo
```

---

### Post by jimerickso on 2007-11-19
maybe you should go open /usr/bin/compiz in your favorite editor and add fglrx to the driver whitelist.

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-21
maybe you should read the whole thread. I allready aded fglrx to both whitelists (/etc/xdg/compiz/compiz-manager & /usr/bin/compiz line 54) and allready posted my fglrxinfo output which shows that my drivers are installed correctly and direct rednering is enabled aswell, which can be obtained by glxinfo

---

### Post by stunner on 2007-11-21
There's a few threads (google results [here]("http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=Warn:++site:ubuntuforums.org+No+8+bit+GLX+pixmap+format,+disabling+YV12+image+format")) and from the looks of it, no one really knows what this error means.  You could try asking the compiz devs about it.

I want to try AIGLX myself but I see a lot of complaints about it even when it's up and running.  In the meantime you can always go back to XGL.

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-22
Thats my issue. I can't go back to xgl as it lacks like hell and renders my Desktop useless...

I just check if xorg.log contains something and I got about that:

```
$ grep AIGLX /var/log/Xorg.*.log |grep EE
/var/log/Xorg.9.log:(EE) AIGLX: Screen 0 is not DRI capable

```
What does this mean? How to fix it?
Attached my xorg.conf just in case it's related to that...

---

### Post by stunner on 2007-11-22
I googled the error message you gave and it didn't look good.

Were you using 8.42.3 with XGL? I'm using the fglrx in the repos and XGL runs beautifully.

In any case, what videocard are you running? 9500pro, 9700?

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-22
> **stunner said:**
> I googled the error message you gave and it didn't look good.

Were you using 8.42.3 with XGL? I'm using the fglrx in the repos and XGL runs beautifully.

In any case, what videocard are you running? 9500pro, 9700?

You got it exactly:
Radeon 9500pro/9700
Driver 8.42.3 with AIGLX and the standard xserver...

I googled aswell and I am quite fed up..
2 days and I'll have an nvidia card and a X2^^... maybe it'll work then...

Edit: Does compiz work for you? No lag? No delay when opening firefox from panel etc..?

---

### Post by stunner on 2007-11-22
Compiz works beautifully.  Idles at 0-2%.  If I start opening lots of firefox tabs, then my cpu takes a hit and everything freezes and then comes back to normal once the tabs have loaded, but I had similar experiences before compiz.

One thing where it takes a hit is on playing video on xv - 30-50% cpu for a regular sized video; fullscreen runs really choppy and is unusable.  Fortunately nonXgl takes care of the situation, but it's hacky and undesirable.

Oddly enough, opening programs is significantly faster than it was when I was running feisty without compiz.  When I upgraded to gutsy, I enabled compiz immediately, so I can't say whether the speed boost comes from gutsy or from compiz taking the stress off of my rather underpowered cpu, but either way I'm very happy.

Hope your nvidia card works out. I expect that the next card I buy is going to be nvidia as well unless ati gets its act together on aiglx.  Xgl works great but I'm less than happy with the crummy xv situation.

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-23
Not only that.. all drivers before 8.42.3 made my PC freeze randomly.. this was really annoying.. -.-

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-27
LOL
Now I have an Athlon 3800+ X2 and an Geforce 7600 gt and this is what I get:
```
~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 05:00.0 0300: 10de:0391 (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x1024) to maximum 3D texture size (4096): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting gtk-window-decorator
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format
```
This seems to get somehow ugly or is it a simple bug of compiz or do I have to reduce bits per pixel to 16? Just random guess...

---

### Post by Forlong on 2007-11-27
That warning is not an error. Compiz should be running fine now.

---

### Post by soxs on 2007-11-27
In fact it does^^
I just got scared by th first line, no xgl *g* and the lack of 8bit textures... (thoughts of what the heck is this?? ^^)
Just want to if this is somehow normal..

---

### Post by Saint Angeles on 2007-12-07
yeah dont run compiz in a terminal... use alt+f2(run command) and type: compiz --replace

also make sure you got emerald and emerald-themes installed

---

