---
title: "Desktop Effects Missing Title Bar / 1440 x 900"
date: 2007-10-14
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by vicious6969 on 2007-10-14
I'm new to Ubuntu / Linux but not to computing.

Everything's been working fine, however my monitor's native resolution is 1440 x 900 and anything else looks pretty bad.

The desktop effects used to work fine and great, however since changing the screen resolution to 1440 x 900 the title bar to all the windows is missing.

It looks fine and reappears when I disable desktop effects though.

I've checked synaptics package manager and beryl and emerald are not installed.

My graphics driver is an Nvidia

I've tried a few things after searching the forums and internet but nothing has worked so far.

Any solutions please?

Thanks

---

### Post by sbarash on 2007-10-15
I have a similar post. I can tell you this - if you run 'compiz &' in a terminal, the title bars will come back.....until you close the terminal.

I've tried adding the command to my startup, but it doesn't help. Let me know if you hear anything..

-Sbarash

---

### Post by vicious6969 on 2007-10-15
Thanks for the info mate.

I was just about to try what you suggested but everything appears to be ok now!

The only different thing I did was install Beryl using synaptics manager, enable everything in there, then reboot... Beats Vista with a stick!

---

### Post by jonspraggins on 2008-02-09
My resolution is at 1280x800 and I have the same problem.  Using nvidia drivers.  Whenever I enable desktop effects or compiz fusion my title bars disappear and I am unable to move the windows themselves.  Any newly generated windows are still subject to the missing title bars.

Using Ubuntu 7.10, if that helps.

> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Apr 16 20:38:05 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LPL"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro NVS 110M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

