---
title: "7.10 left alt key not like it used to be"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by blisterpeanuts on 2007-10-23
Does anyone know how to make the left ALT key work the way it used to?  I'm running Ubuntu 7.10 with Beryl effects turned on.  Left ALT does not act like Meta key anymore.  I'm not sure what it's doing--my reading of some comments here suggests it's become a 3rd level shift key for foreign languages.  I've messed with the Keyboard tool which lets me switch Left Alt with Left Win.  When I do that, the Left Win key acts pretty much like the old Alt key.  But when I turn off that switch, and go back to defaults, the left Alt key doesn't act like an alt key except for window manager things like Alt-Tab to change focus.

xmodmap doesn't make any difference either.  When I run xev, left Alt doesn't even show a keycode.  Sounds like a setting glitch.  What file could I edit to fix this? thanks for any help
Blister

---

### Post by blisterpeanuts on 2007-10-24
The left alt key is remapped when I run System->Preferences->Appearance->Visual Effects and select anything but "None".  So the solution for now is to go back to "None" and do without the eye candy.  I need the alt key more than I need the special effects.

If anyone knows how to fix the alt key, I'd love to hear about it.  Apparently the Window manager is remapping it at a lower level than X so none of the X utilities (xkeycaps, xev, etc) are of any help.

---

### Post by chasetoys on 2007-10-28
i have the same problem!  <<BUMP>>

---

### Post by webno on 2007-10-28
Ditto

---

### Post by Forlong on 2007-10-28
Could you please be more specific on what you want to do with the Alt key? I can't think of anything that works differently on Compiz.

---

### Post by chasetoys on 2007-10-28
@Forlong:

I want to use alt in applications such as Firefox, OpenOffice, etc...  In particular, alt+d to go to firefox's address bar, as i'm *often* typing in urls as I develop web-apps.  

Again, the alt+tab works great to switch apps, but when i'm in an app, I can't use its alt + key shortcuts.  

i've additionally tried using the pc104 and pc105 keyboard types below.  finally, the alt key *was* working inside other apps about a week ago or so... not sure what I've done in the meantime.

```

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbVariant" "vc"
EndSection



```

---

### Post by Forlong on 2007-10-28
> **chasetoys said:**
> I want to use alt in applications such as Firefox, OpenOffice, etc...  In particular, alt+d to go to firefox's address bar, as i'm *often* typing in urls as I develop web-apps.
Works fine here, so this is not a Compiz issue per se. Are you using Xgl?

---

### Post by chasetoys on 2007-10-28
@ forlong:  not really sure how i check whether i have xgl or not.  i'm using gutsy, and i have a nvidia gt otc graphics card.  

i thought i could have a work around where i use the left windows key instead of alt key (the swap that the OP was referring to).  when I try that, i get:

Error activating XKB configuration.
This can happen under various circumstances:
- a bug in libxklavier library
- a bug in X server (xkbcomp, xmodmap utilities)
- X server with incompatible libxkbfile implementation

X server version data:
The X.Org Foundation
10300000

If you report this situation as a bug, please include:
- The result of xprop -root | grep XKB
- The result of gconftool-2 -R /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/kbd

```

[davies] xprop -root | grep XKB
_XKB_RULES_NAMES_BACKUP(STRING) = "xorg", "pc105", "us", "vc", ""
_XKB_RULES_NAMES(STRING) = "xorg", "pc105", "us", "vc", ""

```

```

[davies] gconftool-2 -R /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/kbd
 layouts = []
 model = 
 options = [altwin      altwin:hyper_win]
 overrideSettings = true
[davies] 

```

I'd be happy if there were *any* workarounds... I need my alt key back!!! :P

---

### Post by chasetoys on 2007-10-28
@forlong
<gordboy> arooni: it's called aiglx in gutsy. and unless your xorg.conf disables it, it's on. see /var/log/Xorg.0.log and search for aiglx

[davies] grep aiglx /var/log/Xorg.0.log
[davies] grep Xgl /var/log/Xorg.0.log
[davies] grep xgl /var/log/Xorg.0.log

So i guess I'm not using Xgl

---

### Post by Forlong on 2007-10-28
If you din't install Xgl yourself (xserver-xgl), you aren't using it. There's no need for Xgl on Nvidia anyway.

chasetoys, do you experience the same as blisterpeanuts that if you disable Visual Effects it works again?

---

### Post by chasetoys on 2007-10-28
@ forlong:


<QUOTE>
chasetoys, do you experience the same as blisterpeanuts that if you disable Visual Effects it works again?
</QUOTE>

Yes, exactly the same.  But I so dearly love my visual effects! :)

---

### Post by lesve on 2007-10-29
I have 3 different installation of 7.10. I try to use Compiz-Fushion on all of them.  They are all upgraded from 7.04 (Not a new installation). One Laptop and two Desktops

When I use the Alt key it will start 'window resizer'. Not that this happened wihout any
other key was pressed. This means that all other ALt-key combination is dead.

Both left and right alt key behave the same.

I have no idea whats wrong with Compiz Installation

Help me....


                            Regards

---

### Post by wormbo on 2007-10-29
You can edit what keys activate different compiz effects.

Sugguesting you go into CCSM and edit your keyboard shortcuts.

Hope this helps. I am not able to go into detail, I am at work.

Will definately get back to this thread when I am home though.

Thanks

---

### Post by lesve on 2007-10-30
Running the tool xev will give different log if the alt-key is dead or not.
See my earlier description in the thread.

Log without compiz when pressing Alt-key

KeyPress event, serial 30, synthetic NO, window 0xe00001,
    root 0x5d, subw 0x0, time 4041302786, (158,36), root:(304,340),
    state 0x0, keycode 64 (keysym 0xffe9, Alt_L), same_screen YES,
    XLookupString gives 0 bytes: 
    XmbLookupString gives 0 bytes: 
    XFilterEvent returns: False

KeyRelease event, serial 30, synthetic NO, window 0xe00001,
    root 0x5d, subw 0x0, time 4041303042, (158,36), root:(304,340),
    state 0x8, keycode 64 (keysym 0xffe9, Alt_L), same_screen YES,
    XLookupString gives 0 bytes: 
    XFilterEvent returns: False

-------

Log with compiz when pressing Alt-key

FocusOut event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0xe00001,
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyAncestor

LeaveNotify event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0xe00001,
    root 0x5d, subw 0x0, time 4043324840, (82,89), root:(145,728),
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyNonlinear, same_screen YES,
    focus YES, state 8

FocusOut event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0xe00001,
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyPointer


If someone could tell me what's wrong in my installation of ubuntu 7.10 including
compiz fusion.

                   Thanks in advance

---

### Post by lesve on 2007-10-30
oh Everything is solved !!!!!!!


I changed in the keyboard setting

System->Preferences->Keyboard->Layouts

In my case I changed keyboard model to Dell and now it seems t o work OK


Thanks to everybody who wanted to help me
[http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/eusa_dance.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/eusa_dance.gif)

---

### Post by chasetoys on 2007-10-31
@lesve:  I'm glad this worked for you.  I tried changing my keyboard profile to many different options, but couldn't find any that worked.  (after I picked a particular profiles, most of the time I got):

Error activating XKB configuration.
This can happen under various circumstances:
- a bug in libxklavier library
- a bug in X server (xkbcomp, xmodmap utilities)
- X server with incompatible libxkbfile implementation

X server version data:
The X.Org Foundation
10300000

If you report this situation as a bug, please include:
- The result of xprop -root | grep XKB
- The result of gconftool-2 -R /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/kbd


:(

---

### Post by varDo on 2008-05-01
Was anybody able to solve this problem? I have similiar issue.

I've just installed Ubuntu 8.04 yesterday. Everything works great, except this 'Alt' key when I use compiz.

Here's what's happening (to summarize this thread):
1. when I press left Alt I see that something is happening to focus (i.e. of text entry widget in Firefox) and it doesn't work as expected (it simply does nothing). Running xev I get this, when pressing left Alt:
```
FocusIn event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x5200001,
    mode NotifyUngrab, detail NotifyAncestor

KeymapNotify event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x0,
    keys:  2   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   
           0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   

FocusOut event, serial 31, synthetic NO, window 0x5200001,
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyAncestor
```

2. When I choose 'Keyboard > Keyboard Preferences > Layouts > Layout Options > Alt/Win key behavior > Alt and Meta are on the Alt keys' right Alt key starts to work properly (acts exactly as left Alt should).
3. When I turn off effects (no compiz) left Alt works as expected
4. What's interesting: when I press and hold Win-Key (Super key) and then press left Alt it act as left Alt.

Any ideas on this one? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by DarkMadder on 2008-05-06
I have the same problem - (but I'm running Ubuntu 8.04)

it seems some things work with the alt key
(e.g. alt+f2, or alt+tab)

and other things do not:
(e.g. crtl+alt+f1, or alt+d in firefox)

both of my alt keys show the exact same functionality (and lack of it)

so... anyone had any progress with this issue?
thanks!

---

