---
title: "7.10 Compiz-fusion transparent cube and transparent caps"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by keeler1 on 2007-10-20
Before the upgrade to 7.10 I was running beryl with the beryl manager.  Now its compiz-fusion.  Before I had a transparent cube with no caps.  I also had windows popping off of the cubes sides floating above each other.  I think this was simply 3-D effects or something.

How can I get these things to work with compiz-fusion?

---

### Post by klikko on 2007-10-20
Go to System > Preferences > Advanced Desktop Effects Settings, or run *ccsm* from the terminal. This is the Settings Manager for Compiz-Fusion. At first, it seems very different from the Beryl manager, but this is just because the Compiz manager is ORGANIZED.

So first, you wanted to make the cube transparent? Find the Desktop Cube option under the Desktop category and click it. Make sure it's enabled (look on the very left for a checkbox) Go over to the Transparent Cube tab, and change the opacity of the cube during rotation. 

Now you have a transparent cube. However, your caps are probably that hideous mustard yellow color, and you probably don't want that. Head over to the Appearance tab, and change the Cube Color option to black, or whatever else works for you.

Finally, for the 3D windows: Go back to the main Settings Manager page, and scroll down to the Effects category. Here you'll see 3D Windows. Click it, and the first thing you should do is enable it. Now your 3D windows are enabled, and if you want to do any further adjustments, just explore the options available.

---

### Post by keeler1 on 2007-10-20
I got the transparent transparent cube, but it still draws the top and bottom face.  Before in beryl It had an option so that it wouldnt draw these faces of the cube.  Is there any way to do this.  

Also under effects and everywhere else, there was no 3-D Windows option.  I put 3-D into the filter and it said there were no results as well.

---

### Post by sekazi on 2007-10-20
> **klikko said:**
> Finally, for the 3D windows: Go back to the main Settings Manager page, and scroll down to the Effects category. Here you'll see 3D Windows. Click it, and the first thing you should do is enable it. Now your 3D windows are enabled, and if you want to do any further adjustments, just explore the options available.

3D Windows is not in 7.10. You will have to install a unofficial release which I am not willing to do. I wish Ubuntu will release the unsupported and unofficial plugins so I can have my 3D windows and Snow back.

---

### Post by keeler1 on 2007-10-20
Are they planning on putting the 3-D windows in 7.10.  They certainly did make things look alot better when rotating.

---

### Post by klikko on 2007-10-20
I'm sorry I couldn't be of more help. I don't know a way as of now to avoid rendering the caps.

I guess i already had the unofficial and unsupported plugins prior to my upgrade to 7.10. However, i don't see a reason why you shouldn't install them if you really want the 3D windows. They add a ton of functionality and they are also very stable. I for one have certainly had no problems at all.

---

### Post by gaupe on 2007-10-21
To get the caps off.
In the compiz config settings manager select at category utility cube caps swicth it on 
and goto tab behaviour. 

there you can deselect draw topface and draw bottomface and voila no caps anymore.

---

### Post by anderson.pa on 2008-01-03
is there a way to keep the desktop transparent, but to not make the icons on the desktop transparent?

---

### Post by vahnx on 2008-01-03
I'm on the same boat as the guy above. Is there a way to keep the desktop transparent but have the icons not transparent?

---

### Post by mazz0 on 2008-05-18
Ditto the last two - I'd like my desktop background transparent but the icons opaque.

---

