---
title: "nvidia 7600 GT drivers"
date: 2007-08-12
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by jba6511 on 2007-08-12
i have been using the nvidia drivers that came as with ubuntu 7.04 (restricted drivers). Is there any benefit to upgrading drivers? I have a nvidia 7600 GT and can not get compiz or beryl to show window decorations and did not know if upgrading drivers might help. Here is my xorg.conf

[PHP]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/PHP]

---

### Post by lsweet on 2007-08-12
I found I couldn't get anything to stick for my video card (8800 GTS) until I used envy.  Have you tried that?

---

### Post by jba6511 on 2007-08-13
no. is it in synaptic?

---

### Post by jba6511 on 2007-08-13
everything "sticks" and by that I mean dual monitor configuration, resolutions, etc. However, I get no window decorations using beryl or compiz. I heard some people need to add a few lines of code to their xorg.conf file in order to get this working. Also, my video card is detected as unknown and not Nvidia 7600 GT, which is why I ask about the drivers and if updating will give me a noticable improvement.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-13
I have used this card and needed to install the nvidia driver. You can do this with envy.

Moving this thread to desktop effects as beryl is not considered a new user topic.

---

### Post by Hospadar on 2007-08-13
Well if your ui loads up with that xorg.conf, then the drivers are installed properply.  As for beryl, are you sure it's loading properly at startup?
try in the terminal a ```
beryl-manager
```then right click the tray icon and select the beryl window manager and the emerald decorator (if you have emerald installed and you want to use it that is).  you may have to reload the window manager/decorator from here to get this stuff to show up.

I think beryl-manager might not be in the default beryl install, if you don't have it you can install it with synaptic.

To get beryl loading on startup, add beryl-manager to your sessions under System->Preferences->Sessions.

If that isn't working, post any error messages you might be getting.  Also try running "glxgears" in the terminal.  It should look smooth, if there are error messages, post em.

---

### Post by jba6511 on 2007-08-13
ran glxgears just fine. Here is the output after letting it run for a minute:

blake@e6300:~$ glxgears
45940 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9187.844 FPS
49364 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9872.749 FPS
49714 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9942.689 FPS
49883 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9976.510 FPS
49764 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9952.617 FPS
49679 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9935.635 FPS
49805 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9960.845 FPS
49697 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9939.295 FPS
49644 frames in 5.0 seconds = 9928.782 FPS

will mess with beryl a ltitle more later

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-13
Run these commands to configure X for beryl/compiz, then re-startx :

```
 sudo nvidia-xconfig -composite; sudo nvidia-xconfig -allow-glx-with-composite
 sudo nvidia-xconfig -render-accel; sudo nvidia-xconfig -add-argb-glx-visuals
```

---

### Post by jba6511 on 2007-08-13
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> Run these commands to configure X for beryl/compiz, then re-startx :

```
 sudo nvidia-xconfig -composite; sudo nvidia-xconfig -allow-glx-with-composite
 sudo nvidia-xconfig -render-accel; sudo nvidia-xconfig -add-argb-glx-visuals
```

that did it. Now I have lost the cube, even with 4 workspaces. How do I re enable the cube effect???

---

### Post by lsweet on 2007-08-13
> **jba6511 said:**
> that did it. Now I have lost the cube, even with 4 workspaces. How do I re enable the cube effect???

Make sure that in Compiz-Fusion you've set in general options to have 4 horizontal desktops as well.  Once I got my graphics drivers running properly, I had only two desktops to cycle between even though I had turned 4 on.

---

### Post by jba6511 on 2007-08-14
got it working. I had to set vertical and horizontal virtual size to 4. Thanks for all the help guys.

---

### Post by PLmatt91 on 2007-08-14
Envy?

---

