---
title: "nVidia GeForce FX 5200"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by biyouboogie on 2008-01-26
I have installed nVidia GeForce FX 5200 in my desktop (Compaq Presario).  It's a 128MB card.   Now  I have my screen resolution set like I want it.   BUT...  when I try to turn on the "Visual Effects" so I can get a cube, rotate cube, etc...  the system insists on reloading a crappy driver that takes all of my screen resolution away, puts me BACK into a boot mode that does not recognize my video card, and wreaks havoc on my desktop.  :(

Can anyone tell me why I need to load another 3D graphics driver which is substandard?

I had to create a new xorg.conf file using the appropriate command, and it recognized my GeForce FX 5200.  Why can't compiz-fusion manager recognize that my card is working, and is using high resolution?

I need some help friends.  :confused:

Earl

---

### Post by 00arthuryu on 2008-01-27
i'm a noob as well so bare with me.
I think the problem might be due to the incorrect installation of your graphics card..
Do you get direct rendering?
```
glxinfo
```
If you installed your graphics card via the default drivers, i may suggest you install the official latest ones from nvidia

Cheers! :D
Arthy

---

### Post by biyouboogie on 2008-01-27
Well I downloaded the installation package from nVidia.   It requires that the Xserver be shut down.   ubuntu runs the Xserver at run level 2, and run level 1 is not sufficient for the installation package to get what it needs via ftp (something about the kernel) from nVidia.   It will not install as long as the Xserver is running.   Any suggestions?   :confused:

It's been a while since I had to DIG into any kind of Unix system, and I am familiar with most of the management duties and routines, but this is very frustrating to say the least.  I've been fighting with this since I installed ubuntu in October 07.  Seems like I am always going down a road that is a dead-end.

A simple "howto" would be helpful if anyone has one.   Specifically for the 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon distribution.   

and ...  here is the output from 'glxinfo'

 # glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 24 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x22 24 dc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x5b 32 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
#

Here's my xorg.conf file


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:0:4:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "SAMTRON"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
        Monitor         "SAMTRON"
        DefaultDepth    24
        Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
        Option         "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection


--------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by 00arthuryu on 2008-01-28
okay, if you've downloaded the official driver.
log onto your normal ubuntu
then press CTRL + ALT + F1
then do 
```

sudo su
/etc/init.d/gdm stop
bash /home/<yourusername>/Desktop/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-169.09-pkg1.run

```
or wherever you put the NVIDIA setup file.

Hopes this helps!
Arthy

---

