---
title: ".Xsession will not let me enter my ubuntu desktop"
date: 2007-11-22
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by Xapt3r2ooX on 2007-11-22
I was installing Compiz and i created a folder called .Xsession with a file inside containing a code. I was following instructions from a tutorial. After i logged out and logged back in it says i dont have enough permissions to exectue the command to try to log in to a fail safe session. How can i delete this folder and file? I entered terminal and when i typed dir it didnt show up. 

Please help

Thank You

---

### Post by vambo on 2007-11-22
> **Xapt3r2ooX said:**
> I was installing Compiz and i created a folder called .Xsession with a file inside containing a code. I was following instructions from a tutorial. After i logged out and logged back in it says i dont have enough permissions to exectue the command to try to log in to a fail safe session. How can i delete this folder and file? I entered terminal and when i typed dir it didnt show up. 

Please help

Thank You

Firstly, I'm assuming this is in your home directory? If it is it should be called .xsession.
To get rid of it (which sounds like a good plan). Go into to failsafe mode ( you'll need to reboot and choose failsafe at the grub menu). Get to your home directory 
```
cd /home/<yourusername>
```

Then 
```
rm .Xsession
```

You should now be able to login as normal. Whether you have compiz or not is another matter.

---

### Post by Forlong on 2007-11-22
> **Xapt3r2ooX said:**
> I entered terminal and when i typed dir it didnt show up.
That's because it's a hidden file (starting with a **.**)
This will list all of your files (including hidden ones):
```
ls -a
```

Oh, and if it's really a folder, you have to use this command to delete it:
```
rm -r .Xsession
```
(rm stands for *remove* and the option -r for *recursive*, which means it will remove the folder and everything inside)

---

