---
title: "[SOLVED] No Title Bar when running Beryl"
date: 2007-07-21
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by abu.mathew on 2007-07-21
I followed the instructions in the threads here as well as some other sites and got Beryl to work with title bar. And I was able to apply themes as well. I have a widescreen laptop and was runnng at 1024x768 resolution. I ran the nvidia-settings tool and tweaked the xorg.conf file. After this I am able to get the 1440x900 resolution. But Beryl won't show the title bars now. Compiz works fine. I tried all possible options and I am still not able to fix this problem.:(

I am pasting the contents of my xorg.conf below.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:59 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 72.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GO 7600"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by avik on 2007-07-21
Do you have emerald installed (sudo apt-get install emerald)?  If so, what is the output of emerald in the terminal?

---

### Post by abu.mathew on 2007-07-22
I have emerald and emerald theme manager installed. This is the output when I issue the beryl command from console.

**************************************************************
* Beryl system compatiblity check                            *
**************************************************************

Detected xserver                                : NVIDIA

Checking Display :0.0 ...

Checking for XComposite extension               : passed (v0.3)
Checking for XDamage extension                  : passed
Checking for RandR extension                    : passed
Checking for XSync extension                    : passed

Checking Screen 0 ...

Checking for GLX_SGIX_fbconfig                  : passed
Checking for GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap        : passed
Checking for non power of two texture support   : passed
Checking maximum texture size                   : passed (4096x4096)

Relaunching beryl with __GL_YIELD="NOTHING"
**************************************************************
* Beryl system compatiblity check                            *
**************************************************************

Detected xserver                                : NVIDIA

Checking Display :0.0 ...

Checking for XComposite extension               : passed (v0.3)
Checking for XDamage extension                  : passed
Checking for RandR extension                    : passed
Checking for XSync extension                    : passed

Checking Screen 0 ...

Checking for GLX_SGIX_fbconfig                  : passed
Checking for GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap        : passed
Checking for non power of two texture support   : passed
Checking maximum texture size                   : passed (4096x4096)

Reloading options

---

### Post by abu.mathew on 2007-07-26
Finally I fixed it. I uninstalled Beryl and all related packages (Settings Manager, Emerald etc.) and installed them once more. This time also I didn't have title bar initially but in the Beryl Settings manager the Enable Window Decoration option was disabled. Once this was enabled everything started working fine.:)

---

### Post by linuxuser/palmprogrammer on 2007-07-27
I have the same problem!

I installed bery, emerald from the .deb files I downloaded, as my ubuntu pc doesn't have an internet connection. What packages should I reinstall?

Does anyone know?

---

### Post by jzlharvey on 2007-08-24
lol, sorry to say I am having the same issue right now.  I did make sure the window decoration was enabled.  This happened after testing 7.10 alpha5.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by dahli.llama on 2007-08-26
I am having the same problem, but I can get the titlebar if I run emerald after I lauch Beryl, or if I place emerald into the Command Line option field in the Beryl Settings.

I haven't been able to change themes with emerald, though.

---

### Post by akba0012 on 2007-08-26
I also used to have this problem, the way that worked for me was just to type in ' beryl-manager ' into an alt-f2 window

---

### Post by moanes on 2007-08-27
Me too, I have the same problem.
let my try the above steps.
thanks.
:)

---

### Post by dahli.llama on 2007-08-27
> **akba0012 said:**
> I also used to have this problem, the way that worked for me was just to type in ' beryl-manager ' into an alt-f2 window

This is what finally fixed everything for me.

---

### Post by TheMacOne on 2007-08-27
Hi all,

Just thought I'd share my thoughts about this topic.

After I went through and added the suggested settings to xorg.conf, I decided to have a look at GL Desktop.

Once I turned off GL Desktop, the gnome theme was enabled. Turned it back on, the title bar disappeared.

Then I looked in the Beryl (system tray? top right hand side) icon and right mouse clicked it.

I played around with the Select Window Manager and Select Window Decorator sub menus.

What I found was this: If Beryl was using COmpiz or Metacity to be the Window Manager, then the title bar would be missing. STill there, just not visibvle one the screen.

So, (for me anyway), my solution was to set the Window Manager to Beryl and to Set the Window Decorator to Emerald.

I also had to reload the Window Decorator.

I hope this helps someone out there. BTW, my gfx card was an Nvidia GeForce FX5500 (128Mb) AGP 8x. Ubuntu is feisty.

TheMacOne

---

### Post by mist_01 on 2007-09-06
I installed beryl and emerald however, i still an missing my title bar when i stwich my window manager to beryl

---

### Post by Versusnja on 2007-10-12
May be I'm too dumb, but I can't find this option. May be somebody can attach a screenshot? :)

---

### Post by bazu on 2008-02-28
> **abu.mathew said:**
> Finally I fixed it. I uninstalled Beryl and all related packages (Settings Manager, Emerald etc.) and installed them once more. This time also I didn't have title bar initially but in the Beryl Settings manager the Enable Window Decoration option was disabled. Once this was enabled everything started working fine.:)
Where i can find this " Window Decoration option"

---

