---
title: "Compiz works, but now I get a 5 second black screen upon login."
date: 2008-02-18
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-02-18
First off, I'm running Ubuntu 7.10 64 with an ATI Radeon card and got Compiz working. In fact all is working fine after about a week of configuring and customizing my desktop (thank the Linux god for all the tools that are out there).

There is one thing left for me to fine tune, if possible.

I did a clean install of Ubuntu and then installed the propriety ATI driver to get Compiz going (wouldn't want to live without all those cool effects on my desktop). All fine there. Then I had to install xserver-xgl to get Compiz going completely.

The odd thing is that it is working like a charm, however after I did that, starting up the desktop is started with a black screen. Upon loggin in I can tell that first Xwin is being started due to the X cursor, then it loads the desktop, all the while I see nothing but a black screen with a mouse cursor. Then a few seconds after that it finally loads my desktop.

Clearly it's not the driver, since that one didn't cause this to happen. After having installed xserver-xgl  needed to get my Compiz desktop effects to work this happened. It gave me a message that my xconfig file was changed. So most likely something here made the change happen. Problem is, I have no clue what.

I'm posting this on another comp now, so I will add a dump of my xconfig file later. 

Does anyone have a clue what could cause this black screen while loading the desktop?

Kivech

---

### Post by chavanak on 2008-02-18
I faced the same problem on my old machine. Though i don t own it anymore. Try to disable some plugins which might be causing problems. Run compiz in terminal and see the result. It might help.

---

### Post by BetterSense on 2008-02-18
Same problem with onboard x1250. awaiting answers.

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-02-18
Is it possible that the 'glx' module is responsible for this?

I just checked my xorg.conf file. And as far as I can tell that's the only change in the file after I installed xserver-glx. Or maybe some config file somewhere associated with this module?

Anyone?

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-02-19
Shameless bump....

Anyone has an idea as to how to fix this inconvenience?

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-02-19
Forgot my xorg.conf. Here it is:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"alt-intl"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1280x960"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-02-19
well this is a universal issue, I have learned to live with it

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-02-19
Some clarification:

1) I have never manually touched this file.

2) I have no Wacom device. Don't even know what it is.

3) I have an ATI Radeon X1900 video card (not a generic one) which has 2 outputs.

4) It seems to me that quite a bit in this file has to be edited, I'm just too chicken to do it. :p

Any help would be highly appreciated.

Kivech

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2008-02-19
Common issue. It's something to do with the ATI driver or XGL - probably XGL as I remember it used to give me a very ugly grey screen. Now I guess they've made it a slightly less ugly black screen.

You could try manually (or with Envy) installing the latest ATI driver, which doesn't require you to run XGL. My bet is that this is the only thing that would actually fix the "problem". Aside from buying an Nvidia card.

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-02-19
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Common issue. It's something to do with the ATI driver or XGL - probably XGL as I remember it used to give me a very ugly grey screen. Now I guess they've made it a slightly less ugly black screen.

You could try manually (or with Envy) installing the latest ATI driver, which doesn't require you to run XGL. My bet is that this is the only thing that would actually fix the "problem". Aside from buying an Nvidia card.

I doubt this is related because I also tried this on another install run. That really made no difference though.

Edit: hehe, forgot to say I won't buy a new video card for some time. Had to fork out $400 for the one I currently have. So no way I'll change that one for the next couple of years.

---

