---
title: "What the H*LL? Enabling desktop effects problem + fgrlxinfo"
date: 2007-11-27
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-27
I need help with my driver now,
Anytime I enable any type of visual effect, I get no menu bars, no windows, nothing, just a mouse, and a background.....

Please help with this :(





____ALL OF THIS IS ALREADY SOLVED____
Alright, for the forth attempt to finally get my ATI Radeon X1600 PRO to work with ubuntu I choose to use this guide: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580748&highlight=ati+radeon+drivers+with+compiz](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=580748&highlight=ati+radeon+drivers+with+compiz) 

Do everything as specified, but - when I boot Ubuntu, after logging in I get a black screen with "X" as a cursor, and then get into my desktop. I immediately try to use fgrlxinfo in the terminal, and then, my screen goes black, then I am sent back to the login screen, login again, and get the same black screen as before, and get onto my desktop, then try to enable compiz, but get no borders, and I set my effects back to none, gnome seems to be VERY slow, as I can hardly move a window around..
I just really want to get my effects working :( 

Here is my output of glxinfo | grep -i direct

direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect

(OH NOES!!! Mesa!!! :( ) 


Here is my output from xorg.conf: 


```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Option		"AIGLX"	"True"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option		"VendorName"	"ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option		"ModelName"	"Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Option		"DRI"	"true"
	Option		"ColorTiling"	"on"
	Option		"EnablePageFlip"	"true"
	Option		"AccelMethod"	"EXA"
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
	Option		"RenderAccel"	"true"
	Option		"AGPMode"	"4"
	Option		"AGPFastWrite"	"on"
	Option		"KernelModuleParm"	"agplock=0"
	Option		"UseInternalAGPGART"	"no"
	Option		"EnablePrivateBackZ"	"no"
	Option		"DisableGLXRootClipping"	"true"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"true"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"true"
	Option		"EnablePageFlip"	"true"
	Option		"mtrr"	"on"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device		"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor		"aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0	0
		Depth	24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection
```


My PC specs:
Asus P4SD-LA 
2 GiG Patriot RAM
500 GiG Seagate HDD
ATi Radeon X1600 PRO 512Mb Graphics Card

If you need anything else, just post...

Thanks for all of your help,
Kyle

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-27
Dude, i went through that whole ordeal for a few days, i have a measly Radeon 9600 though, but anyway [This here]("http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/10/23/fglrx-8423---finally-with-AIGLX-support#") is the only guide that ever works for me, use the latest ATI driver instead and just change the driver package name from the tutorial as needed. You should be up and running after that.

Good luck. :)

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-27
From mine...(working 100%)

> 
Section "Module"
 Load  "glx"
#       Load  "GLcore"
#       Load  "vbe"
 Load  "dbe"


maybe you should have GLcore disabled.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-27
Errr, the site you gave me brings me to a dutch site with some guy with a hammer o.0 lol

But, I'll try to disable glcore.

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-28
> **kylecchh said:**
> Errr, the site you gave me brings me to a dutch site with some guy with a hammer o.0 lol

But, I'll try to disable glcore.

Strange, it lands on Forlong's Blog for me still. Goolge that blog and problems will be solved. :)

---

### Post by Nando-san on 2007-11-28
im having the same problem...

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2007-11-28
I had similar problems - upgrading the ATI driver solved it.  I had to uninstall the restricted drivers manager and comment out the lines in /etc/modprobe.d/lrm-video which refer to fglrx (and nvidia for that matter) drivers.  It will then work the non-Ubuntu way...
you need to make sure you uninstall the existing ATI driver before installing the new one - I had no end of problems with this is why I mention it.  Then, just cd to wherever you saved the driver and type:
sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run  
You shouldn't need to change anything in xorg.conf.
and it should just ask you a few questions, test itself and then you can play with it!

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-28
GLCore did not a thing :( Make my scrolling speeds even slower :lolflag:


> **Alexis Phoenix said:**
> I had similar problems - upgrading the ATI driver solved it.  I had to uninstall the restricted drivers manager and comment out the lines in /etc/modprobe.d/lrm-video which refer to fglrx (and nvidia for that matter) drivers.  It will then work the non-Ubuntu way...
you need to make sure you uninstall the existing ATI driver before installing the new one - I had no end of problems with this is why I mention it.  Then, just cd to wherever you saved the driver and type:
sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-8.42.3-x86.x86_64.run  
You shouldn't need to change anything in xorg.conf.
and it should just ask you a few questions, test itself and then you can play with it!

Sounds like a good method, just one thing.. How to do unstall my old drivers :confused:
I have no idea how to (I'll still sort-of a noob lol)

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-28
> **Takster said:**
> Dude, i went through that whole ordeal for a few days, i have a measly Radeon 9600 though, but anyway [This here]("http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/10/23/fglrx-8423---finally-with-AIGLX-support#") is the only guide that ever works for me, use the latest ATI driver instead and just change the driver package name from the tutorial as needed. You should be up and running after that.

Good luck. :)

Finally, got onto the site, one thing though....

```
Alternatively remove the linux-restricted-modules-* package for your kernel (that's what I did, because I don't need them - don't do this, if you use an Atheros chip).

```

How should I remove those? No idea how to remove those as well. :lolflag:

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-28
Whooo! I FINALLY HAVE ATI IN fglrxinfo!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! OMG WEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!!
AND DIRECT RENDERING!!!!!!!!! WEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!!!!!

But........ When I enable visual effects everything goes away and I get a damn screen with my mouse and a background.... :( :mad:

Any help :confused:

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
Anyone know how to properly get visual effects working??

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> Finally, got onto the site, one thing though....

```
Alternatively remove the linux-restricted-modules-* package for your kernel (that's what I did, because I don't need them - don't do this, if you use an Atheros chip).

```

How should I remove those? No idea how to remove those as well. :lolflag:



```
gksu gedit /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common
```

Just do that command, fglrx in disabled module, that does the trick.

> # This file is sourced from the linux-restricted-modules-common init
# script and is used to disable the link-on-boot feature, one module
# at a time.  This can be useful if you want to use hand-compiled
# versions of one or more modules, but keep linux-restricted-modules
# installed on your system, or just to disable modules you don't use
# and speed up your boot process by a second or two.
#
# Use a space-separated list of modules you wish to not have linked
# on boot.  The following example shows a (condensed) list of all
# modules shipped in the linux-restricted-modules packages:
#
# DISABLED_MODULES="ath_hal fc ltm nv"
#
# Note that disabling "fc" disables all fcdsl drivers, "ltm" disables
# ltmodem and ltserial, and "nv" disables both the nvidia drivers.
# You can also name each module individually, if you prefer a subset.

DISABLED_MODULES="fglrx"

post your xorg.conf and that, the driver should be fglrx also...

> Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
        Option      "DRI"     "true"
        Option      "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"


you are almost there dude. :)
[[IMG]http://img508.imageshack.us/img508/2254/screenshotly5.th.png[/IMG]](http://img508.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotly5.png)

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
Figured out how to do that earlier :) My xorg config is the same as the one posted in my first post, but I got direct rendering working, ATI in my fglrxinfo, but when I attempt to enable visual effects, my menus + windows go away completly and I have to hard reset, enabling even "Normal" causes this... Do you know how to fix this?

```

Alternatively remove the linux-restricted-modules-* package for your kernel (that's what I did, because I don't need them - don't do this, if you use an Atheros chip).
```

Also, If I do not do this command and just edit out fglrx out on what you specified above, I get mesa3d still :( So, I think keeping the restricted modules out of the picture helps.

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> Figured out how to do that earlier :) My xorg config is the same as the one posted in the same post above, but I got direct rendering working, ATI in my fglrxinfo, but when I attempt to enable visual effects, my menus + windows go away completly and I have to hard reset, enabling even "Normal" causes this... Do you know how to fix this?

I think you have to enable compiz or emerald to start... give me a minute, i will see if i can find what i mean...

brb.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
Alright

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
hmmm, try;
> compiz --replace in terminal... i assume you have compiz installed, you can do
> ccsm in terminal to bring that up and check (desktop effects and stuff).

[http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion](http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion)

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
I needed

> emerald --replace if you lose borders and stuff, i just realized/remembered that's what i have... the emerald theme manager installed. A bit more complex then i thought, sorry.

You can see if you have that under system>preferences>emerald theme manager.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
Well, using the compiz --replace command does the same thing as enabling visual effects! :( Kills ALL of my windows, menus, etc leaving me just with a background and a mouse... I'm going to try to install xglserver, see if that fixes anything.

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
I think you have this problem...
[http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=576093](http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=576093)

> Try using the emerald window manager. To do this you need to install emerald
sudo apt-get install emerald

> When you start "Advanced Desktop Effect Settings" , go to the "windows decorations" plugin and type emerald in the command box (needs to have emerald installed) "sudo apt-get emerald"

the answer is there for sure.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
I have emerald though :(

---

### Post by Ekril on 2007-11-29
why don't you have a look at wiki.cchtml.com ? I managed it to get work Ati 9950 card

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
He just needs to get compiz and emerald to play nice with each other, his driver is fine. :)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=487456&page=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=487456&page=5)

Once again, i assume you have installed them both.

> tak@Ubuntu:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x1024) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting emerald


---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
...

> This may sound stupid, but I had the same problem as you, and I fixed it by doing these two separate in startup sessions.

Name: Compiz
Command: compiz --replace

Name: Emerald
Command: emerald --replace (notice the no '&' thing? that might be something, I don't know)

That was THE ONLY thing that worked for me, hope that helps you!

Good luck,

Mr Green

Another stupid question: Have you checked that you have the 'Window Decorations' option enabled in CCSM?

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
Once you've got the latest restricted driver installed, you need to tell Compiz to use FGLRX (add it to the whitelist)

```
sudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz
```

And look for the section:
```

# Driver whitelist
WHITELIST="fglrx nvidia intel ati radeon i810"
```

Just add the FGLRX in as above, Compiz and Desktop effects should work then.

It's on a HOWTO on the forum somewhere, I'll see if Ican find it and post a link.

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
Blimey!
Found it really quick and it's not on the forum!

Here you go:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide")

It's actually on the wiki.

3D Desktop effects is actually about 3/4 of the way down.

Hope it helps!

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
That's the one davec64, i just noticed i have the skip check on compiz, i forgot all about that step :)
> 
No whitelisted driver found
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
By the way I spotted on the HOWTO:

> The new ATI drivers use AIGLX so there is not need to install XGL that older drivers (< 8.40) required.

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
Nice one!

Now go and have a play with kiba-dock and see if you can get that to work as well!!!!!!!!!

It fits in really well with the Compiz effects!

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
Well thanks Takster, adding those commands triggered ubuntu to do that same thing, but now I dont even get a chance, I login, and now I get the same screen with my background + my mouse without anything... No menus, windows, nothing.... I'm stuck on windows now, any help would be nice...

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> Well thanks Takster, adding those commands triggered ubuntu to do that same thing, but now I dont even get a chance, I login, and now I get the same screen with my background + my mouse without anything... No menus, windows, nothing.... I'm stuck on windows now, any help would be nice...

It is compiz and emerald settings...

did you reinstall xgl? it is not needed.

post the output 
> dpkg -l | grep compiz

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
You should have this...or very similar.
 dpkg -l | grep compiz
```
tak@Ubuntu:~$ dpkg -l | grep compiz
ii  compiz                                     1:0.6.2+git20071119-0ubuntu1~gutsy1       OpenGL window and compositing manager
ii  compiz-bcop                                0.5.2-0ubuntu1                            Compiz option code generator
ii  compiz-core                                1:0.6.2+git20071119-0ubuntu1~gutsy1       OpenGL window and compositing manager
ii  compiz-dev                                 1:0.6.2+git20071119-0ubuntu1~gutsy1       OpenGL window and compositing manager - deve
ii  compiz-fusion-plugins-extra                0.6.0+git20071121-0ubuntu1~gutsy1         Collection of extra plugins from OpenComposi
ii  compiz-fusion-plugins-main                 0.5.2+git20070928-0ubuntu2                Collection of plugins from OpenCompositing f
ii  compiz-gnome                               1:0.6.2+git20071119-0ubuntu1~gutsy1       OpenGL window and compositing manager - GNOM
ii  compiz-plugins                             1:0.6.2+git20071119-0ubuntu1~gutsy1       OpenGL window and compositing manager - plug
ii  compizconfig-settings-manager              0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1                Compiz configuration settings manager
ii  emerald                                    0.3~git20070717-0ubuntu1                  Decorator for compiz-fusion
ii  libcompizconfig-backend-gconf              0.5.2+git20071010-0ubuntu1                Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  libcompizconfig0                           0.5.2+git20070919-0ubuntu3                Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  libemeraldengine0                          0.3~git20070717-0ubuntu1                  Decoration engines for compiz-fusion
ii  python-compizconfig                        0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1                Compiz configuration system bindings
tak@Ubuntu:~$ 

```

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
tak@Ubuntu:~$ sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

this is a 100% working conf file.

```

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
        Option "AIGLX" "true" 
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "glx"

#       Load  "GLcore"
#       Load  "vbe"
        Load  "dbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
  
        Option      "DRI"     "true"
        Option      "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"

EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	 Group 0
         Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
Here:
```

ii  compiz-core                                1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1      OpenGL window and compositing manager
rc  compiz-gnome                               1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1      OpenGL window and compositing manager - GNOM
ii  compiz-plugins                             1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1      OpenGL window and compositing manager - plug
ii  compizconfig-settings-manager              0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1          Compiz configuration settings manager
ii  emerald                                    0.3~git20070717-0ubuntu1            Decorator for compiz-fusion
ii  libcompizconfig-backend-gconf              0.5.2+git20071010-0ubuntu1          Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  libcompizconfig0                           0.5.2+git20070919-0ubuntu3          Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  libemeraldengine0                          0.3~git20070717-0ubuntu1            Decoration engines for compiz-fusion
ii  python-compizconfig                        0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1          Compiz configuration system bindings
```

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> Here:
```

ii  compiz-core                                1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1      OpenGL window and compositing manager
rc  compiz-gnome                               1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1      OpenGL window and compositing manager - GNOM
ii  compiz-plugins                             1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1      OpenGL window and compositing manager - plug
ii  compizconfig-settings-manager              0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1          Compiz configuration settings manager
ii  emerald                                    0.3~git20070717-0ubuntu1            Decorator for compiz-fusion
ii  libcompizconfig-backend-gconf              0.5.2+git20071010-0ubuntu1          Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  libcompizconfig0                           0.5.2+git20070919-0ubuntu3          Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  libemeraldengine0                          0.3~git20070717-0ubuntu1            Decoration engines for compiz-fusion
ii  python-compizconfig                        0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1          Compiz configuration system bindings
```

Looks like an older version mate.
You may have to go through the compiz fusion install.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
alright, I'll go ahead and reinstall

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
Compiz window decorator plugin is on?

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
reinstalled, still the same problem, and yest compiz windows decorator is on, and not XGL... I still get a screen with my background and my mouse...

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
can you do emerald --replace and have borders come back? or compiz --replace?

of not, something is horribly wrong with the install of compiz. The driver works during 'glxgears' in a terminal i guess...so the driver is not an issue. Getting compiz to start correctly is.

There is like a million threads here about this error, just getting the right info is the problem :(

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
```
Option "AIGLX" "true" 

Section "DRI"
	 Group 0
         Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
  
        Option      "DRI"     "true"

        Option      "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"

Section "Module"
        Load  "glx"

#       Load  "GLcore"
#       Load  "vbe"
        Load  "dbe"
```


these config settings are also highly critical.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
err.... 
It looks like you are not understanding my issue....
The borders dont go away...
EVERYTHING GOES AWAY!
The menu bar on the top + the bottom, ALL of my windows disappear, leaving only my MOUSE CURSOR and my BACKGROUND. If borders where just missing it would be a easy fix..... But EVERYTHING dies... And its not just when compiz is enabled.

Enabling anything in Visual Effects including
Normal
Extra
+ Custom

All gives me JUST a background and a mouse, nothing else, only none works.

So, I dont think its JUST compiz, its most likely the Driver...

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
> **Takster said:**
> ```
Option "AIGLX" "true" 

Section "DRI"
	 Group 0
         Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
  
        Option      "DRI"     "true"

        Option      "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"

Section "Module"
        Load  "glx"

#       Load  "GLcore"
#       Load  "vbe"
        Load  "dbe"
```


these config settings are also highly critical.

All of those settings are enabled as well

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> err.... 
It looks like you are not understanding my issue....
The borders dont go away...
EVERYTHING GOES AWAY!
The menu bar on the top + the bottom, ALL of my windows disappear, leaving only my MOUSE CURSOR and my BACKGROUND. If borders where just missing it would be a easy fix..... But EVERYTHING dies... And its not just when compiz is enabled.

Enabling anything in Visual Effects including
Normal
Extra
+ Custom

All gives me JUST a background and a mouse, nothing else, only none works.

So, I dont think its JUST compiz, its most likely the Driver...

if you think the driver is screwed...

**How to Reset Ubuntu/Gnome Settings to Defaults without Re-installing**
> If you don&#8217;t have access to your graphical (GUI) desktop to delete these folders in Nautilus or you&#8217;re stuck at the login screen, drop to a terminal by hitting CTRL + ALT + F1, login to your account, and run this command:

rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity

Get back to your GUI desktop by hitting CTRL + ALT + F7.

Then go through it again. The driver install method i went through has worked many times for me, but it seems just one little wrong setting can destroy the whole thing. ATI are a pain in the ***. If you can animate gears, the direct rendering is okay, so the driver is working. It is the compiz settings and/or display config settings making trouble someplace.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
should I reboot after using those commands?

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> should I reboot after using those commands?

more instructions here bro, i only needed that command once before and i forget. :)
[http://linuxfud.wordpress.com/2007/02/14/how-to-reset-ubuntugnome-settings-to-defaults-without-re-installing/](http://linuxfud.wordpress.com/2007/02/14/how-to-reset-ubuntugnome-settings-to-defaults-without-re-installing/)

sorry to hear this is so much trouble for you, it really is a pain in the ***... i was doing this driver/effects thing for 4 days myself before i got it working 100% :(

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
THANKS A WHOLE DAMN LOT

Now I dont have a desktop thanks to this command you gave me:
rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity

Rebooted and I get a BLACK SCREEN

Guess that announcement saying not to use commands with rm -rf it it was right......

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> THANKS A WHOLE DAMN LOT

Now I dont have a desktop thanks to this command you gave me:
rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity

Rebooted and I get a BLACK SCREEN

Guess that announcement saying not to use commands with rm -rf it it was right......

It is a reset command for gnome, not a "kill that dude's computer" command.
I've used it before.

We both use the same driver and distro, Did you follow a compiz fusion install guide (available everywere) look at my compiz  packages i posted earlier ...make sure you've install compiz-bcop, etc... you are missing a lot of stuff. Something has been missed/overlooked along the line.
Mine is updated by the synaptic manager and updates, so obviously something is missing for you with compiz installation and upgrades.

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
Is the desktop still working? (i mean are you posting from it now, or another PC)
Just that some people have tried doing this in a virtual environment from windows or something, and you cant have any 3d driver stuff in one of those.

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
I'm writing from windows now,
I have a dual boot setup for Windows Vista + Ubuntu (and no its not wubi)
But the desktop is dead, it doesn't work at all, I gave the black screen a few minutes, and got to a orange screen with a mouse, but the desktop will not load...

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> I'm writing from windows now,
I have a dual boot setup for Windows Vista + Ubuntu (and no its not wubi)
But the desktop is dead, it doesn't work at all, I gave the black screen a few minutes, and got to a orange screen with a mouse, but the desktop will not load...

I just tried that  Reset Ubuntu trick on my laptop, worked like a charm... x was reset.

Other then that, if you have downloaded the ATI driver and know where it is, run the driver installer 
from command line again (CTRL + ALT + F1, login to your account) then try it.

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
you could also reset X and make a new xorg.conf 
>  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

remember: don't stress, this is not a Windows OS.

In other words, it can be fixed. ;)

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-29
I'm just going to forget this ****... 
Three weeks now trying to get ubuntu to work
Now I get a black screen, and I suck at command line.....
Forget this.. I give Up
Guess I'll just use vista...

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **kylecchh said:**
> I'm just going to forget this ****... 
Three weeks now trying to get ubuntu to work
Now I get a black screen, and I suck at command line.....
Forget this.. I give Up
Guess I'll just use vista...

It took me a long time to get this working myself... but i got there eventually.

How many guides have you used in the past? the one time i ever had to re-install it was due to using multiple guides - ahh, this one fails, try another - and you end up with junk and conflicts all over the place from the different guides *on the one driver*. It really is a shame it is not flawless install, but yeah, it is a pain to get it all working in harmony.

I dual boot vista myself... but since i got used to ubuntu i might as well wipe it. (but then my FPS games are history).

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
Try this auto installer, you might have better luck with it.
**Envy + ATI driver (8.42.3) + Desktop Effects = Success**
[http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?p=138](http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?p=138)
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-30
Well I cant do anything untill I can boot ubuntu.....
I cannot boot at all 
I get a orange screen with a mouse after about 15 minutes of a black screen..... thanks to the command you gave me that appearently was suppose to reset gnomes settings... (even failsafe gnome doesn't work......)

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-11-30
anyone?

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-12-01
Guess not....

---

### Post by tompratt0 on 2007-12-01
a measly ati radeon 9600, u call that measly, i run many games and desktop effects perfectly no lagging on the so called measly card!

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-12-02
> **tompratt0 said:**
> a measly ati radeon 9600, u call that measly, i run many games and desktop effects perfectly no lagging on the so called measly card!

What???? I never called any card measly, I dont even use that card...... 
Now can someone please help me get ubuntu working!!!

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-12-08
I guess no one knows, I'm sorry, but really ubuntu needs A LOT more work to be friendly with ATI cards.... I hope anyone else with ubuntu with a ATI card notices this...

---

### Post by Sef on 2007-12-08
> I guess no one knows, I'm sorry, but really ubuntu needs A LOT more work to be friendly with ATI cards.... I hope anyone else with ubuntu with a ATI card notices this...

Actually ATI needs better drivers.   Since the drivers are proprietary, ATI is responsible for making them.

---

### Post by nasov on 2007-12-09
Well I have a similar problem.
After upgrading from feisty to Gutsy (i still wonder why i did this)
Lost all my compiz settings and tried to install the new 8.42 driver - no success.
then 7.11 came along and tried that and it works. well, sort of.
It has some major glitches like scrolling and fade but i've seen here somewhere a post about it saying it's crAPIs fault. anyway.

After logging in the performance of the desktop is sluggish, extremley slow.
i go into the terminal type *fglrxinfo* and then X crashes and I;m back at login.
Logging in again and all works fine.
fglrxinfo returns ATI x1300/x1500 stuff but i can't change compiz settings using the manager and (as mentioned) scroll and fade slow the pc down.

also when doing 
nasov@Lucy:~$ glxinfo | grep rendering 
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)

LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose 
does nothing... no text no nothing.


kylecch: don't worry! my mother is using ubuntu without any probs! She howevr has a Nvidia card - this is starting to seem like the most sensible solution!!!

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-12-10
> **Sef said:**
> Actually ATI needs better drivers.   Since the drivers are proprietary, ATI is responsible for making them.

ATI really sucks then, good thing I will soon be getting a nvidia card, hope that will atleast work with this OS

---

### Post by kylecchh on 2007-12-10
> **nasov said:**
> Well I have a similar problem.
After upgrading from feisty to Gutsy (i still wonder why i did this)
Lost all my compiz settings and tried to install the new 8.42 driver - no success.
then 7.11 came along and tried that and it works. well, sort of.
It has some major glitches like scrolling and fade but i've seen here somewhere a post about it saying it's crAPIs fault. anyway.

After logging in the performance of the desktop is sluggish, extremley slow.
i go into the terminal type *fglrxinfo* and then X crashes and I;m back at login.
Logging in again and all works fine.
fglrxinfo returns ATI x1300/x1500 stuff but i can't change compiz settings using the manager and (as mentioned) scroll and fade slow the pc down.

also when doing 
nasov@Lucy:~$ glxinfo | grep rendering 
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)

LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose 
does nothing... no text no nothing.


kylecch: don't worry! my mother is using ubuntu without any probs! She howevr has a Nvidia card - this is starting to seem like the most sensible solution!!!

Well, good thing I will soon be upgrading to a nvidia card, ATI SUCKS with open source if they make these drivers, they are really peices of CRAP... But, untill then i'll leave this thread unsolved, hopefully mabye someone out of the thousands of people on these forums will get some type of driver that will work, untill then.. Guess i'll use winblows.. :lolflag:

---

