---
title: "Window Plane Disappear after Beryl"
date: 2007-05-14
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by keiwc on 2007-05-14
Hi, Im fairly new to Beryl and when i use it (using Beryl Window manager) my top window task plane disappears. I heard some people fixed it using color depth, and i have tried most ways I could find. I am using Fesity Fawn 7.04. Here is my what is inside my xorg.conf in X11 folder.

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:39:38 PST 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ACI ASUS VW192S??"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GT/GTO"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900_75 +0+0; 1152x864 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 832x624 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by silent1643 on 2007-05-14
i had this happen with my ati card and using the drivers from my envy install, i just uninstalled those drivers and got my app title bar back

---

### Post by keiwc on 2007-05-14
Wouldnt you need the drivers though? Im using a 19" Inch Monitor and i pretty much need the 1440x900.

---

### Post by silent1643 on 2007-05-14
yeah after i uinstalled the envy drivers i assume it just reverted to the drivers that ubuntu had installed originally...

---

### Post by keiwc on 2007-05-14
My problem is, i need to keep the 1440x900...Ubuntu only gives me the original values of up to 1024x1280. :(

---

### Post by guernicaaa on 2007-05-14
I'm not sure if your problem is the same as mine, but are you talking about the bar at the top of windows to move them/ resize them / minimize them?  If so, I had the same problem and fixed it by adding
> Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
Option         "backingstore" "True"
Option         "TripleBuffer" "True"
in the "Device" section of my xorg.conf
good luck

---

### Post by keiwc on 2007-05-14
OMG thanks! This is great!

---

### Post by guernicaaa on 2007-05-14
glad to hear it worked.  I noticed that those few lines also fixed a couple of other annoyances that were too miniscule to try to fix.

---

### Post by graficus on 2007-06-22
Didn't work for me :(
I too am missing the top window bar, the one that supposed to have title and minimize/maximize/close buttons.
Having to Ctrl+Q and Alt+click is just not friendly, especially if someone else is allowed to use the computer.

---

### Post by MonkeyZiggurat on 2007-08-19
I'm having the same problem. It's not just the close/minimize etc. buttons that are gone, it's the entire top bar above each window and the borders as well.

I added the following lines to the "devices" section of my xorg.conf file:

Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "RenderAccel" "True"
Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
Option "backingstore" "True"
Option "TripleBuffer" "True"

.....No change.

I'm using ubuntu 7.04 feisty fawn, with an nVidia 7800 GS.

Any additional help with this would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by TyTiger on 2007-09-30
I'm having similar problems too... Only My window boarders turn blank (white) when their stretched above roughly 80% of the desktop or when maximized otherwise smaller windows are fine i saw another thread about it being the texture size if it's anything above 20 but mine is set to 20 so unless the graphics in my laptop cant handle it i dunno but everything else seems to work fine :confused:

---

