---
title: "No Desktop Effects option"
date: 2008-04-09
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by unnoobtu on 2008-04-09
Hello Fellas, I am an unbuntu noob and have it all up and running on a p4 with 2 gigs of Ram and an Nvidia 7600.  I am trying to get desktop effects to work but I do not see the option for enabling desktop effects its just not in the drop down. I installed the nvidia driver and ran the tool and my xorg.conf seems to be the one generated by the nvidia tool. I have compiz installed but I do not see and configuration panel for compiz. 

Any ideas?

Thanks in advance.

noob

---

### Post by unnoobtu on 2008-04-09
Ok, I installed ccsm and now I have the custom tab under visual effect after right clicking on the desktop. If I hit that it bring up compiz setting manager but it looks like it kills the winodw manager. If I enable it I get the windows but can not move them. 

Any ideas?

---

### Post by ssteinbr on 2008-04-09
If I understand correctly, your windows don't have any decorations (ie the borders around them, minimize, maximize, and close buttons, etc).  The simplest explanation is that you need to have the Windows Decoration" plugin enabled.  You can do this in CCSM.  I've had the same problem almost everytime I've enabled Compiz on a fresh install for the past 2 years.  The solution that always works for me is making sure that this line is in your xorg.conf.  It should be place in the "Device" section as follows

```
Section "Device"
Indentifier"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x]"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection
```

The indentifier line will list whatever card you have, not the one above.

---

