---
title: "White Screen - Compiz Problem with Gutsy and Nvidia"
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by tnunamak on 2007-11-03
I've been struggling all day to get Compiz to work properly. I recently upgraded from Feisty to Gutsy 7.10, and my graphics card is an Nvidia 7600GS. After lots of the same problem, namely, logging in, running 'compiz' or 'compiz --replace' from the command line, I get a white screen where I can rotate the cube and alt+tab between running programs, but everything is white. I have read that this is likely due to graphics libraries being overwritten in the process of getting different drivers installed.

Finally I just ran the following command:

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia* linux-restricted*
```

and got rid of all of the graphics drivers and restricted packages. I then reinstalled from the command line with envy, and reinstalled the restricted packages. I enabled them and rebooted, but when I log in I get the same thing again (white screen).

A copy of my xorg.conf is listed below. If anyone has pointers or ideas, I happily welcome them. Thanks!

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Oct  4 10:33:51 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"LVM-42w2"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option		"USEdidDPI"	"false"
	Option		"DPI"	"96x96"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7600 GS]"
	Monitor		"LVM-42w2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1920x1080"	"1920x540"	"1280x1280"	"1280x1024"	"1280x800"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection


```

---

### Post by ecschiel on 2007-11-03
Try removing the 3 options from the Screen section and the section Extensions too. I use ubuntu 7.10 and dont have that in my conf. I'm not sure thats the problem but you loose nothing giving a try :lolflag:

---

### Post by tnunamak on 2007-11-03
I removed those from xorg.conf, but that had no effect.

I think I've narrowed down the problem. dmesg gives me:

```
NVRM: API mismatch: the client has the version 100.14.19, but this kernel module
 has the version 100.14.23. Please make sure that this kernel module and all NVIDIA driver 
components have the same version.
```

How can I make sure everything matches up between kernels and drivers, including restricted drivers?

Thanks

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-11-03
Tagging for interest in knowing the supported way of dealing with this.

The unsupported way would be to let [Envy](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MaL3yZuGaKc) handle things.

---

### Post by tnunamak on 2007-11-03
My hope was that envy would fix the problem, but those errors were recorded after having envy install everything for me (except for restricted packages, which the restricted manager did).

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-11-03
Well, if Ubuntu's restricted drivers were installed after Envy's drivers, isn't there a chance the Nvidia kernel you have is the one Envy provided, and the actual driver was installed from the restricted modules package? That would make it a mismatch.

Try giving Envy another go, I'd say. Beyond that, I don't know what to say - it always worked for me.

And if the restricted drivers weren't installed *after* but rather *before* Envy was run, don't mind me. I'm way off.

---

### Post by tnunamak on 2007-11-03
Maybe you can help me to understand how this works a little better.

How do the restricted drivers work exactly? It looks like they still require standard drivers, such as nvidia-glx-new but somehow add to them or modify them. On the surface it didn't look like Envy had any control over the restricted drivers, so I guessed that it was a separate issue, but it looks like I was wrong.

So I need to install the restricted drivers, then run Envy?

---

### Post by scottDkoDer on 2007-11-03
tnunamak: Firstly, please do not use envy. It does many things without making appropriate checks. It 'assumes' things.  Secondly, stop by #compiz-fusion on Freenode irc to talk to the support team in real time.

Hope to see you there.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-11-03
*shrug*

Do as you wish. Envy is and remains an unsupported application, but it's shown itself to be reliable enough in my experience. Naturally, the best solution would be an officially supported package from the repositories.

---

### Post by tnunamak on 2007-11-03
It worked actually, in fact it worked rather nicely. Thanks for the help. If it gives me trouble in the future maybe I'll reconsider, but for now Envy has saved me a lot of headaches.

---

### Post by wombatworld on 2007-12-31
FWIW, I had the same problem (white screen when switching user and then switching back if using compiz) in my gutsy install.  I found that installing the nvidia-glx-legacy package (which uninstalls nvidia-glx-new) fixed it.  Unfortunately, it doesn't detect my monitor as well, and gave me a 800x600 login screen.  Fortunately, the System > Administration > Screens and Graphics config allows you to change the monitor model (I changed to "Monitor 1280 x 1024"), and then I could change the resolution and frequency to something more appropriate (1280 x 1024 @ 60Hz for my old CRT monitor).  After logging out, all was well.

---

