---
title: "1.5gb of ram is surely enough??..."
date: 2007-06-26
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by ronniet on 2007-06-26
Previously I had 512mb RAM so decided to splash out on a nice shiny 1gb stick of RAM, so now I have 1.5gb of RAM.

I've also recently installed ***Compiz Fusion*** and sometimes it seems to pause while fetching something from the hard drive.

I brought up the ***Kubuntu** KSysGuard* and it seems that out of 1.5gb of RAM, my system is using approximately 1.3gb of it _and_ also using a 33mb swapfile!

Surely Compiz Fusion doesn't use 1.3gb of RAM?!! Tonight i'll try turning off Compiz Fusion to see if the system still uses 1.3gb... but i'd still rather have Compiz Fusion!  :D

Anyone else experiencing high memory usage??

---

### Post by Depressed Man on 2007-06-26
Do you have other applications open...say Firefox? I notice when I have Firefox running, it usually eats up alot of memory. Though right now with Thunderbird, Pidgin, Kiba Dock, Compiz Fusion, Screenlets, and Firefox running (with two tabs) my memory is only at 370 MB / 2 GBs.

So something may be wrong.

But I do know that I´ve seen my MB usage skyrocket sometimes when using Firefox.

---

### Post by kpolice on 2007-06-26
type on the terminal "free -m" and paste the output here.

---

### Post by ronniet on 2007-06-26
**free -m** gives me :

                     total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:           1519       1486         32          0         19       1060
-/+ buffers/cache:        406       1112
Swap:          2800         33       2767

I also ran **top**, a screen of that is attached below.

Any help to solve this mystery is much appreciated...

---

### Post by ronniet on 2007-06-27
... and to add to the mystery: if i log out, log back in (with compiz fusion _not_ loaded) i'm still using well over 1gb in memory just loading into KDE... very annoying...  :(

---

### Post by jayson.rowe on 2007-06-27
According to your screenshot, your system is using ~1GB RAM for Disk Cache - that is normal - it is not being used by applications, and if the system needs the RAM for something else it is released...

---

### Post by mysticrider92 on 2007-06-27
Using most of the system ram is normal for any Linux system. There is something about the way Linux uses the ram, that it will use most (if not all) at any given time, but it does it in a way that actually speeds up the system. I forgot where I read it, but there was a site somewhere that had an explanation as to why Linux appears to be wasting memory.

---

### Post by jayson.rowe on 2007-06-27
Just to add to my post - Unused RAM is wasted RAM - you WANT your RAM to be used - as long as it's being used for the right thing, and judging from your screenie...it is.

---

### Post by c.dric on 2007-06-27
[FAQ Linux Memory Management]("http://gentoo-wiki.com/FAQ_Linux_Memory_Management")

> Traditional Unix tools like 'top' often report a surprisingly small amount of free memory after a system has been running for a while. For instance, after about 3 hours of uptime, the machine I'm writing this on reports under 60 MB of free memory, even though I have 512 MB of RAM on the system. Where does it all go?

The biggest place it's being used is in the disk cache, which is currently over 290 MB. This is reported by top as "cached". Cached memory is essentially free, in that it can be replaced quickly if a running (or newly starting) program needs the memory. 

The reason Linux uses so much memory for disk cache is because the RAM is wasted if it isn't used. Keeping the cache means that if something needs the same data again, there's a good chance it will still be in the cache in memory. Fetching the information from there is around 1,000 times quicker than getting it from the hard disk. If it's not found in the cache, the hard disk needs to be read anyway, but in that case nothing has been lost in time.

---

### Post by ronniet on 2007-06-27
Well I guess that makes sense.

**Thanks guys, that's put my mind at rest.**  :)

---

### Post by muril on 2007-08-19
mine too....thanx for the info.

---

