---
title: "Regularly loose window decorations"
date: 2008-01-13
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by stevenjackson on 2008-01-13
Hi

I have installed Ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon and have been using it for some time now.
I seem to randomly have my window decorations disappear completely and the only way i can get them back is to restart my xwindow session.  I initially thought it was related to evolution as it seemed to be when i switched between evolution, but this didn't turn out to be the case as i stopped using evolution for a day and had the same issue.  It does seem to mostly happen when i am switching between windows.

My system is a:
dell optiplex 740
 AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 5200+
2GB Ram
NVIDIA Display

I'm not sure what kind of detail you need on my system to help so please let me know and i'll add it on this thread.

Thanks

Steve

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2008-01-13
Are you using the desktop effects?  that could be a problem - if so post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf and hope someone remembers what to do ;) (I used to know...)

regardless, try typing "metacity" or "emerald" in the terminal and see if they come back ;) (If not, also try "killall" (and then the name) before doing it.  Metacity for no effects, emerald for effects)

---

### Post by stevenjackson on 2008-01-14
I'm using the desktop effects.

---

### Post by stevenjackson on 2008-01-14
My xorg.conf is :




# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "CMC 22 W"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE]"
    Monitor        "CMC 22 W"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1680" "1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1360x850" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2008-01-14
well, for one thing try "killall emerald" and then "emerald" in the terminal (if you are using the fancy boarders.) Like I said, if not, also try "killall metacity" and then "metacity"

Regardless, there is this line you can add that usually fixes this problem, and I'll try to find where I said this once before all long time ago, but in the mean time anyone can help out!! ;p

---

### Post by stevenjackson on 2008-01-14
Ok thanks, i'll give it a try next time it happens.

Hopefully you can find that line i need to add to fix it permanently or if someone else knows that'd be great :)
I did search for any other similar issue threads but couldn't find anything.

Steve

---

### Post by stevenjackson on 2008-01-15
Just lost the window decorations again and running "emerald &" restored them, which is fantastic.
Thanks for that.

Now i just need to stop them disapearing in the first place :)

Steve

---

### Post by ryanVickers on 2008-01-15
well, the "line" in the xorg file is somehting to fix it when they won't appear at all, ever!  You have them working, they just quit occasionally, so it's not for you ;)

I'll start devising an idea to keep them working (some sort of script...) :D

---

