---
title: "Compiz doesn't word in Gutsy Gibbon"
date: 2008-02-23
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by Grimbergen on 2008-02-23
Hello all,

I have a dell inspiron 1501 on which I installed Ubuntu Feisty and later I upgraded it to Gutsy Gibbon.
When I go to system ==> preferences ==> appearances ==>visual effects - custom it sais: "desktop effects could not be enabled". I already looked on several topics but the only thing they say is install Compizconfig settings manager. I installed everything and it works and the ATI driver (256 MB ATI® Radeon® Xpress 1150 HyperMemory™) is enabled.
This is my output when open compiz in terminal :
Checking for Xgl: present.
Checking for nVidia: not present.
Checking for Xgl: present.
Enabling Xgl with fglrx ATi drivers...
Starting emerald
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: Support for non power of two textures missing
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :1.0
Windowmanager waarschuwing(warning): "" in de(the) configuratiedatabase(configurationdatabase) (there) is geen(no) geldige(valid) waarde(value) voor(for) toetsbinding "toggle_shaded"

What should I do to make Compiz working ?
P.S. My laptop works much slower since I installed all these features.

Thx in advance,
Grimbergen

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2008-02-23
Make a fresh install.

---

### Post by Grimbergen on 2008-02-23
How Can I make a fresh install ?

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2008-02-23
I mean make a fresh install of Gutsy Gibbon.

---

### Post by Grimbergen on 2008-02-23
And that will solve the problem ?

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2008-02-23
I believe that, I think you got a bad upgrade.
But you are the boss.

---

### Post by fracturedmorals on 2008-02-23
Could you show your /etc/xorg.conf.

A fresh install isn't the solution.....Never does any harm taking a look....(Unless you wipe your HD or something)

:)

---

### Post by Kubotaz4 on 2008-02-23
Im having the same issues, my xorg.conf file.

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL 2405FPW"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-130
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]"
	Monitor		"DELL 2405FPW"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1920x1200"	"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"1"
EndSection

---

### Post by fracturedmorals on 2008-02-23
I can see a problem.

With ATI cards running FGLRX/XGL the "composite" section should be set to "0".

I'm not to clear about the details as to why except that it has something to do with ATI's lack of support for DRI.

I've been through the ATI composite hell....and I wish you much luck on your venture.

---

### Post by Kubotaz4 on 2008-02-23
I have read posts where they suggest to change the composite to "1" to fix issues.  It was originally set to "0" with still no result. Any other suggestions?  Its an ATI 128mb X300 PCIe.

---

### Post by fracturedmorals on 2008-02-23
Doesn't the open source driver support the x300?

---

### Post by Kubotaz4 on 2008-02-23
My issue is I have GL desktop installed, I do NOT have xgl enabled (because it is terribly slow when running and doesnt fix the compiz problem), and im trying to get compiz working and all of the posts that ive been reading arent helping? any suggestions?

---

### Post by Kubotaz4 on 2008-02-23
Hold up....i think the ENVY installer is probably the best thing in the world.  Ive been trying to work in compiz for a week straight and after using it....it FINALLY WORKS!!!! HORRAY!!

---

### Post by fracturedmorals on 2008-02-23
Cool....sorry I couldn't be of more help.

---

