---
title: "7.10: Visual Effects"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-19
I'm trying to activate Visual Effects in Ubuntu 7.10.

See this picture:
[http://demaweb.dk/desktopeffects.jpg](http://demaweb.dk/desktopeffects.jpg)

The terminal display the error. Note this lines:
Checking for Xgl: not present.
Checking for texture_from_pixmat: not present.

Why are these not presented? 
The restricted driver "NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver" are installed.
Hope someone can help me.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2007-10-19
I think you need to install the XGL server

scott@scott-desktop:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: present. 
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for Xgl: present. 
Enabling Xgl with fglrx ATi drivers...
Starting gtk-window-decorator
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format

---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-19
Compiz gives me:

dennis@dennis-laptop:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 10de:0398 (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

How do I install the XGL server?

I've tried:
dennis@dennis-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get install xgl
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package xgl

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2007-10-19
**Edit: sorry, I just noticed your post was for a NVIDIA card, the below only applys to ATI users**

```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl
```

**For Gutsy (Ubuntu 7.10) users this is all you need to do. Once installed, Gutsy's Xgl will automatically start next time you log in.** Users of Feisty (Ubuntu 7.04) and older will need to do the further set up described on the rest of this page.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl)

---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-19
When I install xserver-xgl I cannot start x-server. So I had to remove the program from the terminal and typing startx to start again.

Are there any log-message, where I can see why the x-server cannot start when xserver-xgl are installed?

---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-20
Anybody to help?

---

### Post by pt123 on 2007-10-20
Did you upgrade from Feisty or did you do a fresh install?

---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-20
> **pt123 said:**
> Did you upgrade from Feisty or did you do a fresh install?

Well, I did a fresh install. First, after installing the NVidia driver, the XGL service works. But later my xorg crashes after trying to configure my extern screen. After reconfiguring xorg this the desktop effects doesn't works.

Would you like to see my xorg.conf?

---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-21
Are there a way to first uninstall the XOrg server and configuration and later installing a fresh XOrg server?

---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-23
The problem are now fixed.
I used the nvidia-settings program to rewrite my xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by malaeum on 2007-10-23
> **dema said:**
> The problem are now fixed.
I used the nvidia-settings program to rewrite my xorg.conf file.

I was having the same issue. I have poked around nvidia-settings before and just have been now and I don't see anything in particular related to xgl... What did you change in there. Can you possibly post your working xorg.conf?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by dema on 2007-10-23
I setup my screen in the "X Server Display Configuration" - and ending with "save to x configuration file".

Here you can see my xorg-file:
[http://www.demaweb.dk/ubuntu/xorg.conf](http://www.demaweb.dk/ubuntu/xorg.conf)

Hope it works!

---

### Post by gandav on 2007-10-23
the workspaces in a cube effect of my desktop was working fine for some days after i enabled it but suddenly its all gone. only the wobble effect is working.
also when i am switching from one workspace to the screen remains blank; no icons, no menubar nothing

---

### Post by Gangus on 2007-10-23
EDIT: nevermind, I'm a moron

---

### Post by malaeum on 2007-10-23
> **dema said:**
> I setup my screen in the "X Server Display Configuration" - and ending with "save to x configuration file".

Here you can see my xorg-file:
[http://www.demaweb.dk/ubuntu/xorg.conf](http://www.demaweb.dk/ubuntu/xorg.conf)

Hope it works!

Well I'll be! It worked! 

Thank you very much. I think I figured out what was going on with my by playing with yours. I have a dual monitor setup and I was using seperate X displays with Xinerama enabled. Well it seems not to work so well with compiz and I guess I can fathom why, tried it with nVidia's "twinview" and it works great. Twinview has its downsides, at least for me, so I'll have to play with it a bit and see how workable I can make it.


Thanks again!

---

### Post by princess9987 on 2008-06-14
> **JBAlaska said:**
> 

```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl
```



Thanks.. I was trying for a long time to get my visual effects up and running.. This post helped me... :)

---

