---
title: "7.04 to 7.10 (Compiz Fusion)"
date: 2007-09-06
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by Scott00 on 2007-09-06
When the time comes to update next month, what is the best way to ensure a smooth transaction with Compiz Fusion and Gutsy?  I use Amaranth's repository. Do you just uninstall all of the packages first?

---

### Post by dentaku65 on 2007-09-06
> **Scott00 said:**
> When the time comes to update next month, what is the best way to ensure a smooth transaction with Compiz Fusion and Gutsy?  I use Amaranth's repository. Do you just uninstall all of the packages first?

I upgraded while ago from Feisty to Gutsy and the best way is to remove anything from outside repos and use the Gutsy repos (of course you can preserve your ~/.config/*); but any residual occurences of different packets must be removed manually (compiz, emerald, ccsm) in case the apt/aptitude purges does not do the complete job; I did this from Trevino repository to the upgrade in Gutsy and worked... or at least worked now in Tribe 5.

Den

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-09-06
I would much rather do a clean install of Gutsy, as in a Triple boot of Gutsy, Feisty and Vista and then reconfigure it to my liking and then get rid of Feisty (If I have to).

I would hate to have my Linux break during the upgrade and then have to use crappy Vista :)

---

### Post by dentaku65 on 2007-09-07
> **Inxsible said:**
> I would much rather do a clean install of Gutsy, as in a Triple boot of Gutsy, Feisty and Vista and then reconfigure it to my liking and then get rid of Feisty (If I have to).

I would hate to have my Linux break during the upgrade and then have to use crappy Vista :)

The upgrade goes well... well, sort of :):):)

```
sudo apt-get -f install
```
is your friend! :)

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-09-07
I know. But I'd rather play safe and see if all my hardware is recognized in Gutsy before completely committing to it :D

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-07
I'm not even going to attempt an upgrade on my computer. I'll do a fresh install. I've got Feisty so hacked up right now with Pidgin and CF it's bound to break.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-09-07
> **FuturePilot said:**
> I'm not even going to attempt an upgrade on my computer. I'll do a fresh install. I've got Feisty so hacked up right now with Pidgin and CF it's bound to break. + 1 on that !!!

EDIT: Oh, wait a minute, i think I was the + 0 on that one ;)

---

### Post by kevmaster on 2007-10-18
I've written a step-by-step video tutorial on how I did my [upgrade from feisty (with Envy & Treviño’s compiz-fusion) to gutsy]("http://kevin.vanzonneveld.net/techblog/article/upgrade_to_ubuntu_gutsy_with_compizfusion/"). might be useful for some.

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-18
I like the way you have formatted the tutorial. Looks nice and doesnt feel all too crammed with instructions.

But, Compiz Fusion comes installed with Gutsy. Why are you trying to re-install it?
Trevino's repos were provided so people with Feisty could use Compiz Fusion. They may work with Gutsy, or they might not.

---

### Post by kevmaster on 2007-10-19
Thanks!

Some people have made a real mess of their feisty compiz-fusion-ed systems and so I learned that, to compensate for strange (or sometimes impossible) situations it can be useful to add all the required packages in the tutorial (it's got a couple of extra packages too). If they already exist they will just be ignored or upgraded by apt. So no harm done, and might help out a few people.

---

