---
title: ".gtkrc-2.0 widgets defined, menu backgrounds"
date: 2007-12-11
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by lred_tree on 2007-12-11
Hey everyone, been working on my .gtkrc-2.0 for awhile trying to decipher it (I have gutsy gibbon).  I changed most of what I had wanted to change but for the longest time could not figure how to change the background color for drop down menus.
Well, I have solved that issue.  Mostly thanks to this [[COLOR="DeepSkyBlue"]website[/COLOR]]("http://orford.org/gtk/").

Check it out if you have a chance, it's a great guide to .gtkrc-2.0

There are a lot of threads on here about that file and how to change it to acheive various ends, so I thought I'd start one that attempted to collect definitions for various widgets so that someone wanting to edit .gtkrc-2.0 could find which widget did what they wanted.

I'm assuming everyone reading this already knows how styles are built and how to apply them to a widget.  If you don't, check the link above.  It explains all that.

So, here is how you can change the background color of your menus:

[FONT="Arial"]
[SIZE="1"]
style "menu_color"
{
fg[NORMAL] = "#123CD8"
fg[SELECTED] = "#ff0000"
fg[ACTIVE] = "#ff0000"
fg[PRELIGHT] = "#ff0000"
fg[INSENSITIVE] = "#A9B9FF"
bg[NORMAL] = "#000000"
bg[SELECTED] = "#000000"
bg[ACTIVE] = "#000000"
bg[PRELIGHT] = "#000000"
}

widget "*PanelWidget*" style "my_color"
widget "*PanelApplet*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*MenuItem*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*ToolItem*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*SeparatorMenuitem*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*SeparatorToolitem*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*ImageMenuitem*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*RadioMenuitem*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*CheckMenuitem*" style "my_color"
widget_class "*TearoffMenuitem*" style "my_color"
[COLOR="Red"]widget_class "*Menu*" style "menu_color"[/COLOR]
[/SIZE]
[/FONT]

The asterisks on either side of the "Menu" widget class are wildcards, so the style applied will effect all widgets with "Menu" in the name.  What the specific widget is that effects background menus I don't know, but I know this works on my machine.  Give it a shot and see.

So, please post any other discoveries you have made about widgets and what they effect.  It would be nice to get a good amount of defined widgets here.

Thanks!

---

### Post by lred_tree on 2007-12-13
Bump + a cool link: [[COLOR="Lime"]:D[/COLOR]]("http://gtk.themes.org")<--- p.s. click the smiley face...

---

### Post by mrfr0g on 2008-03-03
Thanks so much! I've been looking for a way to do this.

---

### Post by lred_tree on 2008-07-20
bg[SELECTED] = 

This will change the highlight color when your mouse hovers over an item in a menu (if applied to: widget_class "*Menu*" style), handy for changing that default ubuntu brown into something more appropriate for your deco scheme.

bg[ACTIVE] =

This will change the background color of the directory buttons listed while in the file browser, for the directory you are currently in, when applied to: widget_class "*ToolItem*" style
bg[SELECTED] =
this will change the outline highlight for when your mouse hovers over a directory button.

widget "*PanelApplet*" style 

This widget will allow you to change the colors of your workspace switcher on your panel.  Experiment with it to see what you can change.

---

### Post by lred_tree on 2008-07-20
Tool Tips:

To change the color of your tooltips, you have to use this widget:
widget "gtk-tooltip" style
and point to a style that you have set the color for bg[NORMAL] =

It is important that you do not use "gtk-tooltips" instead of "gtk-tooltip"
There are many forums that list the plural version, but this will NOT work- took me awhile to figure that one out.

---

