---
title: "Another desktop not working....."
date: 2008-03-31
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by stingerssx on 2008-03-31
So, as before, and the same with many other people, I've done something to mess up my desktop. Everything was working fine until I changed my resolution to 1440x900, (native for my 19" widescreen), and Ubuntu froze. I had to manually turn off the PC and then when I restarted it, I got "desktop effects could not be enabled". So I tried both:  sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg, and another one that I got off another thread. Unfortunately, it's still the same. I can go to "Advanced Desktop Effects" but no matter what I do, I still can't enable anything. 

    I have a love/hate relationship with Linux, (it loves to hate me!!) But I want to use it. I'm all for having an operating system that will do what I want and need for "free" and can be customized in many different ways. I just want to make it work!!!!


    My PC:       E-Machines T2200 (AMD Athlon XP 2200 1.8GHz with 1gig DDR PC2100 ATI Radeon 9200se with 128mb and a Sound Blaster Live! audio card.

    I'm not looking for anything outrageous, just want to get back to where I was earlier.

              Thanks.  


                 BTW, If I need to post an output file (like my xorg.conf), no problem!

---

### Post by stingerssx on 2008-04-02
How in the f*ck does some a$$hole post a quick "I can't get desktop effects to work, I'm new to linux" bull$hit and get a reply, when I  post all of this and get nothing? 

    What the f*ck do I have to do to get some god damn help around here?  


  Is this what linux is all about? No wonder Bill Gates is so rich. It looks as if only a$$hole motherf*ckers who bull$hit about "the Ubuntu way of life" are into helping people with such minor problems. 

Or is it that no one around here knows enough about linux to even start to help someone that actually knows a little bit?

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-04-02
> **stingerssx said:**
> How in the f*ck does some a$$hole post a quick "I can't get desktop effects to work, I'm new to linux" bull$hit and get a reply, when I  post all of this and get nothing? 

    What the f*ck do I have to do to get some god damn help around here?  


  Is this what linux is all about? No wonder Bill Gates is so rich. It looks as if only a$$hole motherf*ckers who bull$hit about "the Ubuntu way of life" are into helping people with such minor problems. 

Or is it that no one around here knows enough about linux to even start to help someone that actually knows a little bit?

*BUMP would probably work better.

---

### Post by markjensen on 2008-04-02
Jeez.  Sorry I didn't log in yesterday.:neutral:

Anyhow, now that you have vented and insulted, do you mind posting your xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by stingerssx on 2008-04-03
So that's all that I had to do was get upset? Well, in that case, here's my xorg.conf:


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 SE]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-72
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RV280 [Radeon 9200 SE]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by markjensen on 2008-04-03
I don't have any experience with ATI video cards, but it seems that you are currently set up using the generic (2D only) open source "ati" driver.  You can see it in your "Device" section.

I think it needs to be set to "fglrx" to use the proprietary ATI drivers.   If just setting it that way (and restarting X with CTRL+ALT+Backspace) doesn't work, then you may be missing one of the other items in this guide:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by stingerssx on 2008-04-03
I'll go through that guide and see what happens, but beyond this, I also have a Nvidia GeForce4 Ti 4200 that I could swap out with this one. Should I do this just to avoid the hassle?  I have had experience with Nvidia cards and Ubuntu before, and I only used this ATI card because I heard that support has come a long way. But at this point I'd rather go with the most support.

---

### Post by stingerssx on 2008-04-04
Alright, so turns out that the guide didn't help too much. For some odd reason, the ATI card didn't show the need for restricted drivers. I kept having differences with my outcome than from what that guide (or any other guide) said. 

      So needless to say, I ripped the ATI card out, put it back in it's original box, and installed the Nvidia card. With in minutes, my desktop effects came back.

     I guess that it pays to go with the hardware that is well supported.

---

