---
title: "Trying to get compiz to run with ATI drivers"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by skiguy411 on 2008-03-05
I've spent all day trying to get the ATI drivers to work with compiz, but I don't know where to go from here.

This is what happens:
cpbarwic@chris-laptop:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI MOBILITY RADEON X300
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6473 (8.37.6)


cpbarwic@chris-laptop:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 1002:5460 (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting emerald
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap is missing
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0


When I try to enable desktop effects, I get an error telling me I can't. Where do I go from here?

---

### Post by larryfroot on 2008-03-05
Try the xserver-xorg-video-ati open source driver instead of the fglrx....a search in synaptic will bring it to your attention, but remove the fglrx drivers before you throw the xserver ones at your system. 

I had a hell of a job getting my mobile (rv250) FireGL radeon 9000 to do the compiz thing, but different card, so I dare say a different solution, but a lot of people find that using the open source driver is the only change they need to make. If the card is still being fussy about compiz typing 

compiz -- return

Will spit out a load of detail that you can then post on the forum...there are a few knowledgeable types around...wish I was one of them.

---

### Post by skiguy411 on 2008-03-05
I have heard that the open source drivers are slower though. Is this still true?

---

### Post by boeing777 on 2008-03-05
Ok, what error message did it display when you try to enable it?? also did you enable the restricted driver?

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2008-03-05
Anticipating flames.......Just install Envy:

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

A script that makes installing ATI or Nvidia drivers a cinch.

The wife's machine is a Dell Dimension with an ATI PCI Express card. Can't remember which. Downloaded and installed Envy, opened it up and asked it to install the ATI driver. Took about 5 minutes and Compiz worked flawlessly after that.

---

### Post by skiguy411 on 2008-03-05
"Desktop effects could not be enabled"  is the error message when trying to visual effects to anything other than "None."

The ATI driver is enabled and in use

---

### Post by boeing777 on 2008-03-05
Goto: System -->Administration -->Software Sources

Under "Ubuntu Software" tab
-->Check all the checkboxes

Under "Updates" tab
--> check all the checkboxes

then go back and then try to enable it again,

---

### Post by BooBooNTZU on 2008-03-05
> **skiguy411 said:**
> "Desktop effects could not be enabled"  is the error message when trying to visual effects to anything other than "None."

The ATI driver is enabled and in use


Once you have the restricted ati driver enabled and in use you still have to download more files to get the compiz+emerald desktop effects to work. You need to download and install the file named xserver-xgl but that file won't show up in synaptic package manager unless you put a check mark on all repositories available. Go to software repository sources and mark all of them.


System / Administration / Software Sources

Once you have all the compiz + emerald + xserver-xgl + xserver-fglrx files installed you need to run the aticonfig tool to configure the fglrx and then change your default login session to something like Gnome .... Anything but Xclient script .... You need to use only the GNOME settings + FGLRX settings and none of the older X + Xclient settings.

dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg   
aticonfig --initial=dual-head -f

In the end you should end up with some xorg.config file that looks like this or very similar. Maybe different BusID's and different names for the videocard :



# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[1]" RightOf "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
	Screen      0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Once you have everything installed and working try to run a 3d game while having all the compiz desktop effects enabled and working in the same time. If it's not crashing then you know everything is configured and working properly. After you enable all the desktop effects you should be able to play video files and 3d games in the same time without any problems  other than slow frame rates*. You might be able to add some more options and modules to the device section in the xorg.config to accelerate things even more. Check the compiz website and the ati section.

I hope this helps.

*slow frame rates , meaning , 50FPS  @  640x480 in a game like Chromium while compiz is enabled and running on a RadeonXpress200M --- the mobility --- laptop version

Automatic Update will ruin all your settings and you have to reconfigure the xserver manualy again and again plus you have to re-enable the restricted driver again and then reboot. So  after automatic update you have to do the following :

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
sudo aticonfig --initial=dual-head
startx

Login using session type : GNOME and re-enable the restricted ati driver and then reboot.

So far at least it looks like it's working even after the updates.

Now i will have to try this thing using drivers from Ati's webpage and not the one's from repository.

---

### Post by mrmiserable on 2008-03-05
is it just me but i get my ati drivers from ati site not the xgl driver in repos  

first off i always install drivers on fresh install only once then update monthly the same way( but read on )

before getting carried away with compiz

then after i install the ati way not build pkg way but just 

sudo ./ati-driver-installer-8-3-x86.x86_64.run

then add fglrx driver in xorg.conf

reboot and thats it

after this if you get  no whitelist driver in compiz  

sudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz 

add fglrx to line (i think) line 54

then turn on compiz

if it does not work to uninstall driver /or every month do this when you install new driver never a problem again

in terminal cd /usr/share/ati

then sudo ./fglrx-uninstall.sh

and change xorg back

 also the new ati drivers support AIGLX not that crappy xgl

if this helps someone good if not good luck in your quest also  always good to start from fresh install first then never a headache  

also never enable restricted driver or it will overwrite your ati one but after reboot it will tell you new restricted driver in use this is ok then check with 

fglrxinfo

display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON X600 Series
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7412 Release

also

glxinfo | grep direct 
direct rendering: Yes (this is with compiz running) you get no with xgl 

here is my xorg incase you need to add other stuff for card or compiz the bits i have hash out dont like my card

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
        Load  "GLcore"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"fr"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies Inc RV380 [Radeon X600 (PCIE)]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
        Option	    "VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
       #Option      "TexturedVideo" "True"
       #Option      "TexturedVideoSync" "True"
	Option	    "RenderAccel" "true"
	Option	    "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
       #Option	    "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "true"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "single"
	Option	    "EnableMonitor" "tmds1"
        Option	    "XaaNoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
        Option      "BackingStore" "True"
        Option      "UseFastTLS" "2"        
	BusID	    "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "on"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RV380 [Radeon X600 (PCIE)]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
        Option "RENDER" "Enable"
        Option "DAMAGE" "Enable"
        Option "XVideo" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2008-03-05
Looking at the last couple of posts....

Just do it through Envy.

Simple and works.......

Puts on flame retardant suit!!!! :)

---

### Post by mrmiserable on 2008-03-05
ha ha

seriously it is easy and better to try yourself to understand your pc not keep using third party installers

where can i buy one of those suit im gonna need it promoting ati

---

### Post by skiguy411 on 2008-03-05
The Envy script worked! 

What a relief! Thanks everyone!

I think my problem was with the xorg.config file and envy just rewrote it.

---

### Post by BooBooNTZU on 2008-03-05
Automatic Update will ruin all your settings and you have to reconfigure the xserver manualy again and again plus you have to re-enable the restricted driver again and then reboot. So , after automatic update you have to do the following :

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
sudo aticonfig --initial=dual-head
startx

Login and re-enable the restricted ati driver and then reboot.

So far at least it looks like it's working even after the updates. I will have to try the Envy thing to see how it's working. Thanks.

[http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/legacy/envy_0.9.10-0ubuntu4_all.deb](http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/legacy/envy_0.9.10-0ubuntu4_all.deb)

By the way , the Envy installer , might work for newer videocards but it's not working properly for my laptop.
It installed automatically the latest version of ati driver from their websites but it's not working properly with a RadeonXpress200M.
The AtiControlPannel is giving an error when i try to open it and the entire desktop crashes when i try to run a 3d game or something like Chromium while compiz is active/running.

So , it probably works fine for some people that have newer videocards but it's not working as good as the driver from the repository.

I still have to reconfigure everything manualy to see if anything changes.

---

