---
title: "[SOLVED] help with compiz -- Intel(R) 82865G installed"
date: 2007-09-04
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
i have the  Intel(R) 82865G video card everything is saying this card should work from user forums to the compatible cards

the issue nothing that has to do with 3d is working
desktop effects,compiz,beryl i can install them all but they do not work

currently i have desktop effects installed but it does not work


i updated the driver from windows xp device manager(other partition)

when i run that program ENVy to update driver i get another error

would love to get some of this 3d stuff working

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
anyone?

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
need help please

---

### Post by abhilash82 on 2007-09-04
I am running Compiz and Beryl with all the desktop effects on my PC with the same Intel 865G motherboard and only 256MB RAM. So I don't find any reason why it shouldn't work for you!! 
Can you post your xorg.conf file that you can find at /etc/X11/?

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-50
	VertRefresh	43-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
anyone?

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
i would love to be able to see the full of effect of ubuntu!!!!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
help

---

### Post by WebSiteGuru on 2007-09-04
What is your computer specs?

Also you have the intel i810 video card, I dont think that is 3D capable. I also have the same card. And I know that mine was not 3D.

---

### Post by jhernandez1270 on 2007-09-04
Just a thought -- have you started Compiz?   in a terminal type in compiz --replace

to have compiz start up every time you restart add it to Sessions

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-04
would  a e-geforce FX 5200 card wpork?

---

### Post by abhilash82 on 2007-09-05
Your xorg.conf file looks fine. Have you enabled the desktop effects (System &#8594; Preferences &#8594; Desktop Effects)

Further to that you can configure compiz by doing the following

1. Press Alt-F2, type &#8220;gconf-editor&#8221; and then press Run to start the Configuration Editor.
2. Navigate to /apps/compiz and change the relevant settings.

You can find the documentation relevant to this in the link given below. [http://www.compiz.org/Gconf-Editor](http://www.compiz.org/Gconf-Editor)

---

### Post by petit.padavoine on 2007-09-05
Post the output of "glxinfo | grep rendering". If you get direct rendering: Yes, compiz should work on your system.
If you get direct rendering: No, try installing the xserver-xorg-video-intel package (sudo aptitude install xserver-xorg-video-intel) and reboot.
Try glxinfo | grep rendering again.
If you **still** get direct rendering: No, edit your xorg.conf file (MAKE A BACKUP FIRST!), and replace the "Driver" "i810" line with "Driver" "intel".
Then reboot again, and see it you get direct rendering.

---

### Post by shortybookit on 2007-09-05
currently when i enable desktop effects i get a grey screen have to hit control+alt+backspace to log back in

and i did the sudo aptitude install xserver-xorg-video-intel it installed but i dont know how get to the data your asking for that does not look like something you would post in the terminal were do you put that?

---

### Post by petit.padavoine on 2007-09-07
> **shortybookit said:**
> currently when i enable desktop effects i get a grey screen have to hit control+alt+backspace to log back in

and i did the sudo aptitude install xserver-xorg-video-intel it installed but i dont know how get to the data your asking for that does not look like something you would post in the terminal were do you put that?

glxinfo | grep rendering SHOULD go into the terminal.
if you don't know how to edit your xorg.conf file, just type gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf into a terminal.

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2007-09-07
Open a terminal (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal for GNOME users or KMenu -> System -> Konsole for KDE users) and type:

[http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-Compiz-Fusion-on-Ubuntu-58113.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-Compiz-Fusion-on-Ubuntu-58113.shtml)
CODE

sudo apt-get -y remove compiz-core desktop-effects


Leave the terminal open and go to System -> Administration -> Software Sources, click on the second tab (Third-Party Software), then click on the "Add" button and paste the following code:

CODE

deb [http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb](http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb) feisty eyecandy


Click the "Add Source" button after you pasted the above code and do the same for the following code:

CODE

deb-src [http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb](http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb) feisty eyecandy


Don't close the Software Sources window yet!

In the terminal window, type:

CODE

wget [http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb/DD800CD9.gpg](http://download.tuxfamily.org/3v1deb/DD800CD9.gpg)


CODE

sudo apt-key add DD800CD9.gpg


Now click the "Close" button on the Software Sources window and you will be asked if you want to reload the information about available software, so click the "Reload" button and wait for the window to disappear.

Copy/Paste the following lines in the terminal window:

CODE

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get -y upgrade


FOR GNOME USERS:

CODE

sudo apt-get -y install compiz compiz-gnome compizconfig-settings-manager compiz-fusion-plugins-extra libcompizconfig-backend-gconf


FOR KDE USERS:

CODE

sudo apt-get -y install compiz compiz-kde compizconfig-settings-manager compiz-fusion-plugins-extra libcompizconfig-backend-kconfig


Now, if everything was correctly installed and you didn't encounter errors, press ALT+F2 and type:

CODE

compiz --replacel

---

### Post by petit.padavoine on 2007-09-07
Gremlinnz, giving him step by step instructions on how-to install Compiz Fusion isn't going to help get it working. He has video card issues, not installation issues.

---

### Post by crr on 2007-10-30
Well, I had an issue where I couldn't get compiz to work (I would try to enable the visual effects and it would error).  Doing a ```
glxinfo | grep rendering 
``` got me a direct rendering = yes, but still no joy on the compiz effects.  Following the reinstall instructions Gremlinz posted did the trick however, so thanks for the post!

crr

---

