---
title: "Lost visual effects. Please help!"
date: 2008-04-03
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-03
Hey all,

I had a problem with resolution settings initially, for which I tried this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-120942.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-120942.html)

When I restarted my system, I was faced with another problem. I lost my visual effects (the preeeety compiz cubes and whatnot). I've attached a screenshot of what I got.


I tried to run compiz from terminal and I got this:

Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 00:02.0 0300: 8086:2772 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

Please help. I am a total newbie here, and my limited logic comprehends none of this. :(

Thanks.

Wabbster.

---

### Post by GOROSSI on 2008-04-03
Hi wabbster It looks to me that you may have overwritten the settings for your Graphics card in the xorg.conf file

post your xorg.conf file so I can have a look as I had a similar issue with my desktop with the resolution as I have a similar monitor myself and I might be able to help.

you can do this by doing the following 

Copy and Paste this into Terminal: **gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf**

then copy and paste the contents onto here.

Also your system specification will help thanks.

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-03
Hi,

Here's my xorg.conf. Intel DC processor with on board graphics is probably the best description I can give you right now. Let me know if you need anything else...

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"VA1703wSERIE"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1440x900"
	Horizsync	31.5-56.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"VA1703wSERIE"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1440	900
		Modes		"1440x900@60"	"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-03
Okay...

I stopped getting an error message... but I still have a problem... When I change from 'none' to 'normal' or any of the other three options in the Visual Effects tab, the number of workspaces goes down from four to two. This is probably the weirdest thing I've ever seen.

Any ideas?

Thanks.
Wabbster.

---

### Post by GOROSSI on 2008-04-03
Presuming you have the monitor set on the max resolution of 1440 X 900 set the screen resolution to   800 X 600 through "System, Preferences then "Screen Resolution" and try enabling compiz.

Test It and If it works try the next highest resolution and see if that does the same.

Presuming that worked As It obviously doesn't solved the problem just checks your system It may be a Memory allocation issue.

see if you can Allocate more Memory to the Card by either

1: If your Lucky have it as a lot don't these days.
Reboot your machine and access the BIOS and look for Shared Memory or Video Memory or similar phases 
and set to a higher value, save and exit and boot Ubuntu.

2: If those Settings aren't present in the BIOS type the following into terminal **dmesg** this is a hardware list generated by the Linux Kernel (the Core of Ubuntu) itself. It's a Long list.

Look for the line that says Intel 945 and underneath it should say the memory allocated as "stolen Memory" like this: agpgart: Detected 7676K stolen memory.

[**THis Thread**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=742741") may be of more help with that.

If you can't set the memory in the BIOS you will have to find a way of setting in Ubuntu which can be a problem I will have a look tomorrow for you on how to do this as I only know how to get the system information at this time.

sorry thats all I can think of tonight.

---

### Post by GOROSSI on 2008-04-03
> **wabbster said:**
> Okay...

I stopped getting an error message... but I still have a problem... When I change from 'none' to 'normal' or any of the other three options in the Visual Effects tab, the number of workspaces goes down from four to two. This is probably the weirdest thing I've ever seen.

Any ideas?

Thanks.
Wabbster.

I Missed this as I was writing a reply to your previous post I a slow typist unfortunately.

Have You tried Increasing the Number of workspaces to 4 after setting the Compiz effects to the desired setting. If that doesn't fix it, it's a strange problem 

I don't have a another solution if that don't work Sorry. :confused:

If your lucky someone might have had the problem and fixed it and reply to this thread.

---

### Post by wabbster on 2008-04-04
Oh man, this is awesome... Compiz really scared me for a while and guess what, like most problems, the solution was very very simple.

In the CCSM's 'Preferences' tab, there's a drop-down box called 'Backend'. All I needed to do was select 'GConf Configuration Backend' instead of 'Flat-file Configuration Backend'. I'm so proud of myself. ;)

GOROSSI, thanks a ton for trying man! You rock!

---

### Post by GOROSSI on 2008-04-04
> **wabbster said:**
> Oh man, this is awesome... Compiz really scared me for a while and guess what, like most problems, the solution was very very simple.

In the CCSM's 'Preferences' tab, there's a drop-down box called 'Backend'. All I needed to do was select 'GConf Configuration Backend' instead of 'Flat-file Configuration Backend'. I'm so proud of myself. ;)

GOROSSI, thanks a ton for trying man! You rock!

Thanks, I glad you got it working 

At least you have to wonder that is compiz I don't unfortunately as my laptop has an Intel 965GM which is blacklisted at the moment there is a fix, plenty of posts on this forum about it but you lose hardware Acceleration when playing Videos which as a choice is more important for me as I don't like jerky video especially when I'm watching world superbikes which this year is being streamed of their website for free. so I am happy to wait.

But people with the same chipset say that the Hardy beta runs it out of the box properly so I have  only a few weeks to wait as I was going to upgrade regardless of problems anyway as I want KDE back as I thought I would give GNOME a try as it was a new machine but didn't like it.

---

