---
title: "amsn- no window border when using emerald"
date: 2007-07-30
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by What_the_deuce on 2007-07-30
I have been using xgl with compiz-fusion very well for some time now, with feisty-fawn. I needed to reinstall my system, nd decided to use emerald with compiz-fusion. The problem is that amsn displays without any window border. It seems emerald doesn't want to draw it. 

Any help would be awesome
Thanks
;-)

UPDATE: its nothing to do with emerald. I disabled emerald, same problem

---

### Post by schnupi on 2007-07-30
hm i had the same problem the last two days.. it was just after a recent update of compiz fusion..unfortunately i cant access my xgl session because the new fgrlx driver screwed up my system and the screen is garbled

---

### Post by Nicko9y on 2007-07-30
.... I installed Compiz Fusin and it worked well for a while, but now It seems that I have no window manager whatsoever installed. (thank god for File>quit)

---

### Post by schnupi on 2007-07-30
> **Nicko9y said:**
> .... I installed Compiz Fusin and it worked well for a while, but now It seems that I have no window manager whatsoever installed. (thank god for File>quit)

why dont you install emerald then?! or just use metacity?

---

### Post by Dropbear on 2007-07-31
I'm having the same problem with amsn. I'm using aiglx with compiz fusion and emerald.
The window borders are missing if I open amsn after compiz fusion is running. 

But if amsn is running  when i start compiz fusion with

 ```
compiz --replace -c emerald &
```

the borders appear correctly.

This is likely a new bug in the latest version of compiz fusion ](*,)

---

### Post by schnupi on 2007-08-01
i added it to the bug section of opencompositing.com

--> [http://bugs.opencompositing.org/show_bug.cgi?id=286](http://bugs.opencompositing.org/show_bug.cgi?id=286)

---

### Post by schnupi on 2007-08-01
okay found the solution

in CCSM go to Workarounds and untick QT window fix

---

### Post by neopulsar on 2007-08-02
excellent man, works like a charm.
thanks.

---

### Post by siralphred on 2007-08-02
have been having the same problem since the last compiz fusion update, Schnupis suggestion cured it, sometimes i wonder how people are able to find solutions to such problems when i have no idea where to look >_<  , if u dont mind schnupi can u explain to me how u knew where to go to fix it, thanks.

---

### Post by amr2205 on 2007-08-02
> **schnupi said:**
> okay found the solution

in CCSM go to Workarounds and untick QT window fix

Yeah, it worked for me! Thanks!

---

### Post by coolen on 2007-08-03
> **schnupi said:**
> okay found the solution

in CCSM go to Workarounds and untick QT window fix

I could kiss you!

---

### Post by Luk3 on 2007-08-03
Fantastic !!! i have been messing around with this for days :-) one happy chap now. thanks !!!

---

### Post by schnupi on 2007-08-03
> **siralphred said:**
> have been having the same problem since the last compiz fusion update, Schnupis suggestion cured it, sometimes i wonder how people are able to find solutions to such problems when i have no idea where to look >_<  , if u dont mind schnupi can u explain to me how u knew where to go to fix it, thanks.

i just found it on another forum ...nothin spectacular :roll:[http://forums.opencompositing.org/viewtopic.php?f=49&t=1677&p=11363&hilit=amsn#p11363](http://forums.opencompositing.org/viewtopic.php?f=49&t=1677&p=11363&hilit=amsn#p11363)

---

### Post by ZipoTe on 2007-08-03
this solved de border problem but... my antialiased fonts have disappeared!! :(

---

### Post by ZipoTe on 2007-08-04
ok, the antialiasing is still here :P

---

### Post by wak_wak on 2007-08-05
So I checked QT window fix and the borders were back but then no more cube.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by wak_wak on 2007-08-05
I've unchecked it and I've still got no border.

Emerald doesn't seem to work if that makes a difference,

Here's my xorg file if that helps:



# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 70.0
	VertRefresh  50.0 - 160.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Generic Video Card"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "UseFBDev" "true"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
    	Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    	Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    	Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Generic Video Card"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
		SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by ekul_84 on 2007-08-08
> **schnupi said:**
> okay found the solution

in CCSM go to Workarounds and untick QT window fix


I'm having trouble with disappearing window borders with compizfusion as well but I cannot figure out the fix mentioned above.

I am having trouble finding "Workarounds" in the CCSM. Is it hidden in one of the menus?
Any assistance would be greatly appreciated!

P.S. I'm very new to Linux and Ubuntu so my appologies if my questions are rudamentary.

---

### Post by coolen on 2007-08-08
At the bottom of the Utility section.
You can search, too.

---

### Post by ekul_84 on 2007-08-09
> **coolen said:**
> At the bottom of the Utility section.
You can search, too.

Turns out I had a bad copy of Compizfusion or something. I didn't have the workaround option so I reinstalled compizfusion from the another repository and everything worked fine!

I am having one minor problem though (remember I'm new to linux so forgive me if I am doing something stupid).

After rebooting, compizfusion is not running (which I expected), when I go to start it using the "compiz --replace" cammand from the terminal (suggested method from website) it appears as though the startup does not fully execute but stalls before it completes.:confused:

Compiz works an does all of it's wonderful tasty tricks but if I close the terminal my window borders disappear and I have to reboot to get them back!?!?:mad:

Is there a cammand that I need to use to complete the initialization?
Am I just being impatient, should I let the terminal hang out till it finishes doing it's thing?

Also, I was wondering if you guys have any suggestions for good resources (books ,websites)  that beginner linux users can use to shed some light on some of the linux mysteries.

Thanks guys, I appreciate the help!

---

### Post by coolen on 2007-08-09
Compiz Fusion is a program that keeps running. It's not like ls, which does something and quits. You'll need your window manager running for as long as you have windows, so it stays open until you tell it to quit.
One way to do so is to end the session from which it was launched (for example, by exiting the terminal).
You can launch using alt+F2 to make it more permanent. If you like, you can add it to your list of startup programs. If you can get fusion-icon, it will allow you to switch between Metacity and Compiz.
If you do need to launch a program from the terminal, then following the command with an ampersand will launch the program in the background (in other words, the shell won't wait for it to finish to prompt you for a new command, and it will continue to run once you end your session).
```
compiz --replace &
```
Doing this with sudo is a little tricky...I've tried it with very unexpected results. Best use the alt+F2 method with gksudo for those situations.

---

### Post by ekul_84 on 2007-08-10
> **coolen said:**
> Compiz Fusion is a program that keeps running. It's not like ls, which does something and quits. You'll need your window manager running for as long as you have windows, so it stays open until you tell it to quit.
One way to do so is to end the session from which it was launched (for example, by exiting the terminal).
You can launch using alt+F2 to make it more permanent. If you like, you can add it to your list of startup programs. If you can get fusion-icon, it will allow you to switch between Metacity and Compiz.
If you do need to launch a program from the terminal, then following the command with an ampersand will launch the program in the background (in other words, the shell won't wait for it to finish to prompt you for a new command, and it will continue to run once you end your session).
```
compiz --replace &
```
Doing this with sudo is a little tricky...I've tried it with very unexpected results. Best use the alt+F2 method with gksudo for those situations.

WOOT! Worked like a charm!
Many thanks :)

---

### Post by coolen on 2007-08-10
Most welcome. You're now one step closer to becoming a productive Linux user.
Honestly, learning to use Linux is just picking up these little things. Alone, none of them is difficult, and together, you can easily find your way around your system, make sense of what you see, etc.

---

### Post by ipyakuza on 2007-08-11
Disabling the QT window fix and restarting amsn it worked like a champ.  Question is,  would disabling the QT fix cause other apps to have issues now?  There's always something... thats how they getchoo ;)

---

