---
title: "Installing nVidia-glx module screws up desktop resolution."
date: 2007-04-18
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by bergersau on 2007-04-18
Hi all,
I'm running Feisty.

Relevant System specs:
ASUS P5b Delux Wi-Fi
nVidia 7600GT PCIe graphics card
Old Viewsonic 17" CRT - will replace asap.  

This monitor is happily running at 1024 * 768 @ 87 Hz on the default driver module in gnome.
Though I had to manually enter the monitor specs and a Mode line into /etc/X11/xorg.config .

Problem is that when I try to install the nVidia-glx module via the 'Desktop effects' option in the menu's the module installs OK.
After re-boot I get locked into a very low resolution (Can't remember exacty resolution but under 800 * 600) and refresh of only 50Hz.

Reverting to the stock module restores the desired resolution of 1024 * 768 @ 87 Hz but this won't get beryl onto my system.

Can anyone shed any light?

---

### Post by pragmatine on 2007-04-18
Once you install nvidia-glx why not re-edit xorg.conf to add in the resolutions you want?

---

### Post by bergersau on 2007-04-18
Because the resolutions I want are already in xorg.conf as is the mode line.  Changing the driver dosen't seem to change these areas of the file.

Edit: Sorry that came out a bit abrupt - All suggestions are valued.

---

### Post by reytim on 2007-04-21
i was impressed that Ubuntu automatically got the right resolution when i installed it.  But after installing this 3d acceleration driver (in order to use desktop effects) it lowers the resolution.  somebody find a fix please!

---

### Post by PantherX on 2007-04-21
I'm having this same issue.  Editing xorg.conf doesn't seem to do anything as the proper resolutions are listed there.

This is in Feisty 7.04.

If I find anything I'll update... right now it's screwing with my head.

---

### Post by comfortablynumb on 2007-04-22
Im having the same problem, I think this has to be a bug for as many people are reporting this....

---

### Post by bergersau on 2007-04-22
This appears to be a reported (But unconfirmed ) bug.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/91292](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/91292)
Bug #91292 in linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20 (Ubuntu)

and
Duplicate bug report

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/99022](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/99022)
[nvidia-glx-legacy] Feisty Gnome Xorg Resolution


For now I've edited xorg.conf to use the "nv" driver instead of "nvidia"

I may not have 3d but at least my eyes won't explode due to 640x480 @50Hz refresh.

---

### Post by panty31772 on 2007-04-22
I have been fighting with this problem myself  , tried envy , automatix  , restricted driver manager  , fresh install of different versions from 5.10 - 7.04  , new kernel ...etc 

So as a last resort  , I did ( in recovery console ):
[COLOR="Red"]```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg 
```[/COLOR]
selected the resolutions i wanted, re-booted via <ctrl>+<alt>+<delete> 
then with gdm running  , from terminal :
[COLOR="Red"]```
sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx

```[/COLOR] Then:
```
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```
<ctrl>+<alt>+<backspace> 
ALL installed properly and resolutions and refresh rates fully selectable !
[COLOR="Red"]```
sudo nvidia-settings
```[/COLOR]

---

### Post by adityakavoor on 2007-04-22
sudo nvidia-settings gave the following error

ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension not found on this Display.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA GPUs on ':0.0'.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA Frame Lock Devices on ':0.0'.


ERROR: Unable to determine number of NVIDIA VCSCs on ':0.0'.

---

### Post by panty31772 on 2007-04-22
Did you follow all steps ? Can you post your   /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?

```
sudo gedit  /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Might give a better clue as to the error ! 

My guess ATM is you may have missed this part or done it improperly


```
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
```

<ctrl>+<alt>+<backspace>

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

You can also try a full reboot after following method ,

---

### Post by adityakavoor on 2007-04-22
Pls note..

My system specs..

Intel P4 1.70 Ghz
Intel 845 Motherboard
Nvidia Riva TNT 2 Graphics Approx Video Memory 16 MB
384 MB of RAM


contents of xorg.conf

```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

---

### Post by braveerudite on 2007-04-22
I follow all your instructions and it didn't work properly although I admit I learn 2 very useful lines 

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

and

sudo nvidia-settings

The problem I had with your instructions was that even after selecting my refresh rate @60 & @75 the refresh rate would jump to 87 which is too high.  My LCD monitor supports only up to 1280x1024@75 so 87 is really pushing it.  Don't know why it would go so high even after selecting and applying 75. I appreciate you taking the time to try to help us. I posted my problem [[COLOR="Red"]here[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2507121#post2507121") with my xorg.cfg 

I'm also re-installing Ubuntu as I type because after trying your instructions the "Desktop Effects" started acting up and hiding the windows theme and the Terminal turning complete white and wouldn't come back to normal unless I disable the "Desktop Effects" (This didn't happen before following your instructions.) :(

Don't feel bad, you had good intentions and sometimes the only way to fix bugs like these are thru trial & error.  I'm just going to have to live with the lower refresh rate of 55 until the problem gets fix. :(

---

### Post by Sunforge on 2007-04-22
I'm, very new to Ubuntu and prone to stumbling round blindly. Any advice I give should probably come with a health warning.

I experienced a similar problem with Feisty, an NVIDIA card and a couple of flat panel monitors not wanting to run above 1280 x 1024, when their native resolution is 1600 x 1200. It was driving me quite mad until I found (what was for me) the magic command for xorg.conf:

Option         "ModeValidation" "NoDFPNativeResolutionCheck"

This line appears to prevent the system from checking for "safe" graphics modes on the monitors and accepts the resolutions that I wanted to run in xorg.conf.

I put the above line in my "screen" section in xorg.conf

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV41.1 [GeForce 6800]"
	Monitor		"Iiyama ProLite H511S"
	Option         "ModeValidation" "NoDFPNativeResolutionCheck"

what clued me in to the solution was trawling through /var/log/Xorg.0.log when starting X and finding several interesting messages that referred to "unsupported resolutions" in xorg.conf which I knew were nothing of the sort. 

In summary: before I inserted the command I was running dual view with desktop effects at 1280 x 1024 on each monitor. now I can run it at 1600 x 1200 and life is a whole lot better. I still have problems though, just not ones associated with screen resolution. Phew.

---

### Post by braveerudite on 2007-04-22
Option "ModeValidation" "NoDFPNativeResolutionCheck"  [COLOR="Red"]<--Din't work for me.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by panty31772 on 2007-04-22
[COLOR="Red"]braveerudite [/COLOR] 	... I apologize for any problems you may have had from trying my solution... sometimes things work for one person and not another !

[COLOR="Red"]adityakavoor[/COLOR]  	After looking at your xorg.conf , [I]t seems the nvidia drivers are not enabled   
[COLOR="Blue"]Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"[/COLOR]
  [COLOR="Green"]      Driver		"vesa"[/COLOR]
	[COLOR="Blue"]BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"[/COLOR]


(I believe you need the legacy driver for your card) You will have to remove any existing driver first .
this might work for you !
```

sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx
```

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy nvidia-xconfig nvidia-settings
```

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --no-composite
```

And i agree with[COLOR="Red"] Sunforge[/COLOR] about the health warning ... But ...

---

### Post by bergersau on 2007-04-28
Workaround found for me.

I've managed to work around the resolution issue by downloading the binary drivers installer from nvidia's website directly.

I then installed the linux-headers and build essential packages using apt-get.

With these in place I shut down GDM and ran the nvidia installer.

I did not have any problems with  this method though I believe that any kernel upgrades will probably now break my 3d desktop.

---

### Post by bergersau on 2007-05-27
Update:
Sure enough the automatic updates broke my X server. :(


Had to edit xorg.conf back to the nv driver using nano on the console. Restart x.
Download the latest linux nvidia binary installer.
Shutdown gdm and x.
Re-install the nvidia binary drivers.
Re-edit xorg.conf back to "nvidia" from "nv"
Restart GDM and X.

All sweet again.:D

Would have been a showstopper when I was new to linux though.

This is why we need GPL nvidia drivers dammit...

---

### Post by DarinB on 2007-10-05
i have a similar problem with a geforce 420.
adding the legacy driver caused me to have to use live cd and copy back the xorg.conf file.
about once a week my monitor screen resolution goes to 60 Hz. i have to go to restricted drivers (NVIDIA ACCELERATED DRIVER) enable it but not restart the disable it > go to synaptic package manager and remove nvidia glx residual drivers > restart then it will go to 85Hz refresh rate. probably until the next kernel update.
any ideas??

---

### Post by erichgamba on 2007-10-17
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/91292](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/91292) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				I found a solution under following link [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/91292](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/91292)
Adding the horizontal and vertical sync rates of my monitor  to xorg.conf (see  below) did solve the problem.

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"eView 17c3"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync 32-72
        VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

---

