---
title: "Desktop Too Big"
date: 2007-10-02
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by DoodlesQ on 2007-10-02
This one's hard to explain. I'm running 7.10 on a Matrox G550 dual-head card. Dual monitors set up, no problem. Right resolution and everything.

However, the primary desktop is "too big." Everything's rendering correctly, but the area is just too large by about 10%. You can't see the menu bars at the top and bottom at once. Everything's in the right scale, it's just too far spread out. The screen follows the mouse so it's useable, but very annoying.

The problem only affects the primary desktop (on the left). Both monitors are identical and running in 1280 x 1040 (which they definitely support). Again, the resolution appears to be correct.

I can't help but think there's a simple fix somewhere in xorg, but I'm a bit of a n00z0rz and had enough trouble articulating the problem.

---

### Post by uclalinux on 2007-10-05
post your xorg.conf file

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf > /home/"username"/Desktop/Xorg.conf_forposting

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-10-05
> **DoodlesQ said:**
> This one's hard to explain. I'm running 7.10 on a Matrox G550 dual-head card. Dual monitors set up, no problem. Right resolution and everything.

However, the primary desktop is "too big." Everything's rendering correctly, but the area is just too large by about 10%. You can't see the menu bars at the top and bottom at once. Everything's in the right scale, it's just too far spread out. The screen follows the mouse so it's useable, but very annoying.

The problem only affects the primary desktop (on the left). Both monitors are identical and running in 1280 x 1040 (which they definitely support). Again, the resolution appears to be correct.

I can't help but think there's a simple fix somewhere in xorg, but I'm a bit of a n00z0rz and had enough trouble articulating the problem.

Most likely in xorg.conf, you probably have a resolution in there that is being used as a "Virtual" resolution - or the setting to use the ESID(?) data isn't turned off.

I had the same issue with my login screen, when I manually deleted all but my LCD's native resolution (and also left 1024 x 768, 800 x600), then the problem went away.

---

### Post by jable23 on 2008-03-07
I had this same problem after enabling automatic login.  When I disabled automatic login (System ->Administration->Login Window->Security) and rebooted, the problem resolved.

---

### Post by prodata2 on 2008-06-10
I've hit this same problem (ie desktop extending a little beyond right and bottom margins of the physical screen) on a 1024x768 LCD laptop. My xorg.conf is below. Can anyone advise please?

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1024x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1024x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by issih on 2008-06-10
Probably not this, but its a vague possibility. If compiz is running, have you in some way zoomed the desktop, I think holding down ctrl and then spinning the scroll wheel is the default method. 

Like I say, probably no help at all, but worth checking..

Ooh another thought, if you are connecting by vga, try running the auto correct on your monitor - probably still useless though :)

---

