---
title: "OpenGL apps use 100% CPU"
date: 2007-09-09
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-09
I have a **64bit Kubuntu Feisty 7.04** system running on **AMD Athlon 64 3500+** (single core), with an **NVidia GeForce 6600** using the proprietary **nvidia-glx-new driver v1.0.9755**
I also have another 32bit Intel-Celeron/ATI-Radeon Ubuntu system. The problem I am about to describe happens on both machines.

When I run ANY application that uses OpenGL, the CPU usage goes up to almost 100%. As far as I know (and considering I haven't found anything on Google) this shouldn't be happening, even though every 3D accelerated game I have runs nicely somehow.

I'm also posting a screenshot to clarify what i mean:
[IMG]http://img165.imageshack.us/img165/4204/screenshot6fr2.png[/IMG]
As you can see the CPU usage for glxgears is at 99% while I'm still getting around 1800 FPS.

I think this is a major issue, but somehow it goes unnoticed. Am I missing something?
Thanks

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-09
Hmmm. I'm getting that too.Compiz Fusion runs nice and smooth though. This is strange. I have a Nvidia GeForce 6600 with the 9631 driver.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-09
It's not just nvidia. I think this has something to do with the kernel. As I've said, it's happening on fglrx drivers on my ATI Radeon machine too.

Beryl/Compiz(-Fusion) runs fine here too, but moving a wobbly window will cause the CPU to jump to around 40-50%, which shouldn't happen.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-09
I've found out that by using the loose-bindings option with CF greatly decreases the CPU load with a Nvidia card. Also make sure that you still have Load "dri" in the modules sections of your xorg.conf.
Here's my xorg.conf
```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
        Load            "dri"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	#Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-51
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
        Option          "metamodes" "1280x1024_60 +0+0"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-09
Have both. And yeah, loose-binding helps a lot, but this is GPU's work, CPU should be around 0% all the time.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-09
I just tested this out on two laptops. Here's what I got
Dell Inspiron 8200
Pentium 4 M
Nvidia GeForce2 Go (32MB)
768MB RAM

The CPU was only around 20% when running glxgears. It would occasionally spike up to around 50%. But much better than what was happening with my desktop.

HP dv6500t
Intel Centrino Duo
Nvidia GeForce 8400 GT (256MB)
2GB RAM

When I ran glxgears one core was up at 100% and the other was around 10%. Similar to what my desktop was doing.

Strange.:confused:

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-10
I'm gonna try this on my brother's Dual Core AMD today (but I have to install linux first, poor thing still uses windoze ;)). After that i'm going to report this as a bug. I'll provide a link so you can add a description of what's happening in your case (I'm sure it's the same thing tho).

---

### Post by Choad on 2007-09-10
[[IMG]http://img240.imageshack.us/img240/5717/screenshot4ln2.th.png[/IMG]](http://img240.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshot4ln2.png)

nvidia 7600 go // whatever driver feisty gave me // c2d 2.0ghz

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-10
Thank you Choad. This is a great example of how OpenGL apps SHOULD work on every computer. Unfortunately I'm finding a lot of Linux systems that don't behave correctly.

Can you also post your xorg.conf please?

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-10
Update:

I managed to find something on Gentoo's Wiki:
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_nVidia_GL_Desktop_Effects#Running_OpenGL_Programs_with_CPU_at_100.25_Usage](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_nVidia_GL_Desktop_Effects#Running_OpenGL_Programs_with_CPU_at_100.25_Usage)

> nvidia-settings --assign="SyncToVBlank=1"

In *nvidia-settings*, under *OpenGL Settings* there is a switch "Sync to VBlank".
I've enabled that, and now glxgears uses around 0 to 1% CPU. Excellent!
BUT now I'm only getting around 75 FPS! :-?

Another update:
I've just found out that every OpenGL app (even Quake III Arena @ 1280x1024) now runs at 75FPS which, by coincidence, seems to be my Monitor's refresh rate.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-10
Funny. I had that enabled and I was still getting 100% CPU usage. Then I did this command
```
nvidia-settings --assign="SyncToVBlank=1"
``` and now it's way down. Much better. However I'm only getting 60 FPS now. Even without CF running. And CF doesn't run as smooth with that set. I wonder what it does?  Hmmm.....

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-10
> Funny. I had that enabled and I was still getting 100% CPU usage. Then I did this command
Sorry, that was my fault. I thought the check in the menu was the same thing. I guess it's not.
If you wanna start this at Xorg boot, add the line to /etc/X11/Xsession.d/99x11-common_start
(probably better ways too, but this one worked for me)

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-10
Well actually it is the same thing. I reset everything, then checked that box in Nvidia Settings and it did have the same effect as that command. But why is it killing my FPS? I used to get 2000+ FPS. And that was with CF :p

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-10
Ah, just figured out why it didn't work for me at first. I didn't have the Nvidia settings set to load at login. You'll probably run into the same problem the next time you login so just add this to System>Preferences>Session
```
nvidia-settings --load-config-only
```
I have that set on my one laptop and that's why I got better results with that one.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-10
OK cool, we figured that out. Now we need to get some more FPS :-P

I found 2 threads from people with same/similar issues. Unfortunately they didn't figure out much:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1597823](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1597823)
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=95828](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=95828)

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-10
Hmmm. Interesting. I'm kind of stuck now. Which way to go? Better performance at the price of higher CPU loads, or lower CPU loads at the price of performance.:-k

---

### Post by Choad on 2007-09-12
ok well heres what it was before

[[IMG]http://img240.imageshack.us/img240/5717/screenshot4ln2.th.png[/IMG]](http://img240.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshot4ln2.png)

now i set sync to vblank = 0 and check it out

[[IMG]http://img356.imageshack.us/img356/5863/screenshoton4.th.png[/IMG]](http://img356.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshoton4.png)

some crazy shiz right there

edit: i thought it must have been a glxgears option to go super fast, i was getting 60 fps when synced too

---

### Post by Choad on 2007-09-12
> **FuturePilot said:**
> Hmmm. Interesting. I'm kind of stuck now. Which way to go? Better performance at the price of higher CPU loads, or lower CPU loads at the price of performance.:-k

60 fps (or whatever your monitor syncs to) is the fastest you ever want something running anyway. the human eye doesnt really detect a difference in anything over about 55 fps

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-12
> 60 fps (or whatever your monitor syncs to) is the fastest you ever want something running anyway. the human eye doesn't really detect a difference in anything over about 55 fps

That is not entirely true. If you aren't looking at much motion then 10fps would be more than enough, but if you're looking at quickly moving pictures (like when playing quake 3 arena) even 75fps might not be enough. The faster you move, the more 'skips' there are between frames (they are further apart), so you begin to notice that. Read more here: [http://www.100fps.com/how_many_frames_can_humans_see.htm](http://www.100fps.com/how_many_frames_can_humans_see.htm)

Anyway, the point is I don't give a damn about page tearing (and neither do you probably), so we don't want VSync. But it's the only solution to the CPU problem, so i really think this is a bug.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2007-09-12
Bug submitted: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/139107](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/139107)
Feel free to post what's happening in your case.

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2007-10-28
Got the same problem with Dual Core AMD 2800+ and Nvidia Geforce 7600 GT (driver version 100.14.19). It was fine on Feisty but started as soon as I upgraded to Gutsy.

---

### Post by TheChaos0 on 2007-11-02
Got the same problem. The trick with nvidia-settings fixes glxgears but WoW keeps o switch my PC after a few minutes. Has anyone found any solution?

---

### Post by slight on 2008-03-27
You're not losing any FPS by using sync to vblank because it's displaying the max FPS your monitor can anyway. The only reason people like to see FPS above their refresh rate is that it means that in areas where the GPU is having to work hard you're less likely to see the FPS dip below the refresh rate, but this won't affect that.

So unless you want to tell your mates about your amazing Q3 FPS then don't worry about it, this isn't going to reduce your experience in any way, unless you like screen tearing.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2008-03-27
@slight

I always thought the large (below 75) FPS rate drop while moving rapidly in Quake3  and other similar games was just a part of my imagination. Thanks for confirming that I'm seeing things.

/sarcasm

---

### Post by slight on 2008-03-27
If the app can't manage 75 FPS due to lots of stuff happening on screen then of course you're ging to see less FPS, but if you're running a machine that can manage hundreds of FPS in Q3 then having your X server sync to vblank isn't reducing the number of frames Q3 can draw, it's just limiting the amount it tries to render to the screen. If you've got a system that can barely manage to render enough frames to hit the refresh rate though then it's a different matter.

Yes having more than 24 frames a second is worthwhile with certain types of content, but only because most games can't manage true motion blur yet. But if you think your eyes can see the difference between an app never going below 75 fps and one generating 300 fps, on a monitor with a 75hz refresh then you obviously don't understand what a refresh rate is.

Also, like jokes, sarcasm is lame if you feel the need to highlight it smart ****.

Back on topic, I suspect that all sync to vblank is doing here is stopping glxgears from running off and trying to render 3k frames a second which is going to be CPU bound as glxgears is hardly taxing to a modern graphics card, so all it's doing is holding back glxgears. Glxgears does push the CPU to 100% it's not a bug in Ubuntu, I'm pretty sure that's unrelated to the issues in other apps.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2008-03-28
You didn't read the thread did you?

This is not about glxgears at all. It's happening in EVERY OpenGL-driven app.
Tell me, why do Quake3, Enemy Territory, Stepmania, UT2004, whatever, you name it, hog up 100% of the CPU when VSync is disabled?
This NEVER happens on Windows with the same games / same machine.

Also VSync is not an option, it's just a workaround. A lot of us don't like it because, yes, 75FPS (and below) feels A LOT choppier with quick motion than 300FPS, which feels much much more smooth.

---

### Post by slight on 2008-03-28
Yes I've read the thread, the problem is that you didn't read my reply very well.

I didn't say there isn't a problem, I just said that glxgears is not an example of the problem. I came to this thread because I'm having this problem with XBMC. 

I also didn't say that vsync was a solution to issue, I was just responding to the posts saying that syncing 3D apps that are achieving very high FPS without vsync will be negatively affected by vsync.

---

### Post by slight on 2008-03-28
Missed the part of your post about choppiness. You realise that if your monitor is running at 75Hz that means it's displaying 75 frames per second, regardless of what your app is outputting don't you?

I rather suspect you're running compiz which is broken for vsync for a lot of configs.

---

### Post by unimatrix on 2008-03-28
I realize that, but enabling VSync doesn't mean you will constantly have 75Hz. It will drop below that whether you like it or not. That's why I don't use Compiz. If I enable VSync it's annoyingly choppy, but without it will hog up too much CPU (as is the case with every other OpenGL app).

---

### Post by tslayer on 2008-05-24
For what it's worth, a lot of folks using XBMC had the same 100% issues.

It was resolved by adding the following option in the device section of the xorg.conf for the nvidia driver:

Option "NoFlip" "1"

I hope this is allowed, but here is the link to the thread on the XBMC forums that talks about this.  You can skip to the last couple of pages where this was suggested:

[http://xbmc.org/forum/showthread.php?t=32159](http://xbmc.org/forum/showthread.php?t=32159)

Regards,

TS

---

