---
title: "Ati radeon 9600 Desktop effects could not be be enable"
date: 2007-08-02
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by cnand on 2007-08-02
Hi i havea problem with ati radeon 9600 and desktop effects.I have installed envy and i tryed to enable the desktop effects but i had a message "the composite extension is not avaliable.So, i searched the forum for some answers and i manage to enter the desktop effects by changing the xorg file 
Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection

to 

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
Ok?No cause when i restarted my pc and tried to enable the effects i had a message ''Desktop effects could not be be enable''.Please do something and help me i have tried everything, i installed beryl and compiz everything thats it is written in this forum!
my xorg file now is:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"123"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"&#915;&#949;&#957;&#953;&#954;&#942; &#922;&#940;&#961;&#964;&#945; &#915;&#961;&#945;&#966;&#953;&#954;&#974;&#957;"
	Driver	"fglrx"
	Option	"VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	"OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"&#915;&#949;&#957;&#953;&#954;&#942; &#922;&#940;&#961;&#964;&#945; &#915;&#961;&#945;&#966;&#953;&#954;&#974;&#957;"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

wherever says ''&#915;&#949;&#957;&#953;&#954;&#942; &#922;&#940;&#961;&#964;&#945; &#915;&#961;&#945;&#966;&#953;&#954;&#974;&#957;'' it means in English general grafic card i have tried to replace this xorg file with others but nothing 
Thank you in advance

---

### Post by dougfractal on 2007-08-05
Here are two post that might help.

> **kpolice said:**
> I have a Radeon 9600 and I don't recommend the r300 open source driver or in other words the AIGLX option.

The performance with this driver is worst than with the fglrx driver, it doesn't support ACPI so I have to close the lid of my laptop to turn off the monitor (with the fglrx driver it is turned off automatically after a few minutes) and one of the most important things for me video playback is just ugly. Everything looks pixelated and when I move my vlc window sometimes I lose my video and I just see black.

Also firefox scrolling is slow with the open source driver. And it is not less CPU intensitive, with the r300 driver my fans are working almost every minute which in a notebook is not what you expect.

The open source driver is the way to go for radeon 9200 or older cards but for 9500 or newer I really recommend the fglrx driver + xgl.

> **Espreon said:**
> Method 1 (try this 1st):

Do this in a terminal:

```
sudo apt-get install beryl beryl-core beryl-manager beryl-plugins beryl-plugins-data beryl-plugins-unsupported-data beryl-plugins-unsupported beryl settings beryl-vidcap emerald emerald-themes seom libseom libberyldecoration0 libberylsettings0-gconf libemeraldengine0 heliodor
```

After it is done installing goto: Applications>System Tools>Beryl Manager, if this worked the title bars on your windows should be a transparent red. Also try moving around a window, if it is wobbly and fluid it worked

If you have no window bars hit the ruby icon and select the window decorator to emerald (if you like to use metacity themes more change it to Heliodor).

If not and it shot back to Metacity, then hit the ruby icon and goto advance beryl settings and change everything with the options aiglx and indirect to aigx and indirect. Now hit the ruby icon again and select the wm to be Beryl.

If it is still not working then try method 2.

If you got the whiteness described in the post then try this:

```
sudo apt-get remove xserver-xorg-video-ati
```

(WHATEVER YOU DO DON'T RESTART YOUR COMP UNLESS NO GUI DOES NOT SCARE YOU!).

then enter ```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati
```

Then hit CTRL-ALT-Backspace, log back in and then try running Beryl Manager again if it work congrats but if still no dice try method 2.

If Method 1 worked enter this in a terminal: ```
sudo apt-get remove closure-svn xserver-xgl
```
If you want an eyecandyish way of shutting off your computer then enter this instead:

```
sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl
```

Method 2:

1st enter this in a terminal:

```
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
```

After installation hit: CTRL-ALT-Backspace, if you still have a GUI than congrats but if you get some crappy BSOD-like error message about X then your pretty much screwed (meaning no Beryl 4 you).

The Below is if you have no GUI after installing fglrx, if you still have a GUI goto the section below the word END.

If you got the error message shut-off your computer, and enter recovery mode (they second entry in the GRUB menu). When it stops starting up do this:

nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

sudo is not needed since recovery mode is root.

Then look for fglrx and change it to ati, then hit CTRL-X, hit y and hit enter.

Restart your comp and enter this in a terminal:

```
wget http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/envy_0.9.7-0ubuntu3_all.deb
```

Enter this in a terminal: ```
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```

Then goto your home folder and double-click envy_0.97-0ubuntu3_all.deb then install it. Goto Applications>System Tools>Envy 

And chose the Option: Install ATI Driver. When it prompts you to configure your xorg.conf hit yes. After Envy is done hit: CTRL-ALT-Backspace if you have a GUI awesome! But if no GUI you are doomed to a life of a boring effectless desktop. There is some effects like snow and fire that come with Enlightenment (a wm that acts as a DE, look 4 it in Synaptic if you are doomed, but 1st we need 2 get your GUI back).

Now if you failed go back in recovery mode and enter: nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf and change fglrx to ati hit CTRL-X, hit Y and hit enter twice and reboot your comp and go for Enlightment (if you wana have some effects).

END

Now do this in a terminal:

```
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/startxgl.sh
```

Put this in:

```

#!/bin/sh
Xgl -fullscreen :1 -ac -br -accel glx:pbuffer -accel xv:pbuffer &
sleep 4  
export DISPLAY=:1 
cookie="$(xauth -i nextract - :0 | cut -d ' ' -f 9)"
xauth -i add :1 . "$cookie"
exec gnome-session

```

Then save and enter this in a terminal:

```
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/startxgl.sh
```

Then enter this in a terminal: ```
sudo mkdir -p /etc/X11/sessions
```
then this: ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/sessions/xgl.desktop
```

Put this in the blank file:

```

[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=Beryl+GNOME
Exec=/usr/local/bin/startxgl.sh
Icon=
Type=Application

```

Then save.

Now goto: System>Administration>Sessions

click add and for the name type Beryl Manager
for the command enter beryl-manager
hit ok.

Now log out and hit Sessions and hit Beryl+GNOME, log in, make it your default session if you wish, if done correctly the screen should open with a black color (not with a powerpoint-like slide transition) or it should look like steel wool. If it is garbled let me know. But if not congrats. But if there is a crappy GTK/Icon Theme download my GTK/XGL Decrapfier Script. (it is in my post)

Put it in your homefolder and goto: System>Administration>Sessions and hit add call it GTK/XGL Decrapifier and for the command enter(change yourhome to the name of your home folder: /home/yourhome/gtkxgldecrapifier.sh 
hit ok. log out and back in.

Now test Beryl out to see if it works congrats. If you get blown down by the big bad white screen look at this:

[http://64.233.169.104/search?q=cache:56KVWX0FmlwJ:wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Install_Beryl_on_Ubuntu_Feisty_with_XGL+ugly+gtk+themes+xgl&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=1&gl=us&client=firefox-a](http://64.233.169.104/search?q=cache:56KVWX0FmlwJ:wiki.beryl-project.org/wiki/Install_Beryl_on_Ubuntu_Feisty_with_XGL+ugly+gtk+themes+xgl&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=1&gl=us&client=firefox-a)

and look for White Screen.

---

### Post by cnand on 2007-08-08
thnx man it seems that it is working but i cannot enable the fire effects cause i dont have the beryl-settings-simple but when i click it to download it and install it thers a message that says ''E: /var/cache/apt/archives/beryl-settings-simple_0.2.0~0beryl1_i386.deb: &#960;&#961;&#959;&#963;&#960;&#940;&#952;&#949;&#953;&#945; &#945;&#957;&#964;&#953;&#954;&#945;&#964;&#940;&#963;&#964;&#945;&#963;&#951;&#962; &#964;&#959;&#965; `/usr/share/beryl-settings-simple/level2.Profile', &#960;&#959;&#965; &#949;&#943;&#957;&#945;&#953; &#949;&#960;&#943;&#963;&#951;&#962; &#963;&#964;&#959; &#960;&#945;&#954;&#941;&#964;&#959; beryl-ubuntu

and it meens that it tried to install obove `/usr/share/beryl-settings-simple/level2.Profile which is also in the package beryl-ubuntu
i choose the fire A.K.A. burn but nothing...
do you have any idea what i do to enable the fire effect?

---

### Post by dougfractal on 2007-08-08
I think fire is compiz-fusion so to aqurium

 How To: Compiz Fusion on Ubuntu 7.04 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481314](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481314)

---

