---
title: ".exe virus in Gnome-look.org"
date: 2007-05-18
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by jim_p on 2007-05-18
Greetings everyone.
This is my firts topic, so please correct me if i have posted it on the wrong section :(

Today I was browsing [www.gnome-look.org](www.gnome-look.org) from a windows pc and its antivirus popped up several times (NOD32). The problem lies on a "second" download link for every file there is. It's a 19kb .exe file. The same problem appears in kde-look.org and in xfce-look.org.

Although no linux user can be infected by that, i think that something must be done about it.

Thank you in advance and excuse me for becoming furious about that

---

### Post by earobinson on 2007-05-18
If this is true you should be really mad about it.

Edit: Indeed there are 2 downloads and one is 19k but its a broken link, did they get hacked?

---

### Post by justin whitaker on 2007-05-18
> **jim_p said:**
> Greetings everyone.
This is my firts topic, so please correct me if i have posted it on the wrong section :(

Today I was browsing [www.gnome-look.org](www.gnome-look.org) from a windows pc and its antivirus popped up several times (NOD32). The problem lies on a "second" download link for every file there is. It's a 19kb .exe file. The same problem appears in kde-look.org and in xfce-look.org.

Although no linux user can be infected by that, i think that something must be done about it.

Thank you in advance and excuse me for becoming furious about that

If it is infected, then someone got hold of their server. Gnome-look, KDE-look, and XFCE-look all use the same server, AFAIK. 

The 19kb link is there on all download pages, but corporate AV is not throwing any flags.

Email the admins of that site.

---

### Post by loathsome on 2007-05-18
This is off limits!

Who is in charge for those web pages?

---

### Post by earobinson on 2007-05-18
Sent one to the gnome guys!

---

### Post by jim_p on 2007-05-18
Thank you guys for the quick replies
I was going to mail them, if i knew the right email address.
If anyone out there knows it...

Shall i include a screenshot?

---

### Post by earobinson on 2007-05-18
all the info you can provide the better, so yes for screenshots.

there is a contact link an the bottem of the page.

---

### Post by screaminj3sus on 2007-05-18
I was wondering why there was two links, the first link would just say not found when browsing on linux, good thing I haven't booted windows today. thanks for the warning.

---

### Post by jim_p on 2007-05-18
Ok I just sent them a message, no screeenshot though :(
Thank you all for your quick responce

---

### Post by earobinson on 2007-05-18
I figured it was broken now, guess it just hids from linux then?

---

### Post by jim_p on 2007-05-18
I dont know if it hides or not, but earlier when i was browsing xfce-look.org, i clicked the bad link and i was prompted to save the file by opera so i guess...
I will give it a try using different user agents

---

### Post by DR_K13 on 2007-05-18
:lolflag:

---

### Post by jim_p on 2007-05-18
Ok i tried the different user agents opera has but i get the same "Not found" msg
I am a bit relaxed now!

---

### Post by earobinson on 2007-05-18
Its still kinda weird.

---

### Post by earobinson on 2007-05-18
[http://www.gnome-look.org/](http://www.gnome-look.org/) is down now lol

---

### Post by phantomgrave on 2007-05-18
haha, I just noticed that. I wondered what that small file was. It wasnt there the first day I visited the site (when I installed ubuntu) like a day or 2 ago. Then I go today and every time I clicked it, I got not found.

Hope it gets fixed.

---

### Post by bashologist on 2007-05-18
Wow. That's crazy.

I uploaded a wallpaper today and I noticed a small file with it. I thought it was an error that I caused and tried to edit. I had no idea; I did notice the site went offline tho.

---

### Post by jordanmthomas on 2007-05-19
Well, I'm sad now.  I was looking forward to retheming tonight.  I had made plans and everything. :(
I'm sure they'll get it sorted out soon enough though.

---

### Post by heimo on 2007-05-19
> **jordanmthomas said:**
> Well, I'm sad now.  I was looking forward to retheming tonight.  I had made plans and everything. :(
I'm sure they'll get it sorted out soon enough though.

Gnome Art is up:
[http://art.gnome.org/](http://art.gnome.org/)

---

### Post by Knoeki on 2007-05-19
Whoa, that's nasty... I mean, imagine a currently wind0ze who wants to try Linux going there, and getting scared because 'linux people spread virii' or something along those lines.. >.<

Good job finding that! ^^

---

### Post by loathsome on 2007-05-19
Yes, GNOME-Look is back in buisiness!

---

### Post by earobinson on 2007-05-19
Yup they seem to have fixed it.

---

