---
title: "nVidia restricted drivers in use, but can't enable compiz?"
date: 2007-10-29
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by diablo75 on 2007-10-29
Someone I know who lives about 10 hours away has a new computer and they just installed Ubuntu 7.10.  They have an nVidia card.  I don't know what the model number is, but it does have dual monitor outputs which he is using right now.

We started by trying to enable compiz fusion by opening System>Pref>Appearance>Visual Effects.  When he switched it to Normal or Extra, it would revert back to none.  I don't remember if he said he got an error message with it or not.

So next, I asked him to install the nvidia-glx package, after enabling the restricted software sources.  When he did, a message came up in Synaptic:

The chosen action also affects other packages.  The following changes are required in order to proceed.

\ / TO BE REMOVED

       nvidia-glx-new
       nvidia-glx-new-dev


I told him to stop while I check in to this on the forums.  Last thing I did was ask him to open the restricted driver manager, and it says his drivers are "in use."

So what should we do next?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-29
Do not remove the packages just yet. He has enabled the drivers but he must not have restarted X. Ask him to hit Ctrl + Alt + Backspace or simply reboot.

Then ask him to go to System --> Appearance and reset it to Normal or Extra. This time it should stick to whatever he selects.

---

### Post by diablo75 on 2007-10-29
Turns out his restricted drivers were automatically installed and enabled when he installed Ubuntu just a couple days ago, and the system has been restarted since then.  Yet the Visual Effects still won't enable correctly.

Should I try having him enter:

compiz --replace

into the terminal, just to see if it will work?

---

### Post by Inxsible on 2007-10-29
Post his xorg.conf file. That would be the best way to find out if he is using the generic driver or the restricted driver.

---

### Post by Z-Funk on 2007-12-23
I have a similar problem.  I installed Ubuntu 7.10 using a pendrive installation using the instructions on here: [http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/09/28/usb-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon-install/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/09/28/usb-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon-install/)

I wanted to use it with compiz-fusion, but I am having problems enabling the nvidia drivers.

I have 3 different computers I wanted to use it on: 1. A custom built desktop with an Nvidia 8800GTX graphics card, 2. An Asus W7s with an Nvidia 8400M (128MB) graphics card, and an Alienware 9700 with dual sli nvidia 7900 GS video cards.

I switched to the restricted drivers and loaded all the necessary nvidia drivers and the compiz control panel.  Everything seems to go soomthly except when I go to System > Preferences > Appearance > Visual Effects Tab > and click Custom.  It tels me that the 3d accellater driver is not enabled and asks if I want to enable it.  I click yes, then it says a restart is required.  Fine, but when I restart the computer and go back to the Visual effects tab and click Custom, it says the same thing.

When I go into the restricted drivers section under administration, it has the nvidia driver there, but it is unchecked, if I check it, it says a restart is required, but when I reboot, it is still unchecked.

Here is the output of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, as you can see, it seems to load the driver and even lists my graphics card. Also as it is booting it says "preparing restricted drivers" (the only one which I have set is the nvidia one):

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400M G]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-64
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400M G]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1280"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

I've rebooted countless times and the same thing happens.  I'm going to try a full install to see if it makes any difference, but I really wanted the pendrive install, so any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by mathenge on 2007-12-23
This sounds very much like a problem I've been having with a Dell Latitude D620. This machine has a nVidia GForce 7300 graphics card. My initial problem was loosing the title bars from time to time. The title bars would simply disappear.

Someone on the Ubuntu IRC channel (#ubuntu) told me that this had been fixed with the latest version of the driver, version 169.07, released December 20, 2007, a few days ago. I read through the bug fixes and it seemed to address my problem so I downloaded the driver and installed it.

It installed, I rebooted but when I went to enable desktop effects, I kept getting an error message that "Desktop effects could not be enabled."

I tried to click on SYSTEM > PREFERENCES > GL DESKTOP but that was even worse. The system hung but I could get back to a login prompt with CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE.

I read somewhere that there may be a mismatch between the nVidia driver and the kernel driver, even though the nVidia installation program would compile a kernel driver. So I tried installing older versions of the driver. The version that was installed when things were working by synaptic was 100.14.9. The kernel driver was probably the same version. So I downloaded that version and installed it. The screens fixed themselves but still compiz was not working and the GL DESKTOP froze the screen.

Finally, someone suggested using envy to install the nVidia driver. So I downloaded envy, installed it (after making sure that it was safe to do so) and used it to install the nVidia driver.

A number of things happened.

1. It installed the latest driver (169.07) that had caused my angst all this time.
2. It asked for my Ubuntu Gutsy CD and installed additional programs.
3. It compiled both the nVidia driver and a kernel driver.
4. Synaptic now shows the new driver as nvidia-glx-new with version 169.07 as well as the kernel nVidia driver with the same version.

A number of lessons were learned here regarding nVidia drivers and Ubuntu.

1. It's probably NOT safe to download the package from nVidia and install it yourself unless you know how to correct all the additional dependencies.
2. Removing the driver or replacing it using nVidia's installation script does not affect the kernel driver.
3. Reinstalling the original driver using synaptic after you've tainted your system with nVidia's installation script won't fix the problem.

My answer:

Please be careful when you use packages or software outside Ubuntu's main repositories. However this package seems very able to solve nVidia and ATI driver problems on debian architectures.

I would suggest that you use envy to repair your nVidia installation. Envy can be found at: [http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html). 

One additional note. After I had used nVidia's installation program to install the latest driver, even running "compiz --replace" didn't fix anything. compiz simply wouldn't run.

Before you do anything, it would be good to see a couple of files from your system. 

/etc/X11/xorg.conf
/var/log/Xorg.0.log

The first is your X configuration file. The second is the X server log which will let me know how the nVidia driver was loaded.

Good luck!

---

### Post by mathenge on 2007-12-23
Sorry, just saw your xorg.conf file, perhaps only the log file will have additional information.
:-k

---

### Post by PuterT on 2008-01-15
Just wanting to know if diablo75 resolved this post

---

