---
title: "[SOLVED] Screen blanks after logging off and user switching"
date: 2008-02-05
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by peterdm on 2008-02-05
Ever since I started using Ubuntu, I have problems with the user switching.
The symptom is that, in case multiple local users are logged on (via user switching), when one of them logs out a user, the screen blanks.
I've found some old threads about this (2006), but the bottom line is that it still doesn't seem fixed.
Reproducible scenario:
- Log on one user (using Compiz visual effects)
- Switch user to another user (also using Compiz visual effects)
- As long as you keep on switching between the two users, everything is fine
- As soon as one user logs off, the screen blanks (an with blank I mean completely white)
- CTRL-ALT-BACKSPACE fixes the X server alright, but then all sessions have died as well of course! This is not what I want...
- blindly typing username/password (imagining a login screen) switches to the desired user

It seems Compiz related, maybe also nVidia related.
I am running Ubuntu Gutsy 64 bit on a Core 2 Duo with a fairly recent nVidia card.

Is there a solution for this? This problem seems to have been around for a while now...

Peter

---

### Post by DREMA on 2008-02-07
I have the exact same problem, and it's frustrating
Anyone with a solution ?
Thanks

---

### Post by organica on 2008-02-08
Same here.  I have compiz and new nvidia driver as well.

---

### Post by bnrbnsn on 2008-02-09
This may not solve anything since you have 64-bit, but have you tried disabling Compiz?
System > Prefs > Appearance > Visual Effects > None
I got this tip from the forum [http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613359&page=3](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613359&page=3) and it worked for me, but I am using 32-bit.

---

### Post by organica on 2008-02-10
> **bnrbnsn said:**
> This may not solve anything since you have 64-bit, but have you tried disabling Compiz?
System > Prefs > Appearance > Visual Effects > None
I got this tip from the forum [http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613359&page=3](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613359&page=3) and it worked for me, but I am using 32-bit.

Thanks for the response.  Our goal here, though, is to start the quest for a resolution to the white screen problem while Compiz is enabled.

---

### Post by chavanak on 2008-02-10
Even I have the same problem. One more problem is that if the system enters standby automatically, it will not revive, it will enter hibernate!!! 
This problem is there only if the system goes into standby automatically, if i do it manually everything is fine!!!

---

### Post by vancouverite on 2008-02-18
I have this same problem.  There are workarounds, but I think that there has to be another solution.

My specific behaviour is:
I have two users on this machine.  If both are using desktop effects and both are logged in:

1) and you use the User Switcher to move between them, a blank "Ubuntu Yellow" screen is all you see.  At this point you can type in your password, press enter and be logged in - even though you can't actually see what you are doing.

2) and one person logs out, a blank black screen appears.  If the still logged in user types in their password and presses enter they will be logged in. 

Basically, if you would normally see the user switching screen (the one with your user images and a "leave message" button) you get the ubuntu yellow screen.  But if you would normally see the login manager screen, it just comes up black.

My xorg.config is below, and it never produces any notes in the system log.  Where should I post this on launchpad?

Cheers,
Vancouverite

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G72 [GeForce 7300 LE]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G72 [GeForce 7300 LE]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-02-19
May be this bug here
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/112518]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/112518")

---

### Post by peterdm on 2008-07-09
This seems to be fixed in latest Hardy. The bug is probably still in the NVidia driver but they've changed the way to switch users in Gnome: no need to go via the GDM greeter anymore, instead a nice "unlock screen" dialog.

Peter

---

### Post by hongleong on 2008-07-22
I also get the white screen when I switch user. For my case, it appears to be related to the gnome-screensaver.

Here's how I remove the white screen: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5433697](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5433697).

---

