---
title: "[SOLVED] No whitelisted driver found"
date: 2007-11-29
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-11-29
I had installed a restricted driver to enable video files to be viewed. And I noticed that my "Desktop effects could not be enabled". So I read through most of the threads in this category to find a solution.

Here's the output i get after typing Compiz into the terminal:

Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity

What does "No whitelisted driver found" mean? Are there any potential risks to my system by using a driver that is not whitelisted?

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
Whitelisted driver is okay, what driver, config files etc do you have?

> 
tak@Ubuntu:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1280x1024) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting emerald


> tak@Ubuntu:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI RADEON 9600 Series
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7059 Release


---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-11-29
That's the result I get 

display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon Xpress Series
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6473 (8.37.6)

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
compiz is okay? you can check with 'ccsm' in termial, for desktop effects settings.

> sudo aptitude install compizconfig-settings-manager

System > Preferences >Advanced Desktop Effects Settings

Make sure that you have extra effects  turned on 
 System > Preferences > Appearance
Visual Effects tab, select Custom.

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
One you've installed Compiz, you need to tell it to use FGLRX (whitelist)



```
sudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz
```

And look for the section:

```
# Driver whitelist
WHITELIST="fglrx nvidia intel ati radeon i810"
```

Just add the FGLRX in as above, Compiz and Desktop effects should work then.

there's more about it here:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide")

Hope it helps!

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
Hah Takster, I didn't spot you here as well!!

Well I been truly sussed, giving away the solution to the only problem I know how to fix!!

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> **davec64 said:**
> Hah Takster, I didn't spot you here as well!!

Well I been truly sussed, giving away the solution to the only problem I know how to fix!!

lol, all us ATI users are in the same boat mate. Up s**t creek without a paddle. :D

---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-11-29
> Quote:sudo aptitude install compizconfig-settings-manager 

System > Preferences >Advanced Desktop Effects Settings

Make sure that you have extra effects turned on 
System > Preferences > Appearance
Visual Effects tab, select Custom.


> One you've installed Compiz, you need to tell it to use FGLRX (whitelist)



Code:
sudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz
And look for the section:

Code:
# Driver whitelist
WHITELIST="fglrx nvidia intel ati radeon i810"
Just add the FGLRX in as above, Compiz and Desktop effects should work then.

and then saved the file. But still I get the same error message:

"The Composite extension is not available"

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
Quite right too!

All the best!

---

### Post by davec64 on 2007-11-29
Just remembered, once you get Desktop effects working, chances are you'll have problems watching video in any of the players. A lot of threads suggest switching Compiz off to watch videos, but there is another way!

```
gstreamer-properties
```

And on the Video tab set the Default Plugin Output to:

"X Window System (no XV)"

Works a treat!

---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-11-29
But the desktop effects ain't working.


"The Composite extension is not available"

Any other work around?

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
> sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

post the output of that, mate.

and...

> dpkg -l | grep compiz

---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-11-29
Here's the output of 
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RC410 [Radeon Xpress 200]"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection



and for 
dpkg -l | grep compiz

> ii  compiz                                     1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1       OpenGL window and compositing manager
ii  compiz-core                                1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1       OpenGL window and compositing manager
ii  compiz-fusion-plugins-extra                0.5.2+git20070928-0ubuntu1           Collection of extra plugins from OpenComposi
ii  compiz-fusion-plugins-main                 0.5.2+git20070928-0ubuntu2           Collection of plugins from OpenCompositing f
ii  compiz-gnome                               1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1       OpenGL window and compositing manager - GNOM
ii  compiz-plugins                             1:0.6.0+git20071008-0ubuntu1.1       OpenGL window and compositing manager - plug
ii  compizconfig-settings-manager              0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1           Compiz configuration settings manager
ii  libcompizconfig-backend-gconf              0.5.2+git20071010-0ubuntu1           Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  libcompizconfig0                           0.5.2+git20070919-0ubuntu3           Settings library for plugins - OpenCompositi
ii  python-compizconfig                        0.5.2+git20070912-0ubuntu1           Compiz configuration system bindings


---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
Change:
Option "Composite" "0"
to:
Option "Composite" "1"

if it runs like crap after that change do 
> sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl

---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-11-29
Tried again and same result.

---

### Post by Takster on 2007-11-29
[http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=585893](http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=585893)

---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-12-01
k then, can anyone tell me how to remove all these desktop effects and its affiliate packages?

---

### Post by Bheegerji on 2007-12-02
Check out [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=628540&page=1").

---

### Post by wyrmfire on 2007-12-28
> **Bheegerji said:**
> and then saved the file. But still I get the same error message:

"The Composite extension is not available"

To correct this section you need to adjust your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to the following:

> 
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "1"
EndSection


That should correct the error with Compositing.

Regards,

Wyrmfire

---

