---
title: "Blank screen when trying to enable desktop effects in feisty..."
date: 2007-05-03
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-03
Just got feisty installed and when I tried to enable desktop effects all I got was a whit screen and could not do anything but a hard reboot. Any suggestions? This is really not a big deal as I can work fine without it but I am trying to get some friends to port over from M$ and wanted to show them the full potential of ubuntu. I did get it to work on my dell system with generic onboard video, but they have almost the same system as mine.

Here are my specs...
AMD Athlon 64 X2 3600+ Brisbane 1.9GHz 2 x 512KB L2 Cache Socket AM2 Processor
Western Digital Caviar SE16 WD4000KS 400GB 7200 RPM SATA 3.0Gb/s Hard Drive
ASUS M2N32-SLI Deluxe Wireless Edition Socket AM2 NVIDIA nForce 590 SLI MCP ATX AMD Motherboard
OCZ Gold 512MB 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 800 (PC2 6400) total ram: 1.5 Gigs
BIOSTAR V6202EL16 GeForce 6200 LE 256MB TurboCache(128M VRAM on board) GDDR2 PCI Express x16

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-03
> **creolbuay said:**
> BIOSTAR V6202EL16 GeForce 6200 LE 256MB TurboCache(128M VRAM on board) GDDR2 PCI Express x16

Do you have the restricted drivers installed for this video card? If so, run this in terminal:
```
glxinfo | head
```
See if direct rendering is enabled, it should look something like this:
```
$ glxinfo | head
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
**[B]direct rendering: Yes**[/B]
server glx vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
server glx version string: 1.4
server glx extensions:
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, 
    GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, GLX_SGI_video_sync, GLX_SGI_swap_control, 
    GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_NV_float_buffer, 
    GLX_ARB_fbconfig_float

```

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-05
This is what it shows on mine:

name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: No
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, 
    GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, GLX_OML_swap_method, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_hyperpipe, 
    GLX_SGIX_swap_barrier, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-05
That's your problem. to be able to achieve the spiff-tasticness that is beryl, you need to have direct rendering enabled for your video card. Currently, ubuntu ships with the free nv driver for nvidia cards, and the nv driver doesn't support direct rendering. So what you will need to do is install the properitory nvidia driver. In feisty, go to System > Administration > Restricted Drivers Manager. It *should* have a the nvidia driver in there, click enable, reboot, and voila! beryl should be working great!


EDIT:
> server glx vendor string: SGI

hmmm, it *isn't* using the nv driver as I thought, or at least that is what I think that means. However, my above method should still work, if not, post your /etx/X11/xorg.conf file here and we will try to help further. here I was thinking geforce cards use the nvidia driver but maybe not.

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-05
Forgot to mention I installed the server edition first then ran apt-get install ubuntu-desktop. This has always worked for me and didn't think it would make a diference.

Anyway, I tried the restricted driver option and I got the following:

"You need to install the package linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20-15-server for this program to work"

I tried to install this but could not locate the package anywhere. I got several generic related packages but not this one.

Here is my Xorg.conf:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV44 [GeForce 6200 LE]"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-96
        VertRefresh     43-60
#       DisplaySize    270    203    # 1024x768 96dpi
#       DisplaySize    338    254    # 1280x960 96dpi
#       DisplaySize    338    270    # 1280x1024 96dpi
#       DisplaySize    370    277    # 1400x1050 96dpi
#       DisplaySize    423    370    # 1680x1050 96dpi

EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation NV44 [GeForce 6200 LE]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1680x1050" "1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1680x1050" "1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1680x1050" "1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1680x1050" "1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1680x1050" "1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1680x1050" "1920x1440" "1920x1200" "1856x1392" "1792x1344" "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1440x900" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-06
> **creolbuay said:**
> 
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation NV44 [GeForce 6200 LE]"
        **[B]Driver          "nv"**[/B]
        BusID           "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Yep, you sure are using the nv driver. So this will go a lot eaiser. Basically, restricted driver manager should've downloaded and installed the package for you, but since it didn't you can do it yourself.

To install the nvidia driver:
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
```

Then to enable the nvidia driver:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals --composite
```

Reboot. Again, let me know if you get it working or if there are any more problems.

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-06
I did that and then I could not even boot the system even more.  I ended up having to reinstall the entire system. I could not even get to the login prompt. Very weird.

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-07
well, if X crashed the login prompt wouldn't work either. Instead of reinstalling, all you had to do to fix it was restore the backup you made of /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but whatever. Basically, just try installing Ubuntu with the desktop CD (unless there is some specific reason you need the server edition), the Restricted Driver's Manager should make this a heck of a lot eaiser.

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-07
Yeah, I am trying to learn the text area of linux instead of just being another gui user. I know I can do it on the desktop version but I will also want to try my hand at setting up servers and stuff and I wanted to start off with a system that could grow with me instead of having limitations. I know it's almost imposible to have limits in Linux but I don't want to end up later on having to reinstall my system because I needed a server edition instead.

Like I had said earlier it was not that much of a deal for my but I really wanted to show off to my friends. Guess I will use one of their machines to do it. :lolflag:

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-07
you should be able to run beryl without any problems (and it should'be been fairly easy to do so) with your card/system. there is no difference between the ubuntu editions other than the packages installed by default. but it's up to you whether you want to mess with it or not. good luck and have fun with ubuntu!

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-07
Hold up, the procedure you gave, were those specific to beryl?  I was having problems with the default compiz that was installed with feisty when you click th e"enable desktop effects", but I may be wrong. I really appreciate your lehp and yes I will have fun with Ubuntu, I have had three systems now running it, one running ed-ubuntu for my 5 yr old son and my niece and nephews to do their homework on hen they come over, another running kubuntu as a general use computer, another running plain old Ubuntu6.10 and this one (Amd64x2) running Feisty as a  Server/Desktop.

I am trying to convert as many people as I can and I just got a hold of the latest edition of MaximumPC and there's an article in it about Linux and how to cross over, it shows to to do everything from downloading the iso's  to customizing  after the install; it even talks about wine and other stuff the usuall media coverage doesn't do. Very interesting read.  It did have a section regarding beryl which I will try on one of the other systems as I have only been using the default.

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-07
well, there is beryl, there is compiz, and then there is the compiz that is used in the default ubuntu install (sort of a slimmed down version). The point is, *none* of those will work properly until you have your video card driver installed correctly. neither will 3D games, and videos *may* freeze up/play slow.
there is probably 3 different ways to install the drivers, you may want to look into envy, automatix, ubuntu guide, and the official nvidia linux drivers (as a last resort, the official ones will only cause you headache because it has to be reinstalled after every kernel upgrade).

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-07
I'm guessing here but the ```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals --composite
``` command adds lines in the xorg file right?

If this is true is there a way to manually edit the file and add what's needed?

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-07
sure! actually that's the method I prefer, but most people don't like to edit conf files. make sure to backup the file first!
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Scroll down to the Device section, it should looks something like this:
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G72M [GeForce Go 7400]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

You'll need to change the Driver from "nv" to "nvidia" (note: the nvidia driver needs to be installed before you do this. sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx should get you the driver you need, other drivers available are sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new and sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy. You should only have one nvidia driver installed at a time, so if you try the legacy or new drivers you should uninstall the regular one first and vice versa.)

Try changing just the driver first. Log out, and then hit <ctrl><alt><backspace> to restart X server.
If X fails to start, hit <ctrl><alt><F5> and login in. from there, restore the backup with:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Then restart gdm/x with:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

You can also post the error messages X gives you with:
```
sudo gedit /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```
Which may be of use if you keep running into problems.

You posted earlier about the package manager complaining about linux-restricted-modules, you may want to try this command:
```
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-*
```

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-07
The other lines that are added are listed below, however it's probably better to make sure that the driver works, then add these lines.

Section "Device"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-07
Tried the command, I got to boot the system but got an error which gave a bunch of refernce and then had these lines at the end:

(EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module does not exist, 0)
(EE) No drivers available.

Fatal Server Error:
no screens found

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-08
I got to reboot, trying the new driver.. I will reboot before editing the xorg file tho to make sure the driver actually works which it looks like it is. (I am now using the forum from my 6.10 machine) SO far so good, editing xorg now.....

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-08
Same problem it only happens when I change the xorg file. Guess I should move on without the 3d desktop or try the full beryl install .....

---

### Post by creolbuay on 2007-05-08
By the way I got this error message window:

Internal Error, failed to initialize HAL!

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-08
gah. try using envy:

[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

direct link to package:
[http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/envy_0.9.2-0ubuntu7_all.deb](http://albertomilone.com/ubuntu/nvidia/scripts/envy_0.9.2-0ubuntu7_all.deb)

Section B at the bottom has instructions on how to purge your system of any previous nvidia drivers so that envy can work correctly, give that a try, and then installing the drivers using envy. other than that, you're gonna have to check up on google and ubuntu guide/ubuntu forums for nvidia driver installation how-tos, because I dunno what to do anymore :( sorry and good luck!

---

### Post by terabite on 2007-05-11
Im having the same problem (white screen when i click desktop effects).
My specs:
845G (onboard graphics)
Intel Pent 2.4G
256MB DDR

I could enable destop effects on my FC6... so my DOES SUPPORT IT.

PLEASE HELP!!!!:(

---

### Post by dfreer on 2007-05-11
terabite, you might want to consider making a new thread for your problem. Although it is most likely from the same reason (3D acceleration not enabled), you have a different video card and you'll need to have someone familiar with intel cards help you. It doesn't look like anyone besides the OP and me are currently viewing this thread anyways :p In my experience though, intel cards normally work without a hitch. when you create your new thread post a link on this one to the new one so we can follow.

---

### Post by terabite on 2007-05-12
I had made a thread already.... but i din get much of answers.... Heres the link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=439932](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=439932)

---

### Post by ev5unleash1 on 2007-07-02
I'm having that problem but it I'm running an intel with no external card

---

### Post by terabite on 2007-07-03
Did u install in safe graphics mode?

---

### Post by ev5unleash1 on 2007-07-03
Hey all i have the same problem but i'm not using an external card. I'm using intel intergrated Graphs 128 MB. I know I'm in safe grafs mode because everything is slow when is comes down to the grafs including screen savers and games. Is there something I could do to enable the Direct Rendering on my graphs?

---

### Post by terabite on 2007-07-03
Did You Install Ubuntu In Safe Graphics Mode????

---

