---
title: "7.10 and ATI - What can I do?"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by toasty_ghosty on 2007-10-22
I am using 7.10 and am using ATI drivers so I can get 3D rendering. What can I use meaning Compiz or beryl or what? I would like to spice up my desktop and just wanted to know. Thanks and sorry for being such a noob.

---

### Post by ezak on 2007-10-22
I would suggest installing compiz/compiz-fusion. 

sudo apt-get install compiz compiz-gnome \
compizconfig-settings-manager compiz-fusion-plugins-extra \
compiz-fusion-plugins-unofficial libcompizconfig-backend-gconf

Then enable your graphics through System > Preferences > Appearance > Visual Effects and you are set. ;-)

---

### Post by toasty_ghosty on 2007-10-22
op:~$ sudo apt-get install compiz compiz-gnome \
> compizconfig-settings-manager compiz-fusion-plugins-extra \
> compiz-fusion-plugins-unofficial libcompizconfig-backend-gconf
[sudo] password for theking:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
compiz is already the newest version.
compiz-gnome is already the newest version.
compiz-fusion-plugins-extra is already the newest version.
E: Couldn't find package compiz-fusion-plugins-unofficial



Whats up with that?

And lastly, When I try to enable effects, it says the Composite Extension is not available. I didnt think that the effects could be used with these ATI drivers. So what can I use.

---

### Post by toasty_ghosty on 2007-10-22
Thanks for the help by I am now using XGL and it is looking good.

---

