---
title: "Beryl Runs but Compiz and Compiz Fusion doesnt."
date: 2007-09-25
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by Bruegger on 2007-09-25
Hi,
Just a hell lot confused and tired of trying all kinds of drivers and modifications to xorg.conf  in an effort to get compiz fusion working.
But it doesnt, tried all kindsa howto guides available. Desktop effects never worked and compiz fusion also never worked for me.
Surprising thing is beryl works just fine.

So just out of curiosity, what the hell is so earth shakingly different between beryl and cf that one runs on my old pc and the other just doesnt?????

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-09-26
> **Bruegger said:**
> Hi,
Just a hell lot confused and tired of trying all kinds of drivers and modifications to xorg.conf  in an effort to get compiz fusion working.
But it doesnt, tried all kindsa howto guides available. Desktop effects never worked and compiz fusion also never worked for me.
Surprising thing is beryl works just fine.

So just out of curiosity, what the hell is so earth shakingly different between beryl and cf that one runs on my old pc and the other just doesnt?????

Hi and sorry for your trouble, I have no trouble running comp-fusion if beryl runs. But I see you are using a integrated graphics system that maybe the cause due to the fact of the shared memory. You may go into bios and adjust the amount of memory shared. Just a Idea good luck!

---

### Post by Rupertronco on 2007-09-26
What method did you use to install compiz? Furthermore, how did you try to start it? If you have beryl working, all of the hard stuff is done (drivers, xorg.conf, etc). I'm guessing your problem with fusion was somewhere in the install process, the computer should run it just fine if it runs beryl.

---

### Post by Bruegger on 2007-09-27
overdrank,
have set the installed memory to share the max available which is 32 mb.
this is good  for beryl but cf just flickers and dies down..nothing happens.
says texture_support_pixmap not available.
if this is the reason, shouldnt beryl be stalling too???

rupertronco,
i installed cf following forlongs howto.
tried running it with the command mentioned in his post. 
my prob here is desktop effects never worked for me and now cf doesnt. beryl runs clean and smooth. so why is this happening???
for record, i m using the 8776 patched drivers for nvidia.
no luck

---

### Post by Rupertronco on 2007-09-27
Post your xorg.conf file. Also have you ever tried to install compiz fusion before this most recent install? If so you definitely need to purge your initial install(s). 

It's very interesting that beryl works and compiz does not, I'm not sure I know enough about their differences to figure it out, but I'll certainly try my best to help if your desire is to run CF.

---

### Post by Dwiman89 on 2007-09-29
What the heck is the difference between compiz fusion,beryl,and compiz. I have duel monitors. which one shoul i install that is the coolest. i tryed to enable desktop effects but it didn't work. windows didnt have a title bar. I would REALLY like to know....

---

### Post by Bruegger on 2007-09-29
Rupertronco,
appreciate ur taking time to help me solve this.
here's my xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Oct 16 22:13:07 PDT 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    Option         "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load	   "dri"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "record"
    Load           "v4l"
#   Load	   "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Samsung SyncMaster 753s"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    Option         "DPI" "96x96"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NVCrush11 [GeForce2 MX Integrated GPU]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BusID	   "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NVCrush11 [GeForce2 MX Integrated GPU]"
    Monitor        "Samsung SyncMaster 753s"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NvAGP" "3"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "true"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
    Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "CRT"
    Option         "NoLogo" "true"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "true"
    Option         "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section	"DRI"
	MODE	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Rupertronco on 2007-09-29
Here's a list of things I look for in xorg.confs, and so far yours seems to hold up, so I'm guessing the problem is in the install of fusion, not your xorg.conf. 

Option "AIGLX" "true"
Load "glx"
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "true"
Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true
Option "Composite" "Enable"

It's obvious that compositing is working if beryl works, and I don't see anything particularly weird with your xorg.conf. I see you have AiGLX enabled, which means either you don't have the latest Nvidia driver (new Nvidia drivers have their own open gl acceleration and no longer need AiGLX) or that the newest driver is not compatible with your card. But that still should not prevent you from running fusion if you're able to run beryl. Your problem really isn't following much of a logical pattern. 

So lets try this:
Make sure your Nvidia drivers are the latest and greatest (just to eliminate this as a possible source for the problem).

DItch all of your compiz, beryl, and emerald packages, completely purge their install. Then reinstall fusion only from Amaranth's repository. If you don't have it directions can be found here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=536149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=536149)

That's forlong's guide. I recommend it because he's a nice guy and is always around to help people. I doubt you'll have any problems with the install. 

After you install that run "compiz --replace" in a terminal, and let's see if you get any error messages. 

Side note: Your computer is more than capable of handling fusion nicely. I've got it running smoothly on 4 machines including a p3 1200 with 512mb of ram and some garbage integrated video card (that notebook only weighs like 2.75lbs so it's great for the backpack).

---

### Post by Bruegger on 2007-10-01
Rupertronco,
i did try all the 96xx series drivers and i had lot of fuzzy screens, x server stalling, painting of screen with the mouse etc.
i had the 9639 drivers installed through the nvidia installer...but both beryl or compiz fusion wouldnt work on it. Lostpoet posted on the forums saying this was a bug with the driver that rendered it incapable with the geforce2 integrated gpu's.
i tried beryl on it...worked to some extent..not smooth or as good as it was in dapper.
and no  desktop effects or compix fusion ever worked. so i went back to the patched 8776 drivers. it worked the best. beryl worked like a charm.
but yet no effects or cf.
so what should i do next.

---

### Post by chronic on 2007-10-01
i havent had any problems with getting compiz fusion to work

the only thing i can think of is that you dont have compiz installed properly use synaptics and make sure that everything compiz needs is installed

but to be honest if beryl is running and its stable for you then stick with that

---

### Post by Rupertronco on 2007-10-02
Chronic, I'm happy compiz fusion works for you. Thanks.

Apparently my last post didn't take. I had a nice writeup for you. How did you install these drivers and am I correct in saying you're currently on the 8776 driver?

You're going to need to ditch all of your beryl packages so we can isolate the problem. 

The repository you installed CF from is Trevino's. It's the most updated but least stable of the feisty CF repositories. I'd suggest completely removing compiz and beryl, reinstalling the driver (use the restricted drivers manager or use apt-get/synaptic to install the nvidia-glx-legacy package) after you do that, reinstall CF from Amaranth's repository, the how to is one of the stickies I believe. 

If that version of CF isn't working for you then our next step is to check out any driver/card issues. 

If you'd like CF I'd advise you to continue to try to tweak the system so we can get it to work. If you're complacent with beryl, I guess stick with it, but let's try to get CF working because it rocks beryl's face off.

---

