---
title: "Please help me! Newbie trying to setup Beryl, Ati x1600"
date: 2007-06-08
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by le_renouveau on 2007-06-08
Ok, I finally managed to configure my two dual screens with different resolutions. But I think I my have removed OpenGL support, because I can't seem to get Beryl to run.

Here are my display specs:
Ati x1600 graphics card
Acer 19" wide-screen LCD
Sharp 17" LCD
I used [**_This guide_**]("http://lhansen.blogspot.com/2006/10/3d-desktop-beryl-and-xgl-on-ubuntu-edgy.html") to setup Beryl at the end of which when I try and run Xgl I get a desktop background and a mouse but no functionality whatsoever (I had to CTRL+ALT+Backspace). Also, it may be important to know that I can't move windows between my two screens, but I can move the mouse with no problems. Other then this, I'm really enjoying my Ubuntu experience, I don't think I,ll be going back to Windows.


Thanks in advance,

Here is my xorg.conf:


> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Multihead Layout"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" RightOf "Screen1"
	Screen      1  "Screen1" LeftOf "Screen2"	
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "ca"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Acer 19WS"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier  "Monitor1" 
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option 	    "ModelName" "LL-172C-B"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "RV530 [Radeon X1600]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:4:0:0"
	Option "EnablePrivateBackZ" "yes" #Enable 3d support <= May Not Work
	Screen	    0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "RV530 [Radeon X1600] (Secondary)"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:4:0:0"
	Option "EnablePrivateBackZ" "yes" #Enable 3d support <= May Not Work
	Screen	    1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "RV530 [Radeon X1600]"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport  0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes     "1400x900"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen1"
	Device     "RV530 [Radeon X1600] (Secondary)"
	Monitor    "Monitor1"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport  0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes 	  "1280x1024"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection


Here is what I get when I run fglrxinfo
> 
antoine@Jackie:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: Radeon X1600 Series
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6334 (8.34.8)



display: :0.0  screen: 1
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: 
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6334 (8.34.8)

---

### Post by Soybean on 2007-06-08
I don't have much experience with this, but I believe that if you can't move windows between your screens, then you've set up a type of multi-head X configuration that isn't supported by Beryl yet. The gist of it is that you've got two independent screens, as opposed to them behaving like one extra-wide screen. From what I hear, there's experimental support for this type of setup in the SVN version of Beryl, if you're feeling adventurous.

If not, I don't know how to help you. 2 screens + ATI + Beryl is a tricky combination. The only dual-head Beryl config I've ever seen working uses NVidia's TwinView. You may want to look into something called "Big Desktop" or maybe "Bigdesktop" -- I believe it's a similar ATI system. You may also hear about Xinerama -- it'll work for spanning your desktop across the two screens (and letting you move windows between them), but Xinerama doesn't get along with Beryl.

---

### Post by le_renouveau on 2007-06-08
Ok I understand that I may not be able to run Beryl, but what about my fglrxinfo output and the missing information?

---

### Post by le_renouveau on 2007-06-08
How can I disable the secondary monitor to try out Beryl?

---

### Post by hkahwaji on 2007-06-08
I followed this guide for installing Beryl and I have a Radeon X1400 card. Do not follow the first method. Use the alternate method considering that you have installed the closed source ATI driver set. Do verify that look under Restricted Driver Manager and make sure that you have a check mark next to ATI CARD. 

[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Feisty#How_to_install_Beryl_.28ATI.29](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Feisty#How_to_install_Beryl_.28ATI.29)


I recommend that you first create the xgl session and try to login to it and then install Beryl and emerald theme. 

After I was done following the guide, I could not get Beryl to work but I entered the following command on the terminal and it went successful.

 LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa beryl & emerald &

I hope this helps

---

### Post by Soybean on 2007-06-09
> **le_renouveau said:**
> How can I disable the secondary monitor to try out Beryl?
Well, first back up your xorg.conf, in case my advice is bad. ;)

Then, you should just need to replace
```
Screen 0 "Screen0" RightOf "Screen1"
Screen 1 "Screen1" LeftOf "Screen2" 
```
with
```
screen "Screen0"
```

Then you may need to remove (or just comment out) the following sections:
```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor1"
Option "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
Option "ModelName" "LL-172C-B"
Option "DPMS" "true"
EndSection
```
```
Section "Device"
Identifier "RV530 [Radeon X1600] (Secondary)"
Driver "fglrx"
BusID "PCI:4:0:0"
Option "EnablePrivateBackZ" "yes" #Enable 3d support <= May Not Work
Screen 1
EndSection
```
```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen1"
Device "RV530 [Radeon X1600] (Secondary)"
Monitor "Monitor1"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Viewport 0 0
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```


Since you've already followed a Beryl setup guide, that might be all you have to do. Just save the changes, ctrl-alt-backspace, and try logging in to an XGL session. In theory, that should do the trick.

---

