---
title: "... changing the menu icon..."
date: 2008-03-28
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by saz on 2008-03-28
i'm sorry to open a new thread on this.. i really am! it seems so easy, however i've read all the threads regarding this, googled it hard, and it's IMPOSSIBLE!! :mad::mad::mad::mad:

my About gnome and About Ubunto have already changed, but the munu bar icon just doesn't it's allways there always equal... :mad::confused::(:mad:


i'm using a costum icon theme, but i've tried with the default ones and it doesn't work too!

the only way i get this working is changing the bar to the object, but i don't want the object i want the bar! (being object the main menu that is only an image)


pls someone help me...

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2008-03-29
GConf-Editor>apps>panel>object>Check "use_custom_icon", and set the path for it above (custom_icon).

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-03-29
I had a hell of a time getting this to work, but this is what worked for me:

I could only get it to work with a custom Icon Theme, the default themes did not change for me.

Make sure if you have resized your menu panel, to change it back to 24x24 (you can change it back again later, after the icon has changed)

When you know what image you want to change the menu icon to, make sure it is in 24x24 pixel .png format. You can use the GIMP to save it in this format.Save the file as **start-here.png** and copy it into this location (you need root privledges):

/usr/share/icons/<theme name>/24x24/places/ **(where <theme name> is the name of the folder for the theme you are using)**


You may need to either run:
```

killall gnome-panel

```

or

Open **System** -> **Preferences** -> **Appearance**
Click **Customize...**
Click on the *Icons* tab, change your Icon theme, then change it back again, and close the Appearance Editor.

---

### Post by Twitch6000 on 2008-03-29
I changed the colors of it once and changed it with emerald manager and gtweak.It made it seem so easy.
Maybe try them?

---

### Post by saz on 2008-03-30
none worked.. had tried them all... 

just didn''t try the emerald manager one cuz i have no got it installed and i don't think that is the only way... there must be a more native way...

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-03-30
> **saz said:**
> none worked.. had tried them all... 

just didn''t try the emerald manager one cuz i have no got it installed and i don't think that is the only way... there must be a more native way...

Sorry saz, the way I laid out above was the only way I've gotten it to work for me. I tried so many different suggestions while working through [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=727253"). Maybe something there will work for you (if you haven't already been through it)

Seems to be a real issue with finding a process that consistently works for everyone (even when everyone is using the same distro and version). I don't know why this would be... :confused:

Good luck!

---

