---
title: "Desktop Effects"
date: 2007-04-22
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by blockdude14 on 2007-04-22
When i activate them a lot of errors on desktop appear. All the shortcuts are gone and the effects basically don't work anymore... except the top menu works fine. :/:confused:

---

### Post by jpeddicord on 2007-04-23
They might not work for everybody without some configuration first (hence the warning on the dialog). If you have an ATI or NVIDIA card, chances are you will have to change some things to get it to work. What you have to change, I do not know, and hopefully someone hardware oriented will be able to help you out.
If it is the built in Intel chipset, then it should work out of the box.

Jacob

---

### Post by Ender Black on 2007-04-23
Ya need to give us info so we can help you out... video card and driver info and printing your xorg.conf

If you are scratching your head on that last bit just open up a terminal and type 
> gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


then paste the results into your reply.  We should be able to help you from there.

---

### Post by richaoj on 2007-04-24
I am having a similar problem -- icons on the desktop refuse to re-render after i move them, or sometimes they will just completely dissapear.  also, if the desktop effects have been running for a little time (if i leave them on, and then come backt to the comp a couple of hours later, i'll open up nautilus windows, and the files and folders inside the window won't render.  And occasionally when i'm running video, the mouse gets a little jumpy.   I usually just disable the gl desktop, then re-enable and everything works fine.  i know all the bugs have not been worked out yet, so i don't mind to much.  nothing crashes or anything =)

and i cannot ever get the little rain/water thingy to work! 

Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset

Is this just compiz being buggy, or is there a little tweaking i can to to make this better?

---

### Post by blockdude14 on 2007-04-24
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Mon Feb 26 23:38:28 PST 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG M173WA"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 66.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7800 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1280x1024 +0+0; CRT-0: 800x600 +0+0; CRT-0: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by blockdude14 on 2007-04-24
I hope someone can help? :confused:

---

### Post by richaoj on 2007-04-26
Ok, i solved my problem by changing the default depth to 24, which it appears as though yours allready is . . . 
attn to anyone checking this thread, will that frac up my machine?
I am running an intel onboard graphics driver, and so far nothing has messed up . . . (fingers crossed).
but now i can move stuff on the desktop and it will actually move!

ojr

---

### Post by richaoj on 2007-04-26
my water effect will still not work though . . . but it ultimately serves no purpose anyway . . .

---

### Post by ronocdh on 2007-04-26
> **richaoj said:**
> Ok, i solved my problem by changing the default depth to 24, which it appears as though yours allready is . . . 
attn to anyone checking this thread, will that frac up my machine?
I am running an intel onboard graphics driver, and so far nothing has messed up . . . (fingers crossed).
but now i can move stuff on the desktop and it will actually move!

ojr
Have you already installed the 915resolution package from the repos? This would work will with your graphics chipset.

---

### Post by richaoj on 2007-04-26
well, i could use a little help with this one.  i got the 915resolution package, but am a little timid at going in and messing around with this stuff too much, as i have allready screwed my xorg.conf up a couple of too many times.  (not fun)

what mode should i choose?

---

### Post by richaoj on 2007-04-26
and how do i go about doing a startup script to load this everytime?

---

