---
title: "No GLXFBConfig for default depth (Compiz fusion)"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by mevets on 2007-10-25
I have been running compiz-fusion and loving it. Then on a reboot it tried to launch, but failed. I tried to compiz --replace but it kept failing. So, I resorted to trying to run it in the terminal. This is the output I get:
```

steve@steve-laptop:~$ compiz --replace
compiz (core) - Fatal: No GLXFBConfig for default depth, this isn't going to work.
compiz (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
compiz (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0
steve@steve-laptop:~$ compiz --replace gconf
compiz (core) - Fatal: No GLXFBConfig for default depth, this isn't going to work.
compiz (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
compiz (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0

```
I at first had the binary packages installed from the ubuntu repos. After becoming frustrated with this problem I uninstalled compiz and built compiz 0.6.2 from source following this tutorial:
[http://phorolinux.com/how-to-install-compiz-fusion-060-from-sources-on-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html](http://phorolinux.com/how-to-install-compiz-fusion-060-from-sources-on-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html)

I still get the same problem. Does anyone have any idea how to go about solving this?

---

### Post by joshuachad on 2007-10-25
Looks weird. Ive seen this once before but cant remember a fix. Try and see if putting this under the device section of your xorg.conf does anything, Option      "fbdev"

I will say its a shot in the dark though. It would really help if provided more info i.e. your xorg.conf, video card etc.

Cheers

---

### Post by joshuachad on 2007-10-25
Ok scratch the above. Your need to post your xorg.conf. Your having driver issues. Xorg isnt using the right driver.

---

### Post by mevets on 2007-10-25
I usuaally have to use 915resolution in order to get my max resolution cause I have an intel video card. When I installed gutsy I did not need to though, it was done for me. I opened synaptic and saw that though I had my max res, 915resolution was not installed. I decided to install 915resolution anyway. I had no problems for around 2 weeks.

xorg.conf:
> 
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection 
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


---

### Post by prince_niceguy on 2008-03-13
I too faced this error and fixed it by removing all the video drivers using synaptic.

I am using ati properietary drivers and hence didnt want these. Atleast one of the video driver is installing something which is causing this problem. Anyway I didnt need all the video drivers as my laptop didnt have them.

Now, I have compiz up and running without any issues.

hope this helps you too.

---

### Post by Uncle Mort on 2008-07-01
I've had a similar issue.  I have a number of users set up - most of my work has been done in the original one, with full Admin settings, whilst the others have been set up as 'ordinary users.

Compiz seems to work perfectly in Admin, but when I switch to another user I only get 'ordinary' rendition and effects.  When I go into System-> Preferences-> Appearance-> Visual Effect and click on 'Extra' the wheel spins for a bit and then the error message "Desktop effects could not be enabled" comes up.

Hmmm.... Any thoughts?

---

### Post by mevets on 2008-07-01
if its only working for your root account then you might want to start compiz with a sudo infront of it. Its a pretty crude hack if it works, but at least its something.

---

### Post by Uncle Mort on 2008-07-01
Mevets

Thanks very much - I like your thinking.  However, when I tried it I got the message:

<user> is not in the sudoers file.  This incident will be reported.

So now I'll be in a lot of trouble with myself!!

This is intriguing because when I first set the 'ordinary' users up I'm sure some Compiz effects were working and I thought nothing of it.  It's only since they've been running with no effects and won't change that I started to take notice. 

Curiouser and curiouser!

---

