---
title: "..::Ultimate tweak guide::.."
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by carlos1992 on 2007-10-23
If you do exactly what this guide tells you, your system/machine/how ever you like to call it, it's gonna be at least as fast as mine (ain't running a really fast machine; see my specs)
Most of this tweaks are from different web sites so this is a compilation:

**FIRST:** Open your Grub boot menu.
_write in terminal:_
sudo nano -w /boot/grub/menu.lst
_Look for the Defoptions and Altoptions and make them look like the entry below._
# defoptions=quiet splash rootflags=data=writeback
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single rootflags=data=writeback
_You need to update your Grub since you have altered it._
sudo update-grub
_Now we are going to edit the Fstab because it will be expecting these options._
sudo nano -w /etc/fstab
_Now you are going to want to add the flags to your hard drive. It might be a little confusing because of the new naming system. Look for the **,errors=remount-ro** and add it afterwards to make it look like our example_
defaults,errors=remount-ro,data=writeback,noatime 0
_Now you tell your system to use them both._
[]sudo tune2fs -o journal_data_writeback /dev/yourdrive

**SECOND**
Use this if you have little RAM or too much 
_First we have to gain access to your /etc/sysctl.conf file._
sudo gedit /etc/sysctl.conf
_This number depends if you have lot or little RAM, i have 256 MB. and set it to 80_
vm.swappiness=80

**THIRD**
_You have to open your /etc/sysctl.conf file back up again._
sudo gedit /etc/sysctl.conf
_Then again, scroll to the bottom and just add these lines to it._
net.core.rmem_default = 524288
net.core.rmem_max = 524288
net.core.wmem_default = 524288
net.core.wmem_max = 524288
net.ipv4.tcp_wmem = 4096 87380 524288
net.ipv4.tcp_rmem = 4096 87380 524288
net.ipv4.tcp_mem = 524288 524288 524288
net.ipv4.tcp_rfc1337 = 1
net.ipv4.ip_no_pmtu_disc = 0
net.ipv4.tcp_sack = 1
net.ipv4.tcp_fack = 1
net.ipv4.tcp_window_scaling = 1
net.ipv4.tcp_timestamps = 1
net.ipv4.tcp_ecn = 0
net.ipv4.route.flush = 1
_You have to reset your sysctl for these to take effect. _
sudo sysctl -p

**FOURTH**
_We are going to create a file. Paste this into a terminal._
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/bad_list
[UThen paste this into the file and save and exit the file.][/U]
alias net-pf-10 off

**FIFTH**
[U]Reboot your PC.
 When you come to your grub list, hit escape to see your grub menu.
 Edit the topmost line and add the word PROFILE below to the end of it. [/U]
profile

**SIXTH**
_Use Swiftfox, instead of Firefox_

**SEVENTH**
_Read this post completely and carefully: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89491) _
**EIGTH**

_Read this other post: [http://ubuntusoftware.info/Howto_tweak_ubuntu_ultimate.html](http://ubuntusoftware.info/Howto_tweak_ubuntu_ultimate.html)_

Benchmark(kind of)
Firefox: 3 seconds
aMSN: 8 seconds
Google Earth: 13 seconds (you could use it), 8 (you could see it)
VLC: 4 seconds
Abiword: 4 seconds
Turn on: 35 seconds
Turn off:26 seconds
All the test were made on my pc (the one in the signature), and they were the only app. running

---

### Post by nowshining on 2007-10-25
great guide but please rephrase the second part and the tcp things becuase I use 56k dialup but I don't know what u use but i'm giving it a shot anyway, now about the second part i didn't know what to put until i re-read it, please rephrase that part...

edit I get an error on 
"error: "Invalid argument" setting key "vm.swappiness"

UPDATE: i have double ur RAM and I set it to 160 however setting it to 80 ur size was fine, and woah it does speed it up.. :) also the tcp tip(s) also seems to have sped up the internet for me also - i just came straight here so ummm I haven't really tested that out tho... thanks tho..

---

### Post by carlos1992 on 2007-10-25
just a note, i think that if you set the swappiness at more than 100 (which is the top) you are gonna get the same result that setting it in 100 but if you say you have 512 then you should set it on around 60 or 40 because 0 is just for 1GB. and above.

---

### Post by SCGreg on 2007-10-26
just rebooted at step 5 and my x server has died.. doh

---

### Post by carlos1992 on 2007-10-26
Hey i think your mistake was in part 1, you gotta be carefull the same append to me, and it was the first week i used ubuntu, so i installed again, but i think you can change your GRUB or smthng like that

---

### Post by carlos1992 on 2007-11-06
:lolflag: i think i just screw my pc with my own tweak guide.
i was actually rebooting from this guide and i didn't have internet acces i don't know if it's a bug in 7.10 but it never appened in 7.04.
i got tired of trying to undo (i could undo everything) but i think is something else i don't know:confused::confused::confused::confused:

---

