---
title: "Help with AWN with two user accounts"
date: 2008-01-21
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by ClintonEv on 2008-01-21
If anyone can help me it would be appreciated. I have Ubuntu 7.10  with avant window navigator installed and working on my main user account. I recently created a new user account and now the AWN works on my main account but not the second one. I have it in sessions and I even try opening it like normal but it doesnt open. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-01-21
You'll need to install AWN again a second time for the new user (or copy the whole thing from one home folder to the other).

---

### Post by ClintonEv on 2008-01-21
It is already installed on the other user account. If I am logged into my main account with AWN running and switch to the second account it does not run in the second account. The only way I can get it to run in the second account is if I restart and login to that account first. But then it doesnt work in the main account if i switch to it.  HELP!!!

---

### Post by andrewsomething on 2008-01-21
Is there any error output? Login to the second account and run "avant-window-navigator" in the terminal. 

Also, you might want to try asking in the AWN forums. The link is in my sig below....

---

### Post by ClintonEv on 2008-01-22
Here is the error that it gives me.

~$ avant-window-navigator
Error: Screen isn't composited. Please run compiz (-fusion) or another compositing manager.
  WTF is that supposed to mean?

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-01-22
You need an active compositing-manager (like compiz) to use AWN. However, if you are able to use AWN on logging in, then it should be there, and it seems rather odd that it should turn off when you switch users. Do all the other fancy desktop effects still work, when you switch user?

After having switched, try running compiz from a terminal (may have to type "compiz-fusion", not really sure), and see what it says.

---

### Post by ClintonEv on 2008-01-22
Here is what it says.    

~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present.
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 00:02.0 0300: 8086:2772 (rev 02) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present.
Checking for non power of two support: present.
Checking for Composite extension: present.
Comparing resolution (1440x900) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present.
Checking for FBConfig: present.
Checking for Xgl: not present.
Starting emerald
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No GLXFBConfig for default depth, this isn'          t going to work.
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :20.          0


I had someone on another forum tell me that only NVIDIA supports direct rendering on multiple X servers at the same time.  Is this true?

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-01-22
ATI's latest drivers claims to do it too, but I'll believe it when I see it. So maybe you need to install XGL. Not sure how else to go about it.

---

### Post by ClintonEv on 2008-01-22
OK so i installed xgl, but now everything runs really slow. how can go back to how it was?

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-01-22
Just uninstall xgl again. It is slower than direct rendering. Before doing so, you should try editing you xorg.conf, and make sure that the part that says:

Composite "Enable"

is instead set to either "Disable" or just 0 (zero), since this is neccesary for xgl to work properly (just remember to change it back to "Enable" if you uninstall XGL).

---

### Post by ClintonEv on 2008-01-22
My xorg.conf file doesnt say anything about that.  This is everything in my file:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"E15T4W"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"E15T4W"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x1440" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by rune0077 on 2008-01-23
Weird. Did it look like that without XGL too? I need to have these two sections in mine:

-----------------------------------------------------------
Section "Module"
	Load		"v4l"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection 
-----------------------------------------------------------

And when I had XGL installed, it looked like this:

----------------------------------------------------------
Section "Module"
	Load		"v4l"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection 
--------------------------------------------------------

Don't know why you haven't, but if using AIGLX without the Composite - Enabled, it doesn't work and I get about the same message you did when running AWN, so maybe that's your problem. I'm a little clueless here, but my best bet:

- uninstall XGL again
- Backup your xorg.conf
- Then edit it to include the two sections (from the *first* example). See what happens.

---

### Post by ClintonEv on 2008-01-23
Well i tried that but it didnt change anything.  I guess i can just setup the other user without AWN. My real problem is getting EvE online to work.  lol


thanks for the help

---

