---
title: "ati 200"
date: 2007-09-16
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by HimK12 on 2007-09-16
Ok...I have Ati Radeon 200 Graphics card, with Intel core 2 duo 3.2 Ghz, and 1 GB ram.

I can't get the Desktop effects, awm and beryl to run on ubuntu 7.10. I referred to the earlier posts regarding that and I installed the advanced accelerated ati drivers...and I can't enable desktop effect.

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2007-09-19
What tutorial did you use?

Did you install Xgl?Desktop effects don't run on fglrx+aiglx.

---

### Post by HimK12 on 2007-09-19
Wow...finally someone with Ati 200 got compiz running. So...I tried dl'ing fglrx and original ati drivers. I've lost the tutorial links..but I know that is what I installed. Can you tell me how to install xgl? I've already crashed ubuntu like 4 times trying to get desktop effects to work, so I dont want to risk anymore.

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2007-09-20
I followed this tutorial....though I didn't install Avant Window Manager and now the contents of Vorian's thread have changed.....


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=491676](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=491676)

If the only thing you are missing is Xgl,follow the proprietary drivers method here.....

[http://www.ubuntuguide.org](http://www.ubuntuguide.org)

Look under Beryl installation........

---

### Post by HimK12 on 2007-09-22
I did everything as stated in ubuntuguide tutorial, and my beryl still doesnt work.

When I log into GNOMEwith XGL session, I get a black screen and i am booted out of it in 10 seconds. 

My fglrxinfo still shows mesa 3d as my openGL renderer. What am I doing wrong??

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2007-09-23
You sure your fglrx driver was installed correctly?If it was installed correctly,you should have this one line section in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "0"
EndSection

If it doesn't have this section,reinstall fglrx thru Restricted Drivers Manager....

System>>Administration>>Restricted Drivers Manager....

---

### Post by HimK12 on 2007-09-23
yup...thats what I have. I installed fglrx thru restricted drivers menu.

---

### Post by meindian523 on 2007-09-24
Hmmm,maybe the ATi drivers for Gutsy are not stable yet.....I personally can't find anything wrong short of telling you to uninstall beryl,purge all beryl and emerald-related packages and then go to ubuntuguide.org and copy paste the instructions.....:lolflag:

---

