---
title: "7.10 Thinkcentre &quot;desktop effects could not be enabled&quot;"
date: 2008-02-20
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by faldrich on 2008-02-20
I've read a post about this issue on Hardy, however that's a different release.

I had 7.10 installed a while ago, with Beryl, and it worked just fine.  I had no problems with desktop effects, nothing.  

I was experimenting on this machine with installing Hardy and decided to return to a fresh 7.10 system.  Not only can I not get Compiz working, the errors about XGL not being present are irritating (as I did install it and it says it was active).

I'm re-installing the system again, just to be sure.  However, this is a Thinkcentre 8171-WQL which has the Intel Accelerated Graphics 900 on-board.  That should be plenty for this, though I wasn't able to find a specific driver in the system configuration list, so it's using the Generic Vesa driver (which it was before, under Beryl).

Barring my getting Compiz to work on this platform, does anyone know where I can re-retrieve the older Beryl packages.  At least those worked.

Anyone else run into this problem with 7.10 or, in particular, with this Thinkcentre model and graphics chipset.


Thanks.

---

### Post by Kivech on 2008-02-20
First off: you are not alone.

Most ATI users have this problem also which often requires a manual install of xserver-xgl in order to get compiz working.
But it seems to me that more people are suffering from this, judging the multitude of threads about this subject on this forum. Which in turn makes me wonder if the Ubuntu staff shouldn't look into this. It is such a common problem that it would make sense if they were to try to tackle this issue.

Lets face it, it can't be too difficult to create a module that makes sure that all components to activate compiz properly are all installed on a regular install of Ubuntu.

I don't know the answer to your specific situation however, but hopefully you don't feel alone in the dark, a lot of us have been there or are still there.

Good luck!

Kivech

---

### Post by petermg on 2008-02-20
I'm having the EXACT SAME PROBLEM with the same Ubuntu 7.10.  It's a laptop, HP Pavillion ze5570us.  Onboard is an ATI IGP 300 (something or other).  I have no idea what to do to fix this.. Ubuntu runs GREAT except for this one issue :(  I have been PULLING MY HAIR OUT and staying up VERY LATE trying to figure this out... AAARRRRGGGGGHH!!!!!   Is Ubuntu's desktop effects just compatible with nVidia? :(

---

### Post by faldrich on 2008-02-21
Okay, so it appears that this part of the Ubuntu release is royally messed up.  I don't know that it's important to place "blame" as it is to just address the issue and get it fixed.  Hopefully the Compiz people are lurking here, too. 

In any case, does anyone know where I can get the last-released versions of the Beryl packages for Ubuntu?  I can install and live with those, provided it won't conflict with the updates.

or maybe I should just wait.

It may be a good idea to post something to the Compiz people, too, to see what they have to say about it.


Thanks!

---

### Post by chavanak on 2008-02-21
Yes ATI has a lot of problems with compiz.... :( 
I think in the next release atleast it will be sorted out.

---

### Post by faldrich on 2008-02-21
I reloaded Ubuntu onto my Thinkcenter, downloaded ALL the updates.  Then, I installed/activated "xserver-xgl." 

After then, the effects were working.

I did "compiz --replace" and was able to access those, too.

However, I've noted that, unlike under Beryl, the effects are horribly SLOW.   This may be due to the use of a Generic video driver, as I'm not able to find a specific driver in the list for the Intel Accelerated Graphics 900 (on-board).

Anyone know if there is a separate driver available for this, for Linux/Ubuntu?


Thanks.

---

