---
title: "7.10 Video Driver issues"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by AdamSnow on 2007-10-19
Hey everyone...
  Just a heads up, I'm quite new to Ubuntu...  I've played with it in the past using live CD's, etc. but nothing serious.

  I installed 7.10 on my test system yesterday after the official release... Resolution was fine, but none of the cool effects for the desktop, and I couldn't change my refresh rate past 50 so it was flickering quite bad...

  Video card is a Geforce 4 TI 4200 128mb RAM...   I went into the restricted drivers area to enable that (worked in 7.04 just fine) and rebooted as it requested.   Now my screen is stuck at 640x480 (With effects mind you!)  and I can't get it out...

  I searched around and found that "Envy" can fix this, so I downloaded that, but that stupid "Welcome to Envy" thing must be 400px high, and I can't see the rest of the buttons to do anything...  

  Can anyone help me get my system back to a decent resolution without re-installing?  I'd love to have the effects and everything as I did with 7.04, but I really don't know what to do at this point...

Thanks everyone!

---

### Post by kevmaster on 2007-10-19
If you've got the effects running, that means that the driver is installed successfully. So no need to use Envy (envy is only for installing drivers).

I think all you need to do is set a higher resolution because your xorg.conf has been changed. You can do this by pressing **ALT**+**F2** and typing
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

Click X Server Display Configuration
Change your resolution
press Apply.
Works?
Then choose: Save to X Configuration File (so the next time you boot you'll have the same resolution)

---

### Post by AdamSnow on 2007-10-19
Thanks for the quick reply!

X Server Display Configuration I get:

640x480
AUTO

Auto doesn't help the situation either... :(

---

### Post by kevmaster on 2007-10-20
Auto is for the refresh rate. And you cannot choose other resolutions than 640x480 there? I still think your driver is okay since you have 3d effects. Maybe your monitor has to be redefined.

In Gutsy I think the best way to do that is to press **ALT**+**F2**, type
```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
```
and press **Run**

Now try and see if you can select your monitor model and save. If it isn't there, select a default Plug & Play monitor. This should allow X to scale up to higher resolutions & refresh rates.

---

### Post by BarneyRubble on 2007-10-20
Hi Adam

Could the nvidia drivers be installed already? If the effects are working but the resolution is wrong, it sounds like they might be. Have you tried just resetting the resolution through the System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution option?

---

### Post by AdamSnow on 2007-10-20
Thanks for more help!

Setting the monitor correctly solved the issues... Drivers were okay, but it thought my old Dell CRT was a Sony TFT...   After I corrected that, I can go right back up to top resolution...

Thank you both!!

---

