---
title: "7.10 Gutsy + Dual Screens + Xgl + Compiz-Fusion = A mess"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by shogun301 on 2007-10-19
A couple days ago (Oct 15th) I installed the 7.10 Gusty Release Candidate on my Dell Latitude D520.  I have my computer set up to have an extetnded desktop on a Dell LCD monitor and it works well until I make an attempt to enable the desktop effects.  

 - My graphics hardware is the Intel Integrated "Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller". 

 - When I install xserver-xgl in order to enable the desktop effects, everything begins to move with a rediculous lag.  

 - Additionally, while I am able to move my mouse onto my extended desktop (the external monitor), I cannot move any windows or Icons onto it. 

 - I was able to run 7.04 with the extended desktop and desktop effects with no problem whatsoever.  

Where can I find more information about the Xgl server, compiz-fusion as it applies to here, desktop effects and the intel hardware?  Also, am I correct in the understanding that Gutsy ships with Compiz-Fusion?

---

### Post by zero244 on 2007-10-19
Ive only run Gutsy from a live cd.....I didnt see compiz-fusion on the cd itself. I think it is in the repository The restricted drivers are also downloaded.
I am going to install Gutsy on a test machine this weekend. If it goes well I will install it on my main machine.
This machine is running Edgy with XGL and Beryl and runs very well......I really have no issues.
I probably shouldnt even Update to Gutsy.....but I probably will just to get Compiz-Fussion.

---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2007-10-19
This may be related to the problem that I'm having. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=581223](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=581223)

I've submitted a bug report.

---

### Post by shogun301 on 2007-10-19
Update: When changing monitor type from Generic LCD 1024x768 to Plug and Play, Desktop effects work when only the laptop monitor is enabled.

---

### Post by alligoodw on 2007-10-19
> **shogun301 said:**
> Update: When changing monitor type from Generic LCD 1024x768 to Plug and Play, Desktop effects work when only the laptop monitor is enabled.

I am having the same kind of problem.  I have a Nvidia GForce4 440 (64MG) (I believe that's correct) video graphics card.  If I enable Desktop effects, my resolution changed to 800 x 600/Plug & Play.  I was not able to change the resolution without losing Compiz effects altogether.  In other words, if I changed the resolution from 800 x 600 to another resolution, my Desktop Effect automatically would disengage, it would turn off.  Maybe I just don't understand the Screen/Graphics window altogether.  

At any rate, it is very confusing to say the least.

---

### Post by shogun301 on 2007-10-19
Try setting up with a "Generic LCD" of your desired resolution.

---

