---
title: "Can't activate Beryl or change settings in Compiz on 7.04"
date: 2007-11-23
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by nold-i-spolen on 2007-11-23
Hi!

3 month ago i installed Ubuntu Ultimate 1.4 (feisty fawn 7.04) and Beryl on my laptop, and REALY likes it! I realy liked Beryl, and when 7.10 came out i installed it on my stationary computer even thougt i knew that i had to switch to Compiz.

7.10 runs realy unstable on my stationary, it isn't running smooyh in any way, and somtimes freezes, and i had problems with the screenresulusion on reboot(about every 10'th time i reboot it comes up with a white/grey desktop without icons/menues where i have to guess wher the menues are, so i can change the settings back and reboot for it to work)

So i decided to install 7.04 on my stationary too, partly to see if it would solve my problems, and also to get me beloved Beryl back.

It solved all of my problems, except i cant use Beryl. I can easily install Beryl-manager and Beryl-settings-manager but can not activate anything. When i right click beryl-manager > select windows manager i can chose between metacity. Compiz and Beryl..........on my laptop i only have Beryl and Metacity in the same menu? When i chose Compiz alot of desctop effects work such as wobbly window, but i cant find the Compiz setting manager(CCSM?) and when i search for it in Add/Remove there are no results when i type "compiz" in "all available  applications"

1. How do i get Beryl to work?
2. If not posible, then how do i change settings in Compiz?


Regards
Thomas


Yes, i am a n00b :)

---

### Post by Ub1476 on 2007-11-23
Compiz-Fusion probably works better than Beryl now. It's much more stable and has more effects too (I think).

Could you tell us your graphic card?

Also, if I got it right, you're currently running Feisty Fawn on your comp now. Compiz-Fusion is not in its repos;)

Anyway, if it's not a driver thing or anything, can't really help you. Was too long ago I used Beryl:|

---

### Post by nold-i-spolen on 2007-11-23
Yes, i am using 7.04 now 

My graphic card is NV17 [GeForce4 MX 420]

---

### Post by satx on 2007-11-23
Get Envy. Here's where:

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

This will run all the scripts you need to properly configure your NVidia card. I have a GeForce 7300 LE, 256MB RAM. After installing 7.10 I had great grief with my video drivers, etc. Here's my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder3) Thu Oct 4 10:33:51 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Failsafe Monitor"
Vendorname "Generic LCD Display"
Modelname "LCD Panel 1280x1024"
Horizsync 31.5 - 64.0
Vertrefresh 56.0 - 65.0
Gamma 1
modeline "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
modeline "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
modeline "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
modeline "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
modeline "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
modeline "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

#
Identifier "monitor1"
Gamma 1
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Failsafe Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Boardname "vesa"
Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
Screen 0
Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"

#
Identifier "device1"
Driver "nv"
Boardname "vesa"
Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
Screen 1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Failsafe Device"
Monitor "Failsafe Monitor"
Defaultdepth 24
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
SubSection "Display"
Virtual 1280 1024
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024@60" "1280x960@60" "1024x768@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@56" "640x480@60"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

#
Identifier "screen1"
Device "device1"
Monitor "monitor1"
Defaultdepth 24
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


The scripts also instal NVidia Settings in Applications->System Tools->NVidia Settings. This is a great gui based configuration tool.

Good Luck,

SATX

---

### Post by unknownkadath on 2007-12-30
I've had the same frustrating problem, and after living without the glory of the rotating cube for several months, I found this on the Mandriva 2008 forums via Google:

[http://forum.mandriva.com/viewtopic.php?t=74019&sid=68408d13f971c2da79dd32a60372c677](http://forum.mandriva.com/viewtopic.php?t=74019&sid=68408d13f971c2da79dd32a60372c677)

__________________________
Hi,

Thanks for the suggestions! I fixed the problem by deleting the ~/.config/compiz folder and letting compiz-fusion recreate the folder. The folder was a holdover from Ubuntu and PCLOS 2007 because when I installed a new distro at /, i chose not to have the /home partition re-formatted, which kept the settings from previous distros, but apparently doesn't play nice with the new distros.

I am unable to update my backports packages due to a md5sum mismatch error.

Take care,
Russ
__________________________

I renamed the ~/.config/compiz folder something else just in case I needed to bring it back, but once I removed it and restarted Compiz Config, all of the options were selectable.  This is apparently an issue for anyone who has installed Gutsy over a PCLinuxOS installation.  

Also, it couldn't hurt to make sure that all of the pertinent file and folder settings are set properly.  

Hope this helps!



unknownkadath

---

