---
title: "7.10 Compiz Problem"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by cessna_89702 on 2007-10-23
I have a dv9000 laptop with nvidia graphic card which I installed using the restricted driver option. It works now and my windows have the little wierd animation when closing which is cool.


But...
I cant see the top of progrms like the minimize icon or maximize.
Like firefox gets cut off right above the URL bar..This happens in all programs too...

(i have to close things by right clicking its icon in the bottom toolbar)

So how would I go about fixing this??
and get some sort of screen to choose which effects i want
i think i attached a screenshot

thanks

---

### Post by zsteele on 2007-10-23
I'm having the same issue on my computer, too.  I'm also using the proprietary nvidia driver, so maybe that's the problem.

I've found that by setting the "Visual Effects" to "none", I was able to get the bar at the top of the windows to display properly.  Downside is that that takes out the neat visual effects :(.

Does anyone know how I can get the visual effects back?

---

### Post by Faud on 2007-10-23
Open your compiz settings manager and go to the "place" plugin. Change it from smart to centered.

---

### Post by cessna_89702 on 2007-10-23
wheres the place plugin??

i dont see it in the manager

---

### Post by oddchild on 2007-11-14
mmm that didnt work....

same problem nvidia card :o

---

### Post by oddchild on 2007-11-14
just updated all the nvidia drivers... and whatnot. still no luck. :o

---

