---
title: "7.10 Compiz-fusion window size problem"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Desktop Effects &amp; Customization
---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2007-10-19
I just installed Ubuntu 7.10 last night and everything went very well. My only problem is that I can't seem to get Compiz fusion to agree on the proper screen width. My laptop has a 1280x800 lcd screen. I have an Acer 22" (1680x1050) widescreen monitor plugged into the laptop full-time (I don't use the laptop LCD at all). 

When running off the Live CD and after hard disk installation, I noticed that when desktop effects are enabled (compiz-fusion) that ALL windows open pinned to the upper left hand corner. If I hit maximize, the screen enlarges but only to a 1280x800 sized window. If I drag the window to the center of the screen and maximize it, it stretches to the full with of my 1680x1050 screen. Unfortunately, the second I click anywhere on that window, it resizes back to the 1280x800 resolution again. 

So far, my only fix was to disable desktop effects. All windows act properly WITHOUT desktop effects turned on. BTW, when I had Feisty installed (using the very same xorg.conf file and everything) compiz-fusion worked GREAT!!! I just installed compiz-fusion using these instructions.

[http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/26/The-best-way-to-install-Compiz-Fusion-on-Ubuntu-Feisty](http://forlong.blogage.de/article/2007/8/26/The-best-way-to-install-Compiz-Fusion-on-Ubuntu-Feisty)

Any ideas on what is causing this?

Oh yeah....my laptop does NOT support dual monitors nor does the new screen&graphics application let me configure more than 1 screen for use.

---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2007-10-19
I've submitted a bug report.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/154453](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/154453)

---

### Post by Daniel Song on 2007-10-20
Hi,

Thank you for giving a comment to share your problem in my thread. ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=581554](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=581554))

This could help you to resolve your problem.

1. Install compizconfig-settings-manger and gnome-compiz-manager using synaptic.

2. System -> Preference -> Appearance -> Visual Effects -> None.

3. System -> Preference -> Advanced Desktop Effects Settings -> General Options -> Display Settings

4. Uncheck "Detect Outputs"

5. Modify "Outputs" as "1680x1050+0+0"

6. System -> Preference -> Appearance -> Visual Effects -> Custom

7. Reboot.

If it helps you, please let me know.

I have still problem with dual monitor probelm. With the configuration, it does not allow to select secondary display. Anyway, I wish this would help you.

---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2007-10-20
It WORKED!!!!! My windows are now the appropriate size. I do have 1 problem still. When I log out and my screen goes dark, the upper left corner (approximately the same size as my 1280x800 screen) is darker than the rest of the screen. I guess that's small stuff, but I do appreciate your solution GREATLY!!!! Thanks,,,

---

### Post by phil.christs on 2007-10-25
I also have this problem with the Gutsy Live CD - I have an Intel 945GM graphics chip hooked up by VGA to an HDTV as my only monitor. I know that my HDTV spews out 1024x768 as the highest supported resolution to the x.org log, but the xserver-xorg-video-intel driver package thingy correctly feeds 1280x768 to my HDTV anyway for proper unstretched fullscreen HDTV goodness. With compiz enabled, when I maximize, all the windows only expand to 1024 pixels wide.

My point with all the above is to ask if compiz takes settings from the x.org log? If so that is silly, and could the resolution data be taken from ubuntu's screen resolution dialog config file as that gives the correct resolution of 1280x768? Should I stick this data into a bug report?

I will try this solution once I have installed gutsy to my hard drive, hoping it works for me too.

Phil

---

### Post by 13warrior on 2007-10-25
Thanks. 

Worked well..

---

