---
title: "12.10 gamepad issue"
date: 2013-01-18
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by erfg12 on 2013-01-18
I had 12.04 installed and the joysticks worked fine. Personally i have 6 joysticks plugged in.

Then I reformatted and installed 12.10. All the joystick bottom and right axis no longer function. I re-installed 12.04 and there was no issue. So they're not broken.

Not sure what the issue is.... can I backtrack the joysticks drivers to whatever 12.04 has? is there a fix for this issue?

---

### Post by erfg12 on 2013-01-19
This person is having the same issue!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1167970](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1167970)

Can anyone help us?!

---

### Post by Grumbel on 2013-01-19
Could you provide some more information on your joysticks?

What types of joysticks are they?
What games do they fail in?
Are the values reported by evtest and jstest correct ("apt-get install evtest joystick" to get both of those)?

They are used like this:

evtest /dev/input/event0
jstest /dev/input/js0

Use different numbers for different devices connected to your system.

---

### Post by erfg12 on 2013-01-19
/dev/input/event12 is one of my joysticks
/dev/input/event13 is another
/dev/input/event14 is another
/dev/input/event15 is another

The joysticks respond, but 2 of the axis do not. On all of the joysticks.

It's not for just 1 game, its in general they do not respond. With Ubuntu 12.4 the axis work perfect. 12.10, 2 axis on all joysticks just don't work. No response from the 2 axis angles with jstest or evtest.

---

### Post by Grumbel on 2013-01-20
If the axis do not respont in evtest, but other buttons do, then it is an issue with the kernel joystick driver or USB driver. Next steps:

What brand of joysticks do you use? Post the "lsusb -v" output to get the exact USB vendor/product ids. You can use the "-d" option to limit it to just a single device.

Which was the last kernel it worked on and what was the first kernel it didn't work on? If you have Ubuntu 12.04 still installed, "uname -a" gives you that info.

Does the evtest output look plausible? Post the first part of the evtest output that tells you which axis and buttons your joystick has. Are the axis completely missing in evtest or do they just not respond?

---

