---
title: "640x480 Resolution Problem"
date: 2008-07-13
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-07-13
When I'm using Dosbox or ScummVM or some other game that only has 640x480 resolution, fullscreen doesn't fill the screen. The left and right sides of the screen don't get filled. My Monitor settings don't stretch far enough to fill the left and right sides, the Monitor light blinks when its at the max. I uploaded a screenshot to show you what I'm talking about. I edited the screenshot so it looks the way I see it when playing the game.

---

### Post by RIchard James13 on 2008-07-13
Silly question but what is the resolution of your monitor? If you have a wide screen monitor then 640x480 is a 4:3 ratio resolution and cannot scale to wide screens without banding. This is similar to how you see black bands at the top of a standard Television set when you watch a wide screen movie. The bands exist because to actually scale to fit the screen, would warp the picture out of proportion.

---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-07-13
My monitor is not a widescreen monitor. The resolution on it is set to 1024x768. This problem started ever since I upgraded to Ubuntu 8.04 back in April.

---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-08-09
Still having a problem with this resolution. Here is my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Mon Feb 26 23:38:28 PST 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: xconfig, VertRefresh source: xconfig
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Chuntex"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 72.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 130.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "DynamicTwinView" "false"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_60 +0+0; 1280x960_60 +0+0; 1024x768_85 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

