---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia drivers.... Which one am I using?"
date: 2008-03-04
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by LtPitt on 2008-03-04
Hello there!
I've been messing quite a lot to enable official nvidia drivers (looking desperately for a little improvement in performance) and...

I don't know if I did it :|

How can I check if I'm using standard ubuntu 7.10 nvidia driver (the one installed when you start the first time compiz) or if I'm using the nvidia one?
I have no clues :|

And OpenArena is really choppy with all details @ minimum...

My pc is not new (Fx 5200 p4 2.4 ghz and 1 gb ram) but when I use quake 3 on windows it's a lot smoother...

Any hints?

Thank you in advance! :D

---

### Post by derekr44 on 2008-03-04
Try running ```
nvidia-settings
``` from the console.

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2008-03-05
HI! :D

I get the nvidia x-server settings...

This already means that I'm using nvidia driver?
It's the only way to get this panel working?

I get horrible performance :'(
Then maybe standard driver could be better or not?

---

### Post by FrozenFox on 2008-03-05
Running glxinfo | grep direct in the terminal/console will tell you if direct rendering (ie your video driver) is enabled correctly. I'm not sure if just running nvidia-settings will tell you.

However, if you -can- run 3d games, then they're probably enabled, because I don't think the open source (nv) drivers have anything beyond extremely basic 3d functionality.

In nvidia-settings, please check under "OpenGL Settings" that your image is set to a reasonable quality for your card. You should get roughly identical performance between windows and linux on native linux games.

On that note, I'm assuming you are running quake 3 natively and not through wine or cedega, correct?

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2008-03-05
Something went...

Awful :(

after rebooting, yesterday my sytem hanged up with blank screen during startx...

The sound was on so I suppose the system was running but I was not able to see anything...

I stopped it using ctrl+alt+backspace

and tried

nvidia-xconfig

No luck :(

Now I don t have anymore any kind of hardware acceleration both nvidia and generic driver :(

Do you have any suggestion to get things running again?

Ive tried starting with the original xorg.conf
and running again the nvidia.run installation but nothing :(

my config now is:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"700S"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"700S"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

What could be wrong?

Sigh.

I ve also tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

but no luck and same blank screen result

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2008-03-05
post scriptum

I've tried your grep command and I got

Usage: grep [OPTION]... PATTERN [FILE]...
Try `grep --help' for more information.
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".

I just wish I didn't mess at all AAAAARGH :D

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2008-03-05
Ehm...

Itried to be a "poer user" but that really wasn't for me...

I've found a solution anyway, this *great* program:

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

I've removed and reinstalled everything and now is *perfect*.

Everybody please forgive me for wasting your time =)

---

### Post by FrozenFox on 2008-03-05
Hehe, I was actually just about to suggest envy myself until I read the rest of your new posts beating me to it. Envy is awesome indeed.

You weren't wasting our time. The forums are here for support, don't forget it. If you ever have problems and can't figure it out, that's what they're here for, so use them.

It seems like your problem is fixed, so please go to Thread Tools at the top of the page, then mark this as solved.

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2008-03-05
Aw! THE COMMUNITY!!!

:'(  *cries tears of joy*  :'(

humanity towards others is just pure happiness =D

See you there (maybe a couple of frags!) then and thank you again =)

---

