---
title: "Enemy Territory on Ubuntu 8.04"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by b3y0nd on 2008-04-27
I am trying to install ET and ran into an error when installing:


user@desktop:~/Desktop$ sudo sh ./et-linux-2.55.x86.run
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing Enemy Territory 2.55...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
/home/user/.setup20028: error while loading shared libraries: libgtk-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
The setup program seems to have failed on x86/glibc-2.1


I installed the libgtk 1.2 -common after first getting this error, 2.0 is already installed (did i goober?). I tried again and same error. 

Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by bettlebrox on 2008-04-27
That's a fun game! I used to play that all the time, until I UT2004 come out. :)

See if /usr/lib/libgtk-1.2.so.0 exists.

---

### Post by b3y0nd on 2008-04-27
nope. I am looking for the right package now :(

Been playing 2-3 years now, whats UT2004?

---

### Post by ShodanjoDM on 2008-04-27
> **b3y0nd said:**
> nope. I am looking for the right package now :(

Been playing 2-3 years now, whats UT2004?

the missing file isn't inside the libgtk1.2-common package. It's in libgtk1.2.

```
sudo aptitude install libgtk1.2
```

---

### Post by Codo on 2008-04-30
I just installed Woldenstein Enemy Territory(et-linux-2.60.x86.run) on my ubuntu 8.04 system with the terminal.  When I enter 'et' in terminal to launch the game it does not launch the game. It goes to a dark screen for a moment then back to desktop... this is the error message:

ET 2.60 linux-i386 Mar 10 2005
----- FS_Startup -----
Current search path:
/home/cod3/.etwolf/etmain
/usr/local/games/enemy-territory/etmain/pak2.pk3 (22 files)
/usr/local/games/enemy-territory/etmain/pak1.pk3 (10 files)
/usr/local/games/enemy-territory/etmain/pak0.pk3 (3725 files)
/usr/local/games/enemy-territory/etmain/mp_bin.pk3 (6 files)
/usr/local/games/enemy-territory/etmain

----------------------
3763 files in pk3 files
execing default.cfg
couldn't exec language.cfg
couldn't exec autoexec.cfg
Hunk_Clear: reset the hunk ok

------- Input Initialization -------
Joystick is not active.
------------------------------------
Bypassing CD checks
----- Client Initialization -----
----- Initializing Renderer ----
-------------------------------
----- Client Initialization Complete -----
----- R_Init -----
...loading libGL.so.1: Initializing OpenGL display
...setting mode 4: 800 600
Using XFree86-VidModeExtension Version 2.2
XF86DGA Mouse (Version 2.0) initialized
XFree86-VidModeExtension Activated at 800x600
Using 8/8/8 Color bits, 16 depth, 0 stencil display.
GL_RENDERER: Mesa GLX Indirect


***********************************************************
 You are using software Mesa (no hardware acceleration)!   
 Driver DLL used: libGL.so.1
 If this is intentional, add
       "+set r_allowSoftwareGL 1"
 to the command line when starting the game.
***********************************************************
...WARNING: could not set the given mode (4)
Initializing OpenGL display
...setting mode 3: 640 480
Using XFree86-VidModeExtension Version 2.2
XF86DGA Mouse (Version 2.0) initialized
XFree86-VidModeExtension Activated at 640x480
Received signal 11, exiting...

Any help would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by wingnux on 2008-04-30
It seems your gfx card drivers aren't installed.

---

### Post by Codo on 2008-04-30
I see now... Thanks Wingnux. Now I just need to del with this punkbuster problem, lol

---

### Post by b3y0nd on 2008-04-30
I got ET working the other day, but didnt actually join a server until today. I get reallly bad lag, on checking my xorg file I noticed that something is wrong. Heres the file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection



I am using a ATI Radeon 9200. Compiz is working great, not much lag at all. I though I got my video driver installed correctly, but now I know it's not. Theres no info on what graphics driver im using... I wouldnt think that compiz would work with these settings.. maybe so.

Suggestions?

---

### Post by Shadowmeph on 2008-05-12
ok I am getting the > /home/user/.setup26702: error while loading shared libraries: libgtk-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

the thing is that the file exists but I am running 64bit hardy if this helps

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-05-12
Then you need to install libgtk1.2 to your lib32.
You can do it like this; [http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/guides:64bit:et_wolfenstein](http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/guides:64bit:et_wolfenstein)

---

### Post by Shadowmeph on 2008-05-12
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> Then you need to install libgtk1.2 to your lib32.
You can do it like this; [http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/guides:64bit:et_wolfenstein](http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/guides:64bit:et_wolfenstein)

Wow thats allot of things o do compared to gutsy lol but I think it will work so I will give it a try thank you

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-05-12
It's because libgtk1.2 is obsolite and therefore not in the standard package, but ET is an old game.

---

### Post by Shadowmeph on 2008-05-12
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> It's because libgtk1.2 is obsolite and therefore not in the standard package, but ET is an old game.

oh ..well that makes total sense lolthank you again

---

