---
title: "Running a Feed the Beast Minecraft server on Lubuntu."
date: 2013-04-12
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Reina on 2013-04-12
Hello, I am coming here because I've recognized that running anything Minecraft server related is rather unnecessarily different from Windows and apparently other distributions of Linux as well. All I want to do is simply run the server from the folder its in, but for some reason when I boot up the server, the server boots up my normal Minecraft map from my normal Minecraft server, and I think it makes completely different files in another part of my computer. Why does this even happen? How can I fix it? I remember figuring this out before to (maybe to an extent) and (maybe) figuring out where the files were stored, but even then it just ran the map like a normal Minecraft server and closed me out from using any of the mods that came with Feed The Beast. How can I fix this issue?

---

### Post by Vontux on 2013-04-12
> **Reina said:**
> Hello, I am coming here because I've recognized that running anything Minecraft server related is rather unnecessarily different from Windows and apparently other distributions of Linux as well. All I want to do is simply run the server from the folder its in, but for some reason when I boot up the server, the server boots up my normal Minecraft map from my normal Minecraft server, and I think it makes completely different files in another part of my computer. Why does this even happen? How can I fix it? I remember figuring this out before to (maybe to an extent) and (maybe) figuring out where the files were stored, but even then it just ran the map like a normal Minecraft server and closed me out from using any of the mods that came with Feed The Beast. How can I fix this issue?

I've been needing to do a lot of searching for files being generated by applications lately. I found that if you aren't an expert with grep the application "search monkey" with the "Use Wild Card Syntax" helps me locate files more easily than the default gui based search tools. If these Minecraft files have have standard extensions for instance you could try searching for *.txt for example. As for the why on the odd behavior from your Minecraft server I have no idea, hope this helps.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2013-04-14
I am not familiar with Feed the Beast Minecraft. But I know that when I ran a Tekkit server just to get familiar with that, it kept some of its files in one visible directory that I created, and other files (including an older minecraft version) in a hidden directory (beginning with a dot) in my home dir. In the file manager if you hit Ctrl-H you can see hidden folders.

In any case if you are running a minecraft server with mods, it should not be in the same directory as your plain vanilla minecraft server.

---

