---
title: "Americas army and radeon open source-&gt;problem--any tips?"
date: 2007-02-19
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by timppa_m on 2007-02-19
Hi!
I have problem with open source radeon drivers. If i play americas army FPS is like 7 but when i play other games (for example enemy territory) game runs fine. I have tried to optimize my xorg.conf. With radeon open source drivers i get about 4500 FPS with glxgears -printfps and with fglrx around 2200. I use now fglrx and my videocard is Ati Radeon 9200. I want rid of fglrx because it produces somekind of FPS problems in game. Let me explain. The game runs well only five seconds then FPS goes down for two seconds and again for five seconds game runs well... circle is ready. And weird thing is that problem goes away when i reinstall fglrx with synaptic. But after few days problem is back.
I will appreciate all help. Thx in advance.

Timppa

Sorry for my bad english :)

---

### Post by timppa_m on 2007-02-25
bump

---

### Post by timppa_m on 2007-05-01
Hmmm. Nobody seems to have any solution for this problem :(

I post here my xorg.conf if someone would find something which is wrong in it.

xorg.conf
> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Option          "AIGLX"         "true"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "fi"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Samtron"
	HorizSync    30.0-71.0, 
	VertRefresh  50.0-160.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier      "Ati Radeon 9200"
	Driver		"ati"
       	Option          "AccelMethod"   "EXA"	
	Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "1"
	Option 		"AccelDFS" "0" # Better "0" using AGP
	Option 		"AGPMode" "8" # AGP Speed
        Option 		"AGPSize" "128" # AGP Aperture Size
        Option 		"GARTSize" "64"  
	Option 		"RingSize" "8"
	Option 		"BufferSize" "2"
	Option 		"EnablePageFlip" "1"     
 	Option 		"ColorTiling"   "1"
	Option 		"EnableDepthMoves" "1"
	Option 		"MergedXinerama" "1"
	Option 		"RenderAccel" "1" # Enable the hardware render acceleration
	Option 		"mtrr" "on"
	Option 		"DisplayPriority" "AUTO"	
	Option 		"DynamicClocks" "on"
        BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Ati Radeon 9200"
	Monitor    "Samtron"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     1
		Modes    "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     4
		Modes    "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     8
		Modes    "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     15
		Modes    "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     16
		Modes    "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection



Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection



EDIT: i have now little bit better performance in Americas army but it still doesnt run well :/

---

### Post by blitzer on 2007-05-02
Hi timppa_m,

I also have the Radeon 9200se which is set-up by default (ati) to use the Open Source Drivers.  Fglrx is the best driver for gaming as my experience has shown me using both drivers.  Fglrx is an Ati proprietary driver for Linux which [COLOR="Red"]utilizes all of the cards hardware [/COLOR].  The Open Source driver does not have access to to all of the cards hardware for some games like Americas Army for one.

I'm using Feisty Fawn with the Open Source Drivers because Ati does not support the 9200se card any longer :(   I'm hoping that either the open source drivers greatly improve or the Fglrx driver is patched in some way for Feisty Fawn  :confused:   The Open Source Drivers work the best with BERYL and 3D desktop :) you don't have to use XGL session.  

You just have to pick which driver to use per your preference of gaming or what not.  I prefer Fglrx for gaming and might have to change back to Edgy Eft to use it :(

---

### Post by timppa_m on 2007-05-05
i have the same card as u have and i have just same problems after upgrading to edgy. I have searched the net and i have found out that old 8.28.8 fglrx drivers dont support 2.16.20 kernel.

For those who have problems with ati open source-drivers these might help:

```
$ sudo apt-get install driconf
```
Whit this driconf utility you can enable/disable different options. I recommend to enable Hyperz. it will boost performance with games.

And then change your /etc/X11/xorg.conf at the device section to look like this:
(you need to change card name to right one and maybe some AGP settings)
```

        Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Your graphics card name here"
	Driver		 "radeon"
	Option          "AccelMethod"   "EXA"	#or XAA (EXA may have better performance with games)
	Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "1"
	Option 		"AccelDFS" "0" # Better "0" using AGP
	Option 		"AGPMode" "8" # AGP Speed  (if your system hangs change this value to 4 or 2)
        Option 		"AGPSize" "128" # AGP Aperture Size 
        Option 		"GARTSize" "64"  
	Option 		"RingSize" "8"
	Option 		"BufferSize" "2"
	Option 		"EnablePageFlip" "1"     
 	Option 		"ColorTiling"   "1"
	Option 		"EnableDepthMoves" "1"
	Option 		"MergedXinerama" "1"
	Option 		"RenderAccel" "1" # Enable the hardware render acceleration
	Option 		"mtrr" "on"
	Option 		"DisplayPriority" "HIGH"	
	Option 		"DynamicClocks" "on"
        BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

This xorg.conf is from ubuntu finnish forums. I edited it little a bit but i hope it works :)

Correct if i have done some mistakes when i wrote this :)
And also if u have some tweaking tips post them also here, because someone may need them.

---

### Post by blitzer on 2007-05-07
Hello timppa_m,

Thanks for the info on Driconf  and the xorg info.    The problem is with the ATI/AMD not releasing all the driver info "proprietary" that Open Source needs to have excellent hardware rendering :( 

My problems would be over if they (ATI/AMD) supported our card for xorg 7.2 and beyond  :lolflag: with fglrx drivers.  Don't get me wrong I like what the Open source community is doing and wish all their drivers worked perfectly.  They are hindered by "proprietary" claims that hurt the linux community and ATI CUSTOMERS - [SIZE="4"][COLOR="Red"]Shame on you ATI/AMD.[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

### Post by timppa_m on 2007-05-15
I moved back to Ubuntu 6.10

I agree with you about ATI :)

---

