---
title: "Uninstall Tremulous"
date: 2007-03-22
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Clay_Banger on 2007-03-22
i installed tremulous via downloading it from the web site. (.run file)
using sudo ./tremulous.run i was able to install it.
I now wish to remove it but am unable to run the uninstall. in the place where tremulous installed itself, it has an uninstall script but i cant seem to run it. how can i run this script?

---

### Post by Qrk on 2007-03-22
You'll have to post the error message you got (or at least the output from your terminal) to get any help, unless someone here is lucky enough to have had the exact same problem.

---

### Post by Clay_Banger on 2007-03-22
in /usr/local/games/tremulous/ is a file called "uninstall"
its first few lines are:
```
#! /bin/sh
#### UNINSTALL SCRIPT - Generated by SetupDB 1.6 #####
DetectARCH()
{
        status=1
        case `uname -m` in
           amd64 | x86_64)  echo "amd64"
                  status=0;;
           i?86 | i86*)  echo "x86"
                  status=0;;
           90*/*)
		   echo "hppa"
		   status=0;;
	    *)
		case `uname -s` in
```

i have tried to run it using ./uninstall but i get "Could not find a usable uninstall program. Aborting." 
hope that makes things clearer..

---

### Post by lynx8989 on 2007-10-20
Hey i'm new to Ubuntu but to uninstall Tremulous just go t Synaptic Package Manager, click on search and enter 'Tremulous'.  Click search and it should show the installed version of tremulous in the box, just right click the install version select mark for complete removal and click apply and it will be uninstalled. :)

---

### Post by prasadz8 on 2008-01-25
oh God. this is agonizing. Professional HELP needed. Noob at work.

Experiment: By installing the version of tremulous via the Synaptic Package Manager, will this overwrite the web ".run" installation and [hopefully] make able to uninstall it back? 

Q1: My installed game runs at 640x480 and the 3d rendering is all chunky, there is a lot of lines within the polygon but the polygons and lighting  themselves are well rendered. Strolling around the map has no gravity over the player, enabling me to clip through the polygons. Even the HUD wordings all seem meshed and messed, not allowing me to read ANY of the in-game text. I had to guess-click my way out to exit. Switching compiz on and off, both made no difference.

Q2: i can't detect any of the servers over the net within the game.

I use : ATi x550, AIGLX with compiz - Xorg drivers. AMD sempron 1.4GHz @ 512Mb ram. Gutsy 7.10. Standalone with no dual boot. My net connects through a HTTP proxy.

p.s. no, its not the pot. I'm sober and it really is not working!

---

### Post by dm3nt0r on 2008-10-07
sudo apt-get install wipe

then cd /
cd /usr/local/games

sudo wipe -r tremulous

its dirty but will remove it.

---

### Post by Isaacgallegos on 2009-09-20
[size="29"]**SOLVED**[/size]
It's 
gksudo sh uninstall 

Step 1
$ **cd /usr/local/games/tremulous/**

Step 2
$ **gksudo sh uninstall **

---

