---
title: "S.T.R.I.K.E. 7 Keyboard"
date: 2014-05-30
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by majk2 on 2014-05-30
I have recently dumped Window7 off my Alienware M17X R2 as I am tired of all the glitches and unsolicited notice interruptions from 3rd parties and Windows.
I must admit the change has been very smooth and I am loving Ubuntu. But I would really like to get my S.T.R.I.K.E. 7 Keyboard fully working in Ubuntu. I mean some sort of application that can manage some of the advanced features on the keyboards mini screen, like the original manager did in Windows. Are there any geniuses out there who can help?

---

### Post by Ranko Kohime on 2014-05-30
As this is a fairly unique keyboard, it's doubtful you'll find any utility to make use of it's extended functionality, unfortunately.  I'm not certain of it in this particular keyboard's case, but most times manufacturers will not use any existing standards when designing niche-market items like this, which makes it much more difficult to actually write a utility for it, and so, not many people take the trouble to do so.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2014-05-31
You **might** be able to run the drivers and configurator using wine.

---

### Post by majk2 on 2014-06-13
Yes you guys are right in what you say about the  accessory makers not catering for Linux. But hopefully in a short while the weight of converts like me might begin to sway the critical mass in our favour.


As for the trying wine I will give wine a try and get back on that. Thanks

---

