---
title: "Ut2004"
date: 2005-03-21
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by zukeft on 2005-03-21
(I'm quite a newbie to Ubuntu and Linux so please forgive me if I use any incorrect terms)

Last night I upgraded Warty to Hoary using the help mentioned in the [Unofficial Ubuntu Starter Guide](http://www.ubuntuguide.org/), removed XFree86 and then installed X.org, then proceeded to install fglrx using the [Binary Driver Howto](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/BinaryDriverHowto). I was also able to install and configure ALSA using the [Hear multiple sounds at once HOWTO](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=8882&page=1&pp=10). The UT2004 installation went flawlessly; I also installed the optional SDL 12 and OpenAL source code. I launch it up via the launcher and it loads perfect, but the only problem is that there's no sound present at all. I then launch it via the terminal and get the following:
```
zukeft@nick:~ $ ut2004
open /dev/[sound/]dsp: Device or resource busy
Xlib:  extension "XiG-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" missing on display ":0.0".
```
I tried using the fix in the [Icculus Linux Gamers' FAQ](http://icculus.org/lgfaq/#ut2k3badsnd), but no luck. I'm guessing that this has something to do with OpenAL, but I'm not sure what. Got any ideas?

P.S.: What exactly does the second error mean anyway?

---

### Post by gnutux on 2005-03-21
This is a standard sound problems with the UT engine. The porter, ICCULUS made the engine so that it only works if the sound system isn't used by other applications. This error has been even on America's Army. No one has a work around for it yet. I've tried using aoss and an openalrc script.

Click [here](http://forum.americasarmy.com/viewtopic.php?t=153304) for what we tried in America's Army

In AASF forum, my username is cncxbox.

gnutux

---

### Post by zukeft on 2005-03-21
Well, I got the sound to work thanks to something else mentioned in FAQ; [I had to kill esd](http://icculus.org/lgfaq/#esdarts). And sure enough, it works well but the sounds are slightly off (i.e. your opponent is in another room, but it sounds as if he's right next to you). The game is also somewhat unfortunately choppy (I know I have an ATi card [Radeon 9700 Pro], but it shouldn't perform that bad with everything at low quality and at 800x600).

I'm also getting some other "errors":
```
zukeft@nick:~ $ ut2004
WARNING: ALC_EXT_capture is subject to change!
Xlib:  extension "XiG-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" missing on display ":0.0".
center pointXlib:  extension "XiG-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" missing on display ":0.0".
```
Oh and another thing, *fglrxinfo* gives me the following:
```
zukeft@nick:~ $ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9500 Pro Generic
OpenGL version string: 1.3.4769 (X4.3.0-8.8.25)
```
I don't have a 9500 Pro. I hope it doesn't matter in the end.

---

### Post by gnutux on 2005-03-21
Try to install the latest driver. If nott, it's drivers itself. ATI is currently paying less attention on Linux than Windows. You should use NVIDIA instead since they have great Linux support. I have NVIDIA, but I suggest you not to spend $129+ CAD for a new card if your card is working properly on Windows.

gnutux

---

### Post by HungSquirrel on 2005-03-21
As someone said, UT2004 doesn't like it unless it has total control of the sound device.  That means no artsd, esd, or music players running.  *sudo killall esd* should kill the sound daemon so you can start playing.  When you're done playing, run *esd* to bring the sound server back up.

---

### Post by dermotti on 2005-03-21
Yea i finally ditched my radeon 9700, jut not worth the hassle if you are thinking of gaming under linux.

My  Nvidia 6600gt runs ut2k4 everything maxed out at 1280x1024 liquid smooth.

---

### Post by doclivingston on 2005-03-22
[QUOTE=zukeft]I'm also getting some other "errors":
```
zukeft@nick:~ $ ut2004
WARNING: ALC_EXT_capture is subject to change!
Xlib:  extension "XiG-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" missing on display ":0.0".
center pointXlib:  extension "XiG-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD" missing on display ":0.0".
```[/QUOTE]

The "error" about 'XiG-SUNDRY-NONSTANDARD' isn't actually an error. It is just a piece of info saying that ut2004 can't find that extension for X. Only a very small group of graphics cards support it (I can't remember exactly what they are), and it doesn't apply to most cards; so don't worry about it. I think that Inculus' site about the linux version of UT has this as a FAQ, because everyone always seems to get confused.

---

### Post by Nexxus6 on 2005-04-10
**sudo killall esd** Also fixes my no sound problem  for the original unreal tournament!

Thanks!
 :-)

---

### Post by GoneWacko on 2005-05-02
Indeed killing esd works. But it's not pretty, in my opinion.

Personally, I just have a bash script that kills esd and then runs UT2003 ( yes, 2003..)

---

