---
title: "Ut 2003"
date: 2006-03-11
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by qalimas on 2006-03-11
I know its an old game, bu I found it in an old stack and researched how to install it on Linux.  I follow all the advice, but I have one problem, as soon as I type anything in the dialog (example, where to install the game to), the install button greys out... a screenshot link is provided below (yes, I realize this is the GNOME support area, but games are games, and KDE gaming area isn't as alive as this one).

Any help is much appreciated!

[[IMG]http://img65.imageshack.us/img65/851/snapshot50ku.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img65.imageshack.us/my.php?image=snapshot50ku.jpg)

---

### Post by Horndog on 2006-03-12
Try installing it at: /usr/local/games/ut2003

---

### Post by qalimas on 2006-03-12
I can type in installation paths and all that, and after waiting 20 minutes the license agreement comes on and allows me to begin.  Paths aren't the problem, I think the script is buggish.  After it started installing, it asks for me to insert CD 1 after about a 10 minute freeze, and it hasn't moved since.  I've been looking or other ways to install it, but I can't find any.

---

### Post by Horndog on 2006-03-12
[QUOTE=qalimas]After it started installing, it asks for me to insert CD 1 after about a 10 minute freeze,[/QUOTE]

There is a typo in the installer. when it asks for CD1 just put in CD2.

---

### Post by qalimas on 2006-03-12
Ok, I'll remember that, can you tell me why the installer freezes up for 20 minutes at a time though?

---

### Post by qalimas on 2006-03-12
Ok, I think I have an idea, is there a way to upgrade an installed demo to the full version?

---

### Post by Horndog on 2006-03-12
[QUOTE=qalimas]Ok, I think I have an idea, is there a way to upgrade an installed demo to the full version?[/QUOTE]
No. You need the retail version with the CD's and a valid CDkey found in the back of the ut2003 book.

---

### Post by qalimas on 2006-03-12
I have a retail version, handbook, CDs, box, everything.  I bought it a few years back.  What I guess I mean is, is there a way to copy all the files from CD to the demo install's folder then activate with my cdkey?  Or a way to convert a full Windows install to a Linux one?  I'll get it all worked out tomorrow I suppose, it might be a problem with Ubuntu specifically, maybe installing it on Fedora Core then moving it over might work.

Thanks for all your answers, really appreciate the help :D

---

### Post by mrpixels0 on 2006-03-12
no, you have to uninstal the demo completly and install clean with a retail version of the software, then go to epics website and DL the last offical patch for the game.

then you should be good to go. that is what i had to do with UT2003 and 2004.

MP0

---

### Post by threethirty on 2006-03-13
If you really need a fix, you could install it via Cedega.  I know its a cop out but I had to do it for Quake 3 (a lan was callin') ;)

---

