---
title: "17.10 Tomb Raider and steam controller"
date: 2017-10-29
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by donbastiano on 2017-10-29
Anyone on 17.10, steam controller and Tomb Raider? I'm having problem with the steam controller: with the steam overlay enabled the controller is not working, with steam overlay disabled the controller is not properly recognized, only some button works and the game shows the keyboard shortcut.
With 16.04, that I think I'll reinstall on February (.4), I changed just for newer kernel and video driver because I'm on ryzen and Polaris card, I don't have any problem.
It is a fresh install, while the home it is the same.

---

### Post by darren33 on 2017-11-05
I've encountered a similar problem.  The Steam Controller works as expected on the desktop, in Big Picture Mode, and in some games like Rogue Legacy and XCOM 2, but it's not recognized at all in other games like Mad Max and Dying Light.

Is downgrading really the only solution?  That seems a bit drastic.

---

### Post by darren33 on 2017-11-06
I can confirm that downgrading to 16.04.3 LTS resolved this issue, so it would seem there's some incompatibility between 17.10 and the Steam Controller.

---

### Post by darren33 on 2017-11-12
As an experiment, I tried a fresh install of 17.10 with no success, so now I'm running a fully updated install of 17.04, backports included, and the Steam Controller is working fine.  I suspect it's something to do with the kernel.

---

### Post by kinghov on 2017-11-22
The 17.10 steam controller doesn't [work]("http://www.sonofgawker.com/work-from-home/"). 17.04 works just fine.

---

### Post by darren33 on 2017-12-14
I read a suggestions that this problem has something to do with enabling  the "Support generic controllers" option in Steam, and that disabling  this causes the Steam Controller to function normally again.  I'm  hesitant to upgrade to 17.10 to try it, because if it doesn't work then  I'll have to reinstall my OS again.

If somebody is currently experiencing this issue, try disabling the option and report back!

---

