---
title: "0 A.D - Video release !!!"
date: 2007-02-25
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by MaximB on 2007-02-25
"Wildfire Games is proud to announce the release of a video featuring gameplay from 0 A.D., a historical real-time strategy game currently under development. This is the first dynamic glimpse of our flagship title in its present state.

When completed, 0 A.D. will be released to the public for free, with absolutely no strings attached.

The game is powered by Pyrogenesis, a game engine built from the ground up by Wildfire Games. 0 A.D. is being developed by an all-volunteer, all-online team with members from five continents and numerous countries such as the United Kingdom, Belgium, Australia, the Netherlands, Sweden, Canada, Denmark, and the United States. A fun, yet focused, atmosphere brings the team members together to complete the serious task of producing 0 A.D."

this only :( one minute long video from the actual "play game" is amazing !
need I say that it's will be free and will have a native Linux client ? :)

stay tuned for the release this or next year (depends on if you help making the game or not ;))

[http://wildfiregames.com/0ad/](http://wildfiregames.com/0ad/)

---

### Post by scotty2hott2k on 2007-02-25
that looks amazing!!! can't wait for its full release :D

---

### Post by xfile087 on 2007-02-25
WOW! I can't wait either!!!

---

### Post by Breepee on 2007-02-25
Excellent! I've been watching this project for some time now and it really looks like this being the very first hi quality RTS for Linux. It's great!

---

