---
title: "Please help with my Nvidia 9600GT drivers"
date: 2008-05-24
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by cocopuffz on 2008-05-24
I've tried to install the drivers using the one provided by the Nvidia website and some of the ones provided in links in these forums. 

When I shutdown X, and go command line with the install, nothing happens(cursor just sits there. No output to show any progress). When I run it while in X in a command prompt, I atleast get the process started and get up to the point where it says I need to shutdown X to install.

I was able to run nvidia-xconfig to edit the xorg file, and all seems right when I reference it to the instructions. Still, the only thing I get when I reboot is a warning telling me I'm running in low res. It gives me the option of changing drivers, but non of them work.

Are there actual, supported drivers for the 9600GT? I have no "restricted drivers" in my menu. Just Device drivers, and still, nothing is listed even in that menu.

I'm running Hardy Heron 8.04, Quad 6600, Palit 9600GT. Don't know what info will help.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-05-24
The Nvidia 9XXX will be in Ubuntu nvidia driver next time as 9xxx are very new and so far 9xxx driver is in beta stage for linux, but should be out soon.

Please post exact each step you do.

---

### Post by cocopuffz on 2008-05-24
-First I uninstalled my old ATI drivers via the Add Remove menu

-stop gdm

-Then I make sure I'm in the right dir (it's the Desktop)

-Then Chmod +x the file (im assuming this makes it executable? or atleast changed it from readonly to soemthing that can run? I'm pretty new to linux...no surprise huh? lol)

-Then I run the file "sh filename.run"

But there isn't any indication of activity... 

I assume it's installed cuz I wait a few mins before restarting gdm but again, even going cd /etc/init.d/gdm start doesn't do anything for me. The cursor just sits there, laughing at me.

*side note, I've never been able to restart gdm after using 8.04. I usually have to just manually reset the machine.

I'm going to try again... Thanks for the quick reply.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-05-24
Instead of installing the driver through normal mode, try booting Ubuntu through Recovery Mode and see if that allows you to install the driver properly.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-05-24
I guess you installed build-essential and xserver xorg dev


<alt>+<ctrl>+<F1>
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
cd ~/Desktop (if the driver is placed here)
chmod +x <file>
sudo sh <file>
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

check if the driver is changed to "nvidia"

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

---

### Post by cocopuffz on 2008-05-24
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> Instead of installing the driver through normal mode, try booting Ubuntu through Recovery Mode and see if that allows you to install the driver properly.

Actually I got it fixed... soft of. It turns out I wasn't fully out of X server. I had to cntl/alt/f1 to get out of the desktop, then kill gdm. That allowed me to install the drivers. 

The only issue now is the lack of resolutions I can run my desktop at, but I managed to fix it when I had an ATI card in this machine, I'll probably try to find that thread on getting the system to detect possible rez'. 

Thanks for the help guys. It was a lil strange *HAVING* to boot into XP. I really only use that for games. =)

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-05-24
Did you try using nvidia-settings to see if you can set the resolution to what you want?

---

### Post by cocopuffz on 2008-05-25
yeah i tried nvidia-settings. I've been editing my xorg-conf file like crazy the last few days trying to get the resolution part fixed. I was able to install the drivers, but when I ran nvidia-xconf the resulting file made the resolution or refresh rate out of my monitors range. I had to edit it and drop the horizontal and vertical refresh to something low like "28-51" and "43-60"... seems low to me.

It boots into the gui fine now, but I'm having issues with color depth etc. The fonts seem blurry even with subpixel smoothing on, and I can't reach 1440x900. My crapy old ati hd2400 could do it.. im sure this 9600GT can. I just can't seem to figure it out

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Wed Apr  2 00:14:06 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "LG"
    ModelName      "W1952TQ"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 51.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
	Modes	   "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Do you guys see anything wrong here? Oh yeah, it won't see my monitor as an LG. it just says "unknown" in the preferences even though I edited it into x config file. Is there another file I should be aware of? =)

*note* I managed to get compiz working and transparencies working so maybe I am at a decent color depth. Still can't get 1440x900 though. If I can get that working and get the fonts to a less blurry state then I'm good. thanks for all the help guys.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-05-25
> HorizSync 28.0 - 51.0
VertRefresh 43.0 - 60.0

Is this correctly set?

I'm not sure you need this:
> Modes "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600"
if you have HorizSync and VertRefresh.

---

### Post by vectorslave on 2008-05-26
Try to istall drivers with this script
-->[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

