---
title: "please help noobie with logitech dual action usb gamepad"
date: 2008-03-19
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by 200proofhonky on 2008-03-19
hi...i just installed ubuntu 7.10 a couple weeks ago and found alot of help here and now ive bought 2 logi logitech dual action usb gamepads and trying to play fceu games and also nexuiz.I got the buttons to work on both games but failed to get the d-pad and analog sticks to work at all.Ive searched all the threads here and other forums and tried using jscalibrator and the dpad and sticks work when calibrating but not in games.Ive also tried the "sudo apt-get install joystick" and then "jscal /dev/input/jso" and then "jstest /dev/input/jso"
(commands)....but when i do this it just takes me back to command line with no error or anything.If anyone has any fairly simple noobie approved methods for getting this to work i would really appreciate it.....ive read many threads with people having the same problem with dpad and stick not working but found no solutions.thanks..:)
also,forgot to mention that when configuring gamepad in fceu only the buttons register and configure but the dpad and sticks do not do anything.just a detail i forgot.thanks

---

### Post by acoustibop on 2008-03-19
jscalibrator is your problem, 200proofhonky.  It does exactly that: reports the directional controls as working, while preventing them working with other applications.

Remove it along with the configuration files: if you leave the configuration, apparently, it may still continue having the same effect.

---

### Post by 200proofhonky on 2008-03-19
hey,thanks alot....i wil try that.ive read a whole ot of posts and forums the last couple days and no one ever mentioned jscalibrator being a problem and it never came to mind either....im gonna try it right now and post back...thanks again!:)

---

### Post by 200proofhonky on 2008-03-19
acoustibop,you were absolutely right!!! everything is working now and im fraggin away with nexuiz and my kids are lovin the old school nes games!!! thanks a million!! problem solved!!....thank you acoustibop!!:guitar:

---

### Post by ryank76nz on 2008-03-22
I'm having the same problem - I have removed jscalibrator and all the configuration files I could find but still no directions are working, while the fire and start buttons are working fine.

I ran 

sudo find -name *jscalib* 

and deleted all those - are there other configuration files I have missed? I also just ran 'complete removal' on jscalibrator and libjsw in Synaptic. 

Thanks for any help

---

### Post by acoustibop on 2008-03-22
Look for .jscalib or .jscalibrator in your Home folder, ryank76nz.  Otherwise, reinstall jscalibrator, and remove it in Synaptic, using the Mark for Complete Removal option - that should remove the configuration as well.

Oh, yes - and reboot!

---

### Post by ryank76nz on 2008-03-22
Thanks, that worked for removing jscalibrator... but now I'm back to square one with no axis/directions working for fceu! :( I'll keep searching the forums I guess.

---

### Post by grossaffe on 2008-03-22
> **ryank76nz said:**
> Thanks, that worked for removing jscalibrator... but now I'm back to square one with no axis/directions working for fceu! :( I'll keep searching the forums I guess.

try jscal or jstest

---

### Post by ryank76nz on 2008-03-23
jscal registers the directions but I don't know which is which... directions still not working in fceu.

I have tried a few things from other threads (except jscalibrator!) and now have these files:

/etc/modules
```
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

fuse
lp
rtc
warrior
joydev
ns558
adi
analog

```

/home/ryan/joystick.cal
```
jscal -s 7,1,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0 /dev/input/js0
```

/home/ryan/joystick
```
# Joystick calibration file.
# Generated by Joystick Calibrator version 1.5.6.
#
BeginJoystick = /dev/input/js0
    Name = Logitech WingMan Cordless Gamepad
    LastCalibrated = 1206126800
    BeginAxis = 0
        Minimum = 0
        Center = 124
        Maximum = 255
        NullZone = 1024
        Tolorance = 0
        CorrectionLevel = 0
        DeadZoneMinimum = 124
        DeadZoneMaximum = 124
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum2 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum2 = 0.000000
    EndAxis
    BeginAxis = 1
        Minimum = 0
        Center = 128
        Maximum = 255
        NullZone = 1024
        Tolorance = 0
        CorrectionLevel = 0
        DeadZoneMinimum = 128
        DeadZoneMaximum = 128
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum2 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum2 = 0.000000
    EndAxis
    BeginAxis = 2
        Minimum = 1
        Center = 219
        Maximum = 255
        NullZone = 1024
        Tolorance = 0
        CorrectionLevel = 0
        DeadZoneMinimum = 219
        DeadZoneMaximum = 219
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum2 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum2 = 0.000000
    EndAxis
    BeginAxis = 3
        Minimum = 0
        Center = 126
        Maximum = 255
        NullZone = 1024
        Tolorance = 0
        CorrectionLevel = 0
        DeadZoneMinimum = 126
        DeadZoneMaximum = 126
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum2 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum2 = 0.000000
    EndAxis
    BeginAxis = 4
        Minimum = 0
        Center = 133
        Maximum = 255
        NullZone = 1024
        Tolorance = 0
        CorrectionLevel = 0
        DeadZoneMinimum = 133
        DeadZoneMaximum = 133
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum2 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum2 = 0.000000
    EndAxis
    BeginAxis = 5
        Minimum = 0
        Center = 0
        Maximum = 0
        NullZone = 1024
        Tolorance = 0
        CorrectionLevel = 0
        DeadZoneMinimum = 0
        DeadZoneMaximum = 0
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum2 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum2 = 0.000000
    EndAxis
    BeginAxis = 6
        Minimum = 0
        Center = 0
        Maximum = 0
        NullZone = 1024
        Tolorance = 0
        CorrectionLevel = 0
        DeadZoneMinimum = 0
        DeadZoneMaximum = 0
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum1 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMinimum2 = 0.000000
        CorrectionalCoefficientMaximum2 = 0.000000
    EndAxis
EndJoystick
```

---

### Post by acoustibop on 2008-03-23
If your controller works Ok in other applications, I'd say the problem is with FCEU, ryank76nz.  I use GFCEU, which seems to work fine.

One thing I always do on installing/upgrading to a new version of Ubuntu is to put a symlink in /dev to /dev/input/js0.  This is because a lot of applications look for js0 is /dev; often you can reconfigure where they look for the device, but not always - and it makes life easier, too!

I'm not sure if that might be your problem: I can't remember where FCEU looks for controllers, but from what you're saying, the buttons work while the directional controls don't?  If that's the case, FCEU must be finding the controller OK; but you don't say specifically that the buttons are working.

**Edit:** that last report in your post *is* jscalibrator - you're still using it!

---

### Post by hackerlife on 2008-08-07
Hey, I'm having the *exact* same problem as 200proofhonky, tried the *exact* same stuff as him and i'm using the *exact* same controller AND i'm a nooB!!!

so because were in the exact same position, i decided to completely remove jscalibrator.

should work, right?

wrong.

absolutely nothing changed. 

now what?

all help is much appreciated!!

---

### Post by FranMichaels on 2008-08-08
Hmm, I've never used jscalibrator, but did you remove the .jscalibrator files in your home folder that acoustibop mentioned? (press ctrl + h to show hidden files in nautilus)

What mystifies me more is why are "newbies" installing jscalibrator in the first place?

I have the same game pad you all have, and the others I've used are psone/ps2 to usb adapters (from Radioshack). All have been literally plug n' play and never required anything beyond just mapping the buttons I want in the emulators... 
The only hiccup I had was that change from /dev/js0 to /dev/input/js0, and that was solved with a symbolic link (no longer issue nowadays though... That issue was relevant what, 2 years ago or so?) 

Okay, to sum up, where are people learning about jscalibrator, and does it actually help with something? I think the problem should be nipped in the bud, why install it in the first place!

---

### Post by hackerlife on 2008-08-08
lol, interesting reply.
i'm not really sure why i installed jscalibrator, it doesnt seem to do much to help.

i'm not sure if i completely uninstalled it, (i used synaptic) but either way i would still love to be able to use my logitech dual action gamepad in games like open arena and nexuiz and maybe tremulous, but i have no idea why they wont work! it supposed to be plug 'n play in nexuiz too, but the analog sticks and the d-pad wont work!!

i'm guessing logitech set up the d-pad kinda like an analog stick, so it makes sense that that doesnt work either.
(oh, and i just checked, and there are no .jscalibrator files left. thanks for telling me about ctrl+alt, i had no idea!!)

---

### Post by hackerlife on 2008-08-08
i'm also trying to install this qjoypad business, but i'm too newbie too actually get the install to work. help pl0x???

---

### Post by FranMichaels on 2008-08-08
Oh dear, another one of those thingies... No experience here with this qjoypad either. Does pressing the mode button (one near the little red LED on your gamepad) make a difference? 

Also, are you plugging the control in before you launch whatever app you want it to work with?

---

### Post by hackerlife on 2008-08-09
yes, and there is no mode button on my gamepad.
i cant even figure out how to install qjoypad, but i'm not at my linux comp right nao so i'll figure it out later.
thanks!!

---

### Post by I-User on 2009-01-28
OK, I'm new to Linux, know very little...

I got a "Thrustmaster" (if you can believe they would name anything that)
Firestorm USB controller.

Very simple deal here, 2 axis 8 buttons .
I thought "This will be easy" and "it says plug&play". Well...


I have been through everything I have seen recommended so far. Installed jscalibrator at some point then removed it installed other things I have no clue how to launch and can not even remember what all was installed at this point...which is sad because knowing as little as I do about Linux it means I will probably have to clean install the entire system to be sure I have removed the unnecessary bits.


this is NOT some *special* controller with blue tooth or wireless vribro feedback motion sensing.

it's just an incredibly basic USB gamepad.

I thought I would play some old Nintendo games, sadly I can't get the controller to work.

can anybody help?

Please?


My wife is scared I will hurt myself if I don't figure this out soon.

help me for her sake.

---

### Post by I-User on 2009-01-31
Ok, never mind.

I got rid of the thing, and got a Logitech Dual Action USB instead. It seems to work fine with Zsnes.
Still curious what the problem was though...

---

