---
title: "Game Management On Ubuntu"
date: 2006-10-27
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by cryptonic on 2006-10-27
I love Ubuntu , but it needs better management of games. It needs a more unified and intelligent game management system. I will start this post by saying that I am fully aware this is down to gnome and KDE. But I thought it would be good to see what the gamers in Ubuntu think of the suggestion.
First things first, I think this post mostly applies to kubuntu as i have made this suggestion fore KDE4 and cant really see it working on a gnome system successfully. Basically with KDE4 they are totally revolutionizing the KDE user interface. Just type KDE 4 into Google cause I just want to delve into this topic of games management under kde4 or games management under Kubuntu. Well when the K menu is redesigned I think that games management should come into the equation. The k menu, when you click on games you should get your subdirectory just as usual. Except the subdirectory should be redesigned. You basically see a list of game covers. not icons. you also see the name of the game below the game cover. When you click on the game cover more info slides down below it. Now you see, Title,Publisher,Developer,Year Released, Version, rating, based on the a servers total rating, will talk about this later. On the Game cover there should be two small circular icon with two stick figures holding hands on one. This depicts your friends list, if glowing red none are playing this game, if glowing green there is someone/a group playing the selected game. When you click on this little friends list icon you will replace the game info below the cover with a list of friends currently playing. the other icon should have an icon of the globe. When you click on this you will replace the info below the cover with three options. 1. download a patch for this game. 2. Download content for this game. 3. Play on-line.
In the K menu. The games directory should be right click able. You should have two choices when right clicked. 1. Buy A Game, 2. Games News.
The friends list which I spoke about earlier is part of KDE 4's integration of all chat mesangers into one notification, forget what they called it but your friends list would consist of friends on Skype , msn, aol, all of em.
It shouldn't end here. In the settings folder thingy there should be gaming settings. so you can change the urls of the buy a game and game news. Stop the rating system from taking the servers votes into account etc. Installing games, whether commercial native, free native, windows etc should all follow the same graphical installation method. So when you stick in a windows game it will install in the same way as a commercial game would on a step by step installer.
So what is that rating system you say and how does it work? well this is it. UbuntuGaming.net should be put up. with all the latest Gaming, News, Reviews,Interviews, and Trailers. When you login it would take note of your ip address much like a private tracker would. When you buy or download a game and decide to give it a rating, lets say out of ten stars. Then the rating is uploaded and added to others rating of that game to give an overall rating to the game. rated by the players not the site admins. for people to look at and decide whether the game is worth playing. I have a couple of more interesting new ideas for the site also which i will divulge in at a later time because I'm gonna go get some food now :D

---

