---
title: "Installing new ATI drivers"
date: 2009-09-22
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by deboare on 2009-09-22
I am spent! My knowledge of Ubuntu isn't all that great but I have scoured off the internet searching for help but nothing is working. A few weeks ago my xorg.conf got messed up after installing ati-driver-installer-9-3-x86.x86_64, however somehow, I just can't seem to remember it, I fixed my xorg.conf and it was configured the way it was supposed to be. Yesterday I wanted to install ati-driver-installer-9-9-x86.x86_64, because I read it finally had the minimap support for World of Warcraft. But this messed up my xorg.conf AGAIN! Only this time I can't seem to get it right, I have tried the reconfigure command, uninstalling xorg.conf and reinstalling. Uninstalling the drivers and reinstalling. I spent a lot of hours yesterday which I could have spent on something else.

My current xorg.conf:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


My current output when trying to run WoW in terminal:
brecht@brecht-ubuntu:~$ wine "C:\Program Files\World of Warcraft\WoW.exe" -opengl
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  143 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 (X_GLXQueryServerString)
  Serial number of failed request:  155
  Current serial number in output stream:  155
brecht@brecht-ubuntu:~$ 

I hope the info provided is enough, and that someone can help me because I'm really stuck.

---

### Post by joeelmex on 2009-09-22
I wish I could help but I cant, I have never dealt with Ati drivers before.  I know every-time I upgrade my Nvidia drivers it will redo the xorg file and make a copy of the original.  Maybe you can see the settings on the original and help you out in a way.

---

### Post by Melcar on 2009-09-22
Uninstall the driver if you still have it on your system.  If you used packages remove them with Synaptic, otherwise run:

```
cd /usr/share/ati
sudo sh ./fglrx-uninstall.sh


```

After that I would rebuild xorg.conf just to be on the safe side:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Finally install the new driver:

```
cd /[location of driver]
sudo sh ati*.run

#follow the automatic install and let it finish

cd
sudo aticonfig --initial
```

The last step will create special entries in your xorg.conf for the driver.  It's not necessary, but if you want you can open up your xorg.conf and remove (or simply comment out) all the duplicate entries.  Here is my xorg.conf just for reference:
```

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "DontZap" "false"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I would finally restart the whole computer instead of just restating X.

---

### Post by Filipek on 2009-09-23
All the time I use the step-by-step guide mentioned on this Unofficial ATI wiki and have to admit I have never come across any problem (so far :-) ).

Try to use it.

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by handy on 2009-09-24
You might find some useful help in this thread, I've linked to a time when the version of Catalyst you are interested in was starting to be investigated:

[http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=57084&p=34](http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=57084&p=34)

---

