---
title: "14.04.3Unity, playonlinux, NWN/1.69update!, NWN2 all via GOG"
date: 2016-01-09
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-09
It was easy to get playonlinux up and installing NWN (NeverWinter Nights) from my CD, and then run 1.69 update against it. Plays beautifully. Copied some saves across from win as I had a hacked character.

But I have yet to figure out how to get NWN2 and MOTB (MOW, SOZ,) installed and updated.  Found one very long instructions on web but it didn't start, let alone update.

I have all the original CDs and keys

Also going to try Ultima Underworld 1+2 and Stonekeep.  old 3d engines but fun!

EDIT: did not have success with UU1+2 or Stonekeep - UU1+2 would install but then lock up on subsequent runs and have to hit reset button on computer case.  Stonekeep didn't install - got stuck verifying, had to hit reset button.

NWN2 did indeed install - after it "finished" and the update window popped up and locked up, I noticed that my router was flashing at a great rate - apparently downloading (updates?) for maybe 10-15 minutes, then it ended and showed as installed.  Runs fine but will not LOAD saves from my windows version so I have no idea what version it is.  I have not tried adding MOTB or the other ones.

:D

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-16
More follow-up on this - I did get NWN2 running successfully as noted above but when I tried to add things like MOTB or MOW, etc, and then when I went back to try to play NWN2 I got a very old popup from Digital River asking for verification (with a very old link to Atari) - which I couldn't get past.  So I guess it's not ready for prime time.  Fortunately I had clonezilla'ed just before so it was easy to get back to a running NWN2.  I have been playing NWN2 and it plays beautifully.  I rigged up a link on the desktop to the NWN2 saves so I can save them elsewhere occasionally to get me past any future clonezilla'ing I might have to do.  Haven't used windows in quite a while now...  :D  did try booting alpha 16.04 but didn't play with it at all.  i'll let much more experienced folk play with it!

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-01-18
solved NWN2 problem by buying GOG NWN2 complete for $20 and installing it - it's all updated.  (NWN2 OC, MOTB, SOZ)

---

