---
title: "9.10~is there a driver or software for joysticks?"
date: 2010-02-03
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by KEE on 2010-02-03
i have a saitek joystick but its not responding on linux. where can i get drivers and software for this problem? please and thank you =)

---

### Post by hansdown on 2010-02-03
Hi KEE.

If you have x52, look in synaptic package manager. Search saitek.

Also, install joystick.

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2010-02-03
My Saiteks worked out of the box.
Check the output of dmesg when you plug and unplug it.
You should see the device being recognized.

You will need to configure it with whatever game/app you're using it on.

---

### Post by MindFusion on 2010-02-04
Ubuntu is known to automatically use generic drivers to install hardware, on a fast and easy way. Normally you should be able to just make run it with plugging it in (:

If you're planning on using an emulator in combo with the joystick, for example Mupen64, don't worry, because it works automatically.

---

### Post by Macyoshary on 2010-02-04
I'm having a similar problem on an older computer (running 8.10 I think) which I'm trying to set up as a MAME cabinet. When I run dmesg it picks up that a low power USB device is connected but thats it. The gamepad is an old one built for Win98 with almost no traces on the internet, but it (mostly) worked out of the box on my Mac, so it must have the normal HID plug and play stuff.

Josh

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-02-05
well i got it responding, however its the game (wings over Vietnam) thats not running. is there a way to get ACM (aerial combat simulator) to work with joysticks like the saitek cyborg 3d joystick?

---

### Post by rvndmnmt on 2010-02-25
Well.  Seems to work just fine for me and my Cyborg X.  To bad the joystick is borked on the Z axis (hardware, not software).

---

