---
title: "Ut 2003"
date: 2005-07-27
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by storybookhero on 2005-07-27
ok I love this game but for the life of me I cant get it to install worth a hoot on Ubuntu 
the games UT 2003 and I know its outdated but I would love to get it running on my linux box so that I can get rid of windows for good...oh and how do you install java...I'm trying to get lime wire to run but I dont have java up and running. I'm an Ubuntu Newbie so step by step instructions for both would be awesome! 

-Jeff

---

### Post by shawn on 2005-07-27
UT2003 works great under linux. Here is what to do (from memory):

1 - copy install.sh from the root of the DVD/root of the last cd to your home folder

2 - open a terminal then "sudo sh install.sh"

3 - its done!

That is all friend. You may have trouble mounting and unmounting the cd's but using sudo sorted that out for me. The only other advice I have on the subject is to make sure the permissions on your /home/.ut2003/ folder are set to allow anyone to read+write otherwise only root will be able to save games. To start the game open a terminat and type "ut2003".

Now for java:

1 - open a terminal

2 - enter "sudo apt-get install sun-j2re1.5"

3 - enter "java -version" this will show the installed java version, if it shows up then      its installed

4 - its done!

May I suggest that you head over to [www.ubuntuguide.org](www.ubuntuguide.org) - essential reading for ubuntu newbs and it will show you how to install a whole bunch of programs that you are likely to be asking about in the near future. I don't know how far I would have got without that guide. Also it tells you how to install limewire the easy way. Learn and reap the benefits my friend!!!

Have fun!

---

### Post by storybookhero on 2005-07-27
when I try to install java the way described it yels me this ....Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
E: Couldn't find package sun-j2re1.5

I dont know if I did something wrong or what 
does somone know a way around this?

---

### Post by RadixLecti on 2005-07-27
[QUOTE=storybookhero]when I try to install java the way described it yels me this ....Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
E: Couldn't find package sun-j2re1.5

I dont know if I did something wrong or what 
does somone know a way around this?[/QUOTE]
 I've had the same problem. It seems sun-j2re1.5 was removed or renamed, I haven't been able to find it in the repos. I googled for sun-j2re1.5.deb and downloaded it.
I trust you know what to do with a downloaded .deb-file?

---

