---
title: "9.10 - mouse jumps to bottom-right screen corner in Urban Terror and many other games"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by jpv2 on 2009-11-08
My problem in many games (including Urban Terror) is that when I click with left/middle/right mouse button, my cursor jumps to bottom-right corner of the screen. Some games work NOK in full screen mode, but do work OK in windowed mode (e.g. Unknown Horizons). But UT has this mouse issue in both full-screen and windowed modes. This causes game unplayable. I checked both Kubuntu and Ubuntu fresh installs and both are affected by this problem. I have reported this bug here

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/441408](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/441408)

but can't obtain any feedback there, so I'm trying here. [COLOR=Black]**Please can anyone tell me whether his mouse works OK or NOK for him in UT? What software package could be the culprit?**[/COLOR] I suspect that this is also related to SDL, because setting "export SDL_MOUSE_RELATIVE=0" fixes mouse on-click-jumpiness, but of course I cant play with this setting, as it disables free view rotation in 3D games.


Regards
jpv2

---

### Post by Psy[H[] on 2009-11-08
I've discovered the same problem with my A4tech X7 multibutton mouse.
But everything works fine with several simple Logitech and Asus mice.

When both mice are connected, clicking X7's button results in pointer jump, but clicking the other mouse does not. This bug is somehow device-dependent.
X7 may produce some additional event on click, that is incorrectly interpreted.

---

### Post by jpv2 on 2009-11-08
Quick glance at my mouse and I see... A4Tech X7!!!!!

Thanks a lot for this hint Psy[H[]. I've been desperately looking for a solution for this problem for a long time. I hope this will help. My mouse is aging, semi-damaged and, honestly, I don't like the wheel light, non-precise feeling. This is good excuse to buy another one ;-)

Best regards
jpv2

---

### Post by Psy[H[] on 2009-11-08
This mouse is a pretty ridiculous combination. Good optics, clean movement, nice ergonomics... but A4 engineer was a real pervert putting in a wheel with MECHANICAL detector. It is like a wooden wheel on a sportcar.

---

### Post by ShadowTek on 2009-11-08
I used to have that problem with an old first-gen Logitech laser-mouse. I finally decided to spend some money on a quality mouse and got myself a Logitech G5. It's performed very well over the years.

---

### Post by handy on 2009-11-09
I have the same problem with a really high quality mouse on Haiku.

Hopefully they have fixed the bug by now.

I also had the same problem, plus a bizarre keyboard timing error in the past. It was evident on multiple systems, always Ubuntu, Sabayon & whatever else.  I eventually discovered that it was due to a Linux bug involved with my onboard USB controller.  I installed a PCI USB controller card & have had no problems since.

I don't know whether the Linux dev's ever fixed that one or not, as I've had the PCI USB card in for years now. :)

---

### Post by jpv2 on 2009-11-09
Today I purchased new Modecom MC-920 mouse. It fixed pointer jumping issue. I was also considering Logitech G5 for quite few moments, which had excellent ergonomics, but it was priced 3 times more than other mice :shock:.

---

### Post by LimCore on 2009-11-09
The work around works, thanks a lot :)

It seems to be an issue with A4Tech mouses.

Mine is: **Mouse - A4 Tech - X759 Extra evolution mouse**
so after all it does work correctly in games, with the work around.

---

### Post by handy on 2009-11-10
I had to travel an hour away today to a largish town, whilst there I had a look in a mega-store that had a computer section.  I've been using an MS Intellimouse Explorer since they were first released, many years ago, & would like to have another as a spare for when this one eventually fails.  The size suits my hand perfectly, (small mouses hurt) & I know how reliable the thing is (MS I know, but credit where it's due).

The small USB mouses were like $20-, the large size that I want were like $129- !!!

Which is BS, there is bugger all difference as far as the technology is concerned, & the 2 more buttons on the side don't cost $100- to supply, fit, mould & the extra size in packaging.  Doesn't compute!?

Anyway, I'll see what my cheap man can come up with as far as price is concerned.  I'm willing to pay an absolute max' of $65- for an identical replacement.

---

### Post by 1337 on 2009-11-11
I'm also having this issue, on A4Tech X7 Mouse. Man how it is possible, it's normal mouse?

---

### Post by handy on 2009-11-11
> **1337 said:**
> I'm also having this issue, on A4Tech X7 Mouse. Man how it is possible, it's normal mouse?

Swap it with a mouse from a windows using friend?

---

### Post by ShadowTek on 2009-11-12
I just checked, and the G5s are being sold on eBay for $30-40 US.

It looks like the newer models even have a 2nd thumb button.

---

### Post by 1337 on 2009-11-14
> **handy said:**
> Swap it with a mouse from a windows using friend?

No way I like my mouse, I will swap Linux distribution first :)

---

### Post by jpv2 on 2009-12-05
Finally I ended up with looking for a "perfect mouse" for me. Tested several models, bought two mice. Eventually I'm using Logitech G5 and I'm fully satisfied. It is not affected by the cursor jumping bug, all buttons work out-of-the-box (including two side buttons for Internet back-forward navigation). It fits perfectly to my hand with great grip. I can adjust mouse weigth to my liking. Anti-blocking cable, smooth movement, precise wheel scrolling. The only what I didn't like was the price...

Back to the bug - bugfix seems to exist already, but it has not been distributed thru regular system updates. Maybe it will be fixed only in 9.10?

---

