---
title: "Problem with dual screen, unreal tournament 2k4, and full screen :("
date: 2007-08-06
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2007-08-06
I recently installed Ubuntu, and did that sort of "hack" where you edit some configuration file to stretch the desktop across two monitors. One monitor has the top bar and scroll bar and everything, and the monitor to the left of it is an extension. The problem I'm having is that when I run unreal tournament 2k4 in full screen mode, it attempts to scale properly across both monitors, which doesn't work at all, resulting in me only seeing half of the game image :(. Is there some method of manually centering the game on only one monitor, or better yet, just some fix to my problem that I somehow overlooked?

Any help with this would be greatly appreciated. :) Thanks!

---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2007-08-06
bump

---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2007-08-06
anyone? :(

---

### Post by ZylGadis on 2007-08-06
What sort of hack? If you are using nvidia twinview, there is extensive help for similar issues in this forum. Do a search. If it is something else, we still need to know what the hack is, in order to help you. Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by Sockerdrickan on 2007-08-06
I get wrong kHz sound rate

---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2007-08-06
Yes, I think it was that twin view thing, sorry, I couldn't really remember :p.

Anyway, here is my xorg.conf file:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "SAMSUNG"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GT/GTO"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
Option      "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+90, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2007-08-07
> **ZylGadis said:**
> What sort of hack? If you are using nvidia twinview, there is extensive help for similar issues in this forum. Do a search. If it is something else, we still need to know what the hack is, in order to help you. Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

As everybody can see, I posted my config file above... help?!

---

### Post by Trigsu on 2009-02-07
Well, my problem is that I have two 1920x1200 side by side. I use twinview. And when I start game in full screen, I can only see 50% of the game screen on other right monitor, and the other 50% is cut away. (Left stays blank or desktop). Still trying to find solution..

EDIT:
Wow..I mean really..wow..what a fresh topic I dug up.

---

### Post by go_beep_yourself on 2009-12-22
I am having the same problem. Did you ever find a solution?

---

### Post by epitaph on 2009-12-22
I am nearly sure that this is possible by adding a metamode for the resolution you are running your game(s) at that tells one monitor to turn off. Here's a snippet from an old xorg.conf where I was using two screens (CRT-0 @ 1152x864, CRT-1 @ 1024x768 ) to run games at 800x600 on CRT-0:

```
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1152x864_75 +0+0, CRT-1: 1024x768_75 +1152+0;CRT-0: 800x600, CRT-1: NULL"
```

Note how each individual group is separated by a semicolon (";") and each display within a group is separated by a comma (,).

More information on metamodes: [http://http.download.nvidia.com/solaris/1.0-8762/README/appendix-g.html](http://http.download.nvidia.com/solaris/1.0-8762/README/appendix-g.html)

[edit] I just tried this with 2x23" 1920x1080 displays and it also works fine. In this case, the displays are DFP-0 and DFP-1 and I added a metamode to run at 1920x1080 and force display on only DFP-0:

```
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1920x1080_60 +0+0, DFP-1: 1920x1080_60 +1920+0;DFP-0: 1920x1080, DFP-1: NULL"
```

---

