---
title: ".daa compressed isos?"
date: 2006-06-27
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by raffytaffy on 2006-06-27
Hello..i have some games in .daa format...i googled and it said its compressed iso. It also says it needs some stupid winblows app called poweriso to uncompress..i dont have winblows...and poweriso cant be emulated:| i have k3b , gnomebaker and nerolinux. How can i burn a .daa file to a dvd...or how can i uncompress even:confused:

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2006-06-27
have you tried running poweriso in "wine"?

you could also try extracting the .daa file with the archive manager... worth a shot...

---

### Post by raffytaffy on 2006-06-27
"cant be emulated" i tried wine:( i will try archive manager...but im not setting myself up that it will work...still any more sugestions would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2006-06-27
you could also get "vmware server beta" (free) or "vmware player" (also free), and create a "windows xp" virtual machine, in which you could install poweriso, convert the .daa files to something more linux friendly, or just burn them from there.

---

### Post by raffytaffy on 2006-06-27
not a bad idea..i already have vmware...i didnt think of this..hmm...i need to borrow a winblows cd now lol

---

### Post by pancyber on 2007-11-08
Well, as far as I know AcetoneIso can mount such images, but there is no automatic installation thorugh apt-get yet ???

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2007-11-09
this is quite an old thread, but i recently found a linux tool to dwal with .daa files:

[http://www.poweriso.com/download.htm](http://www.poweriso.com/download.htm)

poweriso for linux. quite handy :)

---

### Post by disturbedite on 2007-11-09
yeah, i was gonna mention poweriso.  its easy to use as well.

---

### Post by bulletxt on 2007-11-09
you can download the ubuntu deb of AcetoneISO2 from official site. if you don't to use terminal AcetoneISO2 will do the job for you to convert daa to iso(of course it uses poweriso as backend).

---

### Post by hydraconsole on 2007-11-22
how do i install poweriso?

---

### Post by Haak on 2007-12-04
i would like to know too :(

---

### Post by desertboy on 2007-12-05
the file is the executable there's nothing to install, it's command line.

I opened terminal
navigate to where you downloaded poweriso
./poweriso -?     will give you the options

---

