---
title: "HELP!! input not supported :("
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-24
Two hours ago I installed ubuntu 8.04 hardy heron on my computer (clean install).

I installed the official 3d nvidia video drivers with the restricted drivers manager.

So far I have tried to run the following games:

Enemy territory quake wars

Nexuiz

Northland

Northland doesn't start after a clean install, it says: input not supported when I trie to start it, sound works

Nexuiz and ET:QW both work perfectly when I first start them, but the monitor says "input not supported" after I have changed the resolution and clicked apply (other video settings can be changed) in both of them.

When I remove the nvidia driver, ET:QW doesn't start offcourse. However, northland runs perfectly (doesn't require 3d driver), and nexuiz runs fine too, even if I change the resolution, but ofcourse nexuiz is too slow to play.

Battle for wesnoth runs great with any mode and with or without drivers.

What can I do to solve this :confused:

I don't want to go back to 7.10, and I can't play like this :(:(:(:(:(:(:(


Idea's? I just want to be able to play all games in all the resolutions my monitor supports, fullscreen, and don't get these errors from my monitor: "input not supported"

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-24
I am going to bed BTW, but please post any suggestions, I will look through them tomorrow, I am pretty desperate. I want to play some games :(

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-24
In case it helps:

Video card: 512 MB GeForce 7 7500 LE

Monitor: 20 inch acer widescreen "al2016w"

For some reason, Ubuntu has the driver "al2016wx" loaded for the monitor, if it matters.

Going to bed now :(

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-04-24
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

See which nvidia driver it set to use (nvidia-glx or nvidia-glx-new).

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
Well, this is wat it says:

eragon@eragon-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Seems to be using something just called nvidia :confused:

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-04-25
Try fire up nvidia-settings to check which version number or search synaptic.

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
169.12

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-04-25
Try nvidia-glx instead of nvidia-glx-new
I know it's older driver but v169.12 is a bit buggy.

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
Well I deinstalled the driver, and installed package nvidia-glx with synaptic. After rebooting the computer, it now thinks I don't have any video drivers installed. This is the output from glxgears:

eragon@eragon-desktop:~$ glxgears
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual
eragon@eragon-desktop:~$ 

Restricted drivers manager also says driver is not enabled, and Nexuiz won't run well (although it doesn't make my monitor say "input not supported" while it's running fine, with sound, in the background, just like when I tried it without the driver yesterday).

:confused:

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-04-25
ok...just reinstall the nvidia-glx-new and take it from there.

or...

if you're up to it installing the latest beta driver (which solve my nvidia problems).

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
I succesfully installed the beta driver and it's working, but I still have exactly the same gaming problems :(

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
Strange: Open Arena, which is also a 3d game, works perfectly, also after I have changed the resolution to 1280 x 1024.

So why don't all the others :confused:

Should I perhaps reinstall Hardy? I have only had this installation for one day, so I wouldn't lose any documents or stuff :)

Perhaps it works the second time :lolflag:

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-04-25
Edit: nevermind

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
Never mind what? It doesn't matter if it's dangerous :)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-04-25
oh...I was reading your post wrong. I thought it was a gutsy ---> hardy upgrade, so I thought it might be an upgrade that went wrong. :)

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
Victory :lolflag:

I did a clean install of ubuntu 8.04 and installed the old driver (100.14.19) on it. It's working perfectly :)

A pretty bad bug in both the latest stable and the latest beta driver from nvidia :mad:

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-04-25
Complete utter failure :(

I restarted the computer (I had just restarted the X-server after installing nvidia drivers) and got greeted by the screen "Ubuntu is running in low graphics mode: Your video card isn't recognized. To use higher resolutions ... ... ..."

In two words, Ubuntu was saying: I Suck :mad:

Reinstalling 7.10 right now from live cd. That at least works :lolflag:

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-04-25
Congrats! Sorry that your card is hit that hard by bugs. Hopefully it's corrected soon.


EDIT: oh, sorry to hear that, maybe you'll have better luck with Ubuntu 8.04.1 when the time comes.

---

### Post by deinonychai on 2008-08-05
I had this exact same problem with Hardy 8.04.  Tried a reinstall, tried a few low-graphics mode settings, nothing worked.

But...

Replacing the new drivers with the old (as suggested here) worked perfectly.  Thanks all!

---

