---
title: "WoW World Crashes"
date: 2007-04-01
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Galstaff on 2007-04-01
Hello, anyway, ive been playing WoW on Ubuntu for about 2 weeks now, and im still having a couple problems.
        Whenever im in an outdoors-esque area (Azeroth, Orgrimmar, Shattrath City etc) My game locks up, and im forced to alt F4 out. When i go to re-enter WoW, its really choppy until i log in, then its fine. It happens pretty frequently, and is starting to become really annoying.
      If im inside a closed instance, ill be fine, no crashes, no problems at all.
       Only other info i could give is that my models/interface (Auction House,Bags,Bank.Map) Sometimes turn completey white, and i think that may be a factor too. If anyone knows if theirs a fix to this problem, that'd be great.

Thank you very Much.

Edit: Im running under OpenGL and i did the regedit hotfix to increase FPS already.

---

### Post by slayerboy on 2007-04-01
what are you system specs? (cpu, memory, graphics card, etc)

I have an AMD Sempron 2Ghz, 1GB Ram, and an Nvidia GeForce4 MX4000 with 128MB RAM and had a horrible time getting WoW + Burning Crusade to run (but had it running fine before the BC update) and gave up back in January.  You need a pretty good graphics card to run WoW now it seems.

---

### Post by Galstaff on 2007-04-01
My Computer is pretty old, but enough to run WoW.

1.5 gigs of Ram
ASUS A9250 Gamer Editon 256MB of Ram (ATI Card)
AMD 2200, i think 1.88 GHz?

---

### Post by Myos on 2007-04-01
It sounds like it could be a result of your field of view being to high.  Maybe try to turn it down if you haven't.  How are you even running WoW?  I just installed it with Wine but It doesnt load.  It gets to the intro movie and then it just quits to the desktop and suddenly im in 1024x768...

---

### Post by lakersforce on 2007-04-01
> **Galstaff said:**
> Only other info i could give is that my models/interface (Auction House,Bags,Bank.Map) Sometimes turn completey white
Sounds wierd. Maybe a broken installation. Try running Repair.exe

---

### Post by Einherjan on 2007-04-01
WoW works fine with wine. Possibley a installation issue or a computer related problem.

---

### Post by Galstaff on 2007-04-02
Bump.

Everything was working perfectly this morning after i ran repair, no model errors, no crashes, i log out and come back later, and it bugs again =/. I ran repair a 2nd time and it didn't fix anything.

---

### Post by Sammi on 2007-04-02
Open Synaptic. Serarch for Wine and select complete removal and apply. Then search for it again and select install and apply again. You should then have a clean Wine installation, so you'll probably need to do the regedit hack again.

---

### Post by Galstaff on 2007-04-02
I wont have to reinstall WoW, right?

---

### Post by Galstaff on 2007-04-02
> **Sammi said:**
> Open Synaptic. Serarch for Wine and select complete removal and apply. Then search for it again and select install and apply again. You should then have a clean Wine installation, so you'll probably need to do the regedit hack again.

Tried it, still freezing.

---

### Post by Sammi on 2007-04-03
Can you copy paste the content of /etc/X11/xorg.conf in here?

---

### Post by Galstaff on 2007-04-03
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option	    "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
	Option	    "Buttons" "10"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option "UseFastTLS" "2"
        Option "Capabilities" "0x00000800"
	Option "UseFastTLS" "off"
	Option "KernelModuleParm" "locked-userpages=0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by Galstaff on 2007-04-04
Bump!

---

### Post by storky on 2007-04-07
OK I HAVE NO IDEA IF THIS WOULD HELP BUT ITS THE ONLY WAY IT WOULD WORK FOR ME...

i read somewhere to change the sound settings in wine to ogg only.....this surned out to be my problem becasue i finally just disabled all sound n wine and the game loaded perfect....it turns out i need it on alsa.....stupid me....believing everything i hear...

---

