---
title: "Ut2004"
date: 2007-05-07
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-07
Hey there, I got Unreal Tournament 2004 up and running on my machine, problem is I want to update it with the Linux patch I downloaded. I'm newer to Ubuntu so I'm not sure how I would go about doing that. Any help would be appreciated!! :)

---

### Post by toasterofirony on 2007-05-07
A quick search of the forums coughed up [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=394706"), which looks like it might be something you're interested in.

I really can't encourage the forum search function enough, it's helped me out a number of times.

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-05-07
Check the last part of the guide I wrote: [http://gaming.gwos.org/e107_plugins/content/content.php?content.56](http://gaming.gwos.org/e107_plugins/content/content.php?content.56)

---

### Post by fakie_flip on 2007-05-07
What is the name of your linux patch? The one I have is ut2004-lnxpatch3355.tar.bz2 Do you have this one too? These are the commands you need.

tar -xjvf ut2004-lnxpatch3355.tar.bz2
chmod -Rc 755 UT2004-Patch
cd UT2004-Patch/
sudo mv -rv * /usr/local/games/ut2004/

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-07
I'm very newb to ubuntu (like a month) can you break it down on how to go about it, I Know it's terminal work but what should I do?

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-07
I'm punching in what you say AI but it's saying no such file or directory when I punch up cd ~/Desktop

---

### Post by fakie_flip on 2007-05-07
Copy and paste everything from the terminal including what you typed, so we can see what you are doing wrong, and what you should do next.

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-07
this is as far as i get
"main@main:~$ cd ~/desktop
bash: cd: /home/main/desktop: No such file or directory
main@main:~$"

---

### Post by fakie_flip on 2007-05-07
it is

cd ~/Desktop

not 

cd ~/desktop

a lot of things in the computer world are case-sensitive. this is true when programming too.

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-07
wow, i feel so stupid.......i'm a geek and yet here i am, making this newb mistake :) thanks!

---

### Post by Tumpster on 2007-05-07
Alrighty, all set and ready to rock, thanks everyone!!!

---

### Post by Big Bear on 2007-06-08
I'm not sure what I am doing wrong here... I do the commands above but I have the below problem:

 cd UT2004-Patch/
bash: cd: UT2004-Patch/: No such file or directory
 cd Desktop
Desktop$ cd UT2004-Patch/
Desktop/UT2004-Patch$ sudo mv -rv * /usr/local/games/ut2004/
mv: invalid option -- r
Try `mv --help' for more information.
Desktop/UT2004-Patch$ 

Also... I think my directory installed to home/rwb/ut2004 instead of the area you guys are showing, but I am a total noob to Linux so maybe I am wrong.  I only know enough to be a danger to myself haha.

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-06-08
Like the guide says:
```
sudo cp -r * /usr/local/games/ut2004
```
It's not mv. The reason is your need to add all files and folder in the current directory somewhere else to files and folders that already exist. "cp" with the " -r" does this.

You can check if it is there before you copy it over, just run
```

nautilus /usr/local/games/ut2004/
```
If you don't get an error then you installed it there.

In your home folder Unreal Tournament sets up a settings folder called ".ut2004" so if you are talking about that, that's not it.

If you don't remember where you installed ut at you can run this to find it:
```
sudo updatedb
locate ut2004-bin

```
That updates the database for the locate command and then finds the file "ut2004-bin" on your filesystem.

Informativey.

---

### Post by Big Bear on 2007-06-08
locate ut2004-bin
/home/rwb/Desktop/UT2004-Patch/System/ut2004-bin
/home/rwb/Desktop/UT2004-Patch/System/ut2004-bin-linux-amd64
/home/rwb/ut2004/System/ut2004-bin


That's what I got... so I guess it is under the home/rwb/ut2004 directory?  Where should I normally install things?

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-06-08
You just gave out your IP, I think. Not a good idea. Take off the stuff before "$" before you post next time.
The command you'll want to use is
```

cd ~/Desktop/UT2004-Patch/
sudo cp -r * ~/ut2004/

```

Normally things are installed to the default locations like /usr/bin so all users can run it. If you are the only user of the system it doesn't really matter as long as you can find it. 
I installed my own UT2004 to ~/.ut2004i because I have a separate partition for my "/home" directory so that if I need to reinstall Linux I won't lose my UT2004 install.

---

### Post by fakie_flip on 2007-06-08
hello

---

