---
title: "9.10 - Solution to problem with Urban Terror and other SDL-games"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Mr_Miyagi on 2009-11-01
I tried playing my favourite game, Urban Terror, on my new Karmic Koala install. At first it actually worked good but then suddenly the performance went way down and I had problems with the audio. I couldn't even quit the game, had to kill it. 

Checking the console output it seems there was a problem with the SDL sound libraries. I looked into synaptic and found that libsdl1.2debian-alsa was installed while libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio was NOT installed. Since ubuntu uses PulseAudio I installed this library instead and now it seems to be working fine.

This could resolve many of the gaming issues people are having with Karmic Koala.
Strange that the Ubuntu-team put in the alsa version as default when Ubuntu uses Pulse.

---

### Post by 5nak3 on 2009-11-01
Am I correct in saying that by installing the libsdl1.2 pulseaudio the alsa version is removed?

And also can anyone point to a reasoning behind the use of the alsa version despite ubuntu's reliance on pulseaudio?

---

### Post by 5nak3 on 2009-11-02
Just to update everyone, I took the advice of the OP and installed libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio and now the random freezing seems to have stopped, which means I can actually play the game that was giving me a great number of problems (teeworlds) flawlessly.

Big thanks to the OP for this advice.

---

### Post by aheckler on 2009-11-02
I tried installing libsdl1.2-pulseaudio but apparently the package isn't in my repos. Where did you get it from?

EDIT: Oh nevermind, I see it's libsdl1.2**debian**-pulseaudio.

---

### Post by Sea_of_fear on 2009-11-02
First of, UrT ruleZ!!!

Then... Thanks for sharing this info..  Just installed 9.10 because I got my hands on a logitech headset usb that didn't work on pclos. So I tried livecd 9.10 and worked fine. So now here I am with karmic installed. 

Just wanted to mention in addition that I needed to reboot for the pulsedriver to work.

PS. at work the coworkers keep talking about how great their windows xp/vista stuff are. And I keep telling them, well, until you have tried linux you don't really know how much time you're spending on stupid things.
They only reason I consider windows is because the games won't work on linux as well or not at all.
Linux is da ****!!!!:p

---

### Post by 5nak3 on 2009-11-03
Hi yeah, sorry about the wrong naming convention there aheckler. I didn't mean to cause that trouble :P

Anyways glad you have it running. Can I just point everyones attention to this thread here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1311626](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1311626)

it seems a few of us are having trouble with UT and Karmic so if anyone has any insights it would help a lot of us.

Cheers

---

### Post by FractureX on 2009-11-03
Hi guys. Moderate ubuntu noob here but do I get this? With sudo apt-get pulseaudio?

---

### Post by dearingj on 2009-11-03
> **FractureX said:**
> Hi guys. Moderate ubuntu noob here but do I get this? With sudo apt-get pulseaudio?

The command you want is 
sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio

---

### Post by aheckler on 2009-11-03
Works for me! Just tested with 64-bit Karmic and the sound is perfect now, no freezes.

---

### Post by Vatho on 2009-11-03
Fixed my problems, thanks for this man.

---

### Post by samuelhug on 2009-11-04
Thanks a lot guys! I've been trying to solve this for a couple of days now.

---

### Post by hoang448 on 2009-11-05
Thanks a lot. This also fix sound for wine games on my machine

---

### Post by WanderingSnake on 2009-11-06
I just went through synaptic package manger to get this, but then noticed that there is also one named libsdl1.2debian-all, which is for pulseaudio as well as several others. I installed it instead, and it seems to have solved the audio problem, but I'm wondering if installing the one just for pulseaudio might work better somehow. Did anyone else try this?

---

### Post by jpv2 on 2009-11-07
Hello Everybody!

I remember, that I have had audio problems in many apps after upgrading to 9.10, but I resolved it by changing my multimedia from (default) pulseaudio to alsa (via System Settings applet). Maybe installing libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio would be better option. Anyway I've got the sound working, but I have another extremely annoying problem that had me looking for another distro (Suse download in progress...). However I'd strongly prefer to stay with (K)Ubuntu for its excellent deb packages base, userbase etc... 

My problem in many games (including Urban Terror) is that when I click with left/middle/right mouse button, my cursor jumps to bottom-right corner of the screen. Some games work NOK in full screen mode, but do work OK in windowed mode (e.g. Unknown Horizons). But UT has this mouse issue in both full-screen and windowed modes. This causes game unplayable. I checked both Kubuntu and Ubuntu fresh installs and both are affected by this problem.  I have reported this bug here

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/441408](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/441408)

but can't obtain any feedback there, so I'm trying here. [COLOR=Black]**Please can anyone tell me whether his mouse works OK or NOK for him in UT? What software package could be the culprit?**[/COLOR] I suspect that this is also related to SDL, because setting "export SDL_MOUSE_RELATIVE=0" fixes mouse on-click-jumpiness, but of course I cant play with this setting, as it disables free view rotation in 3D games.


Regards
jpv2

---

### Post by aheckler on 2009-11-07
**jpv2:** You might want to make a new thread for your problem. Nobody is going to see it in here.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2009-11-08
Thread temporarily sticked.

---

### Post by spursncowboys on 2009-11-11
> **5nak3 said:**
> Hi yeah, sorry about the wrong naming convention there aheckler. I didn't mean to cause that trouble :P

Anyways glad you have it running. Can I just point everyones attention to this thread here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1311626](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1311626)

it seems a few of us are having trouble with UT and Karmic so if anyone has any insights it would help a lot of us.

Cheers

That's pretty good.
Evil

---

### Post by 1337 on 2009-11-12
> **jpv2 said:**
> ...
My problem in many games (including Urban Terror) is that when I click with left/middle/right mouse button, my cursor jumps to bottom-right corner of the screen. Some games work NOK in full screen mode, but do work OK in windowed mode (e.g. Unknown Horizons). But UT has this mouse issue in both full-screen and windowed modes. This causes game unplayable. I checked both Kubuntu and Ubuntu fresh installs and both are affected by this problem.  I have reported this bug here

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/441408](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/441408)

but can't obtain any feedback there, so I'm trying here. [COLOR=Black]**Please can anyone tell me whether his mouse works OK or NOK for him in UT? What software package could be the culprit?**[/COLOR] I suspect that this is also related to SDL, because setting "export SDL_MOUSE_RELATIVE=0" fixes mouse on-click-jumpiness, but of course I cant play with this setting, as it disables free view rotation in 3D games.


Regards
jpv2

I'm having exactly the same problem after my upgrade to 9.10, mouse seams to be sluggish in 3D games. I think it's cause something is broken in xserver-xorg-input-mouse package. I'm subscribing this thread and I will be grateful if anyone will find fix for this issue.

---

### Post by 0bso on 2009-11-12
Just a heads up but installing libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio broke sound in wine for me. Games would either have no sound or have very choppy distorted sound (and changing from alsa to oss made little difference).

---

### Post by Vulp on 2009-11-13
Have been searching answer to to this problem for long time, so thanks alot for posting this sdl solution this fixed my black screen problem

---

### Post by diskmaster23 on 2009-11-24
What happens when you have libsdl1.2-pulseaudio installed and ALSA is not installed, but still having problems?

I noticed that my UrbanTerror is using the SDL ALSA driver, how do I force it to use the pulseaudio driver?

---

### Post by Dan Johns on 2009-12-07
Here's my issue: I used the lidsdl-1.2debian-pulseaudio to fix sound issues in sdlmame but now sound acts strange in zsnes and pcsx. As in the sound will work fine, but drop in and out. If I remove the libsdl-1.2debian-pulseaudio for the debian-all version, then zsnes works but sdlmame has erratic sound!

Is there any workaround for this?

---

### Post by guyster on 2009-12-17
Hi all, I am thoroughly stumped, and I really hope someone can help me out.  I upgraded to alsa 1.0.21 on my Ubuntu Jaunty system, so I can get support for my sound blaster xfi card.  Most of my sounds are OK, except for the occasional hickup.  My main problem though is that when I launch Stella, an sdl-based atari 2600 emulator, I get a loud and constant buzz.  The buzz overpowers all audio that may be going on.  This happens no matter what I have my volume control set at.  I have also disabled pulseaudio, using a guide at idyllictux.wordpress.com to no avail.  Is there a way to fix this and still use alsa 1.0.21?  This emulator worked perfectly with the stock alsa installed with Jaunty.  Any help with this is greatly appreciated.

Thanks much,


Guy

---

### Post by portets on 2009-12-22
SDL 1.2.14 FIXES ALL OF MY SOUND PROBLEMS!!
i was looking at sdl's release notes and it mentioned:
[LIST]
[*] 	Updated ALSA support to the latest stable API
[*] 	ALSA is now preferred over OSS audio.  (SDL_AUDIODRIVER=dsp will restore the previous behavior.)
[*] 	Improved support for PulseAudio
[/LIST]
so i decided to find a ppa with the new package because synaptic doesn't have it.

_**EVERYTHING IS FIXED FOR ME**_

hopefully this helps everyone else also. here is the ppa i added:
**ppa:dnjl/games**

---

### Post by Objekt on 2009-12-29
I was having terrible performance problems with Urban Terror 4.1 under Karmic and using the default Gnome desktop environment.  In addition to the sound issues noted in this thread, there was something wrong with the framerate.  The game displayed that it was getting 75+ frames per second, applying vsync, etc, but I was seeing choppy framerates and a lot of tearing artifacts (my monitor is a CRT FWIW).

None of the previously listed fixes corrected the sound problems for me.  I already had SDL 1.2.14.  I am running Karmic 64-bit.

The fix I found was installing & using LXDE, the Lightweight X11 Desktop Environment.  Some things are in different locations, but so far everything seems to still work, that worked in Gnome.  Applications that depend on the DE for their icon - Kaffeine is a well known example - now have a generic "no icon supplied by app" icon.  I haven't seen any showstopper problems yet.

UrT sound & graphics work fine now, and I also have a bit less of that annoying echo in TS2.  UrT also doesn't crash, refuse to quit, and generally bring the Xserver crashing to a halt.

LXDE isn't as pretty as Gnome, but I'll take function over form.  It's not a big deal to log out, then log back in with Gnome, if I need Gnome for some reason.  Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Objekt on 2009-12-29
> **1337 said:**
> I'm having exactly the same problem after my upgrade to 9.10, mouse seams to be sluggish in 3D games. I think it's cause something is broken in xserver-xorg-input-mouse package. I'm subscribing this thread and I will be grateful if anyone will find fix for this issue.

FWIW I have something of the same issue in Kubuntu 9.04.  Aiming seems fine, but there is a small lag between "click" and gun going "bang" in Urban Terror.

Using LXDE on Kubuntu 9.04 doesn't fix the issue.

---

### Post by zaphodbblx on 2009-12-30
so that's what the problem was! I got it working last night and i'm gonna bet that package got installed along the way. My controls seem a bit fritzy but its not so bad you'd notice ;)(and I have no skillz!)

---

### Post by Necrocide on 2009-12-30
Works for wesnoth also and skype too:) . Now if only I can get my digital mic to work on my acer laptop.

---

### Post by Torchmann on 2010-01-02
> **diskmaster23 said:**
> What happens when you have libsdl1.2-pulseaudio installed and ALSA is not installed, but still having problems?

I noticed that my UrbanTerror is using the SDL ALSA driver, how do I force it to use the pulseaudio driver?

Pulse audio is not a driver. It is a sound server that controls your sound drivers karmic is still using alsa it's just using pulseaudio to configure alsa.
You need both alsa and pulse audio.
make sure you have all the libraries pulse needs. 
I had to do a dozen installs and tried several distributions.
I'm running ultimate edition but the missing libs I installed that fixed the problem prolly were missing in the karmic...
check it and make sure...
I'm going to open a thread on how I fixed it.
Here's the full story...

**_Edited!!!_**
I had UT fixed...
I installed the flash player and UT died
I put a complete description up in the thread I started if you woulfd like to check it out

something about flash and my system or flash and ubuntu9.10 

It turns out that after a tidy drive wipe THEN a reinstall with NO FLASH...The common libsdl1.2 debian-pulseaudio fix is the only thing I had to do to have UT working fine

---

### Post by Torchmann on 2010-01-02
> **Necrocide said:**
> Works for wesnoth also and skype too:) . Now if only I can get my digital mic to work on my acer laptop.

open pulse audio preference there are a couple settings.
Digital wont work for me I have to run under analog duplex(analog mic and amp)

run a song set to repeat..

nav to system button upper left of your screen...
system/pref/pulseaudiopreferences
or
right click on the speaker icon upper right and select sound preferences
play around with your hardware settings and amp settings find a setup that works:guitar:

P.S. be a good idea to install the alsa mixer. it controls the volume levels in your soundcard's channels. it also mutes and activates then.

---

### Post by Tec5nical on 2010-06-10
> **portets said:**
> SDL 1.2.14 FIXES ALL OF MY SOUND PROBLEMS!!
i was looking at sdl's release notes and it mentioned:
[LIST]
[*] 	Updated ALSA support to the latest stable API
[*] 	ALSA is now preferred over OSS audio.  (SDL_AUDIODRIVER=dsp will restore the previous behavior.)
[*] 	Improved support for PulseAudio
[/LIST]
so i decided to find a ppa with the new package because synaptic doesn't have it.

_**EVERYTHING IS FIXED FOR ME**_

hopefully this helps everyone else also. here is the ppa i added:
**ppa:dnjl/games**
Well I did what you said but the results for were these:
Vdrift's sound issue was completely solved
Speed-dreams didn't generate any sound, no it has but completely ruined!
No changes for 0ad

Thank you

---

### Post by Tec5nical on 2010-06-10
> **portets said:**
> SDL 1.2.14 FIXES ALL OF MY SOUND PROBLEMS!!
i was looking at sdl's release notes and it mentioned:
[LIST]
[*] 	Updated ALSA support to the latest stable API
[*] 	ALSA is now preferred over OSS audio.  (SDL_AUDIODRIVER=dsp will restore the previous behavior.)
[*] 	Improved support for PulseAudio
[/LIST]
so i decided to find a ppa with the new package because synaptic doesn't have it.

_**EVERYTHING IS FIXED FOR ME**_

hopefully this helps everyone else also. here is the ppa i added:
**ppa:dnjl/games**
Well doing what you suggested, I got the following results:

Vdift's issue was completely solved
Speed-Dream didn't generate any sound, but now it has but terrible!
0ad has no difference, terrible yet.

Thank you

---

### Post by ziffolo on 2010-11-01
I am having lots of problems with this:
- Sound choppy and game slow
-installed pulseaudio: 
sudo aptitude install libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio

-still probs, then I switched back to get Alsa:

sudo aptitude install libsdl1.2debian-alsa

-reboot and it works... but after I reboot again (switch off the pc) I am 
back in the starting point

I really don't get why the system works sometimes and some other not...
keep installing-deinstalling the libraries almost randomly now...

edit: when I install alsa it removes pulseaudio stuff and viceversa, automatically

---

