---
title: "10.04~I cant get 1366x768 in full screen...please help"
date: 2010-05-21
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by KEE on 2010-05-21
ok i get this code in terminal ```
ops@ops:~/Oolite-dev/1.73-maintenance$ oolite.app/oolite
Segmentation fault
ops@sops:~/Oolite-dev/1.73-maintenance$ 


```but it runs in Full screen in anything under 1366x768...know idea how to fix I tried configuring ```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```  but that failed to ...my oolite keeps shutting down on 1366x768. i tried shutting ccsm and awn but that didnt work either. others games like World of warcraft works great on 1366x768 with full graphix. can anyone help?  :confused:

GeForce G102M
16 core
50g memory 
64-bit

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-05-21
Moved to Gaming & Leisure

---

### Post by Extol11 on 2010-05-21
If you're on a desktop and you're using DVI and one of the new monitors that go up to exactly 1080 and not 1200, it's possible that you're trying to go for one of the resolutions that has a different aspect ratio and (for some reason) DVI won't stretch the screen to fit the frame of the display. I'm no pro on the matter, I just noticed it works that way. But you might want to see if that's actually the way it's meant to work before assuming it's a problem. Or check your monitor for an "adjust" feature. Just trying to help here.

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-05-21
> **Extol11 said:**
> If you're on a desktop and you're using DVI and one of the new monitors that go up to exactly 1080 and not 1200, it's possible that you're trying to go for one of the resolutions that has a different aspect ratio and (for some reason) DVI won't stretch the screen to fit the frame of the display. I'm no pro on the matter, I just noticed it works that way. But you might want to see if that's actually the way it's meant to work before assuming it's a problem. Or check your monitor for an "adjust" feature. Just trying to help here.

its a laptop ..it goes to 1366x768...everything else like wow plays play very well on 1366x768...in the options of oolite there some other settings that work in fullscreen just not 1366x768 but it runs ok on 1366x768 with out fullscreen..as soon as I click it to go there ...it says ```
Segmentation fault

```

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-05-21
ok I got it thanks anyways =)

---

### Post by Rustybolts on 2010-05-21
I was getting this problem with Oolite using the same resolution on my laptop, I spoke with some of the people who created it on their forum and they were unable to help me. So how did you fix this?

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-05-21
> **Rustybolts said:**
> I was getting this problem with Oolite using the same resolution on my laptop, I spoke with some of the people who created it on their forum and they were unable to help me. So how did you fix this?

um no idea ...it works now though...sometime fixing these is purely accidental. watch for the resolution. they have to be the same for it go to full screen. i did someother things but I think that worked mostly.

---

