---
title: "How to rip games in Ubuntu?"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by ChaosChris2009 on 2011-05-10
I'm only asking beacause this is for backup purposes only.

Is there a good alternative to Alcohol 120% for Ubuntu?

I want to rip and backup my games to my external hdd.

---

### Post by mips on 2011-05-11
Maybe have a look at AcetoneISO.

---

### Post by sakuramboo on 2011-05-11
dd if=/dev/cdrom of=~/backups/game.iso

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-05-12
does this command also copy all the copy protection? or does it just make an ISO? because making iso can be done with any burning programme (also Brasero i believe)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-05-12
Not sure how one would bother to remove copy protection, but yes Brasero can make ISOs (that is what I use). dd from the command line will work as well as was said.

---

### Post by HolgerB on 2011-05-12
> **mips said:**
> Maybe have a look at AcetoneISO.
To my best knowledge AcetoneISO is mostly for mounting various image formats generated by all those Windows tools out there rather than creating backup copies.

Check out here:
[http://www.acetoneteam.org/viewpage.php?page_id=6](http://www.acetoneteam.org/viewpage.php?page_id=6)

As for actually making a backup I highly doubt that any Linux tool (even ddrescue) will be able to deal with modern copy protection schemes. 

To answer the initial question of [ChaosChris2009]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=906951"):
No, there is currently no equivalent tool such as Alcohol120%.

The most straight forward approach to me seems having a small Windows partition  plus the required tools for generating backup copies.

---

### Post by Arthur_D on 2011-05-12
> **mastablasta said:**
> does this command also copy all the copy protection? or does it just make an ISO? because making iso can be done with any burning programme (also Brasero i believe)
dd makes a complete copy of anything, so you can for example make a complete backup of a HDD with this command, and it'll include all partition tables and everything. But it won't strip anything out like DRM.

---

### Post by HolgerB on 2011-05-12
> **Arthur_D said:**
> dd makes a complete copy of anything, so you can for example make a complete backup of a HDD with this command, and it'll include all partition tables and everything. But it won't strip anything out like DRM.
Just a little correction here:
dd makes a complete copy of anything which is readable per se. It clearly fails if sectors are "unreadable". Most copy protection schemes (be it games or Video DVDs) nowadays have informations stored on tracks / region of the disk which are not readable. Try to backup a more recent video DVD without tools such as dvdfabdecrypter or AnyDVD and you know what I mean.

The point of generating working backups of game disks mainly means to replicate / copy the bitpattern of the protection which is part of the orginal disk. So it's really copying and/replicating but not stripping anything.

But I am not providing further informations on that topic :P

Edit: A quick look at WINEs AppDB confirms that currently a Windows partition is the only "solution":
[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=2364](http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=2364)

---

### Post by mips on 2011-05-15
> **HolgerB said:**
> To my best knowledge AcetoneISO is mostly for mounting various image formats generated by all those Windows tools out there rather than creating backup copies.

[IMG]https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/B3XNgU47_Z3aZ7oZnBL2TUwZNfYsUFlXRtIX5LCVO5bRBCm5Ph55dUO2cQWEvsqlGPjtJX3S1CSdX3fFXunHVrCZXw=s512[/IMG]

No idea how well it works though for PC games as I have only used it for PS1 games.

---

### Post by HolgerB on 2011-05-15
> **mips said:**
> 

No idea how well it works though for PC games as I have only used it for PS1 games.
Hm, seems to me their menu replicates those Windows tools. Well, I can hardly imagine that they do something big different beside using ddrescue / standard dd routines to do this.

---

