---
title: "[13.04 x64] [Nvidia] GLX Direct Rendering Unavailable"
date: 2013-07-12
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by ironhardchaw on 2013-07-12
Hi all,

I've been searching all day with no luck on this issue. I've finally got around to installing Steam on my rig, downloaded Left 4 Dead 2 and BAM! doesn't work :(

Some forums suggested that since Steam is a 32 bit application that I need 32 bit libraries installed in order for this to work. I proceeded to ```
apt-get install mesa-utils:i386
``` ...in order to run glxinfo, which seems to be the go-to information screen. The results are in:

```
ironhardchaw@apollo:~$ glxinfo
name of display: :0
libGL: screen 0 does not appear to be DRI2 capable
libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/dri/tls/swrast_dri.so
libGL: OpenDriver: trying /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/dri/swrast_dri.so
libGL error: failed to load driver: swrast
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
server glx vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
server glx version string: 1.4
```

I've installed ia32-libs which didn't solve anything.

I further installed libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 and libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 as some people suggested that 32bit Mesa is required, though I could find no "mesa" package per-se.

I further attempted to install nvidia-310:i386, as some suggested that I need the 32bit version of my graphics drivers, though attemptting to do so produced the following error condition:

```
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 nvidia-310:i386 : Depends: make:i386 but it is not going to be installed
                   Depends: dkms:i386 but it is not installable
                   Depends: acpid:i386 but it is not going to be installed
                   Depends: xorg-video-abi-11:i386 but it is not installable or
                            xorg-video-abi-12:i386 but it is not installable or
                            xorg-video-abi-13:i386 or
                            xorg-video-abi-14:i386 but it is not installable
                   Depends: xserver-xorg-core:i386 but it is not going to be installed
                   Recommends: nvidia-settings-310:i386
```

I suspected that the error condition was a result of requiring access to 32bit repos, so I ran ```
dpkg --add-architecture i386; apt-get update
``` ...but I still receive the above error condition.

I'm sure I did some more stuff, but my head is so screwed up with all the information that I've found, and none of it has really helped so far. I'm not sure what information is relevant to my situation beyond that which I have given, so if any additional info is required, please ask and I'll get it. Any assistance would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by ironhardchaw on 2013-07-12
Sorry, just realized that square brackets are reserved in the title. Apologies.

---

### Post by ironhardchaw on 2013-07-12
I have made some progress. Running glxinfo now indicates that direct rendering is working. In order to get this working I followed the instructions found here. For clarification:

```

sudo su -c 'printf "/usr/lib32/nvidia-310\n/usr/lib/nvidia-310" >> /usr/lib/nvidia-310/alt_ld.so.conf'
sudo ldconfig

```

I am now just stuck with the "Could not find required OpenGL entry point 'glGetError'!" message, which was part of the aforementioned problem. Thoughts?

---

### Post by ironhardchaw on 2013-07-12
I resolved my problem by removing duplicate data found in /etc/ld.so.conf.d/. Namely, there were a number of GL-related configs that didn't need to be there, and in fact overrode those configs that I had written. I removed any and all references to i386-linux-gnu_GL.conf and x86_64-linux-gnu_GL. Just remember, if you decide to try this, backup the directory. And beware that there are a number of symlinks in this directory.

---

