---
title: "game idea"
date: 2008-09-06
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Roads on 2008-09-06
Hello everyone, this is my first post.  I'm here because a friend of mine urged me to post my idea here and see how well the idea is received.  I'm one of those Windows people who have been putting off learning about linux for years because of gaming.

I've been gaming since Railroad Tycoon and Civ1 was released.  In the last few years I've been really disappointed with the direction gaming has taken.  I don't need to explain why, if you don't know, you won't be interested.  Stop reading. :)

The game I want to make is strategy.  It is not you pitted against an AI trying to defeat you but rather you pitted against circumstances and attempting to overcome them.  The game will have rewards and some them will simply be eye candy to take in while you are planning your strategy.  Imagine a caravan traveling across a dry desert winding its way to a distant and ancient port city.  How about a great hunter, armed with only a flint weapon and hand woven rope, going out to bring down big game because his settlement is close to starvation?

Here is the general desription from my game design spec:

This is a game of strategy based on natural resources and terrain and builds from a single city.  It is real-time and turn-based with elements of a simulator, god game and RPG.  The game progresses from January 1 to December 31 if it is not paused.  At the end of the year the turn must be applied.  However the game can be advanced to the next year by clicking the turn button at any time.

The game begins with the player attempting to keep his small band of settlers from starving to death, something like the situation the pilgrims found themselves when settling America.  Unlike the settlement of America, the game will begin in ancient times when people suddenly knew how to fashion agricultural tools, plough, sow and grow crops, domesticate animals, make huts, weave cloth and make clay pots.

The game will progress to the medieval era and gameplay will expand to building multiple cities and trade between those cities.  It will include great citizens.  These citizens will be randomly generated by the game and perform certain tasks such as blazing trails, leading hunting expeditions and making technological discoveries.  The great citizens will normally have a long life unless befallen by a premature death but not inhumanly long.  The cities will be detailed and include zoning for housing, mercantile and industrial development.  Mercantile and industrial development will depend to some extent on the use and supply of natural resources.  How much will depend on game play testing to determine the amount of micro-management needed.  Development dependent on resources will be generated randomly and cannot be built by the player nor can the player choose in which city that development will occur.  He can only zone for it.  The idea is that there will be many variables and the challenge of the player is to play the hand he is dealt. :idea:

The goal of the game is for the player to advance his people technologically.  There will be at least three installments of the the game and in the last one, an asteroid bombardment will commence on earth.  It will build in intensity over a period of time and eventually make life on earth for humans impossibly difficult.  The challenge for the player will be to advance sufficiently enough so that he can transfer all his people to a new home on a distant planet.  In the first installment of the game the challenge for the player is to advance his people technologically to the point where they have a written language and understand basic mathematical principles.  They must capable of producing and using bronze implements, understand and apply the concept of a gear and a cam such that they can build water wheels and other simple mechanical devices.

---

### Post by mudguts on 2008-09-06
so whats stopping you from making it?  

get a few programmers with skills.  build a framework design.  present it to VC's with a business plan and financial layout then see if they'll sponsor your business.

easy peasy :)

---

### Post by Roads on 2008-09-06
Well mudguts right now I'm still trying to figure out how to do it.  All I have is an idea and a dream of the game I've been wanting to play for a long time.

---

### Post by RIchard James13 on 2008-09-07
How does the player manipulate the game world? Is it like Simcity where you apply zoning and build special buildings or can you directly tell your simulated people what to do? How does the player influence what happens to their kingdom?

---

### Post by Roads on 2008-09-07
Yes Richard, the cities are something like SimCity where you will need to zone areas for building.  However the special buildings (those which use resources) will be randomly generated by the game and will not necessarily be in the city that is nearest the resource.  Zoning is a fairly insignificant part of the game.  The only reason for it is to allow the player to determine, to some extent, how his city will look.  There may be some "reward" buildings that the player can build.

The real heart of the game as far as the city is concerned is allocating workers to food, shelter and clothing, the necessities of life.  As technology advances, it will take fewer and fewer workers for this and more for special tasks.  One of the challenges in the game will be allocating enough workers to provide food, shelter and clothing while still having enough workers for special tasks to advance technologically.

That is part of the game.  The other part will be on the national map where the player will need to lay down routes for caravans to follow.  These will consist of the player placing waypoints and then the game determining what percentage chance of success a caravan will have of making the trip.  The player can adjust the location of these waypoints until he gets a "best" route.  Some of the things that affect a route will be grade (which mount and pack animals can successfully negotiate it - donkey, horse, camel, elephant), how much food and water is along the route and are there concentrations of wild animals that might attack.

There's a lot of things to do and a lot of complexity.  However there are no difficult concepts, just many decisions, the first being where to place that first city. :)

---

### Post by curvedinfinity on 2008-09-07
Heya, I just want to say that its good you are thinking about these things. Details are the key to a good game design. I have some experience in getting things like this off the ground, and if you are really determined, and sacrificing a huge portion of your life towards making this game is worth it to you, then I have some advice. Your game idea, whether you believe it or not, will take years of development. If you want to speed that process up, the following will help:
[LIST]
[*]Take as many ideas out of your game as possible
[*]Learn how to program
[*]Learn how to make artwork
[*]Develop a more concrete plan of the game through prototyping
[/LIST]
Most novice game developers tend to be very ignorant to the "words of the wise" from more experienced people. Don't make that mistake. Ask a lot of questions, and follow people's advice. You'll get there if you are very determined.

---

### Post by Roads on 2008-09-08
Thank you curvedinfinity.  I will take your advice.  In a vague sort of way I'm doing most of that now.

I'm going through a set of C++ tuts and have a game programming book with an Allegro library to start next.

Right now I'm not sure what graphic software I need but I'm pretty sure I'll be buying something like Dark Graphics or dxStudio.  Do you have a suggestion?

I do have a detail game plan.  It was much more difficult than I anticipated and is not finished.  It didn't take long to realize there is a huge difference between thinking about a game and actually describing things like screens, showing how they will interface with the game and defining things like how the cursor will look and what will need to happen when you are clicking to lay down a route.

Yes I am concerned that the game has too much in it.  No doubt it is a departure from the way strategy games are done.  I've thought about this a long time tho and I want a lot of things to do in the game.  I don't like rushing thru time simply to do the same few things over and over again but with different graphics.

---

### Post by RIchard James13 on 2008-09-08
For game design I use an artists sketch book. That way I can draw screens and scribble and stuff. Some people do use more professional tools like paint programs and a word-processor. 

As for the remove the ideas from your game. I read the following article which explains why that is a good thing for starting out. [http://www.moddb.com/tutorials/the-modular-release-model]("http://www.moddb.com/tutorials/the-modular-release-model") It is aimed at people writing mods but does apply to game developers as well.

---

### Post by curvedinfinity on 2008-09-08
For learning how to make art, there's nothing better for starting out than pencil sketching. Start out by using flat images from magazines or cartoons as your source. Then move to things with depth, like people or mechanical objects. When your mind can imagine things in terms of how they are made, then digital is probably the best medium to move to so you can focus on colors. I use GIMP and Inkscape for digital artwork.

You can learn pretty much everything you need for free, so don't spend your money if you are short on it. I don't find books as a very good format for learning anyway, so that was doubly great for me. C++ is **the** language, for sure. People will say that it is one of the harder languages to learn, but in learning it, you will understand 100% how it works -- there are no surprises after you understand it. "Easier" languages like Java cover up a lot of the low-level stuff, so there is more that is left to mystery, and often more that will surprise you eventually. For C++, I recommend starting graphics programming with OpenGL through SDL.

Hope this helps. :)

-- If you'd be interested in being a guinea pig, I'm working on a project which is designed for beginner programmers, but I have yet to write the tutorials formatted for that sort of reader. Its called MirthKit:

[http://www.mirthkit.com](http://www.mirthkit.com)

It uses a language that looks the same as C++, but has direct access to graphics functionality. Potentially, I could walk you through learning the language while taking notes on your questions and pacing. If you're interested, just post on our forum.

---

### Post by Roads on 2008-09-08
Fellas, after 20 years of playing games, I know what I want.  I've no illusion that it is a niche game that maybe 1 in 50 players would like.  The reason for posting here and on other forums is hopefully to find other players who both like the idea and want to work on the project.

I've found some players who love the idea but so far none who want to work on the project.  curvedinfinity I checked out your site but I need to stay focused.  If I have to do the game myself I'm not overly concerned about how long it will take or finding a market for it.  My approach now is I might as well be doing this as playing Spore, CXL, another iteration of Colonization or just pure strategy war games which I do not like at all.

---

### Post by curvedinfinity on 2008-09-08
> **Roads said:**
> Fellas, after 20 years of playing games, I know what I want.  I've no illusion that it is a niche game that maybe 1 in 50 players would like.  The reason for posting here and on other forums is hopefully to find other players who both like the idea and want to work on the project.

I've found some players who love the idea but so far none who want to work on the project.  curvedinfinity I checked out your site but I need to stay focused.  If I have to do the game myself I'm not overly concerned about how long it will take or finding a market for it.  My approach now is I might as well be doing this as playing Spore, CXL, another iteration of Colonization or just pure strategy war games which I do not like at all.

Hey look, we are all just trying to help. You aren't going to find any people who want to help out until, as you say it, you do it yourself. Why is that? Everyone who wants to make games wants to do *their* game. Good luck!

---

### Post by Roads on 2008-09-08
I apologize for sounding unappreciative.  curvedinfinity it was like a light bulb came on when I read your last statement.  I'm going to stop looking for help and concentrate on pointers.  That will keep me busy for awhile. :confused:

---

### Post by KhaaL on 2008-09-08
Hey Roads

I definatly agree with you that we need more strategy / TBS / 4X games. Though I have no programming skills, i have *some* artistic skills and I'm trying to developing my 3d artistic skills (any volunteer mentors?! :D).

Anyway, if you're serious about the game I suggest you try to settle for a engine since there is already so many good ones out there. Maybe check out apricot project from blender3d and see what it can offer so you dont have to reinvent the wheel :)

---

### Post by Roads on 2008-09-08
Hey Khaal

I definitely will be looking for an engine tho it will be awhile before I get to that point.  I haven't heard of apricot but I'll check it out.  If you haven't checked out modelers like T.ED it would probably be worth your time.  I downloaded a trial version just to see what it is about and was pretty awed.  You can create a landscape just by moving your mouse.  It is about as easy as terraforming in SC4.

If you want my e-mail address so we can talk about this some more, just PM me.

---

