---
title: "Is 12.04LTS a suitable platform for games or is a later release better?"
date: 2013-09-18
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Handssolow on 2013-09-18
I would prefer to stick with 12.04 LTS on my son's desktop PC considering he wants to use it for playing games, so in this context is there any benefit in upgrading to the latest release of Ubuntu, or for that matter moving to another distro?

---

### Post by fireflower on 2013-09-18
No, there is no benefit in "upgrading," stay with 12.04 LTS. The reason for this is because the Linux version of Steam was programmed specifically for 12.04 LTS.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2013-09-18
12.04 is solid, and perfect for gaming. You might get better gaming results by installing lubuntu-desktop, which is a lighter-weight desktop than Unity.

---

### Post by fireflower on 2013-09-18
> **oldrocker99 said:**
> lubuntu-desktop, a lighter-weight desktop than  Unity.A valid point. I use 12.04 with the gnome desktop (howto  available [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370")). Is lubuntu better than that? As in, lighter-weight?

---

### Post by DarkAmbient on 2013-09-19
Stay with 12.04 for the sake of promised stability. 

Allthough personally I've had no issue with 13.04, and It seems a little snappier and lighter than 12.04. My ram-usage after a fresh boot is 410MiB, not to much considering Ubuntu is more or less a heavy distribution.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2013-09-21
> **fireflower said:**
> A valid point. I use 12.04 with the gnome desktop (howto  available [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370")). Is lubuntu better than that? As in, lighter-weight?

Lubuntu is about the fastest desktop, using few system resources. I use it when I'm playing games; I use MATE for everything else.

---

