---
title: "Bf 1942"
date: 2006-08-19
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by thunderduck3141 on 2006-08-19
anyone play?
just wondering 
my tag is my name

---

### Post by HAARP on 2006-08-19
I tried it with Wine - impossible.
Should work with Cedega, but I won't use semi-stolen software.

---

### Post by thunderduck3141 on 2006-08-19
im using it on a ummm... version that i umm obtained so i dont feel bad
great game though

---

### Post by HAARP on 2006-08-19
With semi-stolen I meant what Cedega did. 

Yes, BF1942 is the best of the battlefield series. I don't want to show off or something, but I would consider myself one of the best 10% chopper pilots in DC :p (for flying. shooting is another issue; when it looks like you hit but you didn't cause of your ping)
Oh yes, Desert Combat. The Counter-Strike of BF-mods
Then theres Forgotten Hope. My other favourite mod, although it tends to use all of my 1GB RAM when actually playing (most of the time you're staring at the loading bar). But that's cool, since it just looks incredible (actually perfectly good textures, no effects crap that forces you to upgrade your vid card) and plays way different than vanilla BF1942 (which sucks in my opinion)

I talk too much.

---

### Post by thunderduck3141 on 2006-08-19
i was saying that i did the same thing to cedega that transgaming did to wine (i will not pay for their stuff) but yeah, i got bf1942 for the mods, also got vietnam (came w/ it)
hope to play u haarp

---

### Post by slimdog360 on 2006-08-20
I recon battlefiled vietnam is the best of the series. Takes the best parts of 1942 and adds a great soundtrack.

---

