---
title: "Ut2004"
date: 2005-06-03
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by simonkitch on 2005-06-03
Hi
   I've got UT2004 installed on my windows drive (hda) can i link to this installation an run the game in Hoary?

---

### Post by theerga on 2005-06-03
hmm probably not iless you used cedega or wine or something like that it would also depend on your file system on your hd if you can even do that because if it is ntfs then it is a for sure no from my experience

---

### Post by professor_chaos on 2005-06-03
I'm curious why you are doing this?
Insead of just installing in hoary......... :???:

---

### Post by jdodson on 2005-06-03
i agree with p. chaos.  the install files for ut2004 for gnu/linux are on the main cd.  why not use those?  no more wine headaches that way.  running it native opens up a new can entirely..... wait, kidding, kidding.  i have installed and can run ut2004 quite well actually. :)

---

### Post by Curlydave on 2005-06-03
I can run it, but without any graphical options (eg AA/AF) and at a fraction of the FPS that it runs at in windows. If I'm using an x800pro, I expect a full 70fps. (that's my refresh rate, and vsync is a must) I get a fluxuation in the 20s-30s. And that's with no AA/AF.

Also some other things won't work right, eg full shadows, and in the Red Orchestra mod, you get red rain and can't use modelled sights. Don't count on minimizing it either.

---

### Post by Khannie on 2005-06-04
You need the latest ATI drivers. The default ones that come with the standard apt-get repository are fairly old. I got the details on this forum at:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32495)

(read the entirity of the first page of that thread....look for "point 6" as it was relevant to me.

I have a 9800 pro and mine works at an acceptable level at 1280x1024 with the latest drivers installed (wouldn't play properly at all before that).

---

