---
title: "s...s...Sims... *exhausted from a day of searching*"
date: 2009-07-10
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Frogmando on 2009-07-10
Can't find anything about playing it. 3 works with WINE, i know that with windows i did'nt meet the sys reqs... does ubutnu use less recourses therefore i might be able to play it?

but i'm asking about 1, or even 2, preferably 1.

have you got it to work?

---

### Post by Frogmando on 2009-07-10
not work in wine, cedega (i got a cracked version *evil laugh*) i'm trying POS then i shall try virtual box, if that doens't work i'm reinstalling WINE with an XP partition for sims :P

---

### Post by Frogmando on 2009-07-10
hahaha need an OS to install into VB lol..

---

### Post by Grant A. on 2009-07-10
I suppose that only the 1337est h4xx0rs forget that there's an edit button?

---

### Post by Frogmando on 2009-07-10
oh ehehehe sorry.
ANYWAYZ! 
so i ceebs downloading xp, so i'm getting TINY XP [http://thepiratebay.org/torrent/4206516/TinyXP_Rev09_-_eXPerience](http://thepiratebay.org/torrent/4206516/TinyXP_Rev09_-_eXPerience) rev09 is the current version
and i'm trying with that going to install it into VB

---

### Post by ruzkie on 2009-07-10
[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=16664](http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=16664)

---

### Post by rettichschnidi on 2009-07-10
There was once "The Sims for Linux" included in a Mandrake Distribution. I have it and I described how to install it for Linux [here (Cedega needed)]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6653074&postcount=13")

I have no idea where you could get this version nowadays, but if you find it I could give you the (needed) patches. Unfortunately Transgaming does not offer them any longer.

---

### Post by Frogmando on 2009-07-11
I can't find it anywhere to download, besides i don't like Cedega, and don't want to pay :P

---

### Post by Frogmando on 2009-07-12
Downloaded TinyXP, now to install it onto VB box!

---

### Post by Frogmando on 2009-07-12
IT WORKED!
i hope this helps someone someday!
virtual box open source edition, tiny XP rev 9
AND IT WORKED! better than it ever worked on windos lol, better quality faster smoother run XD

---

### Post by spoons on 2009-07-12
Is it just me who's sitting here thinking, "Um, what?"

---

