---
title: "help a nub with a WoW problem?"
date: 2007-05-24
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by th3negotiator on 2007-05-24
Alright...i've got a few problems here with running me some WoW so, i figured id take the initiative and ask the good people in ubuntu-land!:D

Well the first problem started after i updated to the newest patch.  While initially playing, the game would crash on me after freezing and give me a "critical error message" saying that some file(cant remember what) could not be read.  After this happening...repeatedly, I decided to try and using the repair tool.  Sadly, this reverted me back to 2.0.0.  From there i downloaded patches and was able to get up to 2.0.12.  However, now, when i try to use a downloaded patch to update, it will freeze at 3%.  When patch 2.0.12 came out i too initially suffered from the game freezing right before it got to the login screen.  Using what was said on the forum, i was eventually able to get it to work.  However, now this issue has returned, which im attributing to the fact that i am now running in 2.0.12 again.  I have winecfg set to windows me and have also tried with 98 and NT4.0.  I have deleted my cache folders, all to no avail.:(

So...what should i do?

Im running the repair wizard right now and its reverting to the earlier version.

But i really dont know what to do for either problem.  The updating, or the 2.0.12.  Is there anyway to update to 2.1.0 from 2.0.3?

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2007-05-24
I believe what you're looking for lives here:

[http://www.wowwiki.com/Patch_mirrors](http://www.wowwiki.com/Patch_mirrors)

Links to all the patches for download without the horrid blizzard downloader. :)

Just scroll down until you find the right one.

Though this may not solve your crashing problem especially if you're using and ATI card as many ATI users have been screwed since the patch.  _All users _(minus maybe one) still experience crashing on game exit.  There are work arounds to closing wow in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=451505](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=451505)

None of them fix the issue, they just make it simpler to close WoW afterwords.

---

### Post by th3negotiator on 2007-05-24
Alrights well...got it to update from a mirror site (thank you hikari core) but its still freezing on startup after the EULA agreement.  ](*,)

Yeah I have an ATI card, but the current issue is like the one with 2.0.12, when all of our ATI cards made it freeze :P.  Cant remember how i got it to work then but, ATI WoW patch screwedness...sucks.

Thanks for the help :popcorn:

---

### Post by ShadowFlar3 on 2007-05-27
Can you post your xorg.conf and your World of Warcraft/WTF/Config.wtf and we'll take a look?

---

### Post by gantww on 2007-05-27
I'm having the same issue. Here's mine:


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[1]" RightOf "Default Screen"
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AP [Radeon 9600]"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by ShadowFlar3 on 2007-05-28
I think you should apply this fix:

[http://www.wowwiki.com/Linux/Wine#ATI_enter_game_world_crash](http://www.wowwiki.com/Linux/Wine#ATI_enter_game_world_crash)

Also follow the entire guide on how to adjust your Config.wtf file for max performance.

---

