---
title: "9.10  I386 Sauerbraten only work from source folder."
date: 2010-01-22
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Dennis Beekman on 2010-01-22
I downloaded the version of sauerbranten and put the game on my secondary harddrive "/stor/sdb1/games/sauerbraten"

I whent into the *src* folder and build the game... 
```

make
sudo make install

```

wich worked just fine.

I then started the games with

```

./sauerbraten_unix

```

and i runs perfectly...

So i made a commmand to start the game

```


sudo ln -sf /stor/sdb1/games/sauerbraten/sauerbraten_unix /usr/bin/sauerbraten


```

but the game will not start with either /.crx or the above link unless i am in the game folder "/stor/sdb1/games/sauerbraten".
If i try to start it from anywhere else (like a shortcut on the desktop) it fails to start.

when it fails it complains that it cannot find the SDL packages as being installed properly and asks me to run the "make install" scripts again.

it this a known error ? i couldn't find it anywhere on google.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2010-01-22
You have to be in the same directory to launch it. Symblink won't help.

```
sh -c "cd <path> && ./binary"
```

---

### Post by Dennis Beekman on 2010-01-22
Eventhough i have been using Linux and in particular Ubuntu for a while now, it seems i still have alot to learn :-)
I would have never thought that one can combine commands like that in a shortcut...

Thanxs @ Artificial Intelligence

---

### Post by PC_load_letter on 2010-02-28
Well, I had the same problem, I'm running Karmic 9.10 64bit and I downloaded the Trooper Edition 5/4/2009. I could only run it from the same folder, until....:)

If you right click on the **sauerbraten_unix** file, and open it with gedit, then you only need to specify the game's path and problem solved, you can then create a desktop launcher for it if you want, and with the icon you can find in the /Data folder, it looks really cool. Here is what I did, when you open the **sauerbraten_unix** file in gedit, you will see the following at the beginning of the file:

```
#!/bin/sh
# SAUER_DATA should refer to the directory in which Sauerbraten data files are placed.
#SAUER_DATA=~/sauerbraten
#SAUER_DATA=/usr/local/sauerbraten
SAUER_DATA=.
```

Now change the value of SAUER_DATA to the game's actual path and erase the period. For example, if your user name is **Mike** and you just unpacked the game to your home folder then you should have:
```
SAUER_DATA=/home/Mike/sauerbraten
```

That's it!!! I then created a desktop launcher for it and it's working.

---

