---
title: "QUAKE 4 HELP!!! cdrom0 Permission Error"
date: 2008-02-10
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by davidkyn on 2008-02-10
could someone answer this guys post; as I have His Exact Problem!!!

"Hello,

I'm helping a friend install some games on his Ubuntu system, in this case specifically Quake IV. I know how to do it and have done it several times for several people in the past and, at this point, is just a matter of copying the pk4s off of the disc into the q4base directory.

We've already installed several games including Quake III Arena, Doom 3 and Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil and had no problem. Very strangely, after we finished copying the files needed from Quake IV, disc one of four, and inserted disc two, the following error displayed:

The folder contents could not be displayed.
You do not have the permissions necessary to view the contents of "cdrom0".

It's been working totally fine and nothing was changed or even touched whatsoever having to do with cdrom0 or anything of that nature. We tried other discs and, still, the same error comes up now. All we had been doing was sudo cp filename1.pk4 filename2.pk4 /use/local/base/quake4/q4base/ and so on. We also tried rebooting with no disc inside and still, this error occurs upon insertion of disc.

The output of his /etc/fstab is as follows:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>
proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# /dev/hda4
UUID=bb528419-d5c4-412f-82e5-09528fa5c11f / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /dev/hdb9
UUID=1e8aad61-53b9-42d1-b8bf-c1fca1fc7f46 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# /dev/hda1
# /dev/hda5
# /dev/hdb5
# /dev/hdb6
# /dev/hdb7
# /dev/hdb8
UUID=95058e1c-d2ae-4f25-be6a-2cc652f5a149 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hdb6 /media/hdb6 vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
/dev/hda5 /media/hda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
/dev/hdb5 /media/hdb5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
/dev/hdb7 /media/hdb7 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

Nothing was changed here and all has been working fine until now. Any idea what is going on and why?

Thanks!

UPDATE: This problem only occurs with Quake IV, disc two through four. Other discs seem to work fine. What's going on?

---

### Post by FrozenFox on 2008-02-10
Tbh, I have no idea what the problem is. I've looked and thought it over and looked around, no idea. However, if you have windows also installed on there, I have a suggestion that may get around your strange issue. If you don't, well ignore this post.

In windows, [http://www.fs-driver.org/download.html](http://www.fs-driver.org/download.html)  install this and assign your ubuntu partition to a drive letter like L:\. Note that you should just not assign a letter for the ubuntu swap space, only for the data partition(s). If you can copy files from the cd on windows, you could copy all of them over to your ubuntu partition that way. Shrug. Hope this helps or you figure something out X_X

---

### Post by davidkyn on 2008-02-10
Thanks anyways,
I am using a notebook with only the one partition...I've said goodbye to windows for now:popcorn: Thanks for your time...I got ut2004 going WOW...I am just trying to see how many games I can get on linux by way of installers to impress my friends who always use the lack of gaming ability not to use it...later dude.

---

### Post by davidkyn on 2008-02-12
problem fixed...
I copied files to a windows machine and transfered to usb pen the to my linux desktop
quake 4 now running in linux & performs much smoother now!!!!!! %^&$ Windows!!!!!!!

---

