---
title: "20.04 GOG NWN Enhanced won't start"
date: 2020-06-15
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-15
I d/l'ed it, changed it to +x, executed it with ./
It put an icon on my desktop. I set that to executable but when I click on it nothing happens.
Ideas?
Thanks!

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-06-15
Install Wine.
Try again.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2020-06-15
Try run it through the terminal.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-15
> **CelticWarrior said:**
> Install Wine.
Try again.

rats, I was hoping that this was a way w/o wine, fool that I am!  LOL  But that was it. THANKS!!!

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2020-06-15
There must be a Linux client. On steam you can install it as linux.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-15
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> There must be a Linux client. On steam you can install it as linux.

I dodn't understand - on steam I see "steam OS + linux" but are you telling me I can remove wine from ubuntu and it will still run? How does it do that? it's a windows executable...

(my prob with running things like NWN under wine is that it runs my cpu at 86. )

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2020-06-15
No, I say theer should be a linux client, because on steam you get a linux client.

---

### Post by VMC on 2020-06-15
Is this a 32-bit game your trying to run on a 64-bit system?
There is a GOG fourm, such as:
[https://www.gog.com/forum/neverwinter_nights_series/linux_nwn_enhanced_wont_start_no_such_file_or_directory](https://www.gog.com/forum/neverwinter_nights_series/linux_nwn_enhanced_wont_start_no_such_file_or_directory)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-16
> **VMC said:**
> Is this a 32-bit game your trying to run on a 64-bit system?
There is a GOG fourm, such as:
[https://www.gog.com/forum/neverwinter_nights_series/linux_nwn_enhanced_wont_start_no_such_file_or_directory](https://www.gog.com/forum/neverwinter_nights_series/linux_nwn_enhanced_wont_start_no_such_file_or_directory)

This is probably a 32 bit game and I am running it on a 64 bit build of ubuntu. Runs fine. The problem was simply that wine was not installed. 

I cured the heat problem well enough by just unchecking a few of the video options. runs around 70 now. regular NWN2 from GOG under wine with minimal things checked runs at about 80. still better than the 87 it was. I'll live. They are both poorly written as far as efficient use of computer resources - esp cpu cores. That's okay. Better than it was and I don't feel I am melting my laptop. Yes, I have been in there a few times to check for dust and redo the cpu paste with arctic silver 5.

Thanks all!

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2020-06-16
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> No, I say theer should be a linux client, because on steam you get a linux client.

Finally getting to answer this!!! - Yes, it turns out that Steam indeed has their own fork of wine, so it is still a wine run system, but there are supposedly some improvements. HOWEVER, Steam wants $20 for their version of NWN Enhanced whereas I got it from GOG for $5, so, unless someone posts that Steam's version walks on water I will not use Steam for this. Thanks, though!!!  

It's also that I was able to fairly easily get NWN Enhanced to run at about 70 degrees (as opposed to 87) so I no longer need to be concerned about it. Heat was the motivating force there... I have set up the monitoring graphs on the top bar so it is very easy to run these programs as windowed and play with their settings to get the lowest cpu temperature. I love it!!!

---

