---
title: "Problem With xboard"
date: 2008-07-09
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Diptansu on 2008-07-09
I installed xboard. I have seen its working fine in 'Fedora'. In ubuntu it installed fine, but when trying to run it showing the following msg ...

"Failed to start first chess program gnuchessx on localhost: gnuchessx: no such file or directory"

Somebody Help. Pls.

---

### Post by Diptansu on 2008-07-10
Its strange this is the only post i didnt find any reply. Seems ppl are not interested in 'xboard' in here.:sad:

---

### Post by kkady32 on 2008-08-17
u must install gnuchess from repository,but stronger is crafty
then use the command: xboard -size huge -fcp 'crafty xboard

---

### Post by anyagr on 2009-06-20
Thanks, kkady32 for your advise.

I downloaded and installed xboard on Kubuntu 9.04 from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/games/xboard](http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/games/xboard).
And then I get Crafty from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/games/crafty](http://packages.ubuntu.com/jaunty/games/crafty).

To play with Crafty I use command:
xboard -size Medium -fcp crafty

To play on Free Internet Chess Server (FICS) i use command:
xboard -size Medium -colorizeMessages true -ics -icshost freechess.org

---

### Post by tashirosgt on 2009-06-28
People that read documentation conscientiously will get confused about how to use Crafty with Xboard in Ubuntu.   I find that on Hardy Heron, the command:

xboard -fcp crafty

will start xboard and run Crafty after Crafty is installed with the Synaptic package manager.  I conjecture that the path to crafty /usr/games one of the default paths for the user.  (My machine only has one user.)

However, if you read the xboard FAQ, you will expect a command like

 xboard -fcp "./crafty" -fd /usr/games

to work and I find that it doesn't.  I don't know why.  It produces an error generated by Xboard that says it fails to find the first chess engine.

---

### Post by Shad0w9 on 2009-07-12
U need  to use direct link to crafty, like for exemple:
xboard -fcp "/usr/games/bin/crafty" -fd /usr/share/games/crafty/

---

### Post by ghibli on 2009-08-11
Hello!
Thank You Everybody for the informations and HELP on this page ( and in others as well ) !!

---

### Post by Raffles10 on 2009-08-11
Xboard is a bit limited, there are some very good alternatives:

[Pychess]("http://pychess.googlepages.com/")

[Eboard]("http://www.bergo.eng.br/eboard/")

Both available via apt-get.

---

### Post by steffenklug on 2009-09-21
I cannot get anything installed

---

### Post by linux_dream on 2012-09-25
> **Shad0w9 said:**
> U need  to use direct link to crafty, like for exemple:
xboard -fcp "/usr/games/bin/crafty" -fd /usr/share/games/crafty/
I'm trying to run tjchess, another winboard engine so similar to crafty I guess but cannot understand why the fcp path and fd can differ here. How is that possible? What are those 2 paths if they don't link to crafty.exe? Which one does and which one does not?
P.S.:Yes I realize this thread is from 2009/8.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2012-09-25
Old thread. Closed.

---

