---
title: ".run file extension"
date: 2007-04-29
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
I'm trying to install the Unreal Tournament linux installer.  Whenever I run the .run file extension, I get a message about character coding.  Can someone help me out with this?  I can't get it to ".run" lol. :)

---

### Post by bashologist on 2007-04-29
> **Uranium235 said:**
> I'm trying to install the Unreal Tournament linux installer.  Whenever I run the .run file extension, I get a message about character coding.  Can someone help me out with this?  I can't get it to ".run" lol. :)

Could you show us this "message"? Is it a warning? After running the file you see nothing?

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-04-29
I believe you have to go into Properties and check a box to make it executable.

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
It's trying to open it as a text file.  I can't see anything in the properties to make it an executable though.  Do I need to open it with a certain program?

---

### Post by bashologist on 2007-04-29
> **Uranium235 said:**
> It's trying to open it as a text file.  I can't see anything in the properties to make it an executable though.  Do I need to open it with a certain program?

Yea, you need a terminal. Open a terminal:
Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal

```
[COLOR="Gray"]#Then change to the directory it's in with "cd".[/COLOR]
cd directory
[COLOR="Gray"]#Then make it executable:[/COLOR]
sudo chmod a+x filename
[COLOR="Gray"]#Then type "./" before the filename to execute it:[/COLOR]
./filename
```

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
Thanks man.  I'll try that out.

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
Ok man, that got the installer going.  Thanks. :)

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
Well I got it installed but the executable doesn't work now.  I tried that sudo chmod thing, then typed the command and I get this:

bash: ut: command not found

---

### Post by Josey on 2007-04-29
/UT/system/ut-bin  

that will run the game I bet

---

### Post by Sicarius99 on 2007-04-29
I think that what he said above should do the trick.

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
Yep that started it, but it did not have any sound.  Any idea why?

---

### Post by Josey on 2007-04-29
if you run it from terminal maybe it will tell us...

post the output when run in terminal

just right click the ut-bin file - copy
open terminal and - paste

in terminal it might tell us something about your sound issue

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
brian@brian-laptop:/$ file:///home/brian/ut/System/ut-bin
bash: file:///home/brian/ut/System/ut-bin: No such file or directory

lol I know it's there.

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-29
ok sound worked that time (just switched to Kubuntu)  sound did NOT work with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Josey on 2007-04-29
this will run it from terminal if your interested in fixing it in gnome.

> /home/brian/ut/System/ut-bin

---

### Post by voidmage on 2007-04-29
If the sound isn't working sometimes, try running it with AOSS:

> aoss /path/to/ut

---

### Post by lakersforce on 2007-04-30
> **voidmage said:**
> If the sound isn't working sometimes, try running it with AOSS:

AOSS is not installed by default, so you will have to install it:

```
sudo apt-get install alsa-oss
```

---

### Post by Uranium235 on 2007-04-30
We're getting a bit off topic, but the real problem with the sound I'm having is alsa is confusing the outputs.  It's outputting front to PCM and PCM to front and the overall effect is I have PCM, but no front output.  Do you guys know how I can fix that?

---

### Post by Josey on 2007-04-30
Might want to start a new topic for better responses.

The topic was .run extensions.  :)

---

### Post by dezine on 2007-05-03
> **Happy_Man said:**
> I believe you have to go into Properties and check a box to make it executable.

This worked for me, thanks. (Was installing the Doom 3 demo.)

---

