---
title: "Postal 2: Share the Pain Free Multiplayer"
date: 2008-06-02
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by cor2y on 2008-06-02
Yes In Honor of the Release of the Uwe Boll directed movie based on the game, that Most Offensive , Politically incorrect and Funny game Postal 2, is now available for free ,the multiplayer version only not the stand alone single player campaign.

Linux/Mac OS ports
[http://icculus.org/news/news.php?id=4419](http://icculus.org/news/news.php?id=4419)

---

### Post by spadewarrior on 2008-06-02
All the mirrors are hammered. Is there a torrent for this available anywhere?

---

### Post by XVII on 2008-06-02
Thanks for the heads up.  I'm downloading it right now.

---

### Post by MaximB on 2008-06-03
Thanks.
I heard about that but never got to see were they hidden the Linux version ;)

---

### Post by dudeofthedead on 2008-06-03
I see a window opening and a girl with a gun but then nothing happens, just this output:

```
Postal 2
Copyright 2003 Running With Scissors, Inc.
Unreal Engine
Copyright 2001 Epic Games, Inc.
```

Any idea what's wrong?

Edit: I was wrong, there's more to it when you wait

```
Couldn't set video mode: Couldn't find matching GLX visual


History: 

Exiting due to error
```

I don't get it, I have the latest driver installed for my 8800GT (169.12).  Then why is it complaining about not being able to find any GLX visuals?

My xorg.conf

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Feb 14 18:13:41 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-06-03
Try reinstall the nvidia driver. I had too from the last ubuntu update. Restart X.

---

### Post by dudeofthedead on 2008-06-03
I couldn't kill X with 'init 3' under Debian Sid/Lenny, so I had to resort to '/etc/init.d/gdm stop', then I used 'nvidia-installer --update', which automatically updated the driver for me.

I didn't know the latest update (173.14.05) also worked for my video card, it's weird as [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com) doesn't list my card as being compatible with this particular update.

Postal 2 now works for me, except I can't get my native resolution (1680*1050).

---

### Post by techstop on 2008-06-03
> **dudeofthedead said:**
> Postal 2 now works for me, except I can't get my native resolution (1680*1050).

Same here. I tried to edit the .ini files in the System folder, but there were no obvious settings in there to edit. 

There's also a severe lack of servers to play on. None in Australia that I can see, the best one I could find had a ping of 350ms. :(

---

### Post by dudeofthedead on 2008-06-04
Yeah, it seems as though editing Postal2.ini* located in ~/.lgp/postal2/System is no use.  Postal 2 now actually says the game is displayed at 1680 by 1050 but it still looks damn ugly.  I guess there's just no wide screen support.

Regardless, the fool freezes on me whenever I try to join a game server and I'm required to restart X.

* Look out for the following lines, under either [WinDrv.WindowsClient] or [SDLDrv.SDLClient]:

FullscreenViewportX=1680  // provided you have...
FullscreenViewportY=1050  // the same resolution

But then, bear in mind it didn't work out for me!

<snip>

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2008-07-11
To change the resolution of Postal 2 for wide-screens, you have to do it in-game.
So start up Postal 2, once in the main menu, press **`** to bring down the console, then if you have a 1680x1050 monitor, you'd type in:
```
setres 1680x1050x32
```
So it's: **setres WIDTHxHEIGHTxCOLOUR(BPP)**

It is quite a silly game, good to play with your mates in a LAN party :D

Thanks to the Gentoo wiki for this information, found it here:
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Widescreen_Resolutions_(WSXGA](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Widescreen_Resolutions_(WSXGA))

---

### Post by Rytron on 2011-02-18
Postal 2: Share the Pain Free Multiplayer is also available via [DJL]("http://en.djl-linux.org/"). In earlier Ubuntu versions, I had sound but not any longer. How do I get the sound back for this game? Thanks.

---

### Post by the_eternal_dark on 2011-03-05
> **Rytron said:**
> Postal 2: Share the Pain Free Multiplayer is also available via [DJL]("http://en.djl-linux.org/"). In earlier Ubuntu versions, I had sound but not any longer. How do I get the sound back for this game? Thanks.

I'm having the same issue with audio. I recently found this in an old backup from Ubuntu 9.x and remember having tons of fun. I'll dig a little bit more to see if I can fix it. :twisted:

*Edit* Found a fix!

In a terminal, type:

padsp (path to Postal2MP launcher)

I now have audio.

---

### Post by Rytron on 2012-09-27
> **the_eternal_dark said:**
> I'm having the same issue with audio. I recently found this in an old backup from Ubuntu 9.x and remember having tons of fun. I'll dig a little bit more to see if I can fix it. :twisted:

*Edit* Found a fix!

In a terminal, type:

padsp (path to Postal2MP launcher)

I now have audio.

Works perfectly! Thanks.

---

