---
title: ".bin and .cue confusion"
date: 2006-11-26
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-11-26
I remember once using a program called PSMPlay to rip the songs from the .xa files on the Gran Turismo 2 Arcade disk. I really liked one of the songs that I ripped, but unfortunately, lost it somewhere :-P

I've found PSMPlay again, and it works nicely with Wine. But I can't find my Gran Turismo 2 disks to rip the songs from.

So I, rather naughtily, downloaded the games image files using BitTorrent. I don't _really_ want to play the game, I just want to multimedia files from it. 

Anywho, the download took around 12 hours :-(

When it was finally finished, I found four sets of files. GT2Arcade's .bin and .cue files, and GT2Simulation's .bin and .cue files. I'm not concerned about the GT2Simulation files, because I remember that the files were on the arcade disk.

I've tried everything to mount the .bin file for the arcade disk. I've downloaded and sucessfully installed cdemu, and even managed to run cdemu on the .cue file. 

> james@humDinger:~$ cdemu -s
Drive Loaded Comment
  0:     1   GRANTURISMO2_ARCADE.cue


Proof that the file's in /dev/cdemu0.

But when I try to mount /dev/cdemu0, I get this:
> james@humDinger:~$ sudo mount -t iso9660 -o loop /dev/cdemu0 /media/cdrom0
Password:
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/loop0,
       missing codepage or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

I've also tried converting the .bin and .cue files to a single .iso file with bchunk.

When I do this without the -p option, the resulting .iso is missing around 90MB. This, I reckon, will be the multimedia files I need, because when I mount that .iso, I don't see them.

When I do this with the -p option, described as:
> -p            Makes binchunker go into PSX mode and truncate MODE2/2352 tracks to 2336 bytes at offset 0 instead of normal 2048 bytes at offset 24

But when I try to mount the resulting .iso, guess what?
> james@humDinger:~/games/GT2Arcade$ sudo mount -t iso9660 -o loop GT201.iso /media/cdrom0
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/loop0,
       missing codepage or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

I think the cuesheet for this .bin might be wrong, or something. I don't know.

I've tried generating another one, without luck.

I just want the multimedia files!

Anyone know how I can get them?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Gumtoo_2000 on 2006-12-05
[FONT="Lucida Console"]Same Problem.  But in my case,

- Running Slackware
- Tried mounting both ccd and cue image descript files of a psx image
- Pointed my emu program to the block device (/dev/cdemu0) with no luck.

I'll post back if I get it working, going to play with the ccd and cue files.

Gumtoo[/FONT]

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2006-12-05
You might just have to bite the bullet and burn the damn cue/bin to a cd... trying to get data off a multi-track cue is a brain damaging experience.

---

### Post by Jimmey on 2006-12-05
I finally managed to get the right disk. But at this point, I realised that PSMPlay is able to analyse raw .bin images for psx multimedia files, without a .cue. 

I ripped the songs from the disk into a .wav format, then converted them into .mp3s with LAME. No need to mount the image.

Are you trying to rip songs from the disk? Or something else?

---

