---
title: "Ati 4890"
date: 2010-03-29
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2010-03-29
I currently have a ati 4890 card and have been thinking of switiching back linux. I am not a heavy gamer anymore but have a spare 500gb hd if I want to go back to dual booting.

I know there are some driver issues(or lack of drivers).

Is the ati card problems specific to gaming? as thesedays I use my PC as a TV/Home Entertainment system.

How about native linux games do these still have problems with ati ?

changing back to nvidia isn't really an option atm as I have only had this PC for about 6months.

would appreciate some more info while I contiune to browse the search function:)

---

### Post by Sticks_uk on 2010-03-29
I cannot seem to find out if the ati problem is specfic to games or also mutimedia. Can anyone point me in the right direction please

---

### Post by efikkan on 2010-03-29
Ubuntu 9.10 with both default Catalyst-drivers and Catalyst 10.2 works fine on my Radeon HD 4870, but the performance is not as good as the Windows drivers (Catalyst 10.2).

---

### Post by R33D3M33R on 2010-03-30
I did a benchmark with my HD 4670 a while ago. Kubuntu 9.10 vs Windows 7, Catalyst 9.10. I tested 3 native Linux games, Unigine and Wine performance. Ubuntu did very well in the native games, but failed in Wine.

You can see the results charts here: [Windows 7 vs Kubuntu 9.10 result charts]("http://andrej.mernik.eu/racunalo/windows_7_vs_ubuntu_9_10/rezultati/windows_7_vs_ubuntu_9_10.pdf")
The main article is here: [Windows 7 vs Kubuntu 9.10]("http://andrej.mernik.eu/racunalo/windows_7_vs_ubuntu_9_10/") but you will probably not understand a thing, not even with [google translate]("http://translate.google.com/translate?js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&layout=1&eotf=1&u=http%3A%2F%2Fandrej.mernik.eu%2Fracunalo%2Fwindows_7_vs_ubuntu_9_10%2F&sl=sl&tl=en") :D

---

