---
title: "xorg configuration for lucid lynx"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by HeadHunter00 on 2010-05-26
hiya everyone, i am really impressed with ubuntu 10.04. i just wanted to know how to get the default configuration for xorg. i am really impressed with the frames i am getting so far. i haven't had the same luck with my arch linux machine though. so, if you can please give me a link or a xorg.conf file that has all the default xorg configuration for ubuntu 10.04, i will be really thankful:popcorn:

---

### Post by Cresho on 2010-05-27
i don't think it's tweakable.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-05-27
you will find in 10.04 that if you go to the /etc/X11/xorg.conf you will find it VACANT unless you did your install via an update and it carried the file in with the install.

(if so you will have display issues as far as control/options are concerned)

The fix is to remove the carry over xorg.conf and re-boot.  I had to do so and now my display sings and dances!!

---

### Post by HeadHunter00 on 2010-05-27
oh well. i guess i will try downgrading xorg and my video driver.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-05-28
What video card do you have? And what problems are you having?
Even though an xorg.conf is not needed these days, Ubuntu should still honor the options in your xorg.conf if you have one.
I have the nvidia-driver from the Ubuntu repos installed on my desktop and the driver created an xorg.conf. For reference here it is:
```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Fri Mar 12 01:42:27 PST 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```
As you can see, it is a minimal xorg.conf compared to the xorg.conf that was need by earlier versions of Xorg.

---

### Post by Corin-EU on 2010-06-05
Only one problem with that generic xorg.conf file above --

**Driver "kbd"**

There no longer is a kbd driver file with the Xorg server in Lucid Lynx, so you will see a message in the Xorg.0.log file

**Warning, couldn't open module kbd**

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-06-06
> **Corin-EU said:**
> Only one problem with that generic xorg.conf file above --
**Driver "kbd"**
There no longer is a kbd driver file with the Xorg server in Lucid Lynx, so you will see a message in the Xorg.0.log file
**Warning, couldn't open module kbd**
Do you mean the server edition (as opposed to the desktop edition) of Ubuntu Lucid?
If so, then I would not know about that, since I have always used the desktop versions of Ubuntu.
Are you having a problem with your keyboard?
I have not noticed any problems with the nvidia driver or my posted xorg.conf in Lucid.

The bottom line ... as I see it:

If you are using an intel video card, you will likely benefit little from the available options in xorg.conf from what I have read. This is because the intel KMS (kernel mode setting) is really the only available option for intel graphics with the current kernel in Lucid.

If you have an ati video card, you have the option to use KMS or not by simply passing the "nomodeset" option to the kernel you boot with. Of course, there is also the option of the proprietary ati driver.

If you use nvidia, you can choose nouveau with KMS, the now increadingly unsupported "nv" 2D driver, or the proprietary nvidia 3D driver from nvidia.com.

Note that the the nouveau driver devs has been making excellent progress lately in reverse engineering the binary blob that Nvidia supplies us with. This is despite the fact that Nvidia provides no support at all for an open source (as opposed to binary blob and closed source) driver for their graphics caards.
Also, since AMD has been very linux friendly these days with the ati graphics driver specs, there have been rapid developments with native linux support for ati video cards as well. So the native ati drivers with KMS available in the linux kernel have been improving at a rapid pace as well.
It is indeed an interesting and rapidly changing time for linux graphics card support these days.
Stay tuned to [http://www.phoronix.com/](http://www.phoronix.com/) to stay up to date with these developments.

---

