---
title: "fglrx problems = no 3d acceleration"
date: 2005-07-09
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by adrawer on 2005-07-09
I have an ati x300 video card on my laptop and i think i have installed the fglrx driver, but it does not enable my 3d acceleration!!!!!!

here is my xorg.conf file
> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M300 (M22)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option  	"UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M300 (M22)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

And here is my the output of glxinfo | grep direct
> direct rendering: No
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect 

The result of my glxgears is horrible compared to the original ati driver i had
> 814 frames in 5.0 seconds = 162.800 FPS
791 frames in 5.0 seconds = 158.200 FPS
791 frames in 5.0 seconds = 158.200 FPS
904 frames in 5.0 seconds = 180.800 FPS

here is the output of fglrxinfo
> display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.2.1) 


Can someone tell me how to properly enable 3d acceleration???????!!!!!
thanks!

---

### Post by dualtone on 2006-06-26
I have the EXACT same problem with the same card. SOME BODY HELP!!!

---

### Post by sewpafly on 2006-06-30
Does anyone know the answer to this?

I have a related problem, I've upgraded to the fglrx drivers and it appears that everything is working fine, some minor skips and what not, but when the opengl screensavers come on they move incredibly slow.  I see no error messages from 'dmesg | grep fglrx'.  And running glxgears -printfps I get great statistics:

```
14273 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2854.545 FPS
14237 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2847.319 FPS
14236 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2847.001 FPS
14229 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2845.700 FPS
```

But when I run fgl_glxgears I get a whole bunch of these error messages and run at under 1 fps.
```

FGLTexMgr: open of shared memory object failed (Permission denied)
__FGLTexMgrCreateObject: __FGLTexMgrSHMmalloc failed!!!
```

Any hints?

---

### Post by sewpafly on 2006-06-30
The problem was that I didn't have shared memory enabled.  Turned it on following the instructions here: [3D Applications Produce Open of Shared Memory Object Failed Error Message]("http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.16.20.html#176878")

Now with flg_glxgears I'm getting around 360-430 FPS.

---

### Post by dinkins on 2007-02-08
Any new Ubuntu 6.10 user wanting to get get 3d acceleration to work, simply follow this guide:

[http://lhansen.blogspot.com/2006/10/3d-desktop-beryl-and-xgl-on-ubuntu-edgy.html](http://lhansen.blogspot.com/2006/10/3d-desktop-beryl-and-xgl-on-ubuntu-edgy.html)

You don't have to install beryl or XGL if you don't want, but following that guide through the drivers helped me get my X300 working with perfect 3d acceleration (outside of an XGL session).

It was the only guide that actually worked for me, and it made the most sense, too. Definitely look at this if you haven't gotten your 3d acceleration working with your radeon card.

---

