---
title: "11.04 Natty - ETQW no sound"
date: 2011-05-06
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Dingo_aus on 2011-05-06
I upgraded to 11.04 (Natty) from 10.10 and now don't get sound in ETQW.

This is the error:

4453 strings read from localization/english/strings/tasks.lang
/proc/cpuinfo CPU frequency: 2136 MHz
Couldn't open journal files
----- Initializing Sound System ------
sound system initialized.
--------------------------------------
------ OSS Sound Initialization ------
WARNING: failed to open output sound device '/dev/dsp': No such file or directory
WARNING: sound subsystem disabled
--------------------------------------
initializating SDL Joysticks
initialized 0 controller(s)
-------- Initializing Session --------
----------------- BSE Init ------------------
--------- BSE Created Successfully ----------
session initialized



Natty appears to not have /dev/dsp

Is there any solution get ETQW sound working under Natty?

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2011-05-06
Try first and see if it helps:
run etqw with **padsp** command.

Another thing to try is to erase .etqw as it contains the old setting from before the upgrade.

Thirdly try installing **alsa-oss**

---

### Post by Dingo_aus on 2011-05-06
I tried all three things and I now get sound but it is a full 30 seconds delayed.

I tried etqw without padsp and that did not change anything.

---

### Post by Dingo_aus on 2011-05-06
Totally fixed by running:

```
aoss ./etqw +set s_driver oss +set s_numberOfSpeakers 2
```

---

### Post by Krupski on 2011-12-10
> **Dingo_aus said:**
> Totally fixed by running:

```
aoss ./etqw +set s_driver oss +set s_numberOfSpeakers 2
```

Just ran across your post. You fixed a HUGE problem I had with old programs that use /dev/dsp.

You are THE MAN!!! **[COLOR="Green"]Thanks![/COLOR]**

[IMG]http://three-dog.homelinux.com/images/smilies/the-man.gif[/IMG]

---

