---
title: "cube_2005_08_29_u nix.tar.gz extracted"
date: 2005-12-17
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-17
Ok, I've got the game extracted in my **Home Folder** but have no idea what to do next. 

I'm assuming it's the right type of file and I know that it's native to Ubuntu but as a noobie that's about as far as I can go with it.

Can someone plz help me with it plzzzz :). This is my second attempt at installing a game with the first failing anyway.

The other trying to installing 3dchess from my Synaptic Package Manager and recieving warnings.

Sorry guys and gals I have no clue. Done a lot of reading but havn't got the jist yet.

---

### Post by Leif on 2005-12-17
usually, there's a README and INSTALL file included with .tar.gz files. go over to where you extracted them and read these, as they'll give the most correct information. ask again if you have problems with these.

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-17
I think this might be what i need but I'm not sure if so How do I make sure I have all these items.

Ubuntu 5.10 is installed and updated but I've only installed a couple of items and none of those stated below are apart of what I've installed. Only a firewall and 2 or 3 games which don't work yet LOL.
As well as some extra repositories if I've explained it correctly. Oh and ATI update for graphics.

[COLOR="Red"]*nix versions of cube clients and standalone servers.



The clients function identical to the win32 client, see config.html.

Run them from the root cube dir (chmod em as exe first).

Clients will need the following dynamic link libraries present:

opengl, glu, sdl, sdl_image, sdl_mixer, png, jpeg, zlib (1.2.1 for

all SDL libs, do a ldd for details).

[COLOR="Black"]Whats an ldd and how do I do it. How do I run them from the root cube dir(chmod em as exe first) ?[/COLOR]



The servers need NO libs, no external files, no sound or video,

just run it :) Server port is fixed at 28765, currently.



Make sure to chmod +x these binaries and the cube_unix script

before running them.

[/COLOR]

With XP all you did was double click the .bat file and you where there can someone please help.

---

### Post by Harleen on 2005-12-17
Simply spoken, that text says that you should go into the directory, you have cube extracted to and give the client (which name?) execute permission. That should do it. Afterwards you can run it with a simple click just like in Windows.

The needed libraries should be already installed. You can run "ldd <binaryname>" to see a list of libraries, which are needed to run. But there's no need to do this. You will see which libs are missing anyway, if the program complains upon startup.

---

### Post by mcmuffy on 2005-12-17
In your cube directory (or whatever you have called it) run the following :
./bin_unix/linux_client -w1680 -h1050 
replece the 1680 and 1050 with the resolution you want to use.
To run in a window tag -t to the end of the command.

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-17
Thanks for the replies guys,
[COLOR="Red"]
In your cube directory (or whatever you have called it) run the following :
./bin_unix/linux_client -w1680 -h1050
replece the 1680 and 1050 with the resolution you want to use.
To run in a window tag -t to the end of the command.[/COLOR]

This is good but I'm a total idiot on ubuntu and trying to come to terms with it. I have know idea how to run anything.

When you say go to your directory and run the following ( is the directory where I've place the cube folder I extracted and if so when I get there how do I run the following - ./bin_unix/linux_client -w1680 -h1050 )

Be gentle with me I know I sound stupid and I am with this new system LOL
If it was windows I could do it no worries but this aint windows and I'm not in kansas anymore LOL

I love and hate UBUNTU LOL I'm still trying to grasp this guys.

---

### Post by mcmuffy on 2005-12-17
> 
When you say go to your directory and run the following ( is the directory where I've place the cube folder I extracted and if so when I get there how do I run the following - ./bin_unix/linux_client -w1680 -h1050 ).

First open a terminal (you will find it somewhere in your menu. I can't say exactly where as I use KDE). From your home directory you need to goto the directory where you extracted cube too, for example if it is in /games/cube type :

cd /games/cube

Once in the cube directory type :

./bin_unix/linux_client -w1680 -h1050
noting the spaces and remember to change w and h to the resolution that you want to use.

If you are not sure if you are in your home directory or not type :

cd /home/name
change 'name' for the name of your home directory.

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-18
ok I really appreciate your time mcmuffy, I'm sorry but I'm not quite there yet.

I wasn't sure so did what u said and did the cd/home/name which worked.

I have a folder in that directory (home) called CUBE with the extracted game cube?

I've tried a couple of things but no good.

this is the best i came up with sorry for the extra help and thank you.

name @ my computer :~$ cd /home/name/cube
name @ my computer :~/cube$ ./bin_unix/linux_client -w1240 -h768
./bin_unix/linux_client: error while loading shared libraries: libSDL_image-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
name @ my computer:~/cube$
does this mean I need to get some more libraries, I recently installed automatix last night so that may have removed the extra repositories I got from 
[COLOR="Red"]sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list_backup
sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list[/COLOR]

As directed on this site page - [http://www.psychocats.net/linux/sources.php](http://www.psychocats.net/linux/sources.php)

Or is it something else once again thank you for your time I really appreciate it I've been on this on and off for 1 to 2 days now.

hopefully after I've done this I'll be able to install other games such as nexius and other native games so I know exactly what I'm doing and perhaps start to be of some help showing others and free up the time for more knowledged ppl to do other stuff.

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-18
Hello-

Can anybody help me please if you've installed cube and had it run please help me.
2 days in and I'm just about over it. 2 sec's on windows and I can play it.

I find a lot of half answers all over the place or explanations that assume you know the blank parts of what has to be done. I've come close, managed to get to the folder and then ...............? 

I think it needs some kind of permission which I've also search out aswell but can't get it to work - if I'm even suppose to do it. I don't know?

[COLOR="Red"]Run them from the root cube dir (chmod em as exe first).[/COLOR]

[COLOR="Red"]name @ my computer :~$ cd /home/name/cube
name @ my computer :~/cube$ ./bin_unix/linux_client -w1240 -h768
./bin_unix/linux_client: error while loading shared libraries: libSDL_image-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
name @ my computer:~/cube$[/COLOR]

something is missing and maybe i need permission somehow to get into it also can someone please help me.

---

### Post by mcmuffy on 2005-12-18
You don't seem to have the needed SDL libraries installed.
Load synaptic and search for libsdl-image1.2 and install it. That should solve the problem.

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-18
Do I type the 2 red lines I placed in #8 to do that ?

Thanks for the reply once again mcmuffy

---

### Post by mcmuffy on 2005-12-18
The best I can say is give it a try without. Worst case is you will not find the file so add the repositories as you did before and try again.

If you need it this is my sources.list file.

```

# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 5.10 _Breezy Badger_ - Alpha i386 (20050817)]/ breezy main restricted
deb-src http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy main restricted

# # Major bug fix updates produced after the final release of the
# # distribution.
deb http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy-updates main restricted
#deb-src http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy-updates main restricted

# # Uncomment the following two lines to add software from the  universe 
# # repository.
# # N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
# # team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
# # your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
# # universe WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu security
# # team.
deb http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy universe main restricted multiverse
#deb-src http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy universe
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy-security main restricted
#deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy-security main restricted
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy-security universe
#deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy-security universe

# Breezy Backports
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu breezy-backports main restricted universe multiverse
deb http://ubuntu-backports.mirrormax.net/ breezy-extras main restricted universe multiverse

```

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-18
NO, no good mcmuffy thanks though mate. Still can't get what it needs. Comes up with the same reply, I tried doing it both ways and no good. There is one more thing I will try, that site that show you how to add repositories has a little extra thing you can do with some kind of problem. I'll have to read it again see if it's a suitable choice.

I've actually downloaded the items that it wants from this site:-

[COLOR="Red"]Cube needs the SDL libraries to run - so you need to check out your distributions file repository or your CDs to get hold of these. If you cannot locate them,then they can be obtained from [http://freshmeat.net/projects/sdl/](http://freshmeat.net/projects/sdl/) in various formats - though if possible, your distros file repository or CD is a lot easier.[/COLOR]

this was written at :-http://strlen.com/wiki/?id=Installing+Cube

I spotted these in a search I did last night/early this morning.

Thought I had it but no no no :) oh well if that's it that's it. I'll just look for something else and be done with it.

Thanks for the time you and everyone else has put in to try and help me with this problem. I havn't quite given up yet but feel free to stop assisting if you get sick of it.

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-19
Happy days are here again, it's all done and it runs better than what it did on xp lol.

Thank you everyone.

In Synaptic's I had to just search sdl and although it didn't find it - I didn't realise but it was giving me a list of other similar things whatever there called.

Anyway I installed anything that seem to be similar to what I wanted by reading the explanation of what it did and presto. 

I just hope it doesn't matter that I downloaded 52 items LOL.

I'm assuming that's ok appart from maybe whatever amount of space I used up. I'm going to wipe my hard drive soon anyway and start again. I gave xp 50GB's / a 6GB FAT32 partion and only somethink like 20GB to Ubuntu.

I'm starting to like it so much that I think I'll change it around so Ubuntu has 50 etc.

Once again I can't thank you enough for your time and patience guy's.

stoked Yay LOL It's a happy moment breaking through frustration. hopefully and I'm assuming it shouldn't be but when I go to finally play this online, I hope it comes together easy. At least now I have a lot of sites I can look at that are useful and it is running.

U beuutee

---

### Post by mcmuffy on 2005-12-19
I use firestarted as a firewall and so had to allow a couple of ports but other than that it found a bunch of servers on the net with no problems.

---

### Post by Fibre on 2005-12-20
I had firestarter on my system at the beginning but I cant see it in the internet section of applications so is it there still. I wondering whether I may have removed it by installing AUTOMATIX?

Doesn't matter I'll just look in Synaptics manager and see whether it's installed etc.

Great, I think I'll be trying cube on the net now. Tried American Army but my ping is crap, all servers over 250 ping with only about 4 or 5 under 300. 

Thanks for all your help McMuffy. Much thanks to all concerned.

---

