---
title: "CS 1.6 crashes"
date: 2009-07-15
forum: Gaming &amp; Leisure
---

### Post by user328 on 2009-07-15
Hey,

I posted this on a different forum, but I realize it has been wrong since I didn't get much of a help.

I installed Ubuntu a few days ago, since my experience with Windows Vista has been horrible. I decided to run steam using wine, and I was also going to run Counter-Strike. So I installed wine first using the following command, "sudo apt-get install wine". Then downloaded steam and installed it. When I launched Steam, my friend's names were very hard to read. It's like it was a mess. (By the way, I did put tahoma.ttf font in drive_c/Windows/Fonts) Not mentioning it was very laggy. So then I downloaded Counter-Strike, and ran it. When I first opened it and clicked on "Find Servers" it crashed. So i had to restart the computer. I ran it again and again and had no luck.
Maybe I did something wrong when I installed it?
These are my specifications,
Processor: AMD Phenom 1.8 GHz Quad Core Processor
Video card: ATI Radeon  HD3200 1Gb (If that matters)
Memory: 4 GB DDR2
Operating System Version: Ubuntu Desktop 9.04, 64 bit

Do you have any suggestion on what is wrong or what I should do? Please keep in mind that I am really new to ubuntu, and I do not know what some of the things might be. So please be specific when you tell me something.
Thanks

---

### Post by user328 on 2009-07-15
[IMG]http://img139.imageshack.us/img139/2498/screenshotqcx.png[/IMG]
This is what my steam page looks like.

---

### Post by Technique13 on 2009-07-15
sorry to redirect you a third time, but you need to post this in the WINE questions forum, theres a big sticky up the top of this one that says dont post windows game questions here.

---

### Post by user328 on 2009-07-15
I somehow thought differently. Well, thanks anyways. I guess I will go register at wine forums.

---

### Post by Technique13 on 2009-07-15
oh, no i meant the wine section on these forums, you can post questions there, a mod could move your post for you, but id also try at the wine forums too

---

