---
title: "10.2 or 10.3?"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: openSUSE and SUSE Linux Enterprise
---

### Post by ferpadro on 2007-10-24
I´ve make my mind and finally decided to make a spare partition and install OpenSuse there. My question is: Regarding 10.3 is a version released not too far ago in the past, is it stable enough to install it on a production box? Im asking this because i´ve had the same problems with Gutsy: downloaded the "stable" release that came up 18 october but it was still too buggy for me. So, should i download new 10.3 or stick with stable 10.2?

Another question: i´ve read a bunch of reviews and all of them seem to agree on one thing: opensuse 10.3 gnome version is clunky, slower than the kde version. I downloaded some weeks ago the Gnome iso, installed it and, in fact, it was slow (on a P4 3.0 Ghz, 1GB ram, no DRI enabled). Does someone have experienced the KDE version? How did it feel?

Regards

---

### Post by khurrum1990 on 2007-10-24
Hi, no 10.3 when I used it a week ago was not stable if u want 32 effects for example if u install compiz fusion u get a white cube and u need to disable XGL and stuff, I suggest u get OpenSuse 10.2.

---

### Post by ferpadro on 2007-10-24
aren´t 10.2 features more slow thanl 10.3? Thats only according to some reviews i read. Please someone confirm this. I know 10.2 is rock solid compared to 10.3 but im willing to sacrifice some stability in pos of more "polished" features

---

### Post by dca on 2007-10-24
Not any of the openSuSE releases are rated as production or mission critical OSs...  Only SLED & SLES are rated that way...
 
If you like SuSE and want stable, SuSE Linux Enterprise Desktop 10, SP1 on the desktop and SLES 10 on a production server.  
 
10.3 is nice, polished, down right beautiful, however, as mentioned in certain areas kind of unstable.  10.2 was just slllloooow.  I'm still waiting for YaST to open the software management app from nine months ago....  Updates in 10.2 took forever.  The enterprise versions (SLES & SLED) use a different mechanism to get security & other updates.

---

### Post by Antman on 2007-10-24
> **dca said:**
> Not any of the openSuSE releases are rated as production or mission critical OSs...  Only SLED & SLES are rated that way...
 
If you like SuSE and want stable, SuSE Linux Enterprise Desktop 10, SP1 on the desktop and SLES 10 on a production server.  
 
10.3 is nice, polished, down right beautiful, however, as mentioned in certain areas kind of unstable.  10.2 was just slllloooow.  I'm still waiting for YaST to open the software management app from nine months ago....  Updates in 10.2 took forever.  The enterprise versions (SLES & SLED) use a different mechanism to get security & other updates.

Hmmm.. I never even looked at SLED as an option before. I wonder how it rates against the Open version as far as features. Gonna download the demo now.

---

### Post by karellen on 2007-10-26
definitely opensuse 10.3. yast is much faster and all the apps are up-to-date

---

### Post by dca on 2007-10-26
SLED10 SP1 is $50 USD direct from Novell.  Same as open, more stable and no server packages included.

---

### Post by Antman on 2007-10-26
> **dca said:**
> SLED10 SP1 is $50 USD direct from Novell.  Same as open, more stable and no server packages included.

Trying it out on my main desktop now. So far Banshee found and connected to my IPOD without a hitch, HP PSC1400 connected and working (including scanner). I will need to tweak some things, but I'll see how it goes.

---

### Post by screaminj3sus on 2007-10-27
10.2 is ridiculously slow compared to 10.3. 10.3 is alot faster and more up to date programs are included.

---

