---
title: "NBR 10.04 Black screen of death"
date: 2010-09-10
forum: Ubuntu Moblin Remix
---

### Post by Nicks108 on 2010-09-10
Hello good people of the Ubuntu forum.
  I have an “interesting” issues with my NBR 10.04 install on my acer aspire one. Basically It was working fine and had been for several weeks since I installed it. The other day I was surfing the web ( it had been on for about 30 mins) when suddenly the screen went completely black (no back light or image kind  of black), with no obvious HDD activity, it just seemed to completely stop (though the CPU fan was still spinning). I restarted the net book and went back in to the same session (net book remix environment, or whatever it’s called) and the same thing happened again, this time after less than 5 mins after booting.
  Iv restarted it and booted several different sessions (including the fail safe gnome) and it always happens, except for the xterm session and it doesn’t appear to happen while at the login screen.
  The interesting thing is that this has happened before on my previous install of NBR 9 point something, which is the reason I updated to 10.04 in the first place.
  I have 2 questions
1. Does anyone have any idea what could be causing it?
2. How would I fix it?
  All suggestions welcome and thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by camorri on 2010-09-15
From your description, it sounds like a hardware failure. ie, the backlight is going out. 

Try plugging in an external monitor and see if you loose the picture there also. If it is the backlight, you can either run an external monitor, or look into having the netbook fixed. ( if its worth it ).

---

### Post by Jan_Fiskestang on 2010-10-06
I've got a problem a bit similular to yours. I installed the Ubuntu 10.04 yesterday on my Acer Aspire One, it worked flawlessly thru the installation process and at the end it restarted (as normal I guess?). Anyway, when it started again the screen was completely black. Even if I try connecting a secondary screen I get the same result. In other words, after instalation I've never been able to use my computer... Have anyone a solution for my problem? Regards Sindre (Jan_Fiskestang)

---

### Post by arcticmagnolia on 2010-10-29
--

---

### Post by camorri on 2010-10-29
Jan_Fiskestang,

Your symptoms are not the same as Nicks, the original poster. Your system is blank after an install. This is usually caused because the xserver is not running, or is not configured correctly. Nicks problem was a blank screen after some time, the xserver there would have started. 

Some things your can try. Try the hot key combination of ctrl + alt + f2. If you get a command prompt, you can log in, and try the command 'startx', without the quotes. That will try to start the xserver. Post any errors if it does not start. 

If you never see any light on the screen, your can try an alternate monitor. If this is a laptop, many of them need a hot key combination to activate the external video port. You have to look at the hardware manual to find the hot key combination, since this is done through BIOS, it can be different on different hardware. 

If it still remains blank, try booting of the install CD, in live mode. Does it work then?

---

