---
title: "10.10 Slower Than 10.04 LTS"
date: 2010-10-23
forum: Ubuntu Moblin Remix
---

### Post by gccradioscience on 2010-10-23
In my experience is downloading the latest version of 10.10 I thought it was going to fast like 10.04.  Turns out that it's slower than 10.04.   I should of just kept 10.04 LTS in my netbook.  Also the desktop is very challenging to use you have to right click on the folder to leave to the left tray.    For new users I would recommend 2 GB of RAM for 10.10 and 11.04 and so on.  I may have to get another netbook for the upcoming versions.  My netbook only has 1 GB of RAM is and it's still running ok as long as you don't open up too many applications and multitask you should be fine.  These new releases need to be lightweight for netbooks.   And we need to bring back the old desktop environment like 10.04 and 9.10.  This unity environment is very hard to use and it takes up some memory on my netbook.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-23
Why not stick with 10.04, it is supported until 2013, especially if it runs better on your netbook. Mutter the DM adds some overhead, that makes Unity run slower on some netbooks. 

One of the big problems was that with the shortened development cycle for maverick, there were quite a few things that didn't make it in before the release.

---

### Post by wilsonpenha on 2010-10-29
I just have a bad idea to upgrade my 10.04 to 10.10 and I am paying for that mistake,
10.10 is slow like a hell, don't even looks as it should be, now I have to consider downgrade it, but I'm not sure if it is possible, but I know I can work with this, maybe a fresh install could work better, but after found this e other I just got that it won't be.

How bad luck I got

---

