---
title: "UNR 10.10 USB Flash drive automount"
date: 2011-01-06
forum: Ubuntu Moblin Remix
---

### Post by jfaberna on 2011-01-06
I just installed Ubuntu Netbook Remix on an Acer Aspire One AO532h. So far so good, but I'm trying to figure out some of the basics of why things were done the way they were done. There's always a philosophy behind the usage model of a UI.

The files and folders don't seem to have a way to look at all the files and folders, just a few media ones. This might be okay for most casual users of Netbooks, but for me, I was trying to find a bunch of MP3s, that I had on a USB Flash key that I inserted into the Netbook USB port. I know I can open Terminal and mount, cp, umount, but one would think there needs to be a way to accomplish this task without Unix Geek knowledge.

What am I missing?  When I play with Meego 1.1 on the same hardware, it has a popup everytime you insert a flash drive and asks about copying media files on the drive to the media directories on the hard drive.  Something like that would be okay for UNR.

Jim A

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2011-01-08
has anyone had any luck plugging in a USB flash drive and had it automount?

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2011-01-10
Can someone advise me if I have posted this question in the wrong place?

---

### Post by digimurder on 2011-01-15
If you installed your OS from usb stick, maybe you have in /etc/fstab something like :

```
**/dev/sdb1 **      /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
```

It means, usb stick is your root filesystem (and can not be automounted)

Change row to :

```
**/dev/sda1 **      /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
```

This solution working for me (after 2 hours of madness)

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2011-01-20
I'll try that.

SO it seems like the developers assumed installation would be by CDROM. I'll test that as well.

Thanks,

Jim A

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2011-01-20
Editing the /etc/fstab solved my problem.  I also reinstalled using a actual CDROM drive connected to USB. That also solved the problem.

So it seems there's a bug in USB Flash key installations. 

Thanks,

Jim A

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2011-01-20
Okay, editing the /etc/fstab as defined above fixed my problem.

I also reinstalled UNR 10.10 from the ISO using a CDROM drive connected to USB. This time the USB FLash drive automounts as expected.

Looks like a bug only when the ISO is converted to a USB install image.

---

