---
title: "9.10 Remix w/Google Apps"
date: 2010-04-13
forum: Ubuntu Moblin Remix
---

### Post by swu on 2010-04-13
I'm running 9.10 Remix (fully updated) on an Acer Aspire and HP Mini netbook. Install was a breeze, everything looks good and works - for 99% of what we need to do.

We also use Google Apps and the issue we have is when we try and print from Google Docs (which goes to a pdf (Adobe) then you print from Adobe), the final print page does NOT include the Print button. It's flat out not where it should be. Check the location on a WinXP/Win7 box, on our Ubuntu 8.4 thin clients and the Print button is where it should be and of course, prints fine. Consequently not being able to print from Google Docs is a deal breaker for us.

We are using Firefox 3.5.8 that comes with the 9.10 Remix build.

Anyone having the same issue with 9.10 Remix and Google Apps?

Any advice would be greatly appreciated.  Thx!

---

### Post by swu on 2010-04-21
Figured it out. I installed Adobe Reader on this Acer. When Google Docs goes to print, it converts to a pdf and then pulls the default pdf reader up (Adobe in my case), and that's where the print button is missing from.

I uninstalled Adobe Reader and went back to the "built-in" pdf reader that comes with 9.10 Remix. That pdf reader works fine and I can print from Google Docs.

Is the Adobe Reader for Ubuntu/linux known to have issues like missing print buttons? I had to install Adobe Reader because of another more interactive pdf that wouldn't work with the built-in pdf reader. It worked with Adobe.

Can't win!  Any wisdom on Adobe for ubuntu/linux?

---

