---
title: "Problem with using savedefault option in Moblin"
date: 2010-01-15
forum: Ubuntu Moblin Remix
---

### Post by usmanajmal on 2010-01-15
Sorry, to post this question here but I think I will get a solution to my problem from here for I love ubuntu for its user-support. 

Anyways, I used the **savedefault** option quite comfortable with my machine on which ubuntu 8.04 was intalled and the version of GRUB was 0.97.

I used the **savedefault** option to switch between two operating systems (ubuntu and windows) on each boot keeping the timeout=0. 

**_How I did it?_**
In my /boot/grub/menu.lst **Ubuntu** was my first option i.e. 0 and **Windows** was my second option i.e. 1.
So what I did was that I just put **savedefault 1** under the Ubuntu's option and **savedefault 0  **under the Windows option. I also set **default saved** at the start of /boot/grub/menu.lst
[U]
**Problem**[/U]
I am trying the same functionality with **Moblin2.1 **but it seems as if this **savedefault** thing is disabled in it.
Following is my menu.lst at Moblin 2.1:
```

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd0,9)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/sda10
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/sda
default=saved
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd0,9)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
silent
title Moblin (2.6.31.5-10.1.moblin2-netbook)
        root (hd0,9)
        kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31.5-10.1.moblin2-netbook ro root=/dev/sda10 quiet vga=current
        savedefault 1
title Other
        rootnoverify (hd0,1)
        chainloader +1
        savedefault 0
~                                                                               
~                
```[U]
**Weird things I noticed about Moblin:**[/U]


[LIST=1]
[*]the /boot/grub/menu.lst is a symbolic link to /boot/grub/grub.conf
[*]the **grub-install** and **grub-set-default** options are not available
[*]there was no file named **default** in /boot/grub so I copied it from my ubuntu's machine
[*]in Moblin's /boot/grub/ I found followin files by default:
[/LIST]
device.map
e2fs_stage1_5
fat_stage1_5
ffs_stage1_5
grub.conf
iso9660_stage1_5
jfs_stage1_5
menu.lst@
minix_stage1_5
reiserfs_stage1_5
splash.xpm.gz
stage1
stage2
ufs2_stage1_5
vstafs_stage1_5
xfs_stage1_5

_**Question:**_
Is there anything you can suggest that make the savedefault think start working in Moblin?

Thanks a lot guys .

---

### Post by usmanajmal on 2010-01-15
I found a patch that will hopefully enable the savedefault option. But how do I apply this patch in moblin. Any idea? My GRUB's version is grub-0.97-48.7 and I could not found the source code of this version. Only Its rmp is available to download.

 Find the patch at the very last of the following webpage with the name of savedefault.diff
 [http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=484501](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=484501)
Can I apply this patch to the rpm of GRUB I found?
[]("http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=484501")

---

