---
title: "Earn full pocket of ffxiv gil in no time"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: Ubuntu Moblin Remix
---

### Post by j9m2grwen on 2010-09-23
Many ffxiv fans and players have big interest on how to become rich in ffxiv Tower of Eternity. They dreamed to own full pocket of [ffxiv gil](http://www.cheapestffxivgil.com), ffxiv gil to experience ultmost fun from the game. Some have earned several tens of millions, and some have gone to hundreds of millions. But some are totally broke and some even quit the game because of no ffxiv gil, ffxiv gil. If you constantly run short of ffxiv gil, then this guide is perfect source for you to learn something for better making ffxiv gil. This post will try to shed some light on the most commonly used tactics for earning gil in ffxiv.   The first tactic is to learn how to use your profession to make more gil. Using Alchemy, you can make lower grade manastones into higher. The most sought tones, Critical Hit and Attack, are sold at high prices. However, the other manastones come at a very low price. Buy these cheap stones, and turn them randomly into attack and critical hit types of manastones using the Manastone Exchange Quests.   Even these are coming out to be low grade,[FFXIV Gil](http://www.cheapestffxivgil.com), you still can turn them into higher grade stones and make profit from that. Buy masses of these, then you have to exchange these by traveling to various zones which can get annoying. But if you overcome this, you will see good profit. Other than that, I got some +75 HP and other scrub ones. While the manastone purchase cost was about 160k, the reward manastones themselves are worth about 680k. Within 1 hour to 1h30m of repeat questing, I gained about 540k!Through Alchemy and using 31 highest grade Catalysts (about 5k ea, 150k total), 4 of +15 Crit, 6 of +5 Attack manastone crit, even though it depends on when you sell them, at the time I sold my manastones I got about 1,680,000 gil.  This is only my two cents of earning full pocket of ffxiv gil, ffxiv gil. Hope you will find it helpful on your ffxiv gil, ffxiv gil earning process. I will keep updating other ffxiv gil making tips in the coming days. If you have any comments about my guide, feel free to talk to our customer support. Having full pocket of ffxiv gil is no longer a dream. Check out www.cheapestffxivgil.com for more ffxiv guide and ffxiv gil making guide.

---

