---
title: "Automated Connection Requests to Google?"
date: 2008-03-09
forum: Security Discussions
---

### Post by alexgieg on 2008-03-09
I'm experiencing an odd problem. Since a few days, when making searches on Google, I started receiving strange "403 Forbidden" pages with something similar to the following followed by a captcha (this is my translation from the Portuguese original):

> Sorry...

... but it's not possible to execute this action at this moment. We're receiving automated connection requests generated by a virus or spyware, and it seems your computer or network were infected.

Try accessing this page again in a few instants. It'll come back to normal once possible. Meanwhile, we suggest you use an anti-virus or spyware detector application to check whether your computer is free from virus and other predatory software.

We regret the inconvenience. We hope you come back to Google shortly!

To continue searching, type the characters below:

I've installed Wireshark, and noticed a lot of connections to 66.102.1.102, an IP owned by Google. But unfortunately Wireshark doesn't tell which software is the source of said connection attempts. Plus, I don't have another computer networked, this is my only one. Well, it, plus a small D-Link router/firewall.

I've also run chkrootkit and rkhunter, but neither told me anything useful, so I think this probably isn't a rootkit-caused problem.

Does anyone know what could be causing this problem, and how I could solve them? Having to type a captcha for every 2nd or 3rd Google search isn't fun. :(

PS.: I use the Firefox browser with some by-Google addons (including the bar), plus Google-focused "better this" and "better that" ones from Lifehacker, plus the Google anti-phishing enabled. I've been using this set of addons for years without problems, so I don't think they're related, unless Google changed something on their backend and isn't happy with them anymore...

---

### Post by damatta on 2008-03-09
Issue this command at the terminal:
lsof | grep IP
Replace IP with the number you want and you'll see detailed info on what software and socket is being used for that host.
Is it possible you're running a proxy server or accessing the internet through a proxy? BTW I reckon having once accessed the internet from a malware plagued PC and google required me to type those bloody captchs in order to go on with the query.

(qualquer coisa me fala ;) )

---

