---
title: "Help me understand IP tables better"
date: 2008-02-28
forum: Security Discussions
---

### Post by atgheb on 2008-02-28
I thought I was getting the hang of IPTables and I do have IPTables working the way I want it to. However there is something I dont understand and I would appriciate it if someone can explain.

3 Questions:

**Question 1)**

Why is:
```
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -sport http -dport http -j ACCEPT
```
or 
```
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m state -sport http -dport http --state NEW, ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
```
is **NOT** the same as:
```
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -dport http -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m state -sport http --state ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
```

This is how I test this. When I use the first or the second command and try to visting my website in a browser or use wget [http://.](http://.).. it doesn't work.

However with the 3rd configuration, both my website are accessable and wget [http://.](http://.).. work.

Now I undestand that the 3rd configuration basically says:
a) Accept every packet for which the destination port is the http port
b) Accept every packet for which the source port is the http port and has seen a matching outgoing packet.

Dont the first 2 say something like
The first one:
Accept all incoming and outgoing http packets
the second one
Accept all incoming and outgoing http packets that are either new or have seen a matching outgoing packet.

From what I can figure, if I use euther of these 3 configurations, my webserver as well as fetching stuff using wget [http://.](http://.).. should be working...

Can anyone explain what I'm missing?

**Questions 2)**
Also, does OUTPUT chain only refer to packets being generated by the server my firewall is on?
Meaning: If my local network is 192.168.x.x  and my firewall is 192.168.2.1 and the internet ip is something like 202.x.x.x then are packets coming from 192.168.x.x and meant for the internet covered by the INPUT chain or the OUTPUT chain. From what I can figure from the man pages and various websites the answer is INPUT chain since OUTPUT only refer to packets generated by the server the firewall is one. Is this correct?

**Question 3)**
-sport and -dport, I know they refer to source port and destination port, can someone explain what this means in regards to the iptables rules I've posted above? I think my inability to understand the above 3 rules may have to do with not being clear on what these exactly mean. My current understanding is that a source port is a port that has sent a packet whether the packet has originated from our server or an other and a destination port is a port a packet is meant for (the response may go to a different port).

Please believe be when i say that posting is a last resort for me to get clarification on these questions on iptables. I've read all the man pages and read various websites on the issue but I am still unclear about the above questions.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by k_grdn on 2008-02-28
Hi,

> iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -sport http -dport http -j ACCEPT 

Above rule accepts traffic with source port 80 and destination port 80, if you wish to connected to port 80 the source port should be in the un privilaged range 1024:65465.

> iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m state -sport http -dport http --state NEW, ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
.
Same as first rule but you are accepting SYN and ACK packets, which is not good practice for connection tracking.

It's better practice to accpet NEW packets on the filter table chain i.e INPUT, and accept ESATABLISHED & RELARTED on the initial rule:

iptables -A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT

iptables -A INPUT -p tcp \
      --sport $UN_PRIV \
      --dport 80 \
      --state state NEW -j ACCEPT

The OUTPUT chain is packets leaving the local process (kernel).

Source ports are the port traffic leaving the local process uses.

Destination ports are the destination port on the remote host, i.e http 80:.

Regards,

k_grdn

---

### Post by atgheb on 2008-02-29
Thanks k_grdn, that does help however now I'm a little confused between when you'd use OUTPUT and when you'd use --sport with INPUT.

As I said, my policy was:
> 
-P INPUT DROP
-P OUTPUT ACCEPT

and I had the rule
> -A INPUT -p tcp --dport http -j ACCEPT
in place, however wget http:// didn't work however I could use a browser and access the webpages being hosted by the same server.
Shouldn't wget [http://.](http://.).. work since I was executing it on the server which had the firewall and the webserver on it?
It started to work after I added the rule
> -A INPUT -p tcp --sport http -j ACCEPT
If source ports are traffic leaving local processes I can understand why this rule was needed. However if OUTPUT covers all traffic leaving local processes as well, shouldnt I not need the above rule as I'm accepting everything on OUTPUT? When would one use --sport and when would one use OUTPUT?

---

### Post by atgheb on 2008-03-02
I seem to have figured this out.

OUTPUT refers to all packets leaving out computer / server bound for whatever port. While when using INPUT
-sport refers to packets coming in to our computer / server from the mentioned source port. i.e.
-sport 80 # packets coming into our server from port 80 of an other server / computer, meant for any port.
-dport refers to packets originating from whatever port on a remote server / computer but destined for the mentioned port on our computer. i.e. -dport 80 refers to packets originating from any port meant for port 80 on our server.

Our reply packets ACK or SYNC packets are controlled by the OUTPUT command so if OUTPUT policy is set to ACCEPT then we dont have to configure those individually. Meaning

```

iptables -P INPUT DROP
iptables -P OUTPUT ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -dport 80 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -sport 80 -j ACCEPT

```

Mean that packets meant for our server port 80 are accepted (-dport rule) and any packets that originate from port 80 on the remote machine meant for our server (-sport rule) are accepted as well.

However, if I set my OUTPUT poilcy to DROP then I'll have to add the following files to make sure that this works as expected:
```

iptables -A OUTPUT -dport 80 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -sport 80 -j ACCEPT

```
the -dport rule means that packets that are meant to go to a remote port 80 should be let through (this should make wget work), while the -sport rule now means that packets originating from our source port 80 should be let through (this will make the web server work).

I have left out any packet match (state) information from these rules, you should apply the appropriate rules ofcourse.

---

