---
title: "7.04: unable to set an empty PW"
date: 2008-02-29
forum: Security Discussions
---

### Post by dirk_s on 2008-02-29
Hi all.

For experimenting/testing I set up a "gast" account that should have an empty PW. So, I became root and ran 'passwd -d gast', then 'passwd -S gast' which tells me "gast NP 02/29/2008 0 99999 7 -1" where the "NP" should indicate that there is no PW (or the PW is empty). Also, I checked /etc/shadow and the PW for "gast" is indeed empty.

But whenever I try 'su gast' as normal user, it asks for a PW and when I just hit <Return> it tells me
 ```
su: Fehler bei Authentifizierung
```
= "Authentication error" or similar.

When I set up a non-empty PW and do the 'su' with the correct PW, it works.

So my questions are: 
- What is going on here? Is this a known problem or should I send a bug report to some place?
- Is there anything I can do about it? If yes, what is it?


I hope this is the right place for this question - it is sort of about undermining security instead of supporting it. But I (think I) know what I'm doing: This "gast" account is for experimenting/testing with samba and since the PW encryption methods of windows and linux are incompatible, at least AFAIK, I thought I try with the least possible security first to see if can get it working and then set up security measures, step by step.

I'm not new to Linux, but fairly new to Ubuntu and a bloody beginner at samba.

Thanks for reading and (hopefully) helping in advance. Any hint are welcome. I searched the forum but did not find anything about "empty password", "delete password" and "... PW", so I think this is a new question, but please tell me the link if I overlooked it :D

best regards
Dirk

---

### Post by IainPurdie on 2008-02-29
This *may* help - I'm going through some password issues on Samba myself and in one of the posts I read, someone mentioned that an empty Windows password is *not* the same as an empty Samba one.

Rather than setting the password as empty using a command, try creating the "gast" account and letting it ask you for a password. Hit ENTER and ENTER again to input two empty strings. I believe this was actually in reference to smbpasswd, but could be related. Doesn't hurt to try it :)

---

### Post by dirk_s on 2008-02-29
> **IainPurdie said:**
> This *may* help - I'm going through some password issues on Samba myself and in one of the posts I read, someone mentioned that an empty Windows password is *not* the same as an empty Samba one.
Oook... Even successfully setting an empty PW would not get me over the next step... I see. Hmm.

> **IainPurdie said:**
> Rather than setting the password as empty using a command, try creating the "gast" account and letting it ask you for a password. Hit ENTER and ENTER again to input two empty strings.
Sorry, I dont get this: How can I create the "gast" account and "let it ask for a password"? I know 'adduser', 'useradd' and this "user an group administration" tool, what it's name might be :) and of course 'passwd'. Is there anything else? 'passwd' does not accept the empty string as a PW, I tried. The only way to create an empty PW for an account (at least as far as I found out up to now) seems to be 'passwd -d USERNAME'

Meanwhile I discovered that the thread title is misleading: I can set an empty PW but it is not accepted by 'su' - that's the real problem. It seems like 'su' acts as if the account is locked (= has an impossible PW). If the empty string is actually encrypted and results in anything except an empty string, this might be what happened. Not that this knowledge is of any help...
 
> **IainPurdie said:**
> I believe this was actually in reference to smbpasswd, but could be related. Doesn't hurt to try it :)
While playing around with 'gsambad' I discovered the smbpasswd file. Maybe I can get around this by making sure that the samba PW and the unix PW are non-empty and equal, I mean when unencrypted. But I'm not perfectly satisfied with this... especially because I managed to set up a samba service with a guest account that has no PW a few days ago - on an openSUSE 10.3 system. :D (I'm far more used to Suse than Ubuntu (but I need to know some of that stuff about Ubuntu, too), that's why I suspected that I overlooked something :D)

Thanks alot - this will help me fencing with the next/real problem :D

---

