---
title: "6.06 &amp; Denyhosts"
date: 2008-02-19
forum: Security Discussions
---

### Post by Chimei on 2008-02-19
I understand that denyhosts does not have any backports for dapper. Is there any possible way of getting denyhosts to work? Ive tried compiling it manually but i get a bunch of dependency issues.

Cheers

---

### Post by freelinuxhelp on 2008-02-20
This is going to seem rude, though I don't mean it that way...
Can you provide the things (libraries I assume) that it's asking for? What dependency errors did you get?

---

### Post by Chimei on 2008-02-20
Thank you for your reply!

No nothing rude at all! XD
Anyway, dont worry about it. I have decided to switch to 7.10.
Thanks for the reply anyway^^;

---

### Post by freelinuxhelp on 2008-02-21
Good deal.
DenyHosts is in the repos for 7.10
Good luck!

---

### Post by tubezninja on 2008-02-21
And I can say, DenyHosts works QUITE well.  The rports function is interesting, as you can see where all the odd little attacks are coming from more or less.  Though I suppose before long I may tire on getting an e-mail every time a host hits the banlist, and disable the feature :D

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2008-02-22
Actually, a simple iptables rate limiting rule is better than kludges like denyhosts.  The problem being that you can accidentally lock yourself out of your own machine when you use SSH for remote access.

Add the following lines to the bottom of /etc/rc.d/rc.local, to limit new login attempts to once per minute:

iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m state --syn --state NEW --dport ssh \
-m limit --limit 1/minute --limit-burst 1 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m state --syn --state NEW --dport ssh -j DROP

That will defeat even the most patient hacker...

---

