---
title: "Followed iptables howto but no ssh access enabled"
date: 2008-03-19
forum: Security Discussions
---

### Post by Railsbuntu on 2008-03-19
Hi,

I have followed the wiki page:[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo")

And here is my /etc/iptables.rules content:
> # Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Wed Mar 19 12:05:20 2008
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [1085:128159]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [3334:414181]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Mar 19 12:05:20 2008


For some reason, I cannot ssh onto my server. Why is that happening?

---

### Post by milton1 on 2008-03-19
first, the really obvious question: do you have openssh_server installed? The client is installed with a default system, but not the server.

---

### Post by Railsbuntu on 2008-03-19
Well my server is all setup, I can ssh to it. When I use the iptables rules I have posted, then ssh gets blocked.

---

### Post by beatbros on 2008-03-19
Hi, first try to enable ipforward

```
sudo echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```

if it works you can keep it permanent by turning on ip_forward in /etc/sysctl.conf.

---

### Post by Railsbuntu on 2008-03-19
It didn't work.

Is the problem coming from?:

:INPUT ACCEPT [1085:128159]

shouldn't it be [1:128159]?

What would be the iptables rule to type?

---

### Post by beatbros on 2008-03-19
Hi,

can you post the output of :

```
sudo iptables -L
```

I think you should also look into /var/log/messages to find exactly what is dropping and why.

I see that in your rules you opened other ports.... 443 - 80
Could you successfully telnet to these port from the outside without problems?

---

### Post by Railsbuntu on 2008-03-19
Here is the output:
```
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination
ACCEPT     0    --  anywhere             anywhere
ACCEPT     0    --  anywhere             anywhere            state RELATED,ESTABLISHED
ACCEPT     tcp  --  anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:ssh
ACCEPT     tcp  --  anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:www
LOG        0    --  anywhere             anywhere            limit: avg 5/min burst 5 LOG level debug prefix `iptables denied: '
ACCEPT     tcp  --  anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:https
DROP       0    --  anywhere             anywhere

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination

```

I don't see anything logged in /var/log/messages about dropping packets. I can access my server through port 80 and 443 without any problem.

---

### Post by cdenley on 2008-03-19
What ssh client are you connecting from? Some require you to be able to ping the server for some reason.

---

### Post by beatbros on 2008-03-19
And if i remember correctly the SSH server make a reverse lookup to resolve IPaddress to names with a DNS server.

You can find the relevant ICMP & DNS  rules to try with your configuration:

# Generated by iptables-save 
*filter
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
# Accept traffic with the ACK flag set
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --tcp-flags ACK ACK -j ACCEPT
# Allow incoming data that is part of a connection we established
-A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
# Allow data that is related to existing connections
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED -j ACCEPT
# Accept responses to DNS queries
-A INPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 1024:65535 --sport 53 -j ACCEPT
# Accept responses to our pings
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type echo-reply -j ACCEPT
# Accept notifications of unreachable hosts
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type destination-unreachable -j ACCEPT
# Accept notifications to reduce sending speed
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type source-quench -j ACCEPT
# Accept notifications of lost packets
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type time-exceeded -j ACCEPT
# Accept notifications of protocol problems
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type parameter-problem -j ACCEPT
# Allow connections to our SSH,WWW,HTTPS server
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp -m multiport -j ACCEPT --dports ssh,www,https
# Respond to pings
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type echo-request -j ACCEPT
COMMIT

Please make a backup of your rules first and then consider this as a guideline (take what you need, change according to your configuration)

---

### Post by Railsbuntu on 2008-03-19
Hi, I use Putty to connect from my WinXP box to my Ubuntu server.

---

### Post by cdenley on 2008-03-19
I think that might have been the client that wanted to ping the server first. Either that or WinSCP. Did you try allowing pings through? Did you try connecting using the ubuntu livecd?

---

### Post by Railsbuntu on 2008-03-19
Although I don't have any rule for accepting ping, my box can be pinged.

---

### Post by cdenley on 2008-03-19
You can ping your computer with those iptables rules from another computer? Maybe I'm reading it wrong, but it looks like all ICMP packets should be filtered by the INPUT chain unless it is coming from the local loopback device. Did you try connecting from ubuntu?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-03-19
The rules you posted look OK to me, but the two versions don't match. Please can you post the output of these two commands, after attempting an SSH connection:
```
sudo iptables-save -c
sudo netstat -plnt
```

---

### Post by Railsbuntu on 2008-03-20
Crap! I am so sorry for abusing of your time like that! ](*,)

I can ssh to my server with no problem

I had putty configured to ssh to my server called "ubuntu" on my LAN, but with the iptables that doesn't work anymore. Using the IP or its DNS name works perfectly 	#-o

Sorry about that...  :-#

---

### Post by The Cog on 2008-03-20
No probs. Enjoy Ubuntu.

---

