---
title: "2.6.32 and ureadahead"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by rednus on 2009-11-08
If any one is using ubuntu-boot ppa please shed some light here! Ureadahead needs kernel patching for it to work and ubuntu-boot team released 2.6.31-14 with ureadahead patch and then 2.6.32 is in lucid repos which I am not sure has that patch.. does that mean the ureadahead not working? as it should?

---

### Post by zika on 2009-11-08
> **rednus said:**
> If any one is using ubuntu-boot ppa please shed some light here! Ureadahead needs kernel patching for it to work and ubuntu-boot team released 2.6.31-14 with ureadahead patch and then 2.6.32 is in lucid repos which I am not sure has that patch.. does that mean the ureadahead not working? as it should?If You look at a reply to my post in this thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304952](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1304952)) You will see that ureadahead will not give its full with any other kernel other than the one in ppa and that that kernel is needed for first boot after that upgrade. Just my $0.01...

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-11-08
From the patch description:
> It's not upstream because it will need to be rebased onto the syscall trace events whenever that gets merged, and is a stop-gap.

IIMN that merge already happened so we just need to wait and hope for the best! ;)

---

### Post by kestal on 2009-11-10
Hmm, not sure if this applies, I was in the process of updating my Karmic (prior toe switching to lucid repos) when I had updates with ureadahead (hah - über-readahead, love the name), and it definetely worked on reducing a lot of my boot time. Went from 50 to 20. Usplash was the only thing that hanged a bit. xsplash hardly loaded (visually) at all before it jumped right into the desktop.

If I switch over to Lucid repos and update, does that mean it wont work as well? I am a bit behind in my karmic->lucid news. or is the origin of the post a bit outdated? even for 2 days?

---

