---
title: "UNE 10.04 Did You Know?"
date: 2010-04-01
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by haddog on 2010-04-01
**[CENTER] This is a thread for Ubuntu Netbook Edition/UNE 10.04, formerly known as Ubuntu Netbook Remix/UNR. Hopefully this thread will encourage others to post tips and tricks found and discovered when using Ubuntu Netbook Edition/UNE 10.04[/CENTER]**

Did you know if you select Ubuntu Recovery Mode while in GRUB, login in from the command line and startx, you will get the GNOME window manager instead of the UNE Maximus window manager.

---

### Post by descendent87 on 2010-04-01
Did you know if you have a netbook using the GMA500 chipset.....UNE 10.04 is useless :sad:

---

### Post by bluelamp999 on 2010-04-01
Umm, isn't it actually ***UNR*** 10.04 as in 'Ubuntu Netbook Remix'?

Edit: Apparently UNE/UNR are interchangeable - apologies...

---

### Post by haddog on 2010-04-01
Did you know you can get to a standard GNOME desktop without rebooting? Log Out of UNE, then while in the GDM screen, on the bottom right choose the Gnome option from the menus. Then log in. You will now be in a GNOME session using the GNOME window manager vice the UNE Maximus window manager.

---

### Post by Uncle Spellbinder on 2010-04-01
> **bluelamp999 said:**
> Umm, isn't it actually ***UNR*** 10.04 as in 'Ubuntu Netbook Remix'?

Edit: Apparently UNE/UNR are interchangeable - apologies...

**UNR** is *_by far_* the more recognized. I wasn't sure what this thread was until I opened it out of curiosity. A thread title change might be in order.

---

### Post by haddog on 2010-04-01
> **Uncle Spellbinder said:**
> **UNR** is *_by far_* the more recognized. I wasn't sure what this thread was until I opened it out of curiosity. A thread title change might be in order.

Duly noted and modified by adding UNR.

---

### Post by haddog on 2010-04-01
Did you know that in UNE you cannot remove many of the indicator applets in the GNOME panel, such as the Bluetooth or message applets. But if you log into a GNOME session, you are able to remove the applets by right clicking on them and selecting "Remove From Panel".

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-01
Did you know that the UNR uses maximus as a window manager?

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-04-01
> **Uncle Spellbinder said:**
> **UNR** is *_by far_* the more recognized. I wasn't sure what this thread was until I opened it out of curiosity. A thread title change might be in order.

UNR has been renamed to UNE in 10.04 to reflect that it is a full, independent computing experience, and not just a small remix of the standard interface.

Yes, I know, it's a bother, but we'll adapt.

---

### Post by Ibidem on 2010-04-01
(Minor point)
UNR was an unofficial, unsupported version (as indicated by the "Remix" in the name).
UNE is an official version, supported by Canonical; Lucid is the first release to include UNE.

---

### Post by haddog on 2010-04-02
Did you know there is a java Bug #532174 in Ubuntu Lucid Lynx 10.04 which also affects UNE. Firefox 3.6 doesn't recognize sun java plugin after sun java-jre6 is installed.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sun-java6/+bug/532174](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/sun-java6/+bug/532174)

**Running the command below from a terminal will fix it. I verified it does fix the java plugin for firefox and swiftfox.**

sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/mozilla-javaplugin.so mozilla-javaplugin.so /usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun/jre/lib/i386/libnpjp2.so 1

---

### Post by haddog on 2010-04-02
DVD playback does not work in 10.04 with the default Movie Player. Install xine-ui via apt-get or Synaptic for movie playback. 

BTW. I use a USB DVD burner/player with my netbook. I also rip DVD's and play the images from my netbook hard drive.

---

### Post by canalegrande on 2010-04-11
> **Ibidem said:**
> (Minor point)
UNR was an unofficial, unsupported version (as indicated by the "Remix" in the name).
UNE is an official version, supported by Canonical; Lucid is the first release to include UNE.

The difference is that UNE means Ubuntu Netbook Edition as opposed to Remix. UNE has received the status of an official release like "kubuntu", "edubuntu" etc...

---

### Post by zoomy942 on 2010-04-19
> **haddog said:**
> DVD playback does not work in 10.04 with the default Movie Player. Install xine-ui via apt-get or Synaptic for movie playback. 

BTW. I use a USB DVD burner/player with my netbook. I also rip DVD's and play the images from my netbook hard drive.

how do you rip them?  I can't get them to work at all with the UNE 10.04...  I have tried acid rip and dvd rip and nothing.  I'm at a dam loss.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-19
To play dvd's you need libdvdcss2, if you have installed the ubuntu-restricted extras meta package, go to /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4, and run the install-css.sh script as root, this will install the library.

---

