---
title: "10.04 and RT kernel"
date: 2010-01-23
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2010-01-23
[http://lwn.net/Articles/370697/](http://lwn.net/Articles/370697/)

> I'm going to switch 31-rt into maintaince mode (with or without
    the VFS patches) and concentrate on getting .33-rcX-rt out. Yes,
    there will be no .32-rt. The reason is simply that the locking
    changes which got merged into .33 are making my life easier and
    are the base to sort out more ready for the mainline stuff.

So no RT kernel for 10.04? Won't this cripple Ubuntu Studio badly? Or will the generic kernel be good enough for realtime processing? Or will the Ubuntu devs cook up their own RT patches? Or maybe the Ubuntu Studio team?

---

### Post by Stochastic on 2010-01-23
Plans are in the works to either tweak a vanilla kernel for low latency work or maintain 2.6.31's RT kernel in Lucid.  It's all still being discussed, but the Ubuntu Studio team is aware of the lack of RT kernel patches for 2.6.32

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2010-01-23
Thanks for prompt reply Stochastic. And that's good news. And which filesystem will Ubuntu Studio use by default? There's a regression concerning Ext4 in 2.6.32 so it might be better to use Ext3?

---

### Post by falkTX on 2010-01-24
Why not using 2.6.33 ?

It's already [RC5]("http://www.linux.com/news/software/linux-kernel") and there will be RT patches for it, hopefully before the final release.

I'm willing to wait 1 or 2 weeks for the final UbuntuStudio.

---

### Post by soundcheck on 2010-02-18
> **falkTX said:**
> Why not using 2.6.33 ?

It's already [RC5]("http://www.linux.com/news/software/linux-kernel") and there will be RT patches for it, hopefully before the final release.

I'm willing to wait 1 or 2 weeks for the final UbuntuStudio.

The way I see it:

The UStudio kernel folks rely 100% on the Ubuntu main kernel with all its patches as base.

Their capacities ( and knowledge)  are not sufficient to setup and maintain an own kernel with all its patches. 
From my experience they even have a hard time to get the actual rt-kernel under control. 

The UStudio folks rely also fully on Thomas Gleixner and his gang. If he is not delivering a 2.6.32 patch - there won't be a 2.6.32-rt kernel for UStudio. It's that easy and happened before. 
We've seen what happened if people try to port the rt-patch ( time before 2.6.31-rt). It never really worked properly. It's not about "porting a simple patch" to make it work.

Of course Gleixner and his gang are obviously not in sync with Ubuntu.
If Ubuntu is really interested in providing a rt-kernel, they should talk to Thomas Gleixner about support for it.


Cheers

---

### Post by DigitalRazor on 2010-02-20
I read somewhere ( should have book marked it ) that the 2.6.32 rt patch is not going to happen - (Please don't shoot me if I am wrong - ) I found this out the hard way when trying to roll my own custom install realizing that for one module I needed 2.6.32 kernel. rt patches should be flowing freely once the 2.6.33 is ready for prime time. 

I personally have no complaints with the 2.6.31rt that is in ubuntu 10.04 - infact I think that 10.04 is one of the best distros yet from Ubuntu so its only a matter of time before the studio version has the same pep. If there is a 2.6.32rt out there .. let me know .. I can then rescue my custom build.

---

### Post by soundcheck on 2010-02-20
> **DigitalRazor said:**
> I read somewhere ( should have book marked it ) that the 2.6.32 rt patch is not going to happen

That's what I am saying. 

And it seems that it won't be possible to backport it to 2.6.32.

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2010-02-20
> **DigitalRazor said:**
> I read somewhere ( should have book marked it ) that the 2.6.32 rt patch is not going to happenCheck my initial post. It contains a link to a mail from Thomas Gleixner in which he explains why he won't release the RT patch for 2.6.32.

> I'm going to switch 31-rt into maintaince mode (with or without he VFS patches) and concentrate on getting .33-rcX-rt out. Yes, there will be no .32-rt. The reason is simply that the locking changes which got merged into .33 are making my life easier and are the base to sort out more ready for the mainline stuff.

---

### Post by Stochastic on 2010-02-22
Moved this thread to Lucid Lynx Testing & Discussion.

Now that we're into Feature Freeze, it looks like the Ubuntu Studio AMD64 version will ship with the new -preempt kernel flavour (sadly there is no version available for i386 users).  Ubuntu Studio team will also maintain, in the official PPA, a -lowlatency kernel (for both i386 and amd64, which should have lower latencies than -preempt) and an old -rt kernel (2.6.31-rt) for Lucid.

---

### Post by soundcheck on 2010-02-22
> **Stochastic said:**
> Moved this thread to Lucid Lynx Testing & Discussion.

Now that we're into Feature Freeze, it looks like the Ubuntu Studio AMD64 version will ship with the new -preempt kernel flavour (sadly there is no version available for i386 users).  Ubuntu Studio team will also maintain, in the official PPA, a -lowlatency kernel (for both i386 and amd64, which should have lower latencies than -preempt) and an old -rt kernel (2.6.31-rt) for Lucid.


You must be kidding: "sadly there is no version available for i386 users"

2.6.32 is known to be buggy (from what I understand from certain Linus Torvalds comments about it) . The rt-part (if ported form 2.6.31)  I expect to be even worse.  
(I am not starting to complain about the outdated Alsa revisions Ubuntu is providing all the time due to its restrictive kernel handling - that's another story) 

To maintain 2.6.31-rt would not be acceptable to me. The base 2.6.32 kernel is already much better then the 2.6.31 base.

And all this will be base of a LTS release.  All this sounds like a bad dream to me. :(

2.6.33 seems to be the much better bet with tons of very valuable new features (rt-patch, nvidia driver, better SSD support,latest Alsa,....) 


Honestly -- Ubuntu should rethink their kernel strategy. Especially for Ubuntu Studio is should be highest priority to have the newest rt-kernel and newest Alsa on the .iso.

Guys delay Lucid Lynx for a month and get the 2.6.33 in! That'll save you guys a lot of extra work and hazzle and will make your users happy. Ubuntu users can rather live with 4 weeks of delay then with a "compromise" LTS release.

My guess though: Nobody will able able to stop that Ubuntu elephant. It's getting too big to stay flexible. (That happened to other OSes and distros before)

As a way out of this mess a community effort should be started to make the latest kernel available.( It seems that Ubuntu Studio won't be able to do that on its own. They are  gonna be busy to backport stuff and maintain old stuff for that LTS release. ;) )

---

### Post by BwackNinja on 2010-02-22
RT patch for 2.6.33-rc8 is out: [http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/projects/rt/](http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/projects/rt/)

---

### Post by zika on 2010-02-22
> **BwackNinja said:**
> RT patch for 2.6.33-rc8 is out: [http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/projects/rt/](http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/projects/rt/)In order to use that patch, one has to compile kernel or a kernel from mainline can be patched...? If it can be patched, how. I have a general idea but a kernel is too important thing to mess it with my sparse knowledge... I've done my share of kernel compiling, so...

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-02-27
I actually managed to compile, without knowing really what I am doing, and get a bootable 2.6.33-rc8-rt2 kernel on my third try.  It seems to run okay.  So far my findings, testing with ffado and a presonus firepod, are:

1. Prioritizing the softirq-tasklet threads definitely makes a difference here.  Lots of x-runs if those are not prioritized.
2. No joy with the new firewire stack or with the nouveau drivers.  Not that I know what I am doing here either.
3. Worst news of all, Ardour fails to start on 2.6.33-rc8-rt2.  It works on 2.6.33-rc8, although I have to set the latencies pretty high, as usual for me when using ffado with a generic kernel.

Here's the basic guide I followed for patching and compiling the kernel:
[http://www.nescivi.nl/?p=111](http://www.nescivi.nl/?p=111)

I used make oldconfig, as suggested there, but this did not result in a bootable kernel if I did it while running 2.6.31-rt.  I installed 2.6.33-rc8 generic from the ubuntu mainline kernel ppa, and patched and compiled the rt kernel from there.

This was a major accomplishment for me, but without being able to start Ardour I probably won't be using it much just yet.

Edit:  Just realized that this procedure gave me a kernel Hz of 100 rather than the 1000 preferred for an RT kernel.  Guess I'll have to figure out how to fix that and go for a fourth hour of kernel compiling...

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-02-27
Okay, yet another successful build of 2.6.33-rc8-rt2, this time with the kernel timer set to 1000 Hz.  Ffado is definitely not as stable as it is under 2.6.31-rt, and Ardour still segfaults.  Otherwise the system is quite usable, as this post is evidence.

So the verdict:  Exciting, but not particularly useful just yet.

Edit:  The trouble with Ardour only shows up if I am running ffado and rt.  Alsa, ardour, and rt are okay, as is ffado, ardour, and generic.  FWIW.

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2010-02-28
> **Stochastic said:**
> Moved this thread to Lucid Lynx Testing & Discussion.

Now that we're into Feature Freeze, it looks like the Ubuntu Studio AMD64 version will ship with the new -preempt kernel flavour (sadly there is no version available for i386 users).  Ubuntu Studio team will also maintain, in the official PPA, a -lowlatency kernel (for both i386 and amd64, which should have lower latencies than -preempt) and an old -rt kernel (2.6.31-rt) for Lucid.This is particularly good news for me, as Kernel 2.6.24-rt wouldn't fully boot on my Everex® as upgradeded with a Gigabyte® MA78GM-S2HP mobo (Advance Micro Devices® 780G chipset) and Advance Micro Devices® Athlon X2 5600+, preventing me from fully utilizing the real-time features of software packages for Ubuntu Studio 8.04.  I'm planning on running 10.03Beta1 as soon as I've a set of four SATA hard drives for the Everex®.  If 10.03Beta1 runs OK with the AMD64RT, the applicable Kernel will be a go for 10.04- or 10.05-LTS, depending on how quickly the other software packages pass their full-scale tests.

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-02-28
And I've moved on to 2.6.33-rt4.  This kernel feels a whole lot faster, and boot time is faster than anything I've seen since Jaunty.  Ardour is working as well with ffado, after a re-install.  It's still not nearly as stable as Karmic's RT kernel but it's progress.

It does seem a shame that this kernel won't make it into Lucid, especially considering Karmic's RT kernel wasn't even bootable at this point in the last development cycle.  Oh well...

---

### Post by Snocrash on 2010-03-01
> **trulan said:**
> And I've moved on to 2.6.33-rt4.

Hmmmmm,,, I tried this as well. Followed the same instructions except I did it all in /usr/src as root like I normally do. The kernel compiles fine. But make-kpkg fails at packaging with a version match issue...

----------------------------
====== making target debian/stamp/install/linux-image-2.6.33-rt4-sno1 [new prereqs: ]======
This is kernel package version 11.015.
echo "The UTS Release version in include/linux/version.h"; echo "	   \"\" "; echo "does not match current version:"; echo "	   \"2.6.33-rt4-sno1\" "; echo "Please correct this."; exit 2
The UTS Release version in include/linux/version.h
	   "" 
does not match current version:
	   "2.6.33-rt4-sno1" 
Please correct this.
make[1]: *** [debian/stamp/install/linux-image-2.6.33-rt4-sno1] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-2.6.33-rt4'
make: *** [kernel_image] Error 2
-----------------------------

I am still doing this under Karmic....

Anyone know how to fix this????

Thanks,


-Sno

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-01
One step I skipped from the guide I linked was adding the extraversion line it suggested.  That line was already in the makefile.  I don't know if that made a difference though.  I didn't see the error you are seeing.

---

### Post by Snocrash on 2010-03-01
I skipped that as well.... was already there.

I did find this however [_Bug Report_]("http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=561569")....

Seems they moved some of the header stuff around in 2.6.33 and karmic has not caught up with the new make-kpkg yet. They list a patch or two for 33 that should solve it as well. I may try that when I get home tomorrow (on the road). Or I may see if I can find/build the new make-kpkg.

Will let ya know.

-Sno

Edit: On further inspection, the patches seem to be for the deb kpkg system, not the kernel. One way or the other, I will see what I can do....

-Sno

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-03
> **Snocrash said:**
> I am still doing this under Karmic....
I had missed that in your post before.  I've been building these kernels under Lucid - that might be the difference, but I don't know.  They probably won't change Karmic's kpkg system because it works fine with the 2.6.31 series kernels, so building the new one, if you can, is probably the way to go.

The downside of using Lucid, like I'm doing,is that it's harder to tell what problems are kernel related and what are Alpha issues.

---

### Post by ViperScull on 2010-03-03
what is an RT kernel?

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-03
Real Time Pre-emption Kernel.
[http://rt.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page](http://rt.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page)
Basically it gives you the ability to interrupt (or pre-empt) whatever else the computer might be trying to process to focus on a time-critical process.  Useful for low-latency audio recording, production, and live processing.  Also used for industrial welding lasers among other things.

---

### Post by Areia on 2010-03-04
> **soundcheck said:**
> You must be kidding: "sadly there is no version available for i386 users"

2.6.32 is known to be buggy (from what I understand from certain Linus Torvalds comments about it) . The rt-part (if ported form 2.6.31)  I expect to be even worse.  
(I am not starting to complain about the outdated Alsa revisions Ubuntu is providing all the time due to its restrictive kernel handling - that's another story) 

To maintain 2.6.31-rt would not be acceptable to me. The base 2.6.32 kernel is already much better then the 2.6.31 base.

And all this will be base of a LTS release.  All this sounds like a bad dream to me. :(

2.6.33 seems to be the much better bet with tons of very valuable new features (rt-patch, nvidia driver, better SSD support,latest Alsa,....) 


Honestly -- Ubuntu should rethink their kernel strategy. Especially for Ubuntu Studio is should be highest priority to have the newest rt-kernel and newest Alsa on the .iso.

Guys delay Lucid Lynx for a month and get the 2.6.33 in! That'll save you guys a lot of extra work and hazzle and will make your users happy. Ubuntu users can rather live with 4 weeks of delay then with a "compromise" LTS release.

My guess though: Nobody will able able to stop that Ubuntu elephant. It's getting too big to stay flexible. (That happened to other OSes and distros before)

As a way out of this mess a community effort should be started to make the latest kernel available.( It seems that Ubuntu Studio won't be able to do that on its own. They are  gonna be busy to backport stuff and maintain old stuff for that LTS release. ;) )

Please... 2.6.33, is the better choice for realtime kernel in Lucid, developers look for us, poor musicians!!!

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-06
FWIW, I finally got around to cross-testing these kernels, and my results are:
My Lucid install has issues, 2.6.33-rt4 is an excellent kernel.

I installed my build of 2.6.33-rt4 into my main Karmic installation, and it runs excellently.  And I tested 2.6.31-rt10 (or whatever) in my Lucid installation and it is terrible.  Guess I'll have to redo my Lucid installation.  Anyway, FWIW, 2.6.33-rt4 seems to be an excellent kernel.  It might be worth our while to put it up into a ppa so more testing can be done.  If anybody wants to volunteer, that would be great.  I guess I could put my .deb up somewhere too if somebody wants to test it - it's 64 bit.

---

### Post by falkTX on 2010-03-08
> **trulan said:**
> FWIW, I finally got around to cross-testing these kernels, and my results are:
My Lucid install has issues, 2.6.33-rt4 is an excellent kernel.

I installed my build of 2.6.33-rt4 into my main Karmic installation, and it runs excellently.  And I tested 2.6.31-rt10 (or whatever) in my Lucid installation and it is terrible.  Guess I'll have to redo my Lucid installation.  Anyway, FWIW, 2.6.33-rt4 seems to be an excellent kernel.  It might be worth our while to put it up into a ppa so more testing can be done.  If anybody wants to volunteer, that would be great.  I guess I could put my .deb up somewhere too if somebody wants to test it - it's 64 bit.

I would love to have v2.6.33-rt packaged in a PPA, but I never compiled a kernel before.
I have good packaging skills though, see:
[https://launchpad.net/~falk-t-j/+archive/lucid](https://launchpad.net/~falk-t-j/+archive/lucid) and:
[https://launchpad.net/~falk-t-j/+archive/lucid-latest](https://launchpad.net/~falk-t-j/+archive/lucid-latest)

Guide me trough the process of patching the kernel and building it, and I promise the kernel will be on a PPA!

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-08
I highly respect your packaging skills.  I'm not sure I'm the best person for this job, as I'm very much a beginner.  But, here's what I did, basically following this page:
[http://www.nescivi.nl/?p=111](http://www.nescivi.nl/?p=111)

Downloaded linux-2.6.33.tar.gz from here:
[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v2.6/](http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/v2.6/)
And downloaded patch-2.6.33-rt4.gz from here:
[http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/projects/rt/](http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/kernel/projects/rt/)

Extracted them and renamed the resulting directory linux-2.6.33 to linux-2.6.33-rt4.  Then, made a new directory named 'kernel' (in my home directory) and moved the rt patch and the linux-2.6.33-rt4 directory into the kernel directory.  Then, I opened a terminal:
```
cd linux-2.6.33-rt4
cat ../patch-2.6.33-rt4 |patch -p1
```That's all there is to patching the kernel.  The much harder part is configuring it.  I used
```
make oldconfig
```which creates a configuration file for your new kernel based on the kernel you are currently running.  You will need to make a selection for each option that is new and not in your old kernel.  The default selection will be capitalized.

(I did this starting from the latest Ubuntu 2.6.33 from the kernel ppa ([http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33/)), as well as from the latest Ubuntu 2.6.31-rt.  There were a lot more new options when starting from the configuration for 2.6.31-rt, naturally.  And for some reason Grub fails to find the initrd image for the kernels I built this way.  If I manually edit the Grub menu, those kernels will boot and run just fine.  So I must have missed something when configuring the kernel this way.
   So, I think starting from Ubuntu 2.6.33-generic is the better way to go.  The kernel timer will be set to 100Hz and we need to change that to 1000Hz for real time operation.  We can do that, and change anything else that needs changed, by running)
```
make menuconfig
```Getting the configuration set up properly is definitely the difficult part, and I am sure there are things I missed because I know nothing about kernel configuration.

Once that is done, the kernel can be built by running
```
make-kpkg clean
fakeroot make-kpkg --initrd kernel_image kernel_headers
```And I believe a source package could also be made by running
```
fakeroot make-kpkg --initrd kernel_image kernel_headers kernel_source
```Hopefully, someone who knows more about kernel configuration can shed some more light on how to do that part properly.

---

### Post by Snocrash on 2010-03-08
Well.... It was a bit of a pain, but 33-rt4 is now compiled and running. I updated my kernel-package to 12.033 from debian. That one will compile the 2.6.33 kernel, but there was no initrd.img file and the installation of the kernel_image.deb file fails during post install configure. After further poking around, I found that the new kernel-package does not automatically put the initrd scripts in /etc/kernel so you have to copy them over from /usr/share/kernel-package/examples for it to build the initrd image. After that you need to edit your /etc/kernel-img.conf file and comment out the "update-grub" lines. With all that done, the kernel and headers build, install and configure fine. Then you just need to run "update-grub" manually to update it.

This kernel seems very quick and is running smoothly with JACK, Ardour, Hydrogen, qsynth, etc.....

I have not found anything that does not work for me yet. :)

On a side note, the NVIDIA 3D drivers would not build. That took even more poking around, but I hate having to re-boot between normal use and recording. I found a patch for the nvidia 190.53 drivers for the 2.6.33 kernel. But it dose not work for rt4. I applied that patch, ran a few diffs, and ended up extracting the driver package and modifying the nv-linux.h file by hand. It did compile and seems to be working fine.

As I said.... Bit of a pain, but it works... :guitar:

Don't know how much of this will apply to Lucid. But I figured the info my be helpful to someone.

-Sno

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-03-08
> **AutoStatic said:**
> Thanks for prompt reply Stochastic. And that's good news. And which filesystem will Ubuntu Studio use by default? There's a regression concerning Ext4 in 2.6.32 so it might be better to use Ext3?

What is that regression? I have a feeling that people may just be freaking out, because of the write caching. LOL. Perhaps just because someone noticed it booting faster, like when Jaunty Jackalope booted faster and people complained about Ext 4 causing corruption.

---

### Post by cornflake000 on 2010-03-09
relatime

RELATIME

R E L A T I M E

rel A time

Sorry, I just see the spelling realtime so much it's getting to me.  Real time has nothing to do with it.

---

### Post by TerminX on 2010-03-09
> **cornflake000 said:**
> relatime

RELATIME

R E L A T I M E

rel A time

Sorry, I just see the spelling realtime so much it's getting to me.  Real time has nothing to do with it.
This isn't a thread about the relatime mount option.

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-09
Real time may have nothing to do with relatime, but it does have something to do with Linux, and this thread.  I'm curious now as to what relatime might be - guess I'll have to look it up.

@Snocrash:
I'd be interested to see what you did to patch the NVidia drivers - I figured that was a lost cause.  I would also like to explore the nouveau driver option.

As far as the initrd image, I was able to build that manually, but update-grub doesn't find it, and I ended up manually editing grub.cfg to get it to boot.  This problem only showed up when I built my new kernel casing the config on 2.6.31-rt.  If I started with 2.6.33-generic, then that worked properly.

---

### Post by falkTX on 2010-03-09
Thanks guys for all your help.

The rt kernel is now ready for upload (let's hope it will compile and run)

I'll let you guys know how it goes.
Keep checking [https://launchpad.net/~falk-t-j/+archive/lucid-latest](https://launchpad.net/~falk-t-j/+archive/lucid-latest) for details.

---

### Post by Snocrash on 2010-03-09
> **trulan said:**
> 
@Snocrash:
I'd be interested to see what you did to patch the Nvidia drivers - I figured that was a lost cause.  I would also like to explore the nouveau driver option.


Download the 190.53 drivers from Nvidia. Apply the attached patch with the "--apply-patch <file name>" switch. That should create you a new package with a "custom" tag at the end. Extract the new package with the "-x" switch. After that, the attached diff file is what I changed to get it to compile for 2.6.33-rt4. As I said, I did it by hand and then just ran the installer from the extracted folder.

-Sno

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-21
The 2.6.33 rt series continues to move rapidly along.  rt9 failed to build, but rt10 seems to be solid again.  Of course they're on to rt11 by now... I just can't keep up. ;)
[http://markmail.org/message/6psiqouht5cfoyhs#query:+page:1+mid:gp7lvuteuvzyfw6l+state:results](http://markmail.org/message/6psiqouht5cfoyhs#query:+page:1+mid:gp7lvuteuvzyfw6l+state:results)

I ran across a thread on the Sidux forum while trying to sort through the initramfs issues that have arisen from changes in kernel-package.  (Snocrash commented on this already - if you delete /etc/kernel/postinst.d/initramfs-tool, and replace it with a copy of /usr/share/kernel-package/examples/etc/kernel/postinst.d/initramfs, then dpkg and grub take care of the rest.)

So, if anyone is interested there may be a way to test the new rt kernels without compiling them yourself.  Sidux forum user horo has been packaging kernels and putting them up for testing.  These are compiled and used on Sidux, and I'm not sure how well they will play on Ubuntu.  Nevertheless, if anyone is interested, here's the thread:
[http://sidux.com/PNphpBB2-viewtopic-p-154002.html](http://sidux.com/PNphpBB2-viewtopic-p-154002.html)
You'll have to back up a few pages there to find his repo info.

I would have tested his kernel, but I was already in the process of rolling my own and I'm using it instead.

Maybe once I get around to wiping and reinstalling my Lucid (its gotten as slow as a....very slow thing) I'll do some more direct testing with Lucid and maybe even start my own little ppa, to attempt to sort out why the kernel failed to build there.  Until then, happy testing!

---

### Post by trulan on 2010-03-29
> **Snocrash said:**
> the attached diff file is what I changed to get it to compile for 2.6.33-rt4. As I said, I did it by hand and then just ran the installer from the extracted folder.
I finally got around to tackling the nvidia drivers.  Thanks to your info, I was able to get the 195.36.15 driver working on 2.6.33.1-rt10.  Here's what I did:
```
sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-195.36.15-pkg0.run -x
```This extracts the package so we can make our changes.

Then edit ./usr/src/nv/nv-linux.h, making the changes in the diff file you posted.

Then, run, as root, without X running,
```
nvidia-installer
```from the extracted directory.

I also compiled 2.6.33.1-rt11, but I've had trouble with X starting on that one, it reminds me of the issues I had with the rt kernel in Jaunty.  I'm not sure if the kernel or the nvidia drivers are to blame, more testing is needed.

I should add that my last few rt kernel builds are based off of Gmaq's AVLinux kernels, not Ubuntu's kernels.  When I get around to doing a fresh install of Lucid I'll do more of a true Ubuntu build.

---

### Post by eval- on 2010-04-24
I'm not sure if this is the right place to ask, but I've been using the 2.6.31-rt on Lucid simply because things broke in 2.6.32 for both my machines (video artifacts on my acer laptop, atmel usb wireless on my desktop).  It's been great, but I don't see any backports for 2.6.31-rt in Lucid.  Any chance this might happen?

wireless would give me wlan0 power saving, and alsa a microphone...

---

