---
title: "10.04 Xorg busts my CPU"
date: 2010-04-02
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Naminator_X_ on 2010-04-02
For a while now i'm having a dualboot WinXP and Ubuntu. I've decided to test the new alpha release of the favorite OS (I kinda use the windows just to play few games which i can not boot on linux due to not so good video drivers or wine just doesnt run em) I've ran the alpha release for few days without any problem whatsoever but last night i had video drivers update and some xorg additions along with a new linux kernel version. I've installed them and i went to sleep because it was kind of late :) On the next morning when i turned my PC on it was quite unstable so to speak. If i was browsing i had half second freeze when i rollover a page link (both Firefox and Chrome) not to mention the low fps in YouTube videos. I wondered what the **** was wrong with my PC lol. Then i saw in "top" that Xorg uses 90% of my CPU like always day before that desktopcouch-se was doing so but i terminated the bastard process :) I don't really know where and how to submit this bug since after a lil search i didn't found somebody with problem like that so if this is the wrong section please move this thread but make sure that it will be noticed by an Ubuntu developer. Hope it is fixed then the big launch arrives :) :) i've bought blank CD/DVDs already =)

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2010-04-02
Try any other video drivers? Beta version might not be completely stable yet so if you installed nvidia or ATX drivers then uninstall them and see if it stops. Just until the stable release later this month.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-04-02
Since you asked, yes, this is in the wrong section.  It should be in Development & Programming, Lucid Lynx Testing.

I will be asking the Mods to move this thread there.  Look there for future responses.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-04-02
HI Naminator_X_

If you want

> be noticed by an Ubuntu developer

you need to report a bug.
Go to top of the page and you will see

launchpad.net

click on it.You will see

Get started

Sign up, lots of info there, and how-to file.

If you don't want to test, I recommend a stable release.

There's nothing wrong with duel booting, use of app's made for specific OS should be run native.

Sharky

---

