---
title: "10.04 boot lacks output"
date: 2010-03-20
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by rjtd on 2010-03-20
Hi there,

Is there any way to make Ubuntu Server 10.04 boot more verbose?
Currently (beta1), the boot does not show any information about the services boot state and all that. If some service fails to boot, it's impossible to know it from looking at the boot process.


Thanks.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-03-21
10.04 -> Development?

---

### Post by tr333 on 2010-03-21
Looking at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/506297](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/506297) (which was fixed for beta1), there is info in comments #21 and #22 about what you want to do.  Your issue is related to the new "plymouth" boot screen in Ubuntu 10.4, which exists on the server edition as well as the desktop edition.

---

### Post by Longinus00 on 2010-03-22
Why not use dmesg or look in syslog? Considering how quickly all those messages fly past I'm not sure how useful it is to see them anyway.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-03-22
> **rjtd said:**
> Hi there,

Is there any way to make Ubuntu Server 10.04 boot more verbose?
Currently (beta1), the boot does not show any information about the services boot state and all that. If some service fails to boot, it's impossible to know it from looking at the boot process.


Thanks.

Edit the end of the grub boot line. Remove "quiet, and add "--verbose" - (no quotes)

---

### Post by tr333 on 2010-03-22
> **VMC said:**
> Edit the end of the grub boot line. Remove "quiet, and add "--verbose" - (no quotes)

I'm guessing that you would also need to remove the "splash" option to hide the new plymouth splash screen (from the previously linked bug report).

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-03-22
> **tr333 said:**
> I'm guessing that you would also need to remove the "splash" option to hide the new plymouth splash screen (from the previously linked bug report).

They put a splash screen on Ubuntu Server 10.04

---

### Post by rjtd on 2010-03-23
Even with --verbose and without quiet I can't see anywhere the results of the scripts being run. 
On Karmic I would see, for example, "* Starting web server apache2   [OK]". On Lucid it's impossible to know if the server booted correctly without looking at the apache logs or trying the service.
Doesn't seem to me like a good decision to hide all that information on a server installation.

---

