---
title: "10.04 daily build &gt; 10.04 official release"
date: 2010-03-11
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by derande on 2010-03-11
i'm installing the daily build of lucid tonight. if i tweak all my settings to how i want them to run, will i need to reconfigure everything once the official version is released or can i just upgrade to the official version without losing everything i've customized once it's out?
i don't want to invest a ton of time customizing everything and them have to start from scratch next month...

any thoughts?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-03-11
Hi and moved to Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion

---

### Post by TutAmongUs on 2010-03-12
> **derande said:**
> i'm installing the daily build of lucid tonight. if i tweak all my settings to how i want them to run, will i need to reconfigure everything once the official version is released or can i just upgrade to the official version without losing everything i've customized once it's out?
i don't want to invest a ton of time customizing everything and them have to start from scratch next month...

any thoughts?

  The proper response to this would have to be:

  This ain't Windows...

  I know my script :p

---

### Post by wfp on 2010-03-12
You can just keep updating,and you will have the final release.

---

### Post by go2dell on 2010-03-12
I would add that you shouldn't count too much on every setting remaining valid, since 10.04 won't exist until April 29.  Right now you're running a testing version which will eventually become 10.04, and things can break.  That said, Beta Freeze was yesterday, and from the Beta builds onward things will be much more stable than during the Alpha stages.  As long as you don't mind periodically retweaking some of your changes, you'll be fine, and no reinstallation will be necessary.

Do be sure to look for things that are obviously broken on your system and report them on Launchpad so they can be fixed before the release.  If you find that someone else has already reported your bug, you can mark that you are also affected, and confirm that the bug exists, which is often an even bigger help than reporting a bug in the first place.

---

### Post by kurros on 2010-03-12
Generally you will have the same packages that will be on the disc at release, however there are sometimes various settings and configuration files that are not migrated to the latest changes or defaults in that package if you are tracking day by day.

There is magical pixie dust in update-manager scripts when upgrading from 9.10 that handle configuration migration (it's one of the reasons dist-upgrade is discouraged), but not always in the individual packages when tracking day by day.

It helps to track the lucid-changes mailing list to stay on top of things that may require intervention.

---

