---
title: "10.04 Alpha 3 - Realtek 8139 - Can't Ping"
date: 2010-03-05
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by rpk5000 on 2010-03-05
I've been having issues with my ethernet card.

I just reinstalled Ubuntu 10.04 Alpha 3 x64 today, so nothing has been touched or modified.

I've never had ubuntu installed on the computer prior to the current installation (aside from 10.04 alpha 3), and currently have it dual booting alongside Windows 7 Ultimate.

Attempting to ping google.com returns an unknown host error. 

lspci returns:
...
02.02.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
...

ifconfig shows:
eth0
Link encap:Ethernet HWaddr 00:16:76:d5:e4:1f
inet addr:192.168.1.103 Bcast:192.168.1.255 Mask:255.255.255.0
inet6 addr: fe80::216:76ff:fed5:e41f/64 Scope:Link
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
RX packets:16 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:40 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:2349 (2.3 KB) TX bytes:4516 (4.5 KB)
Interrupt:21 Base address:0x1000

lo
...

The back of the machine where the ethernet cable is connected has a yellow light on.  I can connect to the internet in Windows 7.

Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-03-05
Moved to Lucid forum.

---

### Post by rpk5000 on 2010-03-05
Anyone?

I'd like to request this be moved back to the networking subforum in the interest of getting help resolving the issue.


Thanks.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-03-06
You need to do a bit of troubleshooting, so we can tell what the problem actually is, you seem to be getting an ip address, so that seems to be OK. Try:

```
ping www.google.com
```

If that doesn't work try:

```
ping 74.125.53.147
```

If that works, you have a DNS problem, which is fairly simple to fix. Right click the network-manager icon in the top panel and select **Edit Connection**, highlight your network device, then click the edit button. Click the IPv4 Tab, and from the **Method** drop down select **Automatic (DHCP) adresses only**. Next enter your isp's DNS addresses in the DNS Servers text box. Click apply, enter your password, and reboot.

---

### Post by rpk5000 on 2010-03-06
Thanks for the response.

ping [www.google.com](www.google.com)
ping: unknown host [www.google.com](www.google.com)

ping 74.125.53.147
returned a series of identical responses

From 192.168.1.103 icmp_seq=i Destination Host Unreachable

where i is from 1 - infinity.

ctrl-c
printed:
--- 74.125.53.147 ping statistics ---
54 packets transmitted, 0 received, +48 errors, 100% packet loss, time 53114ms, pipe 4

What should I try next?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-03-06
How are you getting an ip address? Did you set it manually, or is it provided by your router? Could you also post the output of:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

notice the spelling.

---

### Post by rpk5000 on 2010-03-06
The router should be assigning through DHCP.

[INDENT]cat /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 24.92.226.9
nameserver 4.2.2.2
domain nycap.rr.com
search nycap.rr.com
[/INDENT]

Not sure about the nameserver listing, but my internet provider is nycap.rr.com.

I don't have a problem changing my dns resolution to use OpenDNS or google's dns servers, etc etc, if you feel it'll help identify the problem quicker.

---

### Post by avongil on 2010-03-28
I have the same problem..  I cannot SSH either. The IP addresses resolve, but nothing happens...

---

### Post by avongil on 2010-03-28
Never mind! All is working!  Rookie mistake, confirmed network I am trying to connect to is down.

---

### Post by Kyril on 2010-03-28
Same problem here. Seems to be a wake-on-lan problem.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-03-28
> **Kyril said:**
> Same problem here. Seems to be a wake-on-lan problem.

So you're saying that on initial boot-up networking works, but after going into suspend/hibernate you can't wake the system up by sending a magic packet from another computer?

You can use ethtool to set wake-on-lan to active if it isn't already.

---

### Post by rpk5000 on 2010-03-28
cariboo907: My issue was never resolved, I assumed my post just got lost in the forums (not exactly unexpected as there isn't too many people who do networking help in here), and no one had any further advice.  

I'm on a new network now, I'm reinstalling the new beta, I'll repost all the commands and any different output (should just be default dns changes, etc etc).

Interestingly it seems like it connects during install correctly (e.g., to determine my time, though if the default is EST, then maybe not).  And it also pulls the domain name correctly, so I feel like it may work at some point during the install.  That was when I installed the alpha 3 the first two times.  (I could be entirely wrong, but those are my thoughts).

---

