---
title: "10.04 Processor Usage"
date: 2010-02-24
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by grubdude on 2010-02-24
Hi,

Installed 10.04 in a virtual machine yesterday. I also have 9.10. I seem to have noticed that my processor is running at a very high rate, higher than with 9.10. Has anyone else noticed this? 

Also, what is with the Lucid Lynx repositories. They are extremely slow and error prone (certificate or communication issues)....

Thanks.

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-02-24
I would assume the main part of that is

A) It's being run in a virtualbox ;)

B) It's still in alpha

it will get better as it gets closer to release

---

### Post by grubdude on 2010-02-24
Well, yes on B but my 9.10 is also running in a virtual machine and does not use up as much processor....must be still the alpha thing....I was just getting tired of hearing my fan run all the time. :-)

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-02-24
Oh, I thought you were saying you were running 9.10 and had 10.04 in a virtualbox :P. But yeah, being an alpha, it's not very stable yet.

---

### Post by grubdude on 2010-02-24
My mistake, I wasn't clear. I have both running off host Windows 7 in virtual machines. I also have installed on notebooks and a server, but only have 10.04 on this machine....

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-02-24
Moved to Lucid forum.

---

### Post by grubdude on 2010-02-24
Thanks. I should have noticed that before posting....:-)

---

### Post by plucky on 2010-02-24
See links

[thread]1409440[/thread]
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rsyslog/+bug/523468](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rsyslog/+bug/523468)

Good Luck

---

### Post by grubdude on 2010-02-24
Thanks!:)

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2010-02-24
Running Alpha 2, until tomorrow (hehe) as the primary OS. Looking at my system monitor, it idles at about 1.5% CPU usage and will go up to about 50% when loading FF.

Can live with that, and the computer, Sony laptop, is cool to touch and fans are quiet.

---

### Post by grubdude on 2010-02-24
Pardon my ignorance as I am new to the development side here but is there another release due tomorrow and if so what is the best way to upgrade?

I accidentally accepted a couple of partial upgrades before reading the info on that but if I recall they were tagged as obsolete. at any rate all is still running okay. :-)


Ah Alpha 3....I see :-). I assume this implies downloading and installing the new ISO....

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-02-24
If you are fully up-to-date without any packages being held back, you should be at the same point as alpha 3. So if you don't have a really crufty install, there's no need to do a clean install

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-02-24
> **grubdude said:**
> My mistake, I wasn't clear. I have both running off host Windows 7 in virtual machines. I also have installed on notebooks and a server, but only have 10.04 on this machine....
That really seems to be the wrong way around to me.

It would make more sense, to me, to run the least secure OS in the world on VB under a more secure(able) OS like 9.10.  I think that assumption is to be expected.

---

