---
title: "serial Kensington Expert Mouse trackball not recognized"
date: 2010-04-03
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Zed on 2010-04-03
I'm still using an ancient serial Kensington Expert Mouse with a serial->PS/2 converter. It's not doing anything. In the brave new Hal-less world, how do I begin to approach this?

I have an xorg.conf as generated by nvidia-xconfig. It includes this clause:

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

(and the ServerLayout section includes InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"). /dev/psaux, /dev/input/mouse0, and /dev/input/mice all exist. X doesn't respond to mouse actions whatsoever. I tried using a serial port directly without the Ps/2 converter, and tried changing xorg.conf to /dev/input/mouse0 and /dev/input/mice (restarting X each time). No change.

Is the xorg.conf clase even relevant anymore? I presume I need a udev rule file, but I don't know what the contents need to be, or if that's all I need. Search results on this are cluttered with outdated solutions at least most of which don't apply anymore; I haven't been able to tell what info might still apply.

I'm not running any of the -desktop metapackages; I'm running xorg and ratpoison installed manually on top of a command-line only system installed from the Alternate Install CD, so Gnome or KDE specific advice wouldn't apply.

Anyone have any pointers?

Thanks.

---

### Post by ezsit on 2010-04-03
My advice: buy a new USB trackball/mouse. Unless you want the experience of making it work, its cheaper to buy newer hardware and save your time for doing something more valuable than figuring out how to get ancient hardware recognized. I figure my time at $30 per hour. If the hardware costs less than that, its a no-brainer.

---

### Post by Zed on 2010-04-03
New Kensington Expert Mouse trackballs are $75, and I ended up two spares of this model for when it breaks, so I'd really rather make to work.

---

