---
title: "10.04 [installation: partitions missing]"
date: 2010-03-25
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
I tried and tried 9.10, everything everyone said never worked.   I downloaded 10.04 and im having none of the same issues that i was having with 9.10.  I am currently on the demo version of the 10.04, when i try to install, everything goes smoothly until it starts talking about the partitions.  There is no option to dual boot, just to use the whole drive (erase everything), or manually do the partition.  

I am new to this stuff, and just need some simple advice on what to do.  I want to dual boot, having windows 7 remain as my main boot option.  Any ideas?

thankyou

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2010-03-25
Hi.

I would suggest you go back to windows, open disk management (located in windows management) and then shrink your existing partition.

Once you have an unformated empty space, you can perform the install process again.

You will get the option install linux on next empty contiguous space (or something looking like that).

This option shows only if you got an empty partition to use.

You have to prepare your environment first.

Nico

---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
ok, done.  now i have a partition of 50 gigs...unallocated space.  It still doesnt give me an option to dual boot, nor can i select and use that unallocated space in the manual operation.

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2010-03-25
So what you do is choose the option install ubuntu:

You choose your keyboard, you choose your time and your username and computer name etc... Then you get the partition?

When you get there, you are presented with a bar showing x amount of space with windows on it and a grey area with nothing on it?

Below you have the choice to erase everything
install on the next contiguous empty space
some over options I don't quite remember.

Do you get that? I'm trying to understand what steps you're taking in order to help.

note: You won't have an option to dual boot. After installation Grub will detect all os installed and create a dual boot for you. Upon reboot you'll see it is dual booting already. Seemless. Nothing for you to do there to change your setup to dualboot.

Nico

---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
Thats the issue, the partition menu is not showing windows at all.  I only have 2 options, delete everything, and manual install.  The bar across the top is completely gray.  It does not seem to recognize that the drive has another operating system on it...or so i think.

Yes i do all the other steps, time and keyboard.

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2010-03-25
This is pretty strange. It considers your drive to be empty. If you try the installation with a 9.10 version CD, do you manage to see your drive?

We have to find out if the linux lucid beta 1 is not able to find out other operating systems and file it as a bug or if it really is specific to your system

---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
9.1 does nothing for me.  I just get a black screen every time i try and install.  No sounds, no cursor, no menus.  It hangs or something.  I have tried everything and nothing works for that version.  I was able to load 8.4 with out a problem.......until i tried to get it hooked up to the internet, again, nothing worked and it would not recognize my internet card.

Everything with 10.04 works great in the demo version, which is why i was so excited.  But, i dont want to delete windows 7, or mess that up in any way.  

When in 10.04, i went to the partition manager and tried to mess with the 50 gig empty space, and i kept getting errors.  Something to the effect of only being able to have 4 main partitions, or 4 primary partitions... Is that the problem?

My computer has 4 already, main C:, HP_Tools E:, Recovery D:, and System.

i dont know if that has anything to do with the problem.

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2010-03-25
Hi.

I would think that no matter how many partitions, it should be working fine but maybe 4 includes linux partitions too?

basically what you have now is 4 existing NTFS partitions and then 50 GB of unallocated disk space. You should be detecting your windows partition even if there was no empty space.

I think it's very strange. Can you make a print screen of your disk management and show it here?

---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
[http://i42.tinypic.com/14w7gqt.png](http://i42.tinypic.com/14w7gqt.png)
Before


[http://i40.tinypic.com/15oedlf.png](http://i40.tinypic.com/15oedlf.png)
And after

---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
i have the option of assigning a letter(simple volume) to the unallocated space.  When i go through that process, at the end there is a warning about turning it into a dynamic drive, and if i do so i will not be able to start installed operating systems from any volume on the disk (except the current boot volume).  ...i clicked no cause it scared me :P

Should i set it up as a simple volume with a letter and everything? or not.

---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
still no go here.  When i try the manual partition, i get an error that says "no boot file found" or something to that effect, and to fix it in the partition manager.

I would love to use ubuntu, but none of the versions are working for me >.<

---

### Post by scubastevegk on 2010-03-25
I second this problem.  I have a 250 GB disk, with 100 MB and 160 GB partitions carved out for Windows 7.  Booting the Ubuntu 10.04 Beta1 disc and running gparted shows the entire disk as unallocated space.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2010-03-25
Its not a particularly smart idea to try Beta software on systems having other OSes or partitions you need.

If you have a throw-away Windows system, great, but dual boot has been full of problems in 9.10, doubt they are all fixed it the 10.04Beta, so while its great to have testers, don't test on what you can't afford to lose!

---

### Post by scubastevegk on 2010-03-25
Couldn't agree more - that's why they call it beta (unless we're using the Google definition of the term...)

---

### Post by emarkay on 2010-03-25
Yes, it's beta, but the OP is being sincere!
This may be a legit bug!  
I do not have Win 7, but have gotten many Lucid installs correct with XPSP3.

OP, there is an alternate way to get the partitions validated and defined - 
Gparted is a stand-alone Linux package that allows real time disk and partition management.

[http://gparted.sourceforge.net/](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/)

Get the ISO and burn the CD and then boot it and then confirm it says what Lucid says, or not, on your disk volume(s).

If it is different, PM or post back and I will work to see if this is a bug.  Otherwise wait to see if there is a better solution here, or file a Launchpad bug now, as you appear to have enough evidence of an issue.

---

### Post by scubastevegk on 2010-03-25
Maybe the OP will experience something different, but I just booted the gparted LiveCD and see the same fully unallocated disk that I see in the Lucid installer - hope this helps!

---

### Post by Madspyman on 2010-03-25
I had a similar issue, it only happened with the beta install not the alpha installer. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1435897]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1435897")

---

### Post by Krmikeb on 2010-03-25
Downloaded the Wubi standalone.... poof, no problem.

The problem seems to be with the iso cd file or something.  The wubi loaded up the partitions and i have a flawless dual boot now.

Thanks for the help.  hope this helps some others too.

---

### Post by map7 on 2010-03-31
I've just loaded up 10.04 beta1 64bit on my new notebook (Lenovo T410s) which came pre-installed with Windows 7 Home 64bit.

I only get Erase and use the entire disk and the manual option.

However if I go to the manual option I see all the ntfs partitions (3 of them).

If I use gparted on the Ubuntu 10.04 beta1 64bit CD I cannot move/resize my partitions.

So, I think this is a bug, has anyone here reported this yet?

---

### Post by map7 on 2010-03-31
I figured it out!

My problem was that I didn't want to install Windows 7 but I wanted to leave it uninstalled on my hard drive.  

If you boot into Windows 7 setup the only way out of the setup is to either install it or hold down the power button for 6 seconds. The problem with the power button option is that it corrupts the partition because it wasn't unmounted properly. This means that when you go to install Ubuntu it cannot resize the Win7 partition until it's fixed.

Here is the solution

[LIST=1]
[*]Boot Win 7 in normal mode
[*]Hold down power button
[*]Boot system rescue cd 1.5.0
[*]# ntfsfix /dev/sda2 (or which ever partition is corrupted).
[*]reboot, removing the cd
[*]select safe mode when prompted
[*]as it's booting into safe mode insert your Ubuntu CD
[/LIST]

What happens here is by using ntfsfix you are telling Windows that the next time it boots it should check the partition for errors. By booting into safe mode the system will automatically reboot after cleaning up the partition and properly unmounting it, then it will boot directly into your Ubuntu CD and you can install.

Hope this helps other people with the same problem.

---

