---
title: "10.04, need help allowing sharing of subfolders"
date: 2010-04-14
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by noremacyug on 2010-04-14
i have 10.04 running on a couple computers and all is pretty much going great except that both my music and photos sub folders are not shared.  i can access the music and photos folders themselves but no sub folders.  it tells me i don't have permission.

to set up the share i simply right clicked on the music/photos folder and went to share options. share folder, allows others to create/delete and allow guest options are all checked and turned on.  how can i apply these setting to all the sub folders without having to manually go through and do each one separately?

as always, thanks

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2010-04-14
right clicked on the share, properties, permission,
there is a button just above the "Help" it says
"apply permissions to enclosed files"

it better to do some things via command line
or better still look here this page has a wealth of information
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions)

Tux

---

### Post by noremacyug on 2010-04-14
> **tuxulin said:**
> right clicked on the share, properties, permission,
there is a button just above the "Help" it says
"apply permissions to enclosed files"

it better to do some things via command line
or better still look here this page has a wealth of information
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions)

Tux

thanks for the advice, but no such button exists above help.  also, i'm too noobish to really know how to apply much in the permissions thread.  i understand what it's saying to some degree, however i know not what conf. file is in need of editing or the proper format for doing such.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-14
> **noremacyug said:**
> thanks for the advice, but no such button exists above help.  also, i'm too noobish to really know how to apply much in the permissions thread.  i understand what it's saying to some degree, however i know not what conf. file is in need of editing or the proper format for doing such.

Right click on a any folder and look down the list for Sharing Options.

---

### Post by noremacyug on 2010-04-16
> **philinux said:**
> Right click on a any folder and look down the list for Sharing Options.

i've done that.  i have sharing enable for my music/photos and documents folders, but the sub folders don't have the attributes added to them.  i have to go in and manually share each sub folder.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2010-04-16
If both your computers are Ubuntu, first install ssh on both machines

```
sudo apt-get install openssh-server openssh-client
```

one of them comes preinstalled but I can`t remember which one.

Then in your menu go places > connect to server

In the top box select ssh

In the next one type username@ipaddress

This is the username and ip address of the other machine

When you click connect you will have access to the other computers file system.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-04-16
Something's not right here. Can you post the output of the following commands so we can help with the diagnosis:

Open **Terminal**
Type **net usershare info**
Type **testparm -s**
Type **ls -al /home/your_user_name/Documents**

It's possible you're using two different samba methods to share folders and the system is getting confused or the permissions on the parent folder "Documents" does not have the executable bit set for anyone other than "your_user_name". Anyway that's my guess without any more information.

---

### Post by noremacyug on 2010-04-16
> **Morbius1 said:**
> Something's not right here. Can you post the output of the following commands so we can help with the diagnosis:

Open **Terminal**
Type **net usershare info**
Type **testparm -s**
Type **ls -al /home/your_user_name/Documents**

It's possible you're using two different samba methods to share folders and the system is getting confused or the permissions on the parent folder "Documents" does not have the executable bit set for anyone other than "your_user_name". Anyway that's my guess without any more information.


I'll try to post that up for you when I get home.

---

### Post by castrojo on 2010-04-16
Is this your problem?

[http://leftyfb.com/2010/04/09/samba-stop-being-so-selfish/](http://leftyfb.com/2010/04/09/samba-stop-being-so-selfish/)

---

### Post by rustutzman on 2010-04-17
how about ```
sudo nautilus
``` Then do the right click and adjust the sharing properties and you should then see the "apply permissions to enclosed files".

---

### Post by noremacyug on 2010-04-17
Type **net usershare info**

cobbs@Desktop:~$ net usershare info
[pictures]
path=/home/cobbs/Pictures
comment=
usershare_acl=Everyone:F,
guest_ok=y

[documents]
path=/home/cobbs/Documents
comment=
usershare_acl=Everyone:F,
guest_ok=y

[music]
path=/home/cobbs/Music
comment=
usershare_acl=Everyone:F,
guest_ok=y

cobbs@Desktop:~$ 

Type **testparm -s**

testparm -s
Load smb config files from /etc/samba/smb.conf
rlimit_max: rlimit_max (1024) below minimum Windows limit (16384)
Processing section "[printers]"
Processing section "[print$]"
Loaded services file OK.
Server role: ROLE_STANDALONE
[global]
	server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)
	map to guest = Bad User
	obey pam restrictions = Yes
	pam password change = Yes
	passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
	passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
	unix password sync = Yes
	syslog = 0
	log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
	max log size = 1000
	dns proxy = No
	usershare allow guests = Yes
	panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d

[printers]
	comment = All Printers
	path = /var/spool/samba
	create mask = 0700
	printable = Yes
	browseable = No
	browsable = No

[print$]
	comment = Printer Drivers
	path = /var/lib/samba/printers
cobbs@Desktop:~$ 

Type **ls -al /home/your_user_name/Documents**

ls -al /home/cobbs/Documents 
total 1060
drwxrwxrwx  2 cobbs cobbs   4096 2010-04-16 05:22 .
drwxr-xr-x 51 cobbs cobbs   4096 2010-04-17 03:59 ..
-rwxrwxrwx  1 cobbs cobbs  34051 2010-01-06 00:42 Cam's Resume.docx
-rwxrwxrwx  1 cobbs cobbs 141957 2010-03-25 04:44 Cobb Guy signed HUD.pdf
-rwxrwxrwx  1 cobbs cobbs 745181 2010-03-26 10:44 HUD1
-rwxrwxrwx  1 cobbs cobbs  20904 2010-01-06 00:41 Kasey's Resume.docx
-rwxrwxrwx  1 cobbs cobbs  13483 2010-03-31 01:58 Madisonville Acceptence Letter.docx
-rw-r--r--  1 cobbs cobbs    271 2010-04-17 00:30 .synkron.syncdb
-rwxrwxrwx  1 cobbs cobbs 104294 2009-03-30 02:58 TaxReturn.pdf
cobbs@Desktop:~$


whiprush, i looked at the article and tried it with no avail.

rustutzman, tried sudo and it still doesn't show the option to "apply permissions to enclosed files."

---

### Post by zacbarton on 2010-04-17
I think this might help.

[http://leftyfb.com/2010/04/09/samba-stop-being-so-selfish/]("http://leftyfb.com/2010/04/09/samba-stop-being-so-selfish/")

---

### Post by noremacyug on 2010-04-17
> **zacbarton said:**
> I think this might help.

[http://leftyfb.com/2010/04/09/samba-stop-being-so-selfish/]("http://leftyfb.com/2010/04/09/samba-stop-being-so-selfish/")

thanks, but whiprush already linked to that like 4 posts up.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-04-17
I assume that "cobbs" can access all these folders and subfolders locally. If so, rather than futz around with permissions try this:

Open **Terminal**
Type **gksu gedit /etc/samba/smb.conf**

Add the following line to the [COLOR=Blue][global][/COLOR] section of smb.conf:
```
force user = cobbs
```Save smb.conf, exit gedit, and back in the terminal type: **sudo service samba restart**

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-04-17
regardless of if you get it working, why dont you see the button
"apply permissions to enclosed files."?

you should see this from running as a normal user.
how about this,
 go into synaptic
completely remove nautilus with config files, right click it to see that (remove completely)
let it remove
then reinstall nautilus

this should do the same thing as apt-get remove nautilus --purge

---

### Post by noremacyug on 2010-04-17
> **sdowney717 said:**
> regardless of if you get it working, why dont you see the button
"apply permissions to enclosed files."?

you should see this from running as a normal user.
how about this,
 go into synaptic
completely remove nautilus with config files, right click it to see that (remove completely)
let it remove
then reinstall nautilus

this should do the same thing as apt-get remove nautilus --purge

Well son of a *****! Ok, my bad everyone. I'm a flippin idiot! This whole time I have been looking at properties/ sharing tab. I thought I was suppose to be seeing the "apply to all sub folders" button there. But after seeing the picture and going back and rereading the first response to my post I see that this whole deal was an "I-D-10-T error".........idiot! Anyhow, I suppose a picture truly is worth a thousand words.  I clicked the button and viola! Everything is perfect. So, again my apologies for wasting everyones time and brain power due to my incompetance. 

Much abliged!
guy

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2010-04-17
> **rustutzman said:**
> how about ```
sudo nautilus
``` Then do the right click and adjust the sharing properties and you should then see the "apply permissions to enclosed files".

That should be:

```
sudo -H nautilus
```

or

```
gksudo nautilus
```

Otherwise there could be problems later resulting from files (configuration files, temporary files, etc...) being saved in the users home directory with root UID and GID that shouldn't have been.

Later, Seeker

---

