---
title: "9.10&gt;10.04 giving me fits again"
date: 2009-11-28
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-28
This bugger has been messing with me ever since installing it.

The boot keeps getting screwed somehow.  Get menu up (this is boot/root), select "Lounge Lizard" in custom entries, usplash runs fine, gets to xsplash and goes weird on me.  Several bands of "far out colors man - I could watch this all day - WOW".  This is as far as it goes.

Select the 10_linux generated entry and get the same thing.  Select the recovery mode from the 10_linux generated stuff and it goes somewhat better.

I can go to root terminal and "startx" and it opens right up (session as root).

If I select "resume normal boot" nothing happens.

This is the third time this has done this to me and it is the worst.  Been three days now.  I was hoping that the gdm update today would help.  It made a new /etc/init/gdm.conf file.  Doesn't change a thing.

I tried to log out to login as "sam" (user for this version).  Took me right back to a root prompt.  There was an error on the page calling for /usr/lib/dri/r600_dri.so.

Run "startx" again and get back in as root.  Open up Daily-root (from 1st daily build, updated daily).  There is no r600_dri.so there either (r200_dri.so and r300_dri.so).  Also checked my 9.04>9.10>10.04 and it is the same.  I have no idea what this file is supposed to do, but it, as the error said, does not exist.  It does not appear to exist in this universe for any reason.

I have no idea what is causing this 1 of 3 Lounge Lizard installations to fail to boot but it really is getting on my thungas.

The Daily and Stoned Lizard work great.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-11-28
I just d/l'd todays daily live to install and I checked the livecd beforehand  and there is no r600_dri.so there . r128... ,r200... ,r300... yes but no 600  . looks like you've found a bug .

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-28
I will have to do more than write down the file next time.  I would like to know where this weird file call is getting that name and path.

I will write down the whole error text and file a bug tomorrow on that.

I just wish the damned thing would boot to my user account.

Thanks for checking on the file.  I figured it didn't exist because I do not have one in 3 installs, but stranger things have happened.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-11-28
Yeah I think they definately have some problems that they need to get sorted if this is going to be an LTS release . to avoid duplicating a post see my last post here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1326412&page=9](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1326412&page=9) . can you boot the live cd and chroot in ?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-28
I can boot into the installation - as root - from the recovery menu.  I also chroot into the bugger daily to upgrade it from my Stoned Lizard installation (running boinc alpha testing).  I am sure that I could chroot into it from the CD.

I have thought about doing that and seeing if I could get grub to work right.  I am about the point of removing grub-common and grub-pc and then reinstalling them.  I can't for the life of me see why it won't try to "return to normal boot" from the recovery menu.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-11-28
question , is the drive by anychance IDE ?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-28
Nope.  This is the dual SATA external enclosure.  Has Lounge Lizard (the trouble maker), Stoned Lizard (that I use as my daytime OS), Daily Lizard (from first daily build), Mandriva2009-1, Zenix (neat Xfce 9.10 respin) and Stoner Edition 2.1beta1 (9.10 respin).

All use grub2.  The menu I am using is from Lounge Lizard.

I will switch the boot/root tomorrow to one of the others.  Come to think of it I believe that Stoner Edition 2.1beta2 should be out tomorrow.  I will just be installing it on top of the first one so my boot/root will go there.  That will be fine.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-11-28
Wow, makes me happy that I only have to use the tty to login and then startx:p

I'm revisiting the Karmic hard lockups:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/475010](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/475010)

It's no good to just leave things for others to deal with.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-11-28
I definately think grub2 has a problem with some configurations , if you have been following my adventure trying to get it to boot an IDE slave and gina's problems with his laptop .aside from that todays LL daily had its own problems .

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-11-29
> **ronacc said:**
> I definately think grub2 has a problem with some configurations , if you have been following my adventure trying to get it to boot an IDE slave and gina's problems with his laptop .aside from that todays LL daily had its own problems .

No doubt! I'll guarantee it!

I can not get grub2 to work even reasonably well (sometimes not at all) with a fresh install on my multi-boot.

However, if I install the latest grub2 after getting things up and running with legacy grub it's pretty good.

I've requested an upgrade:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/485457](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/485457)

Add a comment please!

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-11-29
I've got my own bug going #486151  , I'll try the debian debs later today when that box is on and add a comment to your bug , right now there are 269 bugs against grub2 and 145 against grub-pc .

---

### Post by plun on 2009-11-29
Just a reference to Debian and their bugs

[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?pkg=grub2;dist=unstable](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?pkg=grub2;dist=unstable)

EDIT and for grub-pc

[http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?pkg=grub-pc;dist=unstable](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?pkg=grub-pc;dist=unstable)

--

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-29
> **kansasnoob said:**
> No doubt! I'll guarantee it!

I can not get grub2 to work even reasonably well (sometimes not at all) with a fresh install on my multi-boot.

However, if I install the latest grub2 after getting things up and running with legacy grub it's pretty good.

I've requested an upgrade:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/485457](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/485457)

Add a comment please!

Left a comment.  Have no idea what  the hold up is on updating grub2, makes no sense to me.

My problem is NOT a grub2 problem.  I have the same deal coming from this new install.

Still can't log in as the graphics go nuts as soon as xsplash comes up.

Still no problem getting in as root.  Weird.  Guess I will just have to ride it a while longer and see if it settles down.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-11-29
@ kansasnoob  I dl'd and installed the debian debs referenced in your bug and while it managed to scew both my lucid installs it did PROVE what I thought was the problem . grub2 does not know the difference between the IDE master and the slave  on the same cable . Here is what I did , downloaded the debs using the lucid install on the IDE master  and copied them over to the IDE slave install (thats the install that wouldn't boot) , rebooted using the livecd then chrooted to the install on the Ide slave ( I can tell the difference so I know it went to the right place) from within the chroot , installed the debs . It wrote a new grub.cfg to /boot/grub/ of the IDE slave but actually installed grub to the IDE master . I know because now that one wont boot ??? . I did notice that the grub.cfg it wrote to the ide slave does not look right it wrote the set root lines as  set root=(/dev/sdxy)  instead of set root=(hdx,y) . Trying to recover now . I'm going to reboot the livecd chroot to the IDE master and run grub-install from there which should install lucids grub back on the master .fingers crossed:p

Edit: that got me back into the master .

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-11-29
Karmic seems to me like a Beta with many bugs to clear up.  But I understand the reasons and accept the situation, though it is frustrating.  I'm currently running Jaunty as my main OS and treating Karmic as a stage of Lucid development.  Looking at it like that helps me get my head round the situation.

Grub2 shows promise as being a lot more logical and easier to configure than legacy but it is still at the Beta stage and IMV not yet ready to use in a main system.

Lucid development shows signs of being very interesting - there is a great deal of work to be done before it will be ready to release as an LTS version.

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-11-29
> **ronacc said:**
> @ kansasnoob  I dl'd and installed the debian debs referenced in your bug and while it managed to scew both my lucid installs it did PROVE what I thought was the problem . grub2 does not know the difference between the IDE master and the slave  on the same cable . Here is what I did , downloaded the debs using the lucid install on the IDE master  and copied them over to the IDE slave install (thats the install that wouldn't boot) , rebooted using the livecd then chrooted to the install on the Ide slave ( I can tell the difference so I know it went to the right place) from within the chroot , installed the debs . It wrote a new grub.cfg to /boot/grub/ of the IDE slave but actually installed grub to the IDE master . I know because now that one wont boot ??? . I did notice that the grub.cfg it wrote to the ide slave does not look right it wrote the set root lines as  set root=(/dev/sdxy)  instead of set root=(hdx,y) . Trying to recover now . I'm going to reboot the livecd chroot to the IDE master and run grub-install from there which should install lucids grub back on the master .fingers crossed:pThat's very interesting.  I'm wondering if it's sometimes having trouble telling the difference between my HD and CDROM drive on my laptop - they are both IDE drives and on the same IDE interface AFAICT.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-11-29
could be ! you can tell in the bios and it should also tell you which is master I'll bet its the cdrom they usually set it up that way because a a cdrom sometimes won't boot if its a slave even in winblows .

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-12-01
Today when I chrooted in and got the big lot of updates I decided to try it again.

The xsplash came up for a fraction of a second and went to the psycodelic stuff again.  Bummer.

Went to "single" mode and logged in as root.  Synaptic did not give me any additional updates.  Logged out.

Went to the Daily Lizard and updated it, rebooted to check that it still worked.  Fine.

Decided to try Lounge Lizard again and it CAME UP.  Logged in got 3 updates and tried it again.  Just Great.

Good things come to those that wait.

Still have no idea what the problem was.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-12-01
I have noticed sometimes if things are messed up that just logging in  and then rebooting straightens it up , I guess it rewrites some system file .

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-12-01
I have tried this bugger everyday, except yesterday, for a week and the bugger just wouldn't work.  Got on my thungas.

Works now. I am not arguing with it.

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-12-02
Great :):)

---

