---
title: "Lucid-&quot;Conductor&quot; web app &amp; &quot;Virtuoso&quot;-What and why?"
date: 2010-02-15
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by emarkay on 2010-02-15
On today's update, Conductor and Virtuoso were installed.  They asked for a password, twice while installing.  A quick Google Search on "Conductor, ubuntu, web app" came up with little info.

What is it, why do I need it/why is it a default installation and how secure is it?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Seren on 2010-02-15
> **emarkay said:**
> On today's update, Conductor and Virtuoso were installed.  They asked for a password, twice while installing.  A quick Google Search on "Conductor, ubuntu, web app" came up with little info.

What is it, why do I need it/why is it a default installation and how secure is it?

Thanks!

Virtuoso is a database installed on your local system to store tags and other metadata generated by nepomuk/strigi.

The password is used to create a virtuoso db admin on your local system. I don't really see the point but it is probably safe because it is local.

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/virtuoso-opensource](http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/virtuoso-opensource)

I have no idea of what "conductor" is. (Unless you are thinking about VirtuosoConverter which is a tool to convert a virtuoso database version 5.0 into 6.0)

---

### Post by Reiger on 2010-02-15
Conductor is a command panel, I think, so you can direct your own ... symphony? Anyway it is not needed.

All you really need is virtuoso-nepomuk + dependencies.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2010-02-15
> **Seren said:**
> Virtuoso is a database installed on your local system to store tags and other metadata generated by nepomuk/strigi.

The password is used to create a virtuoso db admin on your local system. I don't really see the point but it is probably safe because it is local.
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/virtuoso-opensource](http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/virtuoso-opensource)
I have no idea of what "conductor" is. (Unless you are thinking about VirtuosoConverter which is a tool to convert a virtuoso database version 5.0 into 6.0)

STRANGE! Synaptic lists: 
"OpenLink Virtuoso Open-Source Edition - Conductor"
but it shows it as not installed.

I know I saw the "dos-type+ blue and ted text terminal box that said "Conductor web application" and asked for a VAD and a VDB (or something like that) connection password when I ran the latest restore-repair broken packages" the one today that added the " ..x.13" Linux kernel.

---

### Post by Seren on 2010-02-15
After checking the packet list, emarkay was probably referring to :

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/virtuoso-vad-conductor](http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/virtuoso-vad-conductor)

Apparently it is an administration tool for virtuoso databases.

It is possible that conductor is accessed through a web interface, hence the (misleading) name "web application".

Edit : It seems to be so, here is a demo conductor interface.
[http://demo.openlinksw.com/conductor/](http://demo.openlinksw.com/conductor/)

---

### Post by emarkay on 2010-02-16
The "dos-type" dialog box that appears on updating:

"Configuring virtuoso-opensource-6.0"
"Following installation... using the command line tools (see the full documentation ***[where???***]) or via the* Conductor web application*..."
...
...
"Password for DBA and DAV users:"


Someone's going to need to explain this to the noobs!!!!

---

