---
title: "Grub problems with triple-boot"
date: 2010-04-12
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-12
After installing kernel 2.6.32-20, I'm experiencing grub problems. I have triple-boot setup, with one partition for testing (Lucid), another for Windows 7 and the last one with my main OS (Lucid). 

Both Lucid partitions are clean installs, both running the latest kernel. 

In Karmic, the grub was generated by whichever system with the latest kernel, or the last to run update-grub. Now the grub is always the one generated by the testing partition, which is in the MBR drive, along with the Windows partition. The main OS is on the other drive.

Additionally, my kdm shutdown menu is in another language (some European language I guess). Some options are in English, but the shutdown/restart options are in the other language. I don't have any other language installed, except for English and Portuguese.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-04-12
> **lovinglinux said:**
> 
In Karmic, the grub was generated by whichever system with the latest kernel, or the last to run update-grub.

Running update-grub doesn't replace the MBR, even in karmic. It just regenerates the grub menu (/boot/grub/grub.cfg). If you want the MBR to point to a specific Ubuntu, boot into it and run
```
sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sdX
``` (replace X with the drive that boots first e.g. /dev/sda).

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-12
> **bcbc said:**
> Running update-grub doesn't replace the MBR, even in karmic. It just regenerates the grub menu (/boot/grub/grub.cfg). If you want the MBR to point to a specific Ubuntu, boot into it and run
```
sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sdX
``` (replace X with the drive that boots first e.g. /dev/sda).

I don't want to replace the MBR. The thing is that in Karmic, the first system displayed on the grub menu was the one to update grub last. This doesn't happen anymore since the upgrade to 2.6.32-20 kernel. The first system listed on the grub menu is always the same, which means despite the second system is generating a new grub.cfg, it is not loaded on boot.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-04-12
> **lovinglinux said:**
> After installing kernel 2.6.32-20, I'm experiencing grub problems. I have triple-boot setup, with one partition for testing (Lucid), another for Windows 7 and the last one with my main OS (Lucid). 

In Karmic, the grub was generated by whichever system with the latest kernel, or the last to run update-grub. Now the grub is always the one generated by the testing partition, which is in the MBR drive, along with the Windows partition. The main OS is on the other drive.
I think you have that wrong, I'm afraid.

In karmic, as with all previous versions of ubuntu, and probably other distros, the system that generates the grub menu, if you always put grub on the MBR, is the most recent system to be installed, not necessarily the one with the most up-to-date kernel, and certainly not the one which most recently ran [B]sudo update-grub.
[/B] 
If you installed the OS on the testing partition last, then that is what will be producing the grub menu, if you have that hard disk as the first boot device in your BIOS.  If you want your main ubuntu OS to be the grub generator, either set that disk as first to boot in BIOS or boot to that system and run ```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```assuming sda is the disk with the MBR on it.  It sounds as if you have two different grub installations, one on each of the two disks and are getting confused about which disk is actually being used to generate the menu.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-12
> **ajgreeny said:**
> If you want your main ubuntu OS to be the grub generator, either set that disk as first to boot in BIOS or boot to that system and run ```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```assuming sda is the disk with the MBR on it.

Thanks. The command sudo grub-install did the trick.

> **ajgreeny said:**
> In karmic, as with all previous versions of ubuntu, and probably other distros, the system that generates the grub menu, if you always put grub on the MBR, is the most recent system to be installed...

I agree.

> **ajgreeny said:**
> ...not necessarily the one with the most up-to-date kernel, and certainly not the one which most recently ran [B]sudo update-grub.
[/B] 

I swear that was the behavior I was experiencing since Karmic Beta and since Lucid beta with the 2.6.32-19 kernel.

> **ajgreeny said:**
> If you installed the OS on the testing partition last, then that is what will be producing the grub menu, if you have that hard disk as the first boot device in your BIOS. 

Perhaps my previous installations where messing grub, but I think is too much coincidence that this behavior changed with the last kernel update, since it is causing other issues to several users.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-04-12
What you were experiencing was the result of an upgrade in both grub-pc and grub-common.  This, during the installation of the upgrades, reinstalls grub on the MBR.  You have two installs of 10.04 so they both got the upgraded grub.

The one that got updated last is the one that got to supply the menu.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-12
> **ranch hand said:**
> What you were experiencing was the result of an upgrade in both grub-pc and grub-common.  This, during the installation of the upgrades, reinstalls grub on the MBR.  You have two installs of 10.04 so they both got the upgraded grub.

The one that got updated last is the one that got to supply the menu.

Thanks. That clarifies it. But why every new kernel update was reinstalling grub and supplying the menu, but now this doesn't happen?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-04-12
I have a similar setup, two drives - two Lucid's - & other stuff, and a recent grub2 update did ask me where to install grub.

If a grub update causes any OS's grub to install to any mbr without asking that's a bug! You should really take a look at the Boot Info Script:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

At first the results may look complicated but it can usually answer 99% of your questions about grub :)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-04-12
What you may be referring to ( and I alluded to in other thread but mis-named) is if during an update you get a screen as below.

Then, if you configure similar to I have, the install you do this on becomes the one 'conrolling' things so to speak, and should become the first listed (if not already)

Not knowing enogh about grub2, when that config happens i do as seen, the one time I made the wrong choice resulted in a boot to grub_rescue > which isn't a whole lot of fun.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-12
> **kansasnoob said:**
> I have a similar setup, two drives - two Lucid's - & other stuff, and a recent grub2 update did ask me where to install grub.

If a grub update causes any OS's grub to install to any mbr without asking that's a bug! You should really take a look at the Boot Info Script:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

At first the results may look complicated but it can usually answer 99% of your questions about grub :)

Thanks. I will look into it.

> **mc4man said:**
> What you may be referring to ( and I alluded to in other thread but mis-named) is if during an update you get a screen as below.

Then, if you configure similar to I have, the install you do this on becomes the one 'conrolling' things so to speak, and should become the first listed (if not already)

Not knowing enogh about grub2, when that config happens i do as seen, the one time I made the wrong choice resulted in a boot to grub_rescue > which isn't a whole lot of fun.

Never saw such prompt. I just updated as usual and it started behaving like this.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-13
My Boot Info Script results are weird.

First, this how my drives are partitioned:

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=153195&stc=1&d=1271206859[/IMG]

sda1 is a data partition, sda2 is a Windows partition and sda3 is my testing partition with Lucid.

sdb2 is my main system root (Lucid), sdb3 is my /home and sdb4 is another data partition. Both data partitions are mounted under my user home.

Here is the thing I don't get it:

> ========== Boot Info Summary: ========

=> Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive inpartition #2 for /boot/grub.
=> Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb

If grub is installed on sda and looks for /boot/grub on the same partition, shouldn't be the first OS in the grub list the testing one, from sdb3 or when I did **sudo grub-install /dev/sda** from the sdb system, the grub list on sda was replaced with the info from the sdb grub? 

The other thing is, if Windows is on sda2, why the report says it installed on the MBR of /dev/sdb?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-14
You may be ok. I do not know if it is a grub or script issue on correctly identifying the newest grub.

On my machine I boot from sdc, but installed Lucid to sdc7 and the boot loader is in sda. My boot-info is like yours and but for me it says it is booting from partitioin 7 on the same drive. I have no partition 7 on sda. It boots correctly when I use BIOS or f12 to boot. But I cannot chainboot from my sdc to sda and have it work.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-04-14
>  Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive inpartition #2 for /boot/grubYes, your right, that's not correct. P2 is your Windows partition.

What does grub2 boot menu look like? Can you actually boot anything?

Output the complete boot_info_script RESULTS file so we can see the grub.cfg and blkid info to match things up.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-14
> **VMC said:**
> What does grub2 boot menu look like? Can you actually boot anything?

grub2 looks normal now. Yes I can boot normally.


> **VMC said:**
> Output the complete boot_info_script RESULTS file so we can see the grub.cfg and blkid info to match things up.

The file is attached. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-14
I think I will reformat sda, remove Windows since it is the RC and it's license will be terminated soon anyway. Then I'm going to redistribute the Windows partition space to a new sda1 for data and install my test system on a new sda2.

Since sda1 is mounted under my main system home (sdb2), I suspect the main system won't be able to recognize it due to UID changes. How do I make sure I can boot into my main OS after formatting sda and how to make sure it can recognize the new UID for sda1?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-14
the two last grub upgrades have reordered and renamed the partitions, thats weird and confusing. Your script show you the partitions with a non logical order.
So i cant explain clearly how grub (or os-prober) detect and named partitions: is it bios boot order or physical place on motherboard, but its confusing and desagree with fstab.

So you have to reinstall grub on all root partitions where you have linux but not windows ( grub-install)

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-14
This is the current situation...


I booted into a LiveCD, deleted all sda partitions, thus removing Windows and the Linux testing partition. Then I created a new sda1 taking the entire disk and changed the UID in fstab of the one and only remaining Linux. Rebooted.

The boot script was still showing Windows installed on the sdb MBR, so I did **sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sdb** then **sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sda**.

So now grub form the sdb system is installed on both MBR. Any problem with that?

When I boot, grub display correctly the only remaining OS with both kernel options, which was the expected behavior. It boots normally, sda1 is recognized and mounted normally. So everything looks normal.

The only problem I'm experiencing is that I tried to reinstall my main OS (sdb) using Lucid amd64 alternate CD and it didn't let me use the manual partitioning method. Although the option is available, whenever I select the manual partitioning it starts the guided partitioning. So I did a test with a Karmic Live CD and the gparted let me choose the manual partition method. I didn't go any further, so I don't know if it would throw in any errors, but looks to me this is a problem with the Lucide beta2 partitioner. Any other reason why I wouldn't be able to run the manual partitioner?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-04-14
If you are booting from the second drive it is best to have the grub from there installed on both MBRs so you have it just right.

I have had no trouble with the beta2 install disk installer installing where I want it.  I usually have pre made partitions.

If I were you I would try the daily build and see if that works better.

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-14
> **ranch hand said:**
> If you are booting from the second drive it is best to have the grub from there installed on both MBRs so you have it just right.

I have had no trouble with the beta2 install disk installer installing where I want it.  I usually have pre made partitions.

If I were you I would try the daily build and see if that works better.

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

Thanks. I'm going to test it.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-14
I've been doing it this way for ages now and it work fine although I get errors about blocklists but it works in spite of this. 

2 hard drives dual bootin karric and lucid.

sda1 has karmic with grub on mbr of /dev/sda. sdb has lucid grub on /dev/sdb1 pbr installed using advanced button at final install stage.
/etc/default/grub extract from karmic install
```
# Uncomment to disable the os-prober
GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER=true
```

And in /etc/grub.d/40_custom
```
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
menuentry "Grub on sdb1" {

      set root=(hd1,1)

      chainloader +1

      }
```

sdb has grub installed to sdb1, thats when the grub installer spits out its blocklist error.

Bottom line is this when karmic updates it just plays nice with it's grub and does not os probe my sdb drive. And I chainload in to lucid. So I don't get a load of lucid kernels.

When lucid updates its grub I let it pick up the kernels from karmic. I could chainload back to karmic but since it's a development release and grub getting updated a lot I didn't bother.

---

