---
title: "10.04 beta + NVIDIA drivers issues"
date: 2010-03-21
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Agnus on 2010-03-21
Hi, I installed ubuntu 10.04 beta yesterday on this [macbook pro]("http://www.apple.com/macbookpro/graphics.html") (nvidia 9400M chipset) and I am having issues with the binary drivers. Everything worked perfectly with 9.10.

1. During the boot screen flashes, the logo was distorted and the graphics were very blocky.

2. Entering the desktop at first seems to work ok with 3D effects running smoothly (eg. shadows, minimize / maximize) BUT resizing a window is super slow and jerky. 

3. Also when installed the AWN dock, the system slows down a lot every time the dock animates its width (via launching programs). 

4. Finally scrolling (eg. firefox, gedit) messes everything up after a while.

Is anyone else having similar problems with me?

---

### Post by Davlins on 2010-03-21
I find it interesting that your Nvidia driver worked with 9.10....I was hoping 10.04 would be better.

My 5200 card (I know it's old.;))  still does things similar to what you see...

scrolling doesn't refresh right.
video sometimes freezes and is jerky.
firefox loads very blocky and slow.

I just figured that I haven't installed something correctly.

---

### Post by linden940 on 2010-03-21
did you upgrade the driver to the newest Linux driver?....the 10.4 was made to work better for the nvidia cards...

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-21
Lucid is still being tested.  You should go to the Lucid Testing subforum in the Development form section with questions on Lucid.  You'll probably find your answer already there.

---

### Post by jsriz on 2010-03-21
> **Agnus said:**
> Hi, I installed ubuntu 10.04 beta yesterday on this [macbook pro]("http://www.apple.com/macbookpro/graphics.html") (nvidia 9400M chipset) and I am having issues with the binary drivers. Everything worked perfectly with 9.10.
1. During the boot screen flashes, the logo was distorted and the graphics were very blocky.
2. Entering the desktop at first seems to work ok with 3D effects running smoothly (eg. shadows, minimize / maximize) BUT resizing a window is super slow and jerky. 
3. Also when installed the AWN dock, the system slows down a lot every time the dock animates its width (via launching programs). 
4. Finally scrolling (eg. firefox, gedit) messes everything up after a while.
Is anyone else having similar problems with me?
c'mon you cannot complain about something still in the beta stage the ....
theyy have promised to make 10.4  to work better for the nvidia cards...
trust and wait till the final release of 10.04.........

---

### Post by strobe on 2010-03-22
> **jsriz said:**
> c'mon you cannot complain about something still in the beta stage the ....
theyy have promised to make 10.4  to work better for the nvidia cards...
trust and wait till the final release of 10.04.........

Really? Beta stage is for testing and reporting issues.  I have the Nvidia 5200 (used the 173 driver in 9.10 just fine) and it is still making me scratch my head how to install the driver.  From stuttering video, to driver not loading right, to "driver install but not currently activated" problems.  If the 10.04 release is supposed to work better, it really makes no sense to wait till the final release to get it working right. 

I have been researching this for weeks and broken more than one installation trying to get it to work.  Autologin issues and video driver issues could sway more than one person to either a differant build, distro, or even OS.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-03-22
> **strobe said:**
> Really? Beta stage is for testing and reporting issues.  I have the Nvidia 5200 (used the 173 driver in 9.10 just fine) and it is still making me scratch my head how to install the driver.  From stuttering video, to driver not loading right, to "driver install but not currently activated" problems.  If the 10.04 release is supposed to work better, it really makes no sense to wait till the final release to get it working right. 

I have been researching this for weeks and broken more than one installation trying to get it to work.  Autologin issues and video driver issues could sway more than one person to either a differant build, distro, or even OS.

Have you tried the nouveau drivers available [here]("https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa")?

One other thing to keep in mind is that development of the latest version of Ubuntu isn't as glacially slow as the other larger OS companies, there is still over a month to go before the release date, there will be many changes, such as losing some of the debugging info that we see now, and quite a bit of bug squashing, I would suggest you wait until at least the RC before you start complaining about things, unless of course you are willing to help by reporting problems you run into.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-03-22
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Have you tried the nouveau drivers available [here]("https://launchpad.net/%7Exorg-edgers/+archive/ppa")?

I know that with the livecd, that driver is working awesome on my system. For the first time ever, no 600X800.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-03-22
> **strobe said:**
> Really? Beta stage is for testing and reporting issues.  I have the Nvidia 5200 (used the 173 driver in 9.10 just fine) and it is still making me scratch my head how to install the driver.  From stuttering video, to driver not loading right, to "driver install but not currently activated" problems.  If the 10.04 release is supposed to work better, it really makes no sense to wait till the final release to get it working right. 

I have been researching this for weeks and broken more than one installation trying to get it to work.  Autologin issues and video driver issues could sway more than one person to either a differant build, distro, or even OS.

Have you seen your xorg.conf ?
Even if jockey-gtk says that driver is installed but not activated, most discussions about that on forums and launchpad let me think that jockey return wrong information, in fact driver is in use.

---

### Post by bladerunner6 on 2010-03-22
the nouveau driver is overriding so you have to use the nomodeset switch in grub instead of splash, then you nvidia drivers should install, if nvidia-settings dont work right then use the drivers direct from nvidia [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.25.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.25.html)
the nvidia-settings work properly

---

### Post by RAOF on 2010-03-22
If you install the nvidia drivers through the Hardware Drivers manager then they'll disable nouveau correctly.  This should also work by just installing the appropriate driver package (nvidia-current, or nvidia-96, or such), but Hardware Drivers will also set up an appropriate xorg.conf.

The nvidia.com installer is not yet aware of the alternatives system we have in place to allow drivers to be installed in parallel.  I don't think that the nvidia.com installer will work at the moment (and it's generally a bad idea anyway - we can't support systems which use it).

---

### Post by bladerunner6 on 2010-03-22
the nvidia-settings package in the offical repos is for version 195, it doesnt allow changing resolutions for 173 based geforce cards, thus the nvidia installer direct from nvidia ver 173.14.25 is better as this doesnt have that issue, plus it works with kernel 2.6.33

---

### Post by strobe on 2010-03-28
> **RAOF said:**
> If you install the nvidia drivers through the Hardware Drivers manager then they'll disable nouveau correctly.  This should also work by just installing the appropriate driver package (nvidia-current, or nvidia-96, or such), but Hardware Drivers will also set up an appropriate xorg.conf.

The nvidia.com installer is not yet aware of the alternatives system we have in place to allow drivers to be installed in parallel.  I don't think that the nvidia.com installer will work at the moment (and it's generally a bad idea anyway - we can't support systems which use it).

If you mean through jockey... they keep showing up as activated but not currently in use.  This causes sever cpu usage when trying to view video through movie player, banshee, vlc, and xine (all that I have tested).  So bad that the video stutters .  With the Nouveau in place, the cpu usage is around 45-55%.  Odds are with my Nvidia 5200, they(Nvidia) aren't going to make a more compatible driver to work with the Lucid settup.  And it seems that the track that Lucid is on, it(Lucid) is rendering my video card impotent.  

Is it really so hard to have 3d support for hardware that has been out for years to be actually considered when creating this LTS release?  Nouveau works great for basic desktop and video, but, no 3d support (desktop effects, compiz, or emerald... remember these).  And Nvidia 173 works for desktop, compiz and emerald to the extent of rendering watching videos an aggrevating exercise of stuttering seizures.  Maybe when the final is out it will work... or an update 6 months after.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2010-03-28
> **strobe said:**
> If you mean through jockey... they keep showing up as activated but not currently in use.  This causes sever cpu usage when trying to view video through movie player, banshee, vlc, and xine (all that I have tested).  So bad that the video stutters.
This sounds like it might be a bug in Jockey.  As far as I'm aware, the 173 drivers should be working.

> **strobe said:**
> 
Is it really so hard to have 3d support for hardware that has been out for years to be actually considered when creating this LTS release?

We *have* considered 3D support.  We can't fix the nvidia binary drivers, and we can't (and don't want to) stop upstream Xorg development - which is providing a better experience for users of other hardware.

In future, possibly as soon as Lucid+1, we'll be able to ship open-source 3D support for nvidia cards with the Nouveau drivers.  Until then, we're unavoidably reliant on nvidia.

---

### Post by strobe on 2010-03-28
> **RAOF said:**
> This sounds like it might be a bug in Jockey.  As far as I'm aware, the 173 drivers should be working.


It seems they do work, just don't reflect that correctly with jockey.  But, as I said, they cause severe cpu usage while using multiple programs for watching video.  To the point that they are nearly unwatchable (well, unless you like 15frames a second and stuttering).  

I guess my main question was, if it worked in 9.10-Karmic then why brake it for a new version?  Is the system requirements going to reflect the added power required to run 10.04 compared to 9.10?  It is appearing as though my 1.5ghz processor and 2gb ram is not enough to run the same programs as in 9.10.

---

### Post by sandys1 on 2010-03-31
I have the same problem with an nvidia 6150 chipset (Gigabyte GA-M61PME-S2P).
First of all, it is very difficult to install 10.04 using a USB drive ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/539086](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/539086)).

I was getting random crashes after install (and the 19X driver installed) - including the issue that GDM would'nt start. 

Finally, I figured out that I need driver 173 for this chipset. However, I cannot change my screen resolution, etc. using the nvidia-settings tool (it complains that jockey has problems detecting displays), so I am working in a screwed up resolution.

I'm not sure what bug to file, but somebody please file a bug - because we have close to 10 desktops on this chipset and I'm having big troubles installing and using 10.04 LTS.

---

### Post by Niej on 2010-03-31
Hi, I'm wondering if I could heard some suggestions on how to proceed with this issue.
I have an Nvidia Geforce 310M chipset (Nvidia GT 218) and
I'm running Lucid Beta at native resolution, thanks to nouveau!
(it was a pleasure to install ubuntu already in native resol.)
I was trying to use the 3d capabilities with the 'current' driver
but it doesn't work. (in principle)
I was looking for 3D support but I read that it was not available with nouveau and that the 'current' driver should be fine now
(a latest post by technoviking)
The thing is, that when loading the nvidia 'current', at the next
boot my screen is shifted one half, yes, the edges are at the center, and
a bit stretched at low resolution (all messed up). 
It appears an error message when starting the X server:
"No screen found or there is a screen with no usable configuration" 
(I could provide the exact error message in the next boot)
When running nvidia-xconfig, it return an error message
that the screen name had a "null" value and also "null" resolution
(again, more info is coming)
I received a message at the jockey saying
"Driver activated but not currently in use"
After the partial upgrade things are as before but the jockey message said:
"Driver activated and currently in use"
(with half screen and everything stretched)
I'm thinking that I should edit the xconf.org manually.
I don't know why the driver does not set it correctly.
So, to have native resolution again I deactivated the driver and
set nouveau again as default.
[B]
I would like to know, if there is already 3D support for Nvidia
cards on Lucid Beta (upgraded and fully updated) and how to
set it right[/B]

Here is my xorg.conf.backup from my last nvidia-xconfig and my lspci
```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Mar 12 02:12:40 PST 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```
```

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor DMI (rev 11)
00:03.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev 11)
00:08.0 System peripheral: Intel Corporation Core Processor System Management Registers (rev 11)
00:08.1 System peripheral: Intel Corporation Core Processor Semaphore and Scratchpad Registers (rev 11)
00:08.2 System peripheral: Intel Corporation Core Processor System Control and Status Registers (rev 11)
00:08.3 System peripheral: Intel Corporation Core Processor Miscellaneous Registers (rev 11)
00:10.0 System peripheral: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Link (rev 11)
00:10.1 System peripheral: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Routing and Protocol Registers (rev 11)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset USB2 Enhanced Host Controller (rev 05)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset High Definition Audio (rev 05)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev 05)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev 05)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 3 (rev 05)
00:1c.5 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 6 (rev 05)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset USB2 Enhanced Host Controller (rev 05)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev a5)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 5 Series Chipset LPC Interface Controller (rev 05)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset 6 port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 05)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset SMBus Controller (rev 05)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GT218 [GeForce 310M] (rev a2)
01:00.1 Audio device: nVidia Corporation High Definition Audio Controller (rev a1)
02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9287 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
03:00.0 SD Host controller: Ricoh Co Ltd Device e822
03:00.1 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd Device e230
03:00.3 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd Device e832
03:00.4 SD Host controller: Ricoh Co Ltd Device e822
04:00.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. Device 4380 (rev 10)
3f:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QuickPath Architecture Generic Non-Core Registers (rev 04)
3f:00.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QuickPath Architecture System Address Decoder (rev 04)
3f:02.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Link 0 (rev 04)
3f:02.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Physical 0 (rev 04)
3f:03.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller (rev 04)
3f:03.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Target Address Decoder (rev 04)
3f:03.4 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Test Registers (rev 04)
3f:04.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 0 Control Registers (rev 04)
3f:04.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 0 Address Registers (rev 04)
3f:04.2 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 0 Rank Registers (rev 04)
3f:04.3 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 0 Thermal Control Registers (rev 04)
3f:05.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 1 Control Registers (rev 04)
3f:05.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 1 Address Registers (rev 04)
3f:05.2 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 1 Rank Registers (rev 04)
3f:05.3 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Memory Controller Channel 1 Thermal Control Registers (rev 04)


```
Thanks in advance
Sebastian

---

### Post by Niej on 2010-03-31
When activating the current driver from jockey I received the following
error (at /var/log/jockey.log)
```

2010-03-31 03:52:58,681 DEBUG: updating <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0>
2010-03-31 03:52:58,683 DEBUG: reading modalias file /lib/modules/2.6.32-18-generic/modules.alias
2010-03-31 03:52:58,765 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/bcmwl
2010-03-31 03:52:58,779 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/disable-upstream-nvidia
2010-03-31 03:52:58,823 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/fglrx-modules.alias.override
2010-03-31 03:52:58,829 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/nvidia-173
2010-03-31 03:52:58,842 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/nvidia-96
2010-03-31 03:52:58,846 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/nvidia-current
2010-03-31 03:52:58,857 WARNING: Could not open DriverDB cache /var/cache/jockey/driverdb-OpenPrintingDriverDB.cache: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: '/var/cache/jockey/driverdb-OpenPrintingDriverDB.cache'
2010-03-31 03:52:59,004 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/nvidia.py
2010-03-31 03:52:59,084 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_96 failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_96

2010-03-31 03:52:59,085 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriver96 from name NvidiaDriver96
2010-03-31 03:52:59,114 DEBUG: NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,119 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_current failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_current

2010-03-31 03:52:59,120 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriverCurrent from name NvidiaDriverCurrent
2010-03-31 03:52:59,130 DEBUG: NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,131 DEBUG: Could not instantiate Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriverBase from name NvidiaDriverBase
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/jockey/detection.py", line 914, in get_handlers
    inst = obj(backend)
TypeError: __init__() takes exactly 3 arguments (2 given)
2010-03-31 03:52:59,146 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_173 failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_173

2010-03-31 03:52:59,146 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriver173 from name NvidiaDriver173
2010-03-31 03:52:59,157 DEBUG: NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,157 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/dvb_usb_firmware.py
2010-03-31 03:52:59,197 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.DvbUsbFirmwareHandler from name DvbUsbFirmwareHandler
2010-03-31 03:52:59,198 DEBUG: Firmware for DVB cards not available
2010-03-31 03:52:59,199 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/madwifi.py
2010-03-31 03:52:59,205 WARNING: modinfo for module ath_pci failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module ath_pci

2010-03-31 03:52:59,206 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.MadwifiHandler from name MadwifiHandler
2010-03-31 03:52:59,206 DEBUG: Alternate Atheros "madwifi" driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,207 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/sl_modem.py
2010-03-31 03:52:59,221 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.SlModem from name SlModem
2010-03-31 03:52:59,270 DEBUG: Software modem not available
2010-03-31 03:52:59,270 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/broadcom_wl.py
2010-03-31 03:52:59,277 WARNING: modinfo for module wl failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module wl

2010-03-31 03:52:59,287 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.BroadcomWLHandler from name BroadcomWLHandler
2010-03-31 03:52:59,288 DEBUG: Broadcom STA wireless driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,288 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/fglrx.py
2010-03-31 03:52:59,313 WARNING: modinfo for module fglrx failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module fglrx

2010-03-31 03:52:59,314 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.FglrxDriver from name FglrxDriver
2010-03-31 03:52:59,324 DEBUG: ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,325 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/b43.py
2010-03-31 03:52:59,370 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.B43LegacyHandler from name B43LegacyHandler
2010-03-31 03:52:59,371 DEBUG: Broadcom B43legacy wireless driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,392 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.B43Handler from name B43Handler
2010-03-31 03:52:59,392 DEBUG: Broadcom B43 wireless driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:52:59,392 DEBUG: all custom handlers loaded
2010-03-31 03:52:59,392 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C02:')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,393 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0005e0000-e0,5,kramlsfw0,')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,482 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:52:59,483 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,674 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA1sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,676 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYSTM:')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,676 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:device:')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,676 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000BE3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,946 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'snd_hda_intel', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:52:59,946 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:sony-laptop')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,946 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D151sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,948 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA8sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,950 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,2,k112,r8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,950 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:52:59,950 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXVIDEO:')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,950 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0B00:')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,950 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA9sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,952 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:regulatory')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,953 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C98sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,955 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:Fixed MDIO bus')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,955 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA2sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,957 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D132sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,959 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D150sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,961 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0303:')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,961 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B30sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,963 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'i2c_i801', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:52:59,963 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:INT0800:')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,963 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000A75sv0000104Dsd00009067bc03sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:52:59,966 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'nouveau', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:52:59,966 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'nvidiafb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:52:59,970 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_current failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_current

2010-03-31 03:52:59,971 DEBUG: got handler xorg:nvidia_current([NvidiaDriverCurrent, nonfree, disabled] NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver)
2010-03-31 03:53:00,469 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'vga16fb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,469 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D158sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,476 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0100:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,477 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C52sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,482 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000011ABd00004380sv0000104Dsd00009067bc02sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,505 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'sky2', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,505 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E822sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,507 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'sdhci_pci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,507 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B03sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc01i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,510 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'iTCO_wdt', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,510 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc02ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,532 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFEisc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,533 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'btusb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,533 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C90sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,535 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0003v064Ep2100e0300-e0,1,kD4,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,535 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,535 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA0sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,537 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,4,k71,72,73,8A,94,95,9E,A1,B7,B8,B9,CA,CB,CD,D4,E0,E1,E3,ED,EE,121,174,1A2,1A3,1D0,1D1,1D2,1D3,1D9,1DA,1DC,1E0,1E1,1E2,1E3,1E4,ram4,lsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,537 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,537 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYBUS:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,538 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v0000168Cd0000002Esv0000105Bsd0000E030bc02sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,546 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ath9k', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,546 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0017v0001p0001e0100-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,546 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,546 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY5001:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,546 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C81sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,548 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'dmi:bvnAmericanMegatrendsInc.:bvrR0250Y6:bd12/07/2009:svnSonyCorporation:pnVPCF11KFX:pvrR5839592:rvnSonyCorporation:rnVAIO:rvrN/A:cvnSonyCorporation:ct10:cvrN/A:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,558 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B34sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,560 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0103:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,560 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E230sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,560 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0006e0000-e0,1,kE0,E1,E3,F0,F1,F2,F3,F4,F5,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,560 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,561 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFFiscFFipFF')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,561 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'btusb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,561 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v1D6Bp0002d0206dc09dsc00dp00ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,561 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v8087p0020d0000dc09dsc00dp01ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,562 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B2Fsv0000104Dsd00009067bc01sc06i01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,564 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ahci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,564 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ahci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,564 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D156sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,566 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002448sv00000000sd00000000bc06sc04i01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,568 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0001e0000-e0,1,k74,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,568 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,568 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY9011:PNP0F13:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,568 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D155sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,570 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CABsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,572 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C9Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,574 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0000:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,574 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icE0isc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,575 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'btusb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,575 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXTHERM:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,575 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0001p0001eAB41-e0,1,4,11,14,k71,72,73,74,75,76,77,79,7A,7B,7C,7D,7E,7F,80,8C,8E,8F,9B,9C,9D,9E,9F,A3,A4,A5,A6,AC,AD,B7,B8,B9,D9,E2,ram4,l0,1,2,sfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,575 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,575 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C04:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,576 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc01ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,576 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'uvcvideo', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,576 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C91sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,578 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:pcspkr')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,578 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'pcspkr', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,578 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'snd_pcsp', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,579 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E832sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc00i10')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,579 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ohci1394', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,579 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'firewire_ohci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,579 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CAAsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,581 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D157sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,583 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B56sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,585 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'snd_hda_intel', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,585 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'serio:ty01pr00id00ex00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,592 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'serio_raw', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,593 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'psmouse', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,593 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C99sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,595 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0002p0005e0000-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,595 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:53:00,595 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B3Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,597 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x287c5f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0200:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,597 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C02:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,597 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0005e0000-e0,5,kramlsfw0,')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,597 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,597 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA1sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,597 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYSTM:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,597 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:device:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000BE3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:sony-laptop')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D151sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA8sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,2,k112,r8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXVIDEO:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0B00:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA9sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:regulatory')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C98sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:Fixed MDIO bus')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA2sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,598 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D132sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D150sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0303:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B30sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:INT0800:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000A75sv0000104Dsd00009067bc03sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D158sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0100:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C52sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000011ABd00004380sv0000104Dsd00009067bc02sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E822sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B03sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc01i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,599 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc02ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFEisc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C90sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0003v064Ep2100e0300-e0,1,kD4,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA0sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,4,k71,72,73,8A,94,95,9E,A1,B7,B8,B9,CA,CB,CD,D4,E0,E1,E3,ED,EE,121,174,1A2,1A3,1D0,1D1,1D2,1D3,1D9,1DA,1DC,1E0,1E1,1E2,1E3,1E4,ram4,lsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYBUS:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v0000168Cd0000002Esv0000105Bsd0000E030bc02sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0017v0001p0001e0100-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY5001:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C81sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'dmi:bvnAmericanMegatrendsInc.:bvrR0250Y6:bd12/07/2009:svnSonyCorporation:pnVPCF11KFX:pvrR5839592:rvnSonyCorporation:rnVAIO:rvrN/A:cvnSonyCorporation:ct10:cvrN/A:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,600 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B34sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0103:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E230sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0006e0000-e0,1,kE0,E1,E3,F0,F1,F2,F3,F4,F5,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFFiscFFipFF')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v1D6Bp0002d0206dc09dsc00dp00ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v8087p0020d0000dc09dsc00dp01ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B2Fsv0000104Dsd00009067bc01sc06i01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D156sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002448sv00000000sd00000000bc06sc04i01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0001e0000-e0,1,k74,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY9011:PNP0F13:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D155sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,601 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CABsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C9Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0000:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icE0isc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXTHERM:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0001p0001eAB41-e0,1,4,11,14,k71,72,73,74,75,76,77,79,7A,7B,7C,7D,7E,7F,80,8C,8E,8F,9B,9C,9D,9E,9F,A3,A4,A5,A6,AC,AD,B7,B8,B9,D9,E2,ram4,l0,1,2,sfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C04:')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc01ip00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C91sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:pcspkr')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E832sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc00i10')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CAAsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,602 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D157sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,603 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B56sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,603 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'serio:ty01pr00id00ex00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,603 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C99sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,603 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0002p0005e0000-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,603 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B3Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:53:00,603 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x2d19cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0200:')
2010-03-31 03:53:32,210 DEBUG: Shutting down
2010-03-31 03:57:40,573 DEBUG: updating <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0>
2010-03-31 03:57:40,575 DEBUG: reading modalias file /lib/modules/2.6.32-18-generic/modules.alias
2010-03-31 03:57:40,662 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/bcmwl
2010-03-31 03:57:40,662 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/disable-upstream-nvidia
2010-03-31 03:57:40,684 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/fglrx-modules.alias.override
2010-03-31 03:57:40,685 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/nvidia-173
2010-03-31 03:57:40,687 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/nvidia-96
2010-03-31 03:57:40,688 DEBUG: reading modalias file /usr/share/jockey/modaliases/nvidia-current
2010-03-31 03:57:40,690 WARNING: Could not open DriverDB cache /var/cache/jockey/driverdb-OpenPrintingDriverDB.cache: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: '/var/cache/jockey/driverdb-OpenPrintingDriverDB.cache'
2010-03-31 03:57:40,832 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/nvidia.py
2010-03-31 03:57:40,837 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_96 failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_96

2010-03-31 03:57:40,838 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriver96 from name NvidiaDriver96
2010-03-31 03:57:40,847 DEBUG: NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,852 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_current failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_current

2010-03-31 03:57:40,853 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriverCurrent from name NvidiaDriverCurrent
2010-03-31 03:57:40,863 DEBUG: NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,863 DEBUG: Could not instantiate Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriverBase from name NvidiaDriverBase
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/jockey/detection.py", line 914, in get_handlers
    inst = obj(backend)
TypeError: __init__() takes exactly 3 arguments (2 given)
2010-03-31 03:57:40,869 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_173 failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_173

2010-03-31 03:57:40,869 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.NvidiaDriver173 from name NvidiaDriver173
2010-03-31 03:57:40,880 DEBUG: NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,880 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/dvb_usb_firmware.py
2010-03-31 03:57:40,896 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.DvbUsbFirmwareHandler from name DvbUsbFirmwareHandler
2010-03-31 03:57:40,897 DEBUG: Firmware for DVB cards not available
2010-03-31 03:57:40,898 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/madwifi.py
2010-03-31 03:57:40,904 WARNING: modinfo for module ath_pci failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module ath_pci

2010-03-31 03:57:40,905 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.MadwifiHandler from name MadwifiHandler
2010-03-31 03:57:40,905 DEBUG: Alternate Atheros "madwifi" driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,905 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/sl_modem.py
2010-03-31 03:57:40,918 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.SlModem from name SlModem
2010-03-31 03:57:40,932 DEBUG: Software modem not available
2010-03-31 03:57:40,932 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/broadcom_wl.py
2010-03-31 03:57:40,939 WARNING: modinfo for module wl failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module wl

2010-03-31 03:57:40,949 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.BroadcomWLHandler from name BroadcomWLHandler
2010-03-31 03:57:40,950 DEBUG: Broadcom STA wireless driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,950 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/fglrx.py
2010-03-31 03:57:40,957 WARNING: modinfo for module fglrx failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module fglrx

2010-03-31 03:57:40,958 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.FglrxDriver from name FglrxDriver
2010-03-31 03:57:40,968 DEBUG: ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,968 DEBUG: loading custom handler /usr/share/jockey/handlers/b43.py
2010-03-31 03:57:40,985 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.B43LegacyHandler from name B43LegacyHandler
2010-03-31 03:57:40,985 DEBUG: Broadcom B43legacy wireless driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,991 DEBUG: Instantiated Handler subclass __builtin__.B43Handler from name B43Handler
2010-03-31 03:57:40,992 DEBUG: Broadcom B43 wireless driver availability undetermined, adding to pool
2010-03-31 03:57:40,992 DEBUG: all custom handlers loaded
2010-03-31 03:57:40,992 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C02:')
2010-03-31 03:57:40,992 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0005e0000-e0,5,kramlsfw0,')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,081 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,081 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,270 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA1sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,272 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYSTM:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,272 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:device:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,272 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000BE3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,537 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'snd_hda_intel', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,537 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:sony-laptop')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,537 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D151sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,539 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA8sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,541 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,2,k112,r8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,541 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,541 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXVIDEO:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,541 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0B00:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,541 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA9sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,543 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:regulatory')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,544 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C98sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,546 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:Fixed MDIO bus')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,546 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA2sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,548 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D132sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,550 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D150sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,552 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0303:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,552 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B30sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,554 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'i2c_i801', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,554 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:INT0800:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,554 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000A75sv0000104Dsd00009067bc03sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,557 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'nouveau', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,557 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'nvidiafb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,561 WARNING: modinfo for module nvidia_current failed: ERROR: modinfo: could not find module nvidia_current

2010-03-31 03:57:41,562 DEBUG: got handler xorg:nvidia_current([NvidiaDriverCurrent, nonfree, disabled] NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver)
2010-03-31 03:57:41,646 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'vga16fb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,647 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D158sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,653 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0100:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,654 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C52sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,656 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000011ABd00004380sv0000104Dsd00009067bc02sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,677 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'sky2', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,677 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E822sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,679 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'sdhci_pci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,680 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B03sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc01i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,681 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'iTCO_wdt', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,682 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc02ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,699 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFEisc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,700 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'btusb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,700 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C90sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,702 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0003v064Ep2100e0300-e0,1,kD4,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,702 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,702 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA0sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,704 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,4,k71,72,73,8A,94,95,9E,A1,B7,B8,B9,CA,CB,CD,D4,E0,E1,E3,ED,EE,121,174,1A2,1A3,1D0,1D1,1D2,1D3,1D9,1DA,1DC,1E0,1E1,1E2,1E3,1E4,ram4,lsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,704 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,704 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYBUS:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,704 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v0000168Cd0000002Esv0000105Bsd0000E030bc02sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,712 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ath9k', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,712 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0017v0001p0001e0100-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,712 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,712 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY5001:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,712 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C81sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,714 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'dmi:bvnAmericanMegatrendsInc.:bvrR0250Y6:bd12/07/2009:svnSonyCorporation:pnVPCF11KFX:pvrR5839592:rvnSonyCorporation:rnVAIO:rvrN/A:cvnSonyCorporation:ct10:cvrN/A:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,724 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B34sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,726 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0103:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,726 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E230sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,726 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0006e0000-e0,1,kE0,E1,E3,F0,F1,F2,F3,F4,F5,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,727 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,727 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFFiscFFipFF')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,727 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'btusb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,727 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v1D6Bp0002d0206dc09dsc00dp00ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,727 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v8087p0020d0000dc09dsc00dp01ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,728 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B2Fsv0000104Dsd00009067bc01sc06i01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,730 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ahci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,730 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ahci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,730 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D156sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,732 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002448sv00000000sd00000000bc06sc04i01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,734 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0001e0000-e0,1,k74,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,734 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,734 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY9011:PNP0F13:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,734 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D155sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,736 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CABsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,738 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C9Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,740 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0000:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,740 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icE0isc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,740 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'btusb', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,741 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXTHERM:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,741 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0001p0001eAB41-e0,1,4,11,14,k71,72,73,74,75,76,77,79,7A,7B,7C,7D,7E,7F,80,8C,8E,8F,9B,9C,9D,9E,9F,A3,A4,A5,A6,AC,AD,B7,B8,B9,D9,E2,ram4,l0,1,2,sfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,741 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,741 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C04:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,741 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc01ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,741 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'uvcvideo', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,741 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C91sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,743 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:pcspkr')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,744 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'pcspkr', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,744 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'snd_pcsp', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,744 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E832sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc00i10')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,744 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'ohci1394', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,744 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'firewire_ohci', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,744 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CAAsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,746 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D157sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,748 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B56sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,750 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'snd_hda_intel', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,750 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'serio:ty01pr00id00ex00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,758 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'serio_raw', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,758 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'psmouse', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,758 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C99sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,760 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0002p0005e0000-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,760 DEBUG: no corresponding handler available for {'driver_type': 'kernel_module', 'kernel_module': 'evbug', 'jockey_handler': 'KernelModuleHandler'}
2010-03-31 03:57:41,760 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B3Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,762 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.LocalKernelModulesDriverDB instance at 0x14545f0> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0200:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,762 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C02:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0005e0000-e0,5,kramlsfw0,')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA1sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYSTM:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:device:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000BE3sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:sony-laptop')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D151sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA8sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,2,k112,r8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXVIDEO:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0B00:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,763 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA9sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:regulatory')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C98sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:Fixed MDIO bus')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA2sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D132sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D150sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0303:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B30sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:INT0800:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000010DEd00000A75sv0000104Dsd00009067bc03sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D158sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,764 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0100:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C52sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v000011ABd00004380sv0000104Dsd00009067bc02sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E822sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc05i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B03sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc01i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc02ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFEisc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C90sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0003v064Ep2100e0300-e0,1,kD4,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CA0sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0010v104Dp0000e0000-e0,1,4,k71,72,73,8A,94,95,9E,A1,B7,B8,B9,CA,CB,CD,D4,E0,E1,E3,ED,EE,121,174,1A2,1A3,1D0,1D1,1D2,1D3,1D9,1DA,1DC,1E0,1E1,1E2,1E3,1E4,ram4,lsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXSYBUS:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,765 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v0000168Cd0000002Esv0000105Bsd0000E030bc02sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0017v0001p0001e0100-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY5001:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C81sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'dmi:bvnAmericanMegatrendsInc.:bvrR0250Y6:bd12/07/2009:svnSonyCorporation:pnVPCF11KFX:pvrR5839592:rvnSonyCorporation:rnVAIO:rvrN/A:cvnSonyCorporation:ct10:cvrN/A:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B34sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0103:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E230sv0000104Dsd00009067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0006e0000-e0,1,kE0,E1,E3,F0,F1,F2,F3,F4,F5,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icFFiscFFipFF')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v1D6Bp0002d0206dc09dsc00dp00ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v8087p0020d0000dc09dsc00dp01ic09isc00ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,766 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B2Fsv0000104Dsd00009067bc01sc06i01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D156sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002448sv00000000sd00000000bc06sc04i01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0019v0000p0001e0000-e0,1,k74,ramlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:SNY9011:PNP0F13:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D155sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CABsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C9Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0000:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v0489pE00Fd0346dcE0dsc01dp01icE0isc01ip01')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:LNXTHERM:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0001p0001eAB41-e0,1,4,11,14,k71,72,73,74,75,76,77,79,7A,7B,7C,7D,7E,7F,80,8C,8E,8F,9B,9C,9D,9E,9F,A3,A4,A5,A6,AC,AD,B7,B8,B9,D9,E2,ram4,l0,1,2,sfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0C04:')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,767 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'usb:v064Ep2100d0300dcEFdsc02dp01ic0Eisc01ip00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C91sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'platform:pcspkr')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00001180d0000E832sv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc00i10')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002CAAsv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d0000D157sv0000004Dsd00000067bc08sc80i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B56sv0000104Dsd00009067bc04sc03i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'serio:ty01pr00id00ex00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00002C99sv0000104Dsd00009067bc06sc00i00')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'input:b0011v0002p0005e0000-e0,1,2,k110,111,112,r0,1,8,amlsfw')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'pci:v00008086d00003B3Csv0000104Dsd00009067bc0Csc03i20')
2010-03-31 03:57:41,768 DEBUG: querying driver db <jockey.detection.OpenPrintingDriverDB instance at 0x18f0cf8> about HardwareID('modalias', 'acpi:PNP0200:')
2010-03-31 03:57:52,931 DEBUG: Installing package: nvidia-current
2010-03-31 03:57:53,282 DEBUG: install progress statusChange dpkg-exec 0.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:53,441 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-current 0.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:53,441 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-current 10.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:58,181 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-current 20.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:58,236 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-current 30.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:58,320 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-settings 30.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:58,422 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-settings 40.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:58,536 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-settings 50.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:58,591 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-settings 60.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:58,652 DEBUG: install progress statusChange man-db 60.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:59,229 DEBUG: install progress statusChange dpkg-exec 60.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:59,277 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-current 60.000000
2010-03-31 03:57:59,443 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-current 70.000000
2010-03-31 03:58:27,402 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-current 80.000000
2010-03-31 03:58:27,529 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-settings 80.000000
2010-03-31 03:58:27,590 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-settings 90.000000
2010-03-31 03:58:28,316 DEBUG: install progress statusChange nvidia-settings 100.000000
2010-03-31 03:58:29,234 DEBUG: install progress statusChange python-gmenu 100.000000
2010-03-31 03:58:29,962 DEBUG: install progress statusChange python-support 100.000000
2010-03-31 03:58:30,464 DEBUG: Selecting previously deselected package nvidia-current.
(Reading database ... 179390 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking nvidia-current (from .../nvidia-current_195.36.15-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package nvidia-settings.
Unpacking nvidia-settings (from .../nvidia-settings_195.36.08-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up nvidia-current (195.36.15-0ubuntu1) ...
Loading new nvidia-current-195.36.15 DKMS files...
Building only for 2.6.32-18-generic
Building for architecture x86_64
Building initial module for 2.6.32-18-generic
Done.

nvidia-current.ko:
Running module version sanity check.

```
I believe that I have downloaded the updates on the current driver (all updates have been installed from main server, lucid backports also)
I hope this helps
Sebastian

---

### Post by Scott82 on 2010-03-31
I had almost the same log when installing the nvidia 173 (think that's the number, it's the one older than current but not incredibly old) on an older pc today also. it seems like the packages added to the repositories lately have destroyed the ability to install nvidia drivers. i'm currently reinstalling from beta 1 cd to try to install the drivers without having updated. but being an older pc, it's gonna take some time lol..

EDIT::
oh, some other info.... i did do some googling and found ideas of running nvidia-xconfig and dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, but neither of those helped at all. in fact reconfiguring didn't even bring up the normal blue thing that you go through the options in....  didn't do anything. but trying those did make it so my system doesn't boot at all instead of booting to a message that ubuntu is running in low graphics and having it put the default options back into xorg.conf or w/e it's called. (meaning at least the system had potential to run somewhat until trying those)

---

### Post by Scott82 on 2010-03-31
OK, the update: got ubuntu 10.04 beta 1 32-bit reinstalled, went into hardware drivers, installed nvidia-173, rebooted and it worked. still not sure if i dare run the update manager, think i'm going to wait a couple days before doing that.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-03-31
latest jockey-common update (0.5.8.0ubuntu6) has done the job on my end few days ago.

---

### Post by Niej on 2010-03-31
Well, I thought that the driver installation was a little clearer this
time, last time, with jaunty, the jockey messed up my xorg.conf so I run the nvidia driver from the Nvidia site and it worked.
Anyways, it a great thing to still achieve native resolution out of the box.
Probably I should sit and wait for the final release in April.
cheers.
Seba

---

### Post by master_kernel on 2010-03-31
Does the latest nVidia binary driver work with 10.04? Last I heard it was incompatible with Lucid's new alternatives system.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-03-31
> **master_kernel said:**
> Does the latest nVidia binary driver work with 10.04? Last I heard it was incompatible with Lucid's new alternatives system.

Some days ago there was a jockey isuue but now its ok, i use 195.36 with no problem but i dont care about 3D, so no compiz on my end.

---

### Post by webme on 2010-03-31
just a few minutes ago, after boot, the screen started to flicker again(nvidia 8400 gs); after restart, the same 1 week display bad color PROBLEM(1 day was good, another bad) appear, and a message: ... serious kernel problem! checked the updates, make update, and, FINALLY when i check hardware drivers ---THE DRIVER IS ACTIVATED AND CURRENTLY IN USE!!! way to go lucid, bad jockey!!!

---

### Post by Niej on 2010-03-31
I'm still having the same problem, and still is not clear to me the status
of the 3D support for nvidia cards.
Should I try the latest driver from Nvidia site?
The last thing I had was "driver is enabled and currently in use"
after the error message from jockey (I my second post) but
again the half screen issue.
seba

---

### Post by Niej on 2010-04-03
Well, I was able to solve the issue thanks to ricardo.globe
> 
This is how I solved the Nvidia issue:

1 - Download and install the NVidia Driver and reboot.

2 - on error msg, either go to low-graphics mode or go directly to cli

3 - open and edit your xorg.conf file, so it looks like this:

Code:

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option         "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP-0,DFP-1"
    Option         "CustomEDID" "DFP-0: /proc/acpi/video/NGFX/LCD/EDID"

The problem is the driver is unable to identify the correct EDID info, so by adding these lines, it is able to find this info which is located in the path. There is NO need to create your own EDID file using software on ms windows, as some suggest.

Also, by adding "DFP-1", I was able to connect the laptop to a samsung led tv via HDMI. I have video but no sound.

Now I enjoy the acceleration!!!
the downside, I can't set LCD brightness, If I set it say 80% it will work on next boot.
Cheers.
Seba

---

