---
title: "10.04 install hangs"
date: 2010-03-22
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by keljaden on 2010-03-22
Okay, I just downloaded ubuntu 10.04 x64 and burned it to a disk just like I have done with the past four ubuntu versions. Put it in, and it goes to the point where it should load the install screen(i think).  The purple-ish backround shows and the mouse just keeps flickering between loading and not loading.  I am really confused.  I know this is still in beta, but I assumed at least it would install without a problem.  Anyone else having this problem, or know what I should do to fix it. (oh i also make a bootable flash drive of this with unetbootin and tried it on my insprion 1525 laptop and got the same problem.)

Also I apologize if this is in the wrong place, I am still trying to figure out where everything is on this forum and I could not find a subforum for beta's anywhere.

---

### Post by gogadan on 2010-03-23
i dont know that much but the only thing i can suggest is to download and copy to dick again , it could be a corrupted file  that was downloaded or a dirty disc etc.....

sory i dont know what to do beyond that

---

### Post by keljaden on 2010-03-23
It couldn't be a dirty disk because I tried it with a flash drive install as well.  I will try another download and attempt and another, does anyone have the md5 check thing for 10.04?

---

### Post by carolinason on 2010-03-23
my situation is similar. i'm trying another disc.

checksums are here->
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/SHA256SUMS](http://releases.ubuntu.com/releases/10.04/SHA256SUMS)

---

### Post by carolinason on 2010-03-23
it's working now. the second time i burned 10.04 on a the same cd-rw it worked but only after the second attempt. first time around X did not work and i saw errors with flash memory and my ipod. i disconnected them and the system booted on the next try. it's pretty, fonts anyway! i should try booting the system again with flash devices attached to see if i can recreate it.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-23
> **keljaden said:**
>  ... Also I apologize if this is in the wrong place, I am still trying to figure out where everything is on this forum and I could not find a subforum for beta's anywhere.

OK, apology accepted .. and this IS in the wrong place.

Please go to the Development & Programming, Lucid Lynx Testing subforum for 10.04 questions and issues.  There are lots of threads there, and some pinned threads dealing with new and ongoing issues.

---

### Post by keljaden on 2010-03-23
Am I able to move my post there myself, or should I create another?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-03-23
Click the report abuse button, and ask the mods to move it.

---

### Post by keljaden on 2010-03-23
That sounds like I did something bad. Also, as a newer member, I found it difficult to find the sub-forum.  They should make them a little more obvious if u ask me.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-03-23
Nothing bad at all; you're simply bringing it to the attention of the mods.

---

### Post by keljaden on 2010-03-24
Okay, I asked the mods to move it,
Also, I am trying another burn to a CD-RW (I found a pile in a draw of my room).  Also I am using the 64-bit if that means anything.

Wow, I think I requested it to be moved after it already was...I feel stupid now, hope the mods don't hate me for it...=(

UPDATE!!!
So while using my CD-RW (different burn, same ISO) i did ctrl+alt+F11 and there was a repeating error. The number on far left kept going up it was like 233.45 and such but the rest was

unable to read fragment cache entry [d534063]
"thatincreasing#"  SQUASHFS error: Unable to read page, block d534063, size leeb5

so i am going to try downloading the ISO again, if anyone knows how to fix, that would be awesome.

UPDATE (again)

Apparently the MD5 SUM on the original ISO I had was bad, so I downloaded again and got a match. Will report after install attempt.

YAY it all worked, i am okay with buttons on right, but they X should be on the far left like on macs. Just my opinion, it can change it anyways.

---

