---
title: "10.04 tales of woe (Lost ability to boot into XP)"
date: 2010-04-18
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Russ_H on 2010-04-18
I upgraded to 10.04 after hearing it had better support for Nvidia drivers. I have a problem that updates occasionally trash the video driver which I have to manually reinstall with the X server shutdown. 

I upgraded and lost the ability to boot into Windows XP. It has a menu entry for it and if I run grub update get the following:

[sudo] password for russ: 
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-19-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-19-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-17-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-17-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-20-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-20-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Microsoft Windows XP Professional on /dev/sda1
done
russ@russ:~$ ^C


grub.cfg shows for the windows entry.


### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Professional (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 1234b7e734b7cbcb
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

I can cope with reinstalling the video driver, 10.04 still vapes it occasionally, but not having Windows is a real nuisance as its an Asrock 330 used as a media center and those Muppets at Adobe have not enabled hardware acceleration on Flash for Linux which means no BBC iplayer and lots of nagging from the children. 

Oh and whoever left out ctrl-alt-F2 to shut down the x server can you put it back please. 


Hats off to the VDPAU people, new Samsung TV looks stunning running hi res content. Pity about the font rendering though. works on VGA out but not on HDMI.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-04-18
> **Russ_H said:**
> 
I upgraded and lost the ability to boot into Windows XP. It has a menu entry for it and if I run grub update get the following:
The first thing you should try is simply running:
```
sudo update-grub
```
from the terminal. Hopefully this will rewrite and update the menu entry for Windows. If this fails, then see these grub2 tutorials for adding custom entries for booting other operating systems:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#User-defined%20Entries](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#User-defined%20Entries)
and:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Custom%20Menu%20Entries](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Custom%20Menu%20Entries)
> **Russ_H said:**
> 
Oh and whoever left out ctrl-alt-F2 to shut down the x server can you put it back please. 
Ubuntu now uses **upstart** to manage the boot process. To stop and start the X server in Ubuntu 9.10 (and future versions of Ubuntu):
First hit ctrl + alt + F2. Then login to the virtual terminal and run:
```
sudo service gdm stop
```
and to restart the X server:
```
sudo service gdm start
```
Hope this provides at least some assistance.

---

### Post by Russ_H on 2010-04-18
> **tommcd said:**
> The first thing you should try is simply running:
```
sudo update-grub
```That is what the first print was of, the second was what it had created in the grub.cfg file. I cannot understand why it can boot into Ubuntu but not into windows when it can see it. Ubuntu can see all the windows files so its not been destroyed.  I would like to understand what has happened as I may end up losing the Ubuntu boot if I am not careful




[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#User-defined%20Entries]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#User-defined%20Entries")
and:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Custom%20Menu%20Entries](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Custom%20Menu%20Entries)


[QUOTE] First hit ctrl + alt + F2. Then login to the virtual terminal and run:


Does not work on 10.04, ctrl + alt + F2 does nothing.

Thanks

Russel

---

### Post by hvralpha on 2010-04-18
This definitely a grub bug. It can see win7, Vista and XP when update-grub is run, but whatever files are created or run, will not boot the windows programs in lucid.

---

### Post by Russ_H on 2010-04-18
> **hvralpha said:**
> This definitely a grub bug. It can see win7, Vista and XP when update-grub is run, but whatever files are created or run, will not boot the windows programs in lucid.

What is the best thing to do?, should I uninstall Grub2 and go back to the original grub?. If I do that, will it try and install grub2 next time it has an update?.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-04-18
10.04 is not released yet and is going to be buggy at this point. You might want to start with an earlier release and wait until 10.04 is ironed out some before diving in there, especially if you are reasonably new to Ubuntu. You will spend possibly some time fixing things and not really enjoy it, unless you like tweaking and solving problems (a lot).

This post should be in the Lucid Testing forum, incidentally. ;)

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-04-18
Moved to Lucid Forum.

---

### Post by Russ_H on 2010-04-18
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> 10.04 is not released yet and is going to be buggy at this point. You might want to start with an earlier release and wait until 10.04 is ironed out some before diving in there, especially if you are reasonably new to Ubuntu. You will spend possibly some time fixing things and not really enjoy it, unless you like tweaking and solving problems (a lot).

This post should be in the Lucid Testing forum, incidentally. ;)

If I start again do I have to reinstall everything or is there an "undo" function. If I reinstall 9.1 as far as I am aware it uses grub2 anyway so I could reinstall everything and be in the same place. 

Is this a lucid issue or a grub2 issue?. Its not clear to me which it is yet. As far as I am aware I have no issues with 10.04  that I did not have with 9.1. If I wait a week or so it will update itself to a released version which is due out on the 29th.

What can I look for to help solve this problem?

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-04-18
[QUOTE=Russ_H]What can I look for to help solve this problem?[/QUOTE]

Well Russ, you've shown us that update-grub seems to "see" your Windows installation and that your grub.cfg seems to have an entry for Windows.

If this was my system I would be interested in what happens when you select the Windows entry from the GRUB menu and specifically, what exact error message is dropped when it fails?

---

### Post by Russ_H on 2010-04-18
> **QLee said:**
> Well Russ, you've shown us that update-grub seems to "see" your Windows installation and that your grub.cfg seems to have an entry for Windows.

If this was my system I would be interested in what happens when you select the Windows entry from the GRUB menu and specifically, what exact error message is dropped when it fails?

It does not do anything other than just sit there with a flashing cursor.

I have to use Ctrl-Alt-Del to get back to the menu and if I select Ubuntu it will load Ubuntu normally.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-04-18
HI

Maybe this will help
How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7 bootloader (Updated for Ubuntu 9.10)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708&highlight=karmic+xp+boot](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708&highlight=karmic+xp+boot)

 9.10 uses same grub2 as 10.04

Sharky

---

### Post by Russ_H on 2010-04-19
> **clhsharky said:**
> HI

Maybe this will help
How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7 bootloader (Updated for Ubuntu 9.10)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708&highlight=karmic+xp+boot](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708&highlight=karmic+xp+boot)

 9.10 uses same grub2 as 10.04

Sharky

Tried the link followed the instructions, now cannot see anything. Booted a live linux disk ran Gparted saw nothing at all. Now reformatting prior to reinstalling everything.

---

### Post by recluce on 2010-04-19
You could set up a dedicated GRUB1 partition that gets booted through the MBR. If you don't like to edit the menu.lst all the time, you could install GRUB2 to your Ubuntu Lucid partition (no install to MBR) and chainload into GRUB2 from the dedicated GRUB1.

Advantages: the dedicated GRUB1 will survive any and all new Linux OS installs and any mayhem tha will happen within those installs (as long as you do not overwrite the MBR, which is very easily fixed if it happens) - it will even remain bootable with no Linux installations. If you use many different Linux installs on the same system, each will maintain its own Kernel list (in GRUB1, GRUB2, LILO or whatever else) and not mess around with the dedicated GRUB partition.

Disadvantage: you have a two step boot

If you want to do this, follow these excellent instructions:

[http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p15.html#How_to_make_a_separate_Grub_Partition_](http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p15.html#How_to_make_a_separate_Grub_Partition_)

Be sure to take GRUB1 files from Jaunty (not Intrepid or older) or you will not have EXT4 support.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-04-19
Russ, your "30_os-prober" output is exactly like mine, but mine works. I would like to see the output of the script "boot_info_script", RESULTS.txt file. See my "blue" link.

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-04-20
> **Russ_H said:**
> 
Does not work on 10.04, ctrl + alt + F2 does nothing.

For what it's worth, I have a beta install of Lubuntu 10.04 on my laptop. When I hit: ctrl + alt + F2, it does indeed take me to a virtual terminal where I can login. I don't know why this does not work for you.

My /boot/grub/grub.cfg entry for XP looks exactly like yours (except for the UUID of course):
```

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Professional (on /dev/sda1)" {
        insmod ntfs
        set root=(hd0,1)
        search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 9ad8d8f9d8d8d51b
        drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
        chainloader +1

```
I don't know why this is not working for you. Just to be sure you have the correct UUID, run the command **blkid** to verify that the UUID you have for XP is indeed the correct UUID.
Did you upgrade to 10.04 from 9.10? Or were you upgrading from an earlier version of Ubuntu? I am thinking that some things may have gone wrong with your dist-upgrade. Perhaps a clean install of 10.04 would help fix this.

One more thing you could try:
Try adding this to the end of the **/etc/grub.d/40_custom** file:
```

echo "Adding custom boot entry(s)" >&2
 cat << EOF
menuentry "Chainload Windows XP" {
    set root=(hd0,1)
    chainloader +1   
}
EOF

```
Make sure the 40_custom file is executable. Then run:
```
sudo update-grub
```
and then reboot and see if you can load XP.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-04-20
sda1 = hd0,0

Try changing hd0,1 to hd0,0.

sda1 = hd0,0

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-04-20
[QUOTE=Bucky Ball]sda1 = hd0,0[/QUOTE]

That was true for legacy GRUB, GRUB2 (or whatever name you use for the new one) has changed the designation so that sda1=(hd0,1)

---

### Post by tommcd on 2010-04-20
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> sda1 = hd0,0
Try changing hd0,1 to hd0,0.
sda1 = hd0,0
This is not true for grub2. For grub-legacy, the first partition on the first hard drive would be (hd0,0). For grub2, the numbering for the partitions has changed. Just to make things a little more confusing, grub2 continues to number hard drives starting from 0. Partitions, however, and numbered *starting from one, not zero*. See this:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2)
See the section: "User-defined Entries"
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#User-defined%20Entries](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#User-defined%20Entries)
> NOTE: The new partition naming convention. Devices start counting from 0 as done previously. sda is designated as "hd0", sdb is "hd1", etc. However the first partition is now designated as sda1. Counting partitions does not start with "0". The fifth  partition on sda is sda5). 

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-04-21
Weird but thanks for that. I'll keep it in mind when I use grub2.

---

