---
title: "10.04/VMware test installation."
date: 2010-03-24
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-03-24
After the last bunch of updates keyboard stopped working. Well, actually it works in Grub menu but nowhere else. Another VMware guest (9.10) is unaffected.

See you in Beta 2, Lucid. :-)

---

### Post by oomu on 2010-03-25
same here.

ubuntu 10.4 beta 1 updated under vmware fusion on a mac.

since the updates yesterday (mars 24), no more keyboard in gdm.

---

### Post by matt.nz on 2010-03-25
I've got the same thing. Looks like the on-screen keyboard on the login screen doesn't work properly either :\

---

### Post by UnSandpiper on 2010-03-26
Same here, VMWare Player 3 on Win 7 64-bit. :???:

---

### Post by hohonuuli on 2010-03-29
Not to pile on, just wanted to report that I have the same issue in VMWare Fusion. I ran update-manager to upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 beta 1 and my keyboards stopped working with Ubuntu. I rolled back to my last 9.10 snapshot in the VM and everything worked again. See you at the next beta.

---

### Post by mlevin2 on 2010-03-31
> **hohonuuli said:**
> Not to pile on, just wanted to report that I have the same issue in VMWare Fusion. I ran update-manager to upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 beta 1 and my keyboards stopped working with Ubuntu. I rolled back to my last 9.10 snapshot in the VM and everything worked again. See you at the next beta.

dang, the same thing happened to me in vmware workstation 7. I did an in-place upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04. at the login screen, my keyboard wouldn't work!

after rebooting I somehow got the on-screen keyboard to work and was able to log in. after that, the real keyboard worked fine. it just doesn't work at the login screen.

I guess that's a new security measure :-)

---

### Post by sasukepanda on 2010-03-31
@[mlevin2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=798701"):
sorry for the nOOb question but how do you use the on-screen keyboard?

---

### Post by thebear78 on 2010-03-31
It looks like this issue has been reported. Follow this bug for the resolution.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/548891](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/548891)

---

### Post by FreeRangeChicken on 2010-04-01
> **sasukepanda said:**
> @[mlevin2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=798701"):
sorry for the nOOb question but how do you use the on-screen keyboard?

At the gnome login screen there's a little icon of a man in a circle on the bottom task bar, click that and select 'Universal Access Preferences', then check the 'Use on-screen keyboard' option.

Note that if you close the on-screen keyboard on the login screen I had to go back in and uncheck, then re-check that option to get the keyboard back.

---

### Post by Shishire Maiga on 2010-04-01
Same deal here.  Want to note something.  I tried multiple times to bring the on-screen keyboard up, and it kept crashing (opening, then closing immediately).  Eventually, I gave up and let it sit on the login screen for a while.  15 min later, I come back and I can open the on-screen keyboard to log in.  Once logged in, typing is fine.  Some time between booting the machine, and 15 min later, the on-screen keyboard became stable... weird.

Also, it's definitely registering that a key is being pressed.  The blinking cursor holds steady if I hold down a letter key.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-06
I have just installed VMware Player 3 beta (the ones that is 10.04 compatible) on my 10.04 host and everything works ok for me.

I was able to upgrade VMware Tools on all my VMs (including 10.04 clients) and all is working well - including 3D graphics.

Very happy so far and not missing VMware Server at all at the moment.

---

### Post by mlevin2 on 2010-04-06
> **thebear78 said:**
> It looks like this issue has been reported. Follow this bug for the resolution.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/548891](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/548891)

Thanks!

I tried the workaround (sudo dpkg-reconfigure console-setup) and that fixed it.

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-04-09
Seems to be a bug in the Easy Install script for Ubuntu. Should be fixed in the next VMWare update.

---

