---
title: "Gma500"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jbernardo on 2009-11-18
Anyone's been able to install the GMA500 drivers? I always get a error when dkms is building the psb-kernel-source module, be it with 4.41.2 or 4.41.6 (from Lucazade's ppa).
I removed the package to try to start X with the vesa driver (which now fails complaining of a non-existing /dev/fb0), but the error was "error: implicit declaration of function '*phys_to_gart*'". From what I googled it has been deprecated; unfortunately I don't have the knowledge to fix this, and was hoping anyone been able to patch it already.

Thanks!

---

### Post by lucazade on 2009-11-20
new release, same story.. :-?
I haven't tried lucid on my netbook, so no idea, sorry!

---

### Post by Starks on 2009-11-20
Lack of good drivers across all operating systems makes the GMA500 a miserable platform to work with.

---

### Post by jbernardo on 2009-11-21
There seems to be a whole new driver architecture on the works, according to Phoronix, but until then it would be nice to use the older one.

Anyway, my netbook is broken now - coffee on the keyboard. Will have to send it to repair next Monday, so probably won't have it back until next year.

---

### Post by mrdoob on 2009-11-26
Lucazade script worked very well on Karmic. Worth a try?

[http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8182373&postcount=87](http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8182373&postcount=87)

Thanks Lucazade!

---

### Post by nontitle on 2009-12-11
You had the same problem I did.

Albeit I am running gentoo on a 2.6.32 kernel, it shouldn't make a difference. (If it does, I was using psb-kmod version 4.41.1_p10 from portage)

Basically, it requires *someone* to patch the source code.
First, there is a compile error in drm_agpsupport.c
The line in question is ```
                mem->pages[mem->page_count++] = phys_to_gart(page_to_phys(*cur_page));

```, which appears to be line 527
Go back up to where the function starts (should be 509) and add the like ```
#define phys_to_gart(x) (x)
``` (I'm sure you can just get rid of phys_to_gart entirely, but this is what I did)

The second bug in the source code that I get is in drm_edid.c
The line in question is ```
                printk(KERN_ERR PREFIX "Invalid _DDC data\n");
``` which is line 42, however PREFIX is not defined anywhere. I'm not sure what it is *supposed* to be per se, but it should allow you to define it as anything, so adding ```
#define PREFIX "PSB(edid) "
``` on line 17 should fix that.

Hopefully someone could get this patched, as I am busy for the next while. If nobody can make a build then I probably will be able to eventually, but not for at least a couple of weeks.

---

### Post by jbernardo on 2009-12-11
I've done something similar to that already, and have uploaded a deb with the patch on this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8468379#post8468379"). The patch was taken from a gentoo mailing list... :)

It removes the phys_to_gart, and replaces that PREFIX entry with "ACPI: ".

---

### Post by jbernardo on 2009-12-17
Finally I got lucid to install on my 1101ha. And found out that now I can't get poulsbo drivers working due to a conflict between xserver-xorg-core from lucid repositories and xserver-xorg-video-psb from either Lucazade's or ubuntu-mobile PPAs.

Oh well...

---

### Post by brauliobo on 2010-03-16
Same conflict here with Lucid.

---

### Post by brauliobo on 2010-03-16
Lucazade, the package xserver-xorg-video-psb failed to build on PPA?

---

