---
title: "10.04 beta will not boot"
date: 2010-03-28
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by norvak on 2010-03-28
I run 9.10 on my system without any problems.  When I boot to the 10.04 cd I get the Ubuntu screen with the dots below it.  The dots move back and forth like the system is working properly.  After about a minute they just stop and my system hangs.

---

### Post by id_crisis on 2010-03-29
its beta .Wait for main release on 29 April.A lot of bugs are there which are to be fixed in beta version.

---

### Post by fooman on 2010-03-29
> **norvak said:**
> I run 9.10 on my system without any problems.  When I boot to the 10.04 cd I get the Ubuntu screen with the dots below it.  The dots move back and forth like the system is working properly.  After about a minute they just stop and my system hangs.

after the cd boots and you choose the language,  press the f6 key....then choose "nomodeset" from the menu that pops up.

continue to boot and see if that works.  hope that helps.

---

### Post by seattle vic on 2010-03-29
I was pulling my hair out for 2 days on this.  For me, it went to the maintenance shell after log-in and I could not get back to the desktop.

There are a "lot" of bug reports and comments on boot-up issues.  Setting nomodeset worked for some people, not me.  It disables KSM (kernel sharing mode).  Also, disabling or uninstalling plymouth works for some.  There seems to be an issue of plymouth not syncing with X, ad it has something to do with mountall as well.  I got mine working, though I still get messages that plymouth is terminated.

Anyway, for what it's worth, re-installing gnome-session worked for me.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Raven17 on 2010-04-06
Nasty!

Won't boot on a Dell Latitude E6400.

Doesn't matter if I use a regular boot or the nomodeset option.

:cry:

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-06
> **Raven17 said:**
> Nasty!

Won't boot on a Dell Latitude E6400.

Doesn't matter if I use a regular boot or the nomodeset option.

:cry:

i've not this problem myself but there is some recent changes to take care:

you have to know your chipset name ( i935 for example)
then "nomodeset" is outdated
it's replaced by : 'your-chipset-name'.modeset=0  (ex:  i935.modeset=0) on the boot line

for more info search here : "modeset=0" to make that setting permanent (into /etc/modprobe.d/your-chipset-name.conf)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub/+bug/470490](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub/+bug/470490)

---

### Post by Raven17 on 2010-04-08
> **dino99 said:**
> 
you have to know your chipset name ( i935 for example)
then "nomodeset" is outdated
it's replaced by : 'your-chipset-name'.modeset=0  (ex:  i935.modeset=0) on the boot line

I'll try your suggestion.  Thanks!  ;)

CPU from /proc/cpuinfo  Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU P8600  @ 2.40GHz

---

### Post by Raven17 on 2010-04-11
Beta 2 is up and running just fine.

:-)

Yay!

---

