---
title: "10.04 power management error"
date: 2010-01-18
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by PCpr0gramer on 2010-01-18
Hello all,

Last night I upgraded to the 10.04 development release, and I am pleased with what I see so far. I ran into a problem, however, with the power manager.

I am using an MSI Wind U100.

First, I have lost my battery icon from the notification area. It reappears if I plug in, or unplug my AC adapter.

Second, under, "Power Management Preferences" I have lost my "On Battery Power" tab, leaving only, "On AC Power" and "General"

If I wait about seven minutes, the battery icon will appear in the notification area, but the tab remains lost.

The problem is due to update. I have confirmed by installing a fresh 9.10 and upgrading again to 10.04 without making any other changes to system.

Does anyone have any suggestions? I miss my meter!

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-01-18
Hiyas, and welcome to the 10.04 area.

I can confirm what you see.
I'll go have a look and see if there is anything posted about it.

gnome-power-manager 2.28.1

Is the critter that runs it.

/edit, there's been quite a bit of work going on with it --> [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+queue?queue_state=3&queue_text=gnome-power-manager](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+queue?queue_state=3&queue_text=gnome-power-manager)
Keep an eye on it, it could well resolve itself in the next few days - If it doesn't we can report it as a bug.


Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by PCpr0gramer on 2010-01-18
Thank you, sir. I'm glad I'm not alone.

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-01-18
If there is a little (or even major) problem in 10.04, you will never be alone here :D

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by PCpr0gramer on 2010-01-18
I'll keep an eye out for updates.

---

