---
title: "gtk+ app fonts look horrible under Kubuntu"
date: 2010-03-06
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by oobuntoo on 2010-03-06
I have just installed Kubuntu alpha 3 and fonts look huge and ugly in applications like Synaptic and Firefox. I can change themes for these apps with gtk-qt-engine/kcm-gtk and qtcurve theme, but they have no effect on font size/setting. Does anyone know a work-around for this?

Another problem is that a config file **.gtkrc-2.0-kde4** (generated by kcm-gtk) keeps getting deleted after a reboot. 

These are the same old bugs from the last several releases and have been filed several times already. I just don't know whose a$$e$ I have to kiss to get them fixed.

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2010-03-06
What I did was change the font settings in System Settings and then rename '.gtkrc-2.0-kde4' to '.gtkrc-2.0'. No ill effects with fonts since.

---

### Post by oobuntoo on 2010-03-06
Well, I've managed to track down this problem as someone else had already filed a bug report on this. The work-around is to change to different font in the system settings and then change it back to whatever font you like. Now font size in gtk+ apps are whatever size you set in KDE. I have to do this for both regular user and root via kdesudo.

The only problem left is that firefox fonts, both web and GUI, are almost brownish in color. I feel like I'm going blind looking at them.

As for file .gtk-2.0-kde4 kept getting deleted, /usr/bin/startkde script is responsible. So I comment out lines 192-195 of the script.

The dev should have just made kcm-gtk write to .gtk-2.0 instead of .gtk-2.0-kde4.

---

