---
title: "10.04 Boot Failure"
date: 2010-03-10
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-10
Hi all.  Havent had need to use the forums for a while...anyhow....

I am trying to use 10.04 to test it out.  I am using an Acer Aspire AS1410 (Celeron 743 @ 1.3GHz, 4GB RAM, 250GB HD, Intel GMA 4500MHD), and it boots, but when it begins to load the desktop, I just see the new background and a mouse pointer that blinks very rapidly along with the startup sound.  I am suspecting it is a problem with the video, but I am unsure.  I have done some searching to find a problem someone else is having, but am unable.  Other distros work fine, so again, I am unsure.  Any ideas from anyone else smarter than me?  

I know this may not be in the right place...please feel free to move it if needed.  Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-10
*bump*

---

### Post by Elfy on 2010-03-10
please do not bump so soon

thread moved to lucid forum

---

### Post by katie-xx on 2010-03-10
This is a Plymouth problem.
Press enter and it should get you to a log in screen

Kate

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-10
> **forestpiskie said:**
> please do not bump so soon

thread moved to lucid forum

TY!  =D



And, the problem is Plymouth?  What is Plymouth?

EDIT: Ok, read up on Plymouth.  I'll try just hitting Enter when I get the blank screen.  Thanks!

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-10
Ive hit Enter and just about everything else...and nada.  Im sitting on a desktop with the pretty purple wallpaper and a mouse cursor after hearing the startup jingle and nothing.  Not sure what to do from here....

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2010-03-10
At the desktop (wallpaper) try hitting CTRL+ALT+F1... if it goes to an x-terminal, log in and enter ```
sudo dpkg --congigure -a
```and when that's done...```
sudo reboot
```.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-03-10
> **SaintStewart said:**
> Ive hit Enter and just about everything else...and nada.  Im sitting on a desktop with the pretty purple wallpaper and a mouse cursor after hearing the startup jingle and nothing.  Not sure what to do from here....

I've had plymouth problems in the past in which I could hit ENTER and then would be taken to the login screen. 

After today's updates, that no longer works. My symptoms are the same as yours. The way I was able to resolve it was to boot to the recovery mode, drop to a root prompt and then:
```
sudo apt-get remove plymouth plymouth-X11
```
Removing plymouth-X11 may not be necessary, but it's installed when I install plymouth so I removed it as well.

After removing plymouth my system would then boot normally. 

I tried reinstalling plymouth but the boot failures returned. I've added myself to an existing [bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/533135").

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-10
I have tried both suggestions.  The reconfigure didnt do anything, nor did removing Plymouth.  After trying both though, I find out that if I do the CTRL-ALT-F1, then CTRL-ALT-F7, 10.04 would then work a little and show me a partial desktop before the screen flashing at a high rate.  I would then hit C-A-F1 again, then C-A-F7 again. And again, 10.04 would load more of the desktop, finally getting me to a fully loaded desktop with no blinking and everything working.  I have rebooted and done this about half a dozen times and it does it the same every time.  

Is this a video problem, seeing as I have now removed Plymouth?

Thanks for the suggestions though!  Really appreciated!  Ill go look at your bug submission now.

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-11
An additional piece of info...

When I log in and then have to switch to the prompt using C-A-F1, if I just leave it sitting there while 10.04 loads, it loads fully to the desktop sounds and all, and if I wait 10 seconds or so and then go back to the desktop, its all loaded and ready for me to use.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-03-11
> **SaintStewart said:**
> An additional piece of info...

When I log in and then have to switch to the prompt using C-A-F1, if I just leave it sitting there while 10.04 loads, it loads fully to the desktop sounds and all, and if I wait 10 seconds or so and then go back to the desktop, its all loaded and ready for me to use.

That sure sounds like plymouth problems. Try this on next reboot when it stops. "**Alt+SysRq+k**", and see if that brings you to a login  screen.

---

### Post by Kevin on 2010-03-11
I have similar problems to you, although after those things happen my X usually locks up with either a black or purple screen, and switching to the prompts doesn't work.

Anyways, turning of KMS fixes these problems for me, so I'd try that.

( Press 'e' to edit on the Ubuntu option in Grub. Go to the end of the linux line, and add "nomodeset" to the line.  Then press control-x to boot)

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-03-11
I tried the 'nomodeset' option in Grub 2 but that didn't work for me. I was able to get to a working Desktop with Alt-SysRq-K, which took me to the login screen.

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-11
> **VMC said:**
> That sure sounds like plymouth problems. Try this on next reboot when it stops. "**Alt+SysRq+k**", and see if that brings you to a login  screen.

It...kinda works.  The rapid blinking stops at least after doing this!  Thanks.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-03-11
What happens if you boot to recovery and boot in with the text boot and type    startx  ?

I am not currently having this problem and never had this exact set of symptoms but had to boot through recovery for about a month.

---

### Post by ikt on 2010-03-11
Similar to:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/531650](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/531650)

?

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-11
> **ranch hand said:**
> What happens if you boot to recovery and boot in with the text boot and type    startx  ?

I am not currently having this problem and never had this exact set of symptoms but had to boot through recovery for about a month.

When I do this, it takes me to the desktop with the new purple wallpaper and then nothing.  No mouse, and keypresses dont do anything.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-03-11
Have you tried the "dpkg fix broken packages" option in recovery?  It can't hurt.

I do not think that you have a plymouth problem.  Well, you very well may but this is more than that.  Booting through recovery you have bypassed plymouth and therefore you have some other problem.

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-11
> **ranch hand said:**
> Have you tried the "dpkg fix broken packages" option in recovery?  It can't hurt.

I do not think that you have a plymouth problem.  Well, you very well may but this is more than that.  Booting through recovery you have bypassed plymouth and therefore you have some other problem.

Yes I have tried that.  Nothing changed.  

What I dont get is why when I switch to the CLI using CTRL-ALT-F1, it allows the machine to boot and load the desktop normally.  After I see the HD light working, I hit CTRL-ALT-F7 and theres the desktop, loaded and ready to use.

I dont think that would be a Plymouth problem alone.

---

### Post by SaintStewart on 2010-03-11
Eh.  You know what?  Ive toyed around with this for 2 days now.  I need to get this system working instead of toying around with it. I'll switch back and wait to see if it works closer to Beta 2 or release...

Thank you all for your help and information.  It is highly appreciated.  Be blessed.

---

### Post by timjohn7 on 2010-03-23
These are my boot problem symptoms after upgrading from Karmic to Lucid Beta:

1.  Screen full of error messages after approx 15 seconds after selecting Linux 2.6.32-16 (1st option) in grub2.  The messages flash too fast to read, but "udev" and "new release" are some of the terms that I could see.

2.   Extremely ugly font for the Ubuntu logo in the purple splash screen (as opposed to the very elegant font in the splash screen on my laptop with fresh install.  Also, LiveCD boots fine on my desktop PC.

3.  Another quick error messgage on the Lucid splash screen referring to "Broken pipe", then splash screen changes to the old Karmic Chocolate brown login screen and everything works fine from then on.

I can't find anything in the logs which resemble either set of error messages, and the boot times between this upgraded system and my laptop fressh install are dramatic.  I have very old graphics cards in both machines, nvidia in this one and Intel in the laptop.

My questions are:

1.  How can I log what's happening?
2.  Has anyone experienced the same issue?
3.  Can anyone advise on a proper diagnosis and solution?

---

