---
title: "UNR 10.04 - Missing Battery Icon"
date: 2010-03-07
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by s.fox on 2010-03-07
Hello,

The icon for battery level seems to be missing on UNR 10.04 for me.  

Instead I have a blank area where the icon should be.  Clicking on this blank area displays the power management preferences and battery information (when charging the information is correct,  yet when on battery power it claims the battery is fully charged - suspect this is separate issue.)

Is anyone else experiencing this?    Does anyone know how to rectify the missing icon?

Thank you for any input :)

-Silver Fox

---

### Post by LKjell on 2010-03-07
I got something similar but I am not using UNR. It appears when you do an automatic login the indicator service is not fast enough to start and it messes up stuff. So a temp fix is to login with passwords.

I do not know if this is intended but the battery icon flashes a few times then it just disappear. Lol it is actually moving to the left every time I plug the cord in and out.

---

### Post by s.fox on 2010-03-07
Hello,

Thank you for you reply :D.

I do not automatically login.  I use a password every time.   

When I unplug the power cord the battery area does not move at all like you are experiencing.

Thank you again for replying,

-Silver Fox

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2010-03-07
To get the missing battery status applet try this.  Press Alt+F2. In the box that opens enter gconf-editor and press return. Go to /Apps/battstat-applet/prefs (click on the right arrow to expand and now tick the show_battery box. Reboot and it should work.
If this fails please take a look at the gconf-editor Help (via Alt+F2, search for battery).

---

### Post by LKjell on 2010-03-07
I do not seem to have that entry at all.

---

### Post by s.fox on 2010-03-07
Thank you for the reply Kevbert :)

> **LKjell said:**
> I do not seem to have that entry at all.

I too do not have that entry. :(

-Silver Fox

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2010-03-07
There seems to be a number of problems with applets, in Lucid, reported in launchpad. Please take a look at [[COLOR="Red"]this[/COLOR]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/532005") and if you have the problem please comment as this will speed up any bug fixes.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2010-03-07
> **Kevbert said:**
> Please take a look at [[COLOR="Red"]this[/COLOR]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/532005") and if you have the problem please comment as this will speed up any bug fixes.

Comments detailing what the problem is or providing patches will speed up bug fixes. Comments such as "Me too" and "please fix this" etc won't speed up bug fixes

---

