---
title: "9.10 to 10.04 update stucks in state of calculating  changes"
date: 2010-03-27
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by anantaacharya on 2010-03-27
Well,

I tried to upgrade to 10.04 from my 9.10

while trying I got stuck in step calculating the changes and got the message

 pkgProblemResolver:: resolve generated breaks

i looked in forum, could not get any help in this particular but found some related to this which has error due to openoffice, tried the fix for openoffice, did not work

All of sudden I saw Red button in taskbar and it sugeeseted partial upgrade and again failed.

Later I restarted computer and tried again, now I got different problem devicekit-disks needs to be reinstalled but I cant find archeive for it.

I tried sudo apt-get install -f but it again gave message The package devicekit-disks needs to be reinstalled but I cant find archeive for it.

so, how do I resolve package issue and upgrade my computer.

Thank you wonderful ubuntu community

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2010-03-28
this is what works for me

[ATTACH]151702[/ATTACH]

[http://www.webupd8.org/2009/11/how-to-upgrade-to-ubuntu-1004-lucid.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2009/11/how-to-upgrade-to-ubuntu-1004-lucid.html)

using pearl

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-03-28
Moved to Lucid.

---

### Post by anantaacharya on 2010-03-28
Thanks jerry,

I did the step one 


but in step two i get the same problem 

devicekit-disks problem, any suggesstion how to install that,

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2010-03-28
i may of given you a bad screenshot.  the first way did not work for me either, this is how i upgrade

[ATTACH]151732[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-03-28
I recommend that you chroot in and fix your upgrade - see link in my sig.

---

### Post by anantaacharya on 2010-03-28
Thank you guys for help, 

But I finally clean installed it after being unsuccessful for times.

Thanks guys, you guys are always helpful

---

