---
title: "10.04 Beta 2 : No Boot Splash on Boot"
date: 2010-04-12
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by rayraven on 2010-04-12
Hi,

I just installed the new beta2 of 10.04 on my shiny new vostro v13, and i have a problem with the boot splash.

There is no splash on boot, although i do see it on shutdown? Wierd?

Before anyone asks, i have updated all installed packages to their latest versions and i have an intel x4500hd which is working fine (dri setup properly).

Also, i experienced a weird issue a couple of times now, during boot the system suddenly shutsdown on its down. And since i have 'queit' on, there is no symptoms.

I have since removed 'quiet' and i havent been able to replicate the issue of shutting down.

But i'd love to see a nice splash instead of the age old scrolling text ;)

EDIT: I've found a work-around, see post #9

---

### Post by Raven17 on 2010-04-12
Not sure if it is related to the OP or not.

I cannot boot with splash enabled *if* my Dell E6400 is plugged into its docking station.

I disable the splash option and it boots jus tfine.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-04-12
> **rayraven said:**
> Hi,

I just installed the new beta2 of 10.04 on my shiny new vostro v13, and i have a problem with the boot splash.

There is no splash on boot, although i do see it on shutdown? Wierd?



I had occasionally had the no splash on boot up, but since I replaced the default Ubuntu splash with Solar I now **always** see the splash on boot up.

---

### Post by rayraven on 2010-04-12
@VMC,

Thanks for the tip, will try and revert :)

EDIT: Doesnt work :(
Still only shows the splash on shutdown/reboot ; not on boot

---

### Post by rayraven on 2010-04-13
I've re-installed from scratch to see if something went wrong the first time round, but still have the same issue?

Since i can see it on shutdown/reboot, not entirely sure its a hardware issue.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-04-13
What Graphics card / drivers are you using?
I'm on ATI an it seems to work a little better using the open source drivers so see what they are like for the 1st few boots. Kernel -2.6.32-20 (the latest one in this mornings updates lol)
When you install the proprietary driver it changes the Plymouth boot splash to low colour / low resolution and I get 2 seconds of splash then 6 seconds of black screen before login.
After grub there is 1 second of text followed by jumpy green vertical lines on black before the splash appears.

Does anyone know if the boot splash you get on the live CD is Plymouth? It would be great if it eventually looked like that - crisp, high res and full screen.

---

### Post by rayraven on 2010-04-13
@BrokeMahPC

I have an intel x4500hd, as i mentioned in my original post :)

And it is setup fine and i do see the nice boot splash on shutdown/reboot, which confuses me as to why it doesnt appear on boot?

---

### Post by tabasko on 2010-04-13
I do have same problem with my macbook 2.1. First splash did work, but after updates it vanished. But when I shutdown I see that cool plymouth thing :KS
Its 64bit Ubuntu 10.04.

Maybe it gets forked with updates soon :)

---

### Post by rayraven on 2010-04-14
I've managed to get it to work!
I followed the work-around mentioned in this bug and the splash shows up!
[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/540801](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/540801)

[QUOTE=Scott James Remnant]

The problem here is the graphics drivers; on your system they're taking longer to load than it takes to check and mount the filesystem - so there's no reason to start the splash screen, since we can already start X.

On HDD-based systems this is worse because we do the ureadahead phase before loading drivers; thus it can take a long time for a splash to appear.

One "solution" is to use the initramfs and start plymouth as a critical step:

  echo FRAMEBUFFER=y > /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/splash
  update-initramfs -u

But that introduces a significant delay into boot just to get the splash screen up for the rest of it
[/QUOTE]

It does slow up my boot marginally, but the thing is i got the pretty bootsplash :D

Thanks a lot Scott!!

---

### Post by IsraeliHawk on 2010-04-20
> **rayraven said:**
> I've managed to get it to work!
I followed the work-around mentioned in this bug and the splash shows up!
[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/540801](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/540801)



It does slow up my boot marginally, but the thing is i got the pretty bootsplash :D

Thanks a lot Scott!!

could you please explain how you did this? i really haven't realised what to do..

cheers

---

