---
title: "10.04 Asks for Removing Nautilus"
date: 2010-03-22
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by lanetherif on 2010-03-22
Hi,
in a lapse of reason, I confused 29th of April with 29th of March and upgraded to 10.04 from 9.10. :)
I had a few problems with the interface, like starting up with KDE, yet at the moment I am able to work in Gnome.

My question is this: In Synaptic, when mark all upgrades is selected, under to be removed those are listed:
 > gnome-applets
gnome-session
nautilus
ubuntu-desktop
and those are to be upgraded:
> binutils
cpp-4.4
g++-4.4
gcc-4.4
gcc-4.4-base
language-pack-en
language-pack-gnome-en
language-pack-gnome-tr
language-pack-kde-en
langauga-pack-kde-tr
language-pack-tr
lib32gcc1
lib32stdc++6
libgcc1
libgfortran3
libgomp1
libstdc++6
libsrdc++6-4.4-dev
xulrunner-1.9.2
By the way KDE is not installed, I -sort of- removed it manually. 
Under these circumstances, is it safe to make upgrades or am I in trouble?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-03-22
Moved to Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion :)

---

### Post by Paqman on 2010-03-22
Don't do the upgrade for now. Leave it until tomorrow, reload your sources in Synaptic and see if it's still suggesting bad things.

When you say you "sort of" removed KDE "manually", what do you mean?

---

### Post by lanetherif on 2010-03-22
> **Paqman said:**
> Don't do the upgrade for now. Leave it until tomorrow, reload your sources in Synaptic and see if it's still suggesting bad things.

When you say you "sort of" removed KDE "manually", what do you mean?

The problem is in fact older than a few days, I didn't mind till and recently decided to ask. Nevertheless, I reloaded the sources and tried again. There is no change in situation. 

To remove KDE, I used the command put in the page [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/puregnome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/puregnome) in which all packages related to KDE are listed. So, it is manual yet package selection is not mine. :)

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-03-22
First of all go to Terminal and run "sudo apt-get clean" to clean up any and all .debs. Sometimes things "linger" after a distribution upgrade. That said though I encountered the same thing yesterday and just went ahead with the update using Synaptic.

Then I immediately used Synaptic's Search and marked "ubuntu-desktop" for installation and checked to be sure nautilus, gnome-applets and gnome-session were also being installed (they were). Afterwards all seemed well. 

You might also want to use the filters in Synaptic to check for broken packages, and for good measure run "sudo apt-get -f install" in Terminal to check for missing dependencies.

---

### Post by lanetherif on 2010-03-22
> **kansasnoob said:**
> First of all go to Terminal and run "sudo apt-get clean" to clean up any and all .debs. Sometimes things "linger" after a distribution upgrade. That said though I encountered the same thing yesterday and just went ahead with the update using Synaptic.

Then I immediately used Synaptic's Search and marked "ubuntu-desktop" for installation and checked to be sure nautilus, gnome-applets and gnome-session were also being installed (they were). Afterwards all seemed well. 

You might also want to use the filters in Synaptic to check for broken packages, and for good measure run "sudo apt-get -f install" in Terminal to check for missing dependencies.

I did it as you said (I ran sudo apt-get -f install, then sudo apt-get clean). Then I through Synaptic removed the mentioned components, reloaded the sources, looked for upgrades. There were none. So, I re-installed -as you did- nautilus, gnome-applets and gnome-session (Along them, Brazero was installed also). Still, when I look for updates, Synaptics offers to remove those four.

---

### Post by lanetherif on 2010-03-22
Any idea?

---

### Post by Mercury_Alpha on 2010-03-22
Sounds like some of your sources may be pointing towards Ubuntu's Lucid repositories.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-03-22
..as formerly suggested,just wait.
Remember similar thing during the early days of 10.04,was resolved next day.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-03-22
Sounds odd, maybe related to 'removing' kde (kubuntu > ubuntu

While it shouldn't matter - search nautilus in synaptic -> click on package and see if it's marked as 'automatically installed'. If so unmark

What happens if you install something that depends on nautilus, like 
```
sudo apt-get install nautilus-scripts-manager
```

---

### Post by lanetherif on 2010-03-23
> **realzippy said:**
> ..as formerly suggested,just wait.
Remember similar thing during the early days of 10.04,was resolved next day.

I did. It does not ask anymore -though after a few updates while they were removed-. :)

---

