---
title: "10.04 RC and ATI"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by makitso on 2010-04-22
Well, just downloaded the subject release and am now installing it on my Gateway Netwook Model: LT3103u  with the ATI Radeon RS690M chip.  I was having many graphics problem with Beta-2, e.g. screen turning to scrambled eggs, etc.  Half way through the install the same thing happened to the background screen.  Guess the problem has not been fixed.

For what its worth, the install of Beta-1 went through perfect.  IT was just after loading apps and getting pkg updates that all went crazy.

************ More Info

On the first install I kept my /home directory that was on its own partition.  So, I resinstalled again this time reformatting home.  However, at 44% install just as the background screen changed to Social Media, it went scrambled eggs again.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-22
Just to let you know, the RC hasn't been officially released yet, I would wait for the official announcement.

---

### Post by jaco223 on 2010-04-22
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Just to let you know, the RC hasn't been officially released yet, I would wait for the official announcement.

Cariboo, I have a question. I installed from an April 19th daily build, should I still
download the RC later today or this evening? or do I basically have the RC, as there
haven't really been any updates since the 19th, there were a few small updates
about 30 minute ago?

Thanks,

Jaco

P.S. I didn't want t create a new thread for this, and just thought I could catch
you on the fly. Hope you don't mind.

---

### Post by makitso on 2010-04-22
Well, the RC was on the Ubuntu site about 45 minutes ago.

However, I did get the system to settle down by setting the Visual Effects to None.

---

### Post by makitso on 2010-04-28
Updates from 4/27 have resolved my ATI issues.  Now the open source  driver and desktop effects work.:P

---

### Post by moviemaniac on 2010-04-28
> **makitso said:**
> Updates from 4/27 have resolved my ATI issues.  Now the open source  driver and desktop effects work.:P
Good to hear that :)

---

