---
title: "10.04 + ATI 5850...no signal at all"
date: 2010-04-11
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-11
So much for "It just works"  LOL!! j/k

Whenever I try to test out the Live part of Ubuntu 10.04 on my PC with a XFX Radeon 5850 XXX Edition I get...

NOTHING!

I get the puked on looking splash screen and then the monitor goes off and says no signal.  I tried VGA, HDMI and DVI and still the same result.  I have no other spare cards to try out.  I even tried redownloading both 32 and 64 versions....same thing.  Tried USB Flash instead of wasting yet another disc.  Same thing.

What gives?:confused:

---

### Post by lvleph on 2010-04-11
> **Digikid said:**
> So much for "It just works"  LOL!! j/k

Whenever I try to test out the Live part of Ubuntu 10.04 on my PC with a XFX Radeon 5850 XXX Edition I get...

NOTHING!

I get the puked on looking splash screen and then the monitor goes off and says no signal.  I tried VGA, HDMI and DVI and still the same result.  I have no other spare cards to try out.  I even tried redownloading both 32 and 64 versions....same thing.  Tried USB Flash instead of wasting yet another disc.  Same thing.

What gives?:confused:
It is still beta!

---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-11
I know....but it is pretty darn close to the release day.  This needs to be solved now.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-11
Beta doesn't mean it's ready to go for everyone, If you can't solve the problem, I suggest waiting for the RC to come out. That being said, have you tried starting in safe graphics mode? If not, press any key at the initial boot screen, then press F6 and select nomodeset, then continue to boot.

---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-11
I will give that a try.

---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-11
Did not work at all.  Did the exact same thing.

---

### Post by tawniteamo on 2010-04-11
I wish I had looked at this earlier =P Just did an upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 on my XFX 5850 and now no video output at boot (I get a single flash of a loading screen after I get past the grub menu)

---

### Post by guko1111 on 2010-04-12
I was having a similar problem with my radeon 5770, screen reporting no signal. Installing the proprietary drivers seems to have fixed the issue. I had to use a vga(saw that you tried that) cable to actually log on then after installing the drivers I was able to switch back to hdmi. I used the latest daily build of 10.04 if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-12
Glad that I am not the only one then...tawniteamo.

Heck even tried a different monitor.  LOL!!!!!  Same thing.

---

### Post by tanari on 2010-04-12
compiz didn't work with 5750 in beta **1**, but in beta **2** all is working fine :)

---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-12
ok....but that is irrelevant when you cannot even get into the OS.

---

### Post by salva84 on 2010-04-13
Same problem, screen goes black with an ati 5850... I will stay with Windows 7 until this problem get solved...

---

### Post by meborc on 2010-04-13
> **Digikid said:**
> ok....but that is irrelevant when you cannot even get into the OS.

have you tried the latest daily build iso or only the beta release?

---

### Post by salva84 on 2010-04-13
> **meborc said:**
> have you tried the latest daily build iso or only the beta release?

I have tried with the latest daily build, and black screen comes again...

---

### Post by salva84 on 2010-04-14
any solution by now?

---

### Post by Kazade on 2010-04-14
> **salva84 said:**
> any solution by now?

Has anyone reported this as a bug?

---

### Post by salva84 on 2010-04-14
> **Kazade said:**
> Has anyone reported this as a bug?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/560306](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/560306)

---

### Post by Kazade on 2010-04-14
> **salva84 said:**
> [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/560306](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/560306)

Cool just checking, everyone in this thread should do the "Affects me too" thing so it gets attention.

Have you tried disabling KMS on boot? I can't remember all the steps but if you hold SHIFT while Grub starts it should give you the list of operating systems, then edit the Ubuntu line (I can't remember the key combination but I think it's on the screen) and at the end of the line that says "quiet" on it put: radeon.modeset=0 

Then there is a key combination to boot using that line. If it works then you can follow this: [http://tomlowshang.blogspot.com/2010/04/disabling-radeon-kms.html](http://tomlowshang.blogspot.com/2010/04/disabling-radeon-kms.html) to disable it permanently, just do the bit in the last paragraph.

---

### Post by salva84 on 2010-04-14
> **Kazade said:**
> Cool just checking, everyone in this thread should do the "Affects me too" thing so it gets attention.

Have you tried disabling KMS on boot? I can't remember all the steps but if you hold SHIFT while Grub starts it should give you the list of operating systems, then edit the Ubuntu line (I can't remember the key combination but I think it's on the screen) and at the end of the line that says "quiet" on it put: radeon.modeset=0 

Then there is a key combination to boot using that line. If it works then you can follow this: [http://tomlowshang.blogspot.com/2010/04/disabling-radeon-kms.html](http://tomlowshang.blogspot.com/2010/04/disabling-radeon-kms.html) to disable it permanently, just do the bit in the last paragraph.

Ok, thank you, but by now Im getting tired of having to fix the system , the fglx drivers are really slow even scrolling web pages in firefox.... and the open source drivers are always "coming".... 

For me, the solution I've found is to execute Linux in a Virtualbox machine inside Windows 7. No more problem with graphics, printer, suspend / hibernate, I can make a backup of the whole system, and I dont have to reboot to play some games. Yeah, I know that it not the solution you want to hear, but I dont want to try again until all this problems get fixed ( i hope will be soon). Until this happens, I have emacs, cygwin and firefox in windows :)

---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-14
Maybe a problem with the 5xxx series of cards?

---

### Post by tawniteamo on 2010-04-19
just tried the 10.04 possible release candidate, and still cannot boot to install. guess I'll just wait for the 6xxx series to be out before I hope for any support..

---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2010-04-20
There goes my next idea!

I'm also affected by this; [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9147578#post9147578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9147578#post9147578)

---

### Post by artnay on 2010-04-20
> **outerspacerace said:**
> There goes my next idea!

I'm also affected by this; [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9147578#post9147578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9147578#post9147578)

No need to create a new thread. [Here's the bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/560306"), click "Affects me too" if you're having the same problem. Also add details about your setup.

---

### Post by akikumar on 2010-04-20
Did u tried Beta 2 ! Things r working fine in Beta 2

---

### Post by tawniteamo on 2010-04-20
> **akikumar said:**
> Did u tried Beta 2 ! Things r working fine in Beta 2

I've tried beta 1/2 and the RC and no luck.

---

### Post by outerspacerace on 2010-04-21
> **artnay said:**
> No need to create a new thread. [Here's the bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/560306"), click "Affects me too" if you're having the same problem. Also add details about your setup.

That thread was created before I found this one.

Bug report and setup details added. Fingers crossed.

---

### Post by artnay on 2010-04-22
I investigated this a bit and came to a conclusion that required firmware isn't packaged at the moment. For more info, see [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-firmware/+bug/560306]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-firmware/+bug/560306")

---

### Post by Drood on 2010-04-22
I am also experiencing this problem with an ATI HD5740. It works just fine on my laptop running a ATI 3100 chipset.

---

### Post by Drood on 2010-04-22
> **guko1111 said:**
> I was having a similar problem with my radeon 5770, screen reporting no signal. Installing the proprietary drivers seems to have fixed the issue. I had to use a vga(saw that you tried that) cable to actually log on then after installing the drivers I was able to switch back to hdmi. I used the latest daily build of 10.04 if that makes any difference.


This worked for me. I don't know why I didn't think of it. Thanks

---

### Post by Digikid on 2010-04-28
Not for me though.....

---

### Post by jaycee23 on 2010-04-28
Same problem here - hope it's fixed for the full release. Will try workarounds when I get home.

---

### Post by VinV on 2010-04-28
I have the same issue but a different Video card, have not had the time to try all of the suggested fixes, simply hoping for a distro that will work without changing config files. I had the kubuntu 10.04 installed on my laptop and was hoping to put either the kde or genome version on my desktop but this little bug was a party kill.

Custom Build on a budget lol  mebo Ecs nforce6m-a2
AMD Athlon II X3 3ghz, Corsair 4gb ddr3 1333, Ati HD2400 256mb 
Segate 750gb

---

### Post by jaycee23 on 2010-04-29
Worked if I switched to DVI from HMDI connections.

However now have issues with new ATI 10.04 driver - not installing correctly.

Oh the joy never ends!!!

:(

---

### Post by bash on 2010-04-29
There was one comment in the bug report that suggested a PPA with a possible fix. Noone replied to it, so it seems to have gotten overlooked.

I don0t have an 5xxx/Evergreen chip, but if you have and are effected give the PPA a try, maybe it works:

[quote=Tim Gardner]I've uploaded a test version of linux-firmware with support for the Evergreen family of Radeon GPUs. Please try linux-firmware_1.35~rtg1 from my PPA at [http://launchpad.net/~timg-tpi/+archive/ppa](http://launchpad.net/~timg-tpi/+archive/ppa)[/quote]

Source: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-firmware/+bug/560306/comments/13](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-firmware/+bug/560306/comments/13)

---

### Post by Rechinica on 2010-04-29
Doesn't work on final release either - 5850 on HDMI. Disappointing.
Will try on VGA and update later.

*Later edit: works on DVI to HDMI cable

---

