---
title: "10.04 beta 1 will not read CD or DVD"
date: 2010-04-07
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Kirk M on 2010-04-07
I ran into a rather strange problem testing 10.04 beta 1 (fully updated) while I was attempting to play a movie for the first time. I inserted the DVD into the CD/DVD player, the player began to read the disk as usual and then, after several seconds, just stopped. Checking in Nautilus the CD/DVD drive had simply disappeared. Removing the disk caused the CD/DVD drive to reappear.

I tried another movie (all my DVD based are purchased, not copies and work fine in my other machines)

I then tried the same DVD in my CD/DVD burner and the same thing happened. So I went to my collection of distros CDs/DVDs and no matter which one I inserted into either of my optical drives the respective drive simply disappears.

It basically boils down to this:

1. Inserting any DVD or CD into either of my optical drives causes the drive to disappear from Nautilus.

2.Rebooting doesn't help.

3. This same machine reads DVDs/CDs (movie, audio and data) with no problem under Ubuntu 9.10 and Linux Mint 8.

4. Both optical drives show up in the "Disk Utility" app however when a disk is inserted into either drive but it fails the read test benchmark saying the device is too slow (it's not).

5. The problem even occurs when trying to read the Ubuntu 10.04 beta 1 CD that I burned with one drive (CD/DVD RW drive) using Brasero in Linux Mint 8 on this same machine and installed as a dual boot using the other drive (CD/DVD ROM). :P

This particular machine I'm using for testing is an old HP a645c (AMD 3200+ single core processor) desktop that has been upgraded to 1.0 GB memory and a Nvidia GeForce 6200 (w/256 MB) video card (AGP). 200GB HDD, one LITE ON CD/DVD ROM drive and one LITE ON CD/DVD+RW drive.

There's no real crash info I can provide unfortunately as it doesn't produce a crash nor do I have a clue of what might be going on. I hate that when it happens.

Any ideas on what might be going on or has anyone else seen this with 10.04?

**Update:** I just booted the machine up on the 10.04 beta 1 LiveCD and the same problem exists. Nautilus sees the LiveCD of course but if I insert another CD/DVD in the other optical drive, that drive disappears from Nautilus altogether (under "Computer").

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-07
I ran into the same problem in previous testing versions, it usually happens because you use the eject button on the drive. The OS thinks the disks are still in the drive. What worked for me was to open a terminal and type:

```
eject /dev/sr0
```

The tray popped open, and all worked as it should again. You will have to do it for both drives. Use /dev/sr0 and /dev/sr1.

---

### Post by Kirk M on 2010-04-07
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I ran into the same problem in previous testing versions, it usually happens because you use the eject button on the drive. The OS thinks the disks are still in the drive. What worked for me was to open a terminal and type:

```
eject /dev/sr0
```

The tray popped open, and all worked as it should again. You will have to do it for both drives. Use /dev/sr0 and /dev/sr1.

Appreciate the reply. Unfortunately, it didn't work. This was the first time I had used the optical drives at all with 10.04 beta 1 and of course I used the eject button to open the empty tray.

Just love testing, really...I do...really.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-04-07
Have you installed anything from medibuntu or the restricted extras. Lucid seems to be the most media codec friendly version but I don't think it will play a DVD without some install.

---

### Post by Kirk M on 2010-04-07
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> Have you installed anything from medibuntu or the restricted extras. Lucid seems to be the most media codec friendly version but I don't think it will play a DVD without some install.

Not yet actually as the whole test was to see if Lucid would recognize CDs and DVDs. I just happened to start with a movie in order to see if "Movie Player" would yell about needing a codec or two like it's supposed to. That's when I found out that Nautilus in Lucid beta 1 has a problem with *any* CD or DVD.

---

### Post by Kirk M on 2010-04-08
Just a quick update here. Apparently someone else wrote up a bug report for this. In case any one's interested.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/udev/+bug/554433](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/+source/udev/+bug/554433)

The report states that a fix has been committed upstream (trunk) but no milestone is indicated. I was hoping for beta 2 so I can test functions and features related to optical drives. Patience is...

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2010-04-08
This thread made me realize I've not tried using the CD/DVD Burner in 10.04Beta yet.

Popped in a CD, it mounted, and I could read files on it.

Pressed the drive's EJECT button, the tray opened, and the CD desktop icon disappeared.

Closed the tray with the CD still in it and it mounted again and a desktop icon appeared.  Reads fine.

Ejects and unmounts fine with the context menu EJECT options too.

I'll try burning later, but all seems well here.  On my wife's 8.04 system the drives are "locked" once mounted and the front eject buttons are ignored.

Looks like a hardware issue to me, but if most drives support it, I like the 10.04Beta behavior best.

---

