---
title: "2.6.33, Just do it."
date: 2010-02-18
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by LiquidMeson on 2010-02-18
You heard me. Ubuntu's not your grand-daddies Debian.

---

### Post by artir on 2010-02-18
It's an LTS. It's just suposed to be stable. LTS has not been enough tested

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-02-18
+2

IMO it should be out pretty soon since it's now past rc8 and there would be plenty of time before 04 release.

---

### Post by scottuss on 2010-02-18
> **LiquidMeson said:**
> You heard me. Ubuntu's not your grand-daddies Debian.

I agree. Bring on the 2.6.33

---

### Post by pferraro on 2010-02-18
Those of us with newish Intel wireless cards (e.g. 1000 Series BGN) need to use 2.6.33 in order to get working wireless - although this should hopefully be resolved once the linux-backports-modules packages are ready.
Also crucial to update is the Intel xorg drivers - version 2.10.0 is required for stable Intel HD graphics on the new Arrandale processors.

---

### Post by zika on 2010-02-18
As long as we can load new kernel from [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline") it doesn't matter (much) what kernel LL will be shipped with. It is aimed to stability and let developers decide what is the most stable kernel for "average" user... If I'm wrong, I'll be glad to read where and why...
I'm using 2.6.33 from rc1 stage so...

---

### Post by xebian on 2010-02-18
> **zika said:**
> As long as we can load new kernel from [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline") .....
I'm using 2.6.33 from rc1 stage so...
I wish whoever is compiling these kernels use the newer gcc.  Last time I check they are still at 4.2

---

### Post by zika on 2010-02-18
> **xebian said:**
> I wish whoever is compiling these kernels use the newer gcc.  Last time I check they are still at 4.2That's a good point...

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-02-18
> **xebian said:**
> I wish whoever is compiling these kernels use the newer gcc.  Last time I check they are still at 4.2
Strange. And yet they update Lucid to gcc version 4.4.3  ?! They give us the updated one and use an older one to compile.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2010-02-18
In sincerity, will this kernel update be in the final release or not?

---

### Post by Starks on 2010-02-18
Not having 2.6.33 will force a rather ugly backporting of Nouveau support.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-02-18
> In sincerity,  will this kernel update be in the final release or not?


It will not be in the final release for Lucid.

---

### Post by FrancoNero on 2010-02-18
I think haveing not the latest versions of software helps noone but those who came up with the LTS definition. I mean I think even sticking to LTS when a new ubuntu is out is rather pointless. It's like using Windows ME when you can have XP SP3.... what's the point. masochism? I don't buy into this LTS are more stable than non-LTS argument entirely. a final release should be stable period period. if it's not stable, postpone the release date

---

### Post by pferraro on 2010-02-18
From Greg Kroah-Hartman's blog:

"I'd like to announce that the 2.6.32-stable tree is also going to be maintained as a "long-term" stable release, living for 2-3 years, like the 2.6.27 kernel is. This is because a number (i.e. more than 2) Linux distributions are basing their "enterprise" releases on this kernel version, and it will make their lives easier if I keep it alive."

[http://www.kroah.com/log/linux/stable-status-01-2010.html](http://www.kroah.com/log/linux/stable-status-01-2010.html)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-02-18
I will be using the 33 kernel on this box but I am glad they are sticking with 32.

My wifes Laptop will be updated to 10.04 soon after release and I want it solid as a rock for her box.  It will probably stick with 10.04 at least up to the release of the next LTS.  She does not want change.

10.04, from what we can see now, looks to me to be on the way to a very nice solid, somewhat boring OS.  I would say that is what most people really want.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-02-18
New good
Old bad

So apparently new kernel is going to be released shortly.
Still got 2 months before final release for 3 year support OS?
Yah, that sounds like bad idea.
Maybe they should have kept using firefox 2.5 instead of upgrading to 3.0 for Hardy release. :P

[Fifth Stable Update Ends Out X Server 1.7 Series](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Nzk4Ng)
So 1.7.5 will be last in 1.7 series, and 1.8 is supposed to be out At end of March.

Ubuntu plans on backporting 1.8 stuff into 1.7 for 3 years?
> The X Server 1.7.5 release announcement can be read on the X.Org mailing list. X Server 1.8 should be released in just over a month, but some distributions releasing in the coming months (such as Ubuntu 10.04 LTS) are sticking with the X Server 1.7 until H2'2010.
So ubuntu will switch to 1.8 shortly after 10.04 release?

I thought major updates weren't allowed after a release?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-02-18
> **FrancoNero said:**
> I think haveing not the latest versions of software helps noone but those who came up with the LTS definition. I mean I think even sticking to LTS when a new ubuntu is out is rather pointless. It's like using Windows ME when you can have XP SP3.... what's the point. masochism? I don't buy into this LTS are more stable than non-LTS argument entirely. a final release should be stable period period. if it's not stable, postpone the release date

Nobody every said that an LTS was release was more stable than any other release. LTS stands for **L**ong **T**erm **S**upport, it is more for commercial users, most businesses only upgrade every 3 to 5 years, hence the need for long term support.

I personally don't see why a home user would stick with an LTS release, as newer hardware isn't supported using an older kernel.

---

### Post by uBeer on 2010-02-18
> **andrewabc said:**
> 
So ubuntu will switch to 1.8 shortly after 10.04 release?

I thought major updates weren't allowed after a release?

That will be for the development of Lucid+1. Not for Lucid itself.

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2010-02-18
> **xebian said:**
> I wish whoever is compiling these kernels use the newer gcc.  Last time I check they are still at 4.2

You might still the have 4.2 versioned packages installed, I don't, but even if you have them installed the unversioned packages set things up so 4.4.2 is used if you don't specify which binary to use.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2010-02-18
> **Starks said:**
> Not having 2.6.33 will force a rather ugly backporting of Nouveau support.

the Nouveau work in .33 is focused primarily on stability, however in .34 there is an API break coming. At some point this is going to be an issue and you will have to backport fixes anyways.

Perhaps though we can hope that Red Hat who are reported working on RHEL6 based on .32 who are also interested and investing in Nouveau will do the backporting as part of their kernel so we might be able to share the burden.

There is no perfect kernel to base a release on, .32 with it's long term promise from -STABLE and at least one other big vendor intending to use it for their enterprise release we can be sure it will be worked on for years to come. 

Rememeber Lucid has to live for 5 years on the server, 3½ years on the desktop. Picking the best option for the long haul might be a good idea and it certainly is appealing to have multiple partners to share the load with.

Painful as it might be currently, especially for those of us who care deeply about Nouveau to go with .32. I say this even though I personally think that .33 is a fine kernel release and that many of the features it presents us are highly desirable. I really wish I could say that it would be the best choice but it very likely isn't going to be.

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-02-18
> Nobody every said that an LTS was release was more stable than any other release. 

The basing on testing and the multiple betas are clearly an attempt at better stability. IMO, there is a definite implication that LTS releases will be more stable than cutting edge releases...and after the deserved grief ubuntu got over 8.04 (gvfs and pulse) I am glad they are being more conservative.

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-02-18
> they should have kept using firefox 2.5 instead of upgrading to 3.0 for Hardy release. 

Last I heard ubuntu was going to put a stop to this nonsense.  It seems like devs were spending more time patching security flaws in FF than it would have taken to just repackage the thing.

---

