---
title: "10.04 lucid updated... now wont boot"
date: 2010-03-29
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Hawk__0 on 2010-03-29
I just updated it after I installed it and had everything working.  After I rebooted all I get after the boot loader is a black screen.  Nothing happens.  I should not that I have integrated AND an nvidia gfx card (don't know how to turn off integrated on this laptop... asus ux50v)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-29
Lucid is still in Beta testing, so your questions should be posted to the proper subforum: Development & Programming, Lucid Lynx Testing.

I will be asking the Mods to move this thread there.  Look there for any responses.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-03-29
> Lucid is still in Beta testing, so your questions should be posted to  the proper subforum: Development & Programming, Lucid Lynx Testing.

I will be asking the Mods to move this thread there.  Look there for any  responses. 	

So moved.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-03-29
Can you go into recovery mode?

---

### Post by jppr on 2010-03-29
i have updated the system today 7 times without any problems

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2010-03-29
One thing about recovery mode as I tried it, I kept hitting ESC to the grub menu to see what kernels I had installed, but instead it dropped me to my login.  AFAIK, the process was not changed--or was it?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-03-29
> **sox fan Matt said:**
> One thing about recovery mode as I tried it, I kept hitting ESC to the grub menu to see what kernels I had installed, but instead it dropped me to my login.  AFAIK, the process was not changed--or was it?

now its SHIFT

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2010-03-29
I had the same thing happen after updating this AM. What I had to do was boot into recovery mode, and when that stopped running I chose "netroot" from the menu which drops you to a terminal prompt.

I then ran:

```
sudo apt-get purge plymouth
```

When that completed I then just ran:

```
sudo reboot
```

And then I booted OK, of course with no quiet "splash".

Of course you may have a different problem altogether.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2010-03-29
Thanks Dino, I must have missed that.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2010-03-29
I tried holding and tapping shift but no go..interesting.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-03-29
you could try booting with a live cd, mount your root partition then edit /media/whatever the drive is/etc/default/grub

change GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT from 0 to 3
set GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET to false

---

### Post by Hawk__0 on 2010-03-29
I figured it out.  Essentially I have 2 videocards and I think it got confused.  I have an Asus ux50v laptop with integrated intel graphics as well as an nvidia 100m series card.  I deleted xorg.conf (since using other drivers failed) and I even get my desktop effects too.... strange.

---

