---
title: "UDS-lL 11/16-11/20"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Technoviking on 2009-11-11
The Ubuntu Developers Summit will be next week (Nov 16 - Nov 20) in Dallas, TX USA. Check out the UDS wiki Page for more info in participating remotely.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-L](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UDS-L)

**Internet Relay Chat**

[LIST]
[*]Overall discussion, including plenary: #ubuntu-devel-summit on freenode.
[*]Discussion Channels - The tracks are shuffled around different rooms, so the irc channels are /per room/, not per track. Here are the channels, which corresponds to the room of the session in the schedule.
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]#ubuntu-uds-waverly
[*]#ubuntu-uds-stanford
[*]#ubuntu-uds-madison
[*]#ubuntu-uds-esmeralda
[*]#ubuntu-uds-mayflower
[*]#ubuntu-uds-riviere
[*]#ubuntu-uds-vinoy
[*]#ubuntu-uds-presidente
[*]#ubuntu-uds-riogrande
[*]#ubuntu-uds-lonestar1
[*]#ubuntu-uds-lonestar2
[*]#ubuntu-uds-lonestar3
[*]#ubuntu-uds-alamo1
[*]#ubuntu-uds-alamo2
[/LIST]
 

**Icecast**

[http://icecast.ubuntu.com/](http://icecast.ubuntu.com/)

*Find stream for plenary sessions in room 5.*

**Recording a Live Stream**

Use mplayer to capture the livestream (e.g for room3):

```
mplayer -playlist [http://icecast.ubuntu.com:8000/room3.ogg.m3u](http://icecast.ubuntu.com:8000/room3.ogg.m3u) -ao pcm:file=/tmp/mystream.wav -vc dummy -vo null
```

and use lame for encoding as .mp3:

```
lame -m s /tmp/mystream.wav -o "/tmp/uds_room3.mp3"
```

for scheduling you can use cron to start mplayer and pkill to stop the recording.

**Gobby**

gobby.ubuntu.com

Gobby is being used at UDS to collaborate on the specifications that are being written and to facilitate remote participation. 

To take part, please install Gobby (available in universe) and tell it to connect to gobby.ubuntu.com. You will be presented with a list of documents being edited. During any session or meeting, and particularly at the end of one, please do make a local backup of your documents. WARNING: There is a new gobby in karmic, gobby-infinote, we will NOT be using this at UDS since we need for people on older releases to participate. Ensure you are using the "gobby" package.

**Lifestream**

A stream of all Ubuntu and UDS posts made to Identi.ca, Twitter, and Flickr can be found at [http://summit.ubuntu.com/media/lifestream.html](http://summit.ubuntu.com/media/lifestream.html)

**Videos**

We will be recording certain sessions and all the plenary sessions at UDS. You can follow along with the videos as we post them on the Ubuntu community on Miro. If you want to automatically receive updates when videos are available we recommend that you Miro and click on the miro links at the site to subscribe to the video feeds. These videos will be in Ogg Theora format and is the recommended method for watching UDS videos.

[B]Micro-blogging
[/B]
Micro-blogging is a form of blogging that allows users to send brief text updates of 140 characters or less. It is a great way to inform the Ubuntu community of discussions and news that happen during UDS. Many Ubuntu users get there news from UDS from microblogging sources. During UDS-Mountainview, Identi.ca saw more traffic during UDS than during the night of the U.S. Presidential elections.

Microblogging is not a replacement for gobby or IRC, which have important uses during an UDS event. It should be used as a tool to communicate with other people at UDS and the wider Ubuntu user community.

Suggested ways to use microblogging at UDS:

[LIST]
[*]Announce session topics at the beginning of the session.
[*]Ask for feedback from the community during the session discussion.
[*]Dent/tweet important discussion points during the sessions.
[*]Dent/tweet any news worthy items during UDS (Kernel version, encrypted swap by default, etc...).
[*]To plan social events and gatherings during UDS.
[/LIST]

**Identi.ca**

We encourage people at UDS to create an account on Identi.ca, an open source micro-blogging platform if they don't already have an account. If you have a Twitter account you can link it your Identi.ca account and posts you make to Identi.ca will automatically forwarded to Twitter.

If you don't wish to create an identi.ca account, each track has a generic account that people can use to post. These accounts will also announce each session as it begins. Passwords for these account will be listed at the UDS venue.

[LIST]
[*]@udscommunity
[*]@udskernel
[*]@udsqa
[*]@udsfoundations
[*]@udsmobile
[*]@udsdesktop
[*]@udsserver
[/LIST]
In identi.ca, please use the !ubuntu and !UDS groups in your message, which already have many followers. These automatically post to the hashtags #ubuntu and #uds, if you want to follow and are not interested in sending.

[B]Gwibber
[/B]
Gwibber is an open source microblogging client for GNOME developed with Python and GTK. It supports Twitter, Jaiku, Identi.ca, Facebook, Flickr, Digg, and RSS. Gwibber is available in universe in Ubuntu 9.04+.
[LIST]
[*][https://launchpad.net/gwibber](https://launchpad.net/gwibber)
[*][https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gwibber](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Gwibber)
[/LIST]

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-11-13
Really looking forward to the decisions coming out of the summit, especially the kernel version.

---

### Post by joey-elijah on 2009-11-16
Don't shoot me if this is the wrong place to ask but where will the logs of the IRC's be kept from UDS?

---

### Post by Yofel on 2009-11-16
For now they're at [http://ubottu.com/uds-logs/](http://ubottu.com/uds-logs/)

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-11-17
When/where are the videotaped sessions available?

---

### Post by castrojo on 2009-11-17
Monday is being edited now, hopefully we can start pushing them out today.

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-11-18
Any decisions of note made yet ?

---

### Post by Starks on 2009-11-18
[LIST]
[*]Plymouth is definitively replacing usplash and possibly xsplash.
[*]10 second boot-up for the Dell Mini 10v testbed must be achieved and ureadahead is the solution
[/LIST]

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-11-18
[list][*]Removing GIMP[*]Adding PiTiVi[/list]

---

### Post by Starks on 2009-11-18
> **Merk42 said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]**Removing GIMP**
[*]Adding PiTiVi
[/LIST]

wat. serious?

I can't think of anything that can effectively replace GIMP on a free-software desktop.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-11-18
> **Starks said:**
> wat. serious?

I can't think of anything that can effectively replace GIMP on a free-software desktop.

Yes. Serious
The thought is to use EOG and/or F-Spot for the basic cropping/red eye/etc editing that would happen.

GIMP (among others) would be 'advertised' in a Staff Picks part of Ubuntu Software Center.



Oh also still Rhytmbox, not Banshee

---

### Post by Robertjm on 2009-11-18
> **Merk42 said:**
> [list][*]Removing GIMP...[/list]

Just dumbfounded over this one.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-11-18
> **Robertjm said:**
> Just dumbfounded over this one.
...and I already explained the reasoning

So how about those downloadable recordings, any out yet?

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-11-18
Strange!!  I thought this was mainly to be a tidying up and bug clearing release?  No major changes. . :confused:

---

### Post by Robertjm on 2009-11-18
I saw that Merk, but it makes no sense to me, and I bet a lot of others, to take a program like GIMP out of the main repos just because some other tools could be used to do the more basic functions.

GIMP is THE best linux program to stand up to Photoshop there is. Is this "advertised" section going to be another repo, or are we going to have to download any and all programs from the advertised list that we might want to install?

To me, would make the most sense to include GIMP in a repo, but just not install it by default.

Robert

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-11-18
> **Robertjm said:**
> I saw that Merk, but it makes no sense to me, and I bet a lot of others, to take a program like GIMP out of the main repos just because some other tools could be used to do the more basic functions.

GIMP is THE best linux program to stand up to Photoshop there is. Is this "advertised" section going to be another repo, or are we going to have to download any and all programs from the advertised list that we might want to install?

To me, would make the most sense to include GIMP in a repo, but just not install it by default.

Robert

Well it's not like it won't run at all anymore. It'll be in the normal repos though.

It sounded like the advertised thing would be some part of Ubuntu Software Center, like popular programs, etc, like the ratings back in Add/Remove I suppose.   I wasn't in the Software Center meeting so I don't know the specifics.

---

### Post by Robertjm on 2009-11-18
I'd go for that. It's a large program that I'd concede a lot of people never touch. As long as it'd be in the repos it can always be installed.

(Now if we could just get KDE to install WITHOUT being required to install Koffice!!! :-)  )

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-11-18
> **Robertjm said:**
> Just dumbfounded over this one.

I have probably used gimp 10 times in the 1yr+ I've been using linux and those times it's been simple stuff, crop an avatar etc. It is a powerful tool, but not needed as a desktop default, for many users it is not a necessity, and for those to whom it is, it's just a click away.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-19
I use Gimp on a regular basis.

I am not going to get my knickers in a knot over this.  It installs easily.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-11-19
I dunno why there's been so much talk about the GIMP.
I think the plymouth thing is hilarious.

Hey we'd like a nice boot.
Use plymouth
Nah, uh maybe
No really check it out
Hmm nope we'd rather make something new called xsplash
Oh...um okay.
oh wait look you were right we should use Plymouth


In other news, there is going to be a Music Store.

---

### Post by castrojo on 2009-11-19
> **Merk42 said:**
> oh wait look you were right we should use Plymouth

Plymouth has also been improving since the the decision was made.

---

### Post by Regenweald on 2009-11-19
> **whiprush said:**
> Plymouth has also been improving since the the decision was made.

But it does seem like a little bit of wasted development effort though, plymouth has improved but the xplash manhours could have gone into that *rather than waiting for it to improve*

( I put those in italics because I have no idea if canonical devs were indeed working on Plymouth so please correct me if I erred)

---

### Post by castrojo on 2009-11-19
Videos are showing up now! (will respond about plymouth when I have more time)

[http://ubuntu.mirocommunity.com/](http://ubuntu.mirocommunity.com/)

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-11-19
Plymouth is being considered again? :confused:

:guitar:

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-11-20
I get the sound but no video :(  Just a picture of screen with a terminal box with nothing in it but the prompt.

---

### Post by Starks on 2009-11-20
So... Are we going with 2.6.32 or 2.6.33?

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-11-20
> **Starks said:**
> So... Are we going with 2.6.32 or 2.6.33?

Yeh im surprised this hasnt been leaked yet! Im guessing since 2.6.32 will probably release around Alpha-1, there is a good chance we may get 2.6.33. Especially since we get the builds early now. 

But then this is an LTS.

---

### Post by jmmL on 2009-11-20
> **Slug71 said:**
> Yeh im surprised this hasnt been leaked yet! Im guessing since 2.6.32 will probably release around Alpha-1, there is a good chance we may get 2.6.33. Especially since we get the builds early now. 

But then this is an LTS.
2.6.33 final will probably land at the end of February - about 1 to 2 weeks before kernel freeze on the 11th March. I'd imagine that we'd get 2.6.33.

---

### Post by BwackNinja on 2009-11-20
I'd expect that a good reason for plymouth to now be considerd is that it has an x11 rendering mode now. This means that it not only does what usplash does, but it also does what xsplash does. Such a solution is also in line with starting X earlier.

There is also the page-flipping ioctl, which, if it can be used in a framebuffer environment, would make plymouth (or usplash) even smoother.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-11-20
> **BwackNinja said:**
> I'd expect that a good reason for plymouth to now be considerd is that it has an x11 rendering mode now. This means that it not only does what usplash does, but it also does what xsplash does. Such a solution is also in line with starting X earlier.

There is also the page-flipping ioctl, which, if it can be used in a framebuffer environment, would make plymouth (or usplash) even smoother.

Well....We got it!! :D:D:D:D

---

### Post by Swarms on 2009-11-21
> **Slug71 said:**
> Well....We got it!! :D:D:D:D

It is fantastic news! :)

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-11-21
> **Swarms said:**
> It is fantastic news! :)

Since it's an established platform, hopefully the possibilities/limitations are well know before MadsRH starts making mockups.

---

### Post by Swarms on 2009-11-21
> **Merk42 said:**
> Since it's an established platform, hopefully the possibilities/limitations are well know before MadsRH starts making mockups.

I would still hope for something looking like his second suggestion:
[http://files.dropbox.com/u/175241/boot/Suggestion%20two%20long.ogv](http://files.dropbox.com/u/175241/boot/Suggestion%20two%20long.ogv)

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-11-21
Hope to see the plymouth-dev PPA updated soon. :D

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2009-11-24
Do we know what kernel has been chosen yet?

---

### Post by caryb on 2009-11-25
Back to the Gimp saga in Kubuntu it is not installed by default. I install it as a matter of course! How many people just use the base install without adding there favourite programs? If Kubuntu had all my "stuff" as a default It would need to be on a DVD not CD:shock:

Cary

---

### Post by ruik on 2009-11-26
> Versions confirmed as kernel: 2.6.32, filesystem: ext4, bootloader: grub2.

[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kernel-lucid-kernel-decision](https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kernel-lucid-kernel-decision)

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2009-11-26
A move to plymouth, listening to Pulseaudio upstream, shipping KMS enabled stack for all major video cards.

wait.. are they trying to make me like them? Could we have sanity forming?

In fact, of all the things announced, only PackageKit is missing from my list of Ubuntu insanity that must be fixed. 

I am not so sure that embedding a website in an application is the best way to go for a music store (and I am also not still sold on the whole non-freeness of Ubuntu Ones code base). The user experience never really seemed nicely integrated nor accessible or usable. Every time people try this approach horror has ensued, e.g. the wikipedia support in Banshee really doesn't provide a nice experience whereas say the integration of Magnatune in Rhythmbox is nearly acceptable (lacks integrating buying, paying, downloading and importing to your collection as one step that doesn't require you to leave the application).

Overall though I am very pleased with the decisions for Lucid so far. Of course I would have loved to see a newer kernel due to some of the code that is set for merging but this is LTS and .32 is looking to be deployed other major enterprise distributions which lowers risk and increases stability as well as testing. It should serve us well for the coming years. 

As such I doubt Lucid will be extremely interesting but once we start the Lucid+1 cycle there is a lot technology converging and seeking polishing and integration. A good example here is how to shape a next generation desktop that integrates connectivity between known contacts using telepathy, how to make people high level objects in the new interface (also known as blurring out the idea of an IM client and replacing it with unified contact list, desktop integration and other nice concepts). We'll have some 2 years to do all of this work and explore, I believe the future is looking interesting.

---

