---
title: "10.04 beta 1 and beta 2"
date: 2010-04-10
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by azagaros on 2010-04-10
Let's start with hardware --
This is an Asus A9 laptop with a Celeron 1.8g processor single core.  It has 512mg ram and a 80gb drive.  

The video chip is a Ati radeon 200m I believe.

Ubuntu 9.10 would load but was prone to destroying the disk if caught wrong in the load up of the box.  

Since I had to rebuild the box every time this happens I thought I would go to with 10.04 Beta 1(Gnome) and it would load to a point and lock, waiting for something in the gnome environment to catch up.  I had to set the Boot stuff to no mode something to get it to even load.  Once loaded it wouldn't even get to things to work which I attribute to gnome and its problems.

With that pending failure I thought I would get 10.04 beta 2 as Kubuntu and it locks up somewhere when it tries to load for an install.  I also saw some errors that eluded to glib and a user ID before it would lock up completely, sometimes to a sleep mode.

This box originally started with Vista32 bit on it, which was sluggish.  I was trying to get a stable box to test builds of software which I was developing cross platform.

I don't know what I am seeing as exact problem to get this stuff to install at all.  I am searching for Linux distribution that I don't fight with relatively simple things.  Ubuntu was liked by many but it has too many human errors to be called Linux for Humans. 

I apologize commentary, but getting a working system is becoming a frustration.

---

### Post by bennachie on 2010-04-10
I'm not sure why you have experienced problems with the Gnome version of the 10.04 Beta 2 LiveCD; it seems to be working well for most people, including me, and I'm not aware of any inherent problems with Gnome.

However, a significant number of people did experience problems with the Kubuntu version of the LiveCD. The developers moved quickly to address the underlying bugs, and have issued a new disk image:

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/daily-live/20100410/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/daily-live/20100410/)

I'm happy to report that this latest version of the LiveCD is now working just fine, and I have installed the system on a couple of my computers (a Compaq C700 laptop and a Lenovo M9952 desktop). The installation went very smoothly in both cases. Both have pretty modest specifications, but do have 2GB of RAM. All the same, 512MB should really be enough.

---

### Post by Lollerke on 2010-04-11
The ATI 200M bug was fixed in the 2.6.32-20 kernel which was released a day ago,so todays or tomorrows daily live CD will work perfectly.

---

### Post by azagaros on 2010-04-11
I have given up on Ubuntu completely...  I went to OpenSuse.  It is more stable and runs better than 9.10 or 10.01.  It was a lot easier to use too..

For example Linksys WUSB54gcV3...The instructions for this Ubuntu were a mile long and if you could get the links you needed to work.  On OpenSUSE, it had the driver already there and it needed only a little sweet talking in the GUI to make it work.  The info was in their forums.

Other issues the install with 9.10/10.04(U/K) I don't mess with Live versions, only full ones.  The ATI express 200m was fixed last year in the OpenSUSE kernels which aren't the 2.6.32/33 kernels.  They are slated for the 11.3 release and will be 2.6.34/35 kernels.  How soon I don't know, but you can download and install those kernels on the 11.2 if you still have issues.

Ubuntu may be more popular but for humans I would go with OpenSUSE, which also have the live versions for those who don't want the 4.3gb iso's for the full version.

I will still be on the forums here but not using ubuntu.

---

### Post by recluce on 2010-04-11
> **azagaros said:**
> 

Ubuntu may be more popular but for humans I would go with OpenSUSE, which also have the live versions for those who don't want the 4.3gb iso's for the full version.

I will still be on the forums here but not using ubuntu.

While you are certainly welcome to the forums like anybody else, it would be nice to limit your posting to things on topic and actually constructive. Hint: I do not believe that your last posting qualifies in that regard.

---

