---
title: "fstab wierdness"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by noj91 on 2010-04-29
Hi all, finally got round to properly installing lucid having messed about with the live cd.

My problem, for media players to be able to find their libraries the partitions where the media reside need to be mounted. So I installed storage disc manager to generate the mount points and fstab info.Great now my desktop is covered with drive icons (I'm sure I can hide these with gconf) and all the partitions mounted

However I no longer get notifications about actions to take when a dvd or audio or blank cd is inserted into the drive.I manually created entries in fstab for the optical drives. audio cds are still not recognised dvds are mounted eg cdrom0 but still no notifications

I commented out the entries I created in /etc/fstab and bingo back to stage one, notifications back but having to mount my media partitions manually.

So what's the correct way to auto mount partitions without messing up cd/dvd behavior The fstab info generated bySDM was by /dev not uiid

Cheers keep up the good work jon

---

### Post by phillw on 2010-04-29
Hi and welcome,

I'm not in 10.04 at the moment but under System --> Administration there should be some thing like 'disk manager' utility, from there you can set it to auto-mount partitions etc. If you don't want them showing on your desktop then you'd need to mount them some where other then /media.
If no one else comes along and explains it for you, I'll pop into 10.04 and go through it with you.

Regards,

Phill.

---

### Post by NoVista on 2010-04-29
Something just changed this morning after running todays updates.
I changed nothing before todays update, and I last updated 12 hours ago.
I am getting an error message, once I get to desktop after boot, saying one of my partitions cannot be found, yet, it is there, and opens when i click on it.

"Could not find /media/Storage.
Please check the spelling and try again."

Oh oh, more problems right before it's released.

---

