---
title: "100% cpu"
date: 2010-02-17
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by plun on 2010-02-17
Trouble after todays update with 100% CPU......

Checked with **top** and first it was rsyslog and after that ubuntuone-client which gave high CPU.

Both packages removed and everything is back to normal.

Anyone more with this challenge  ?

---

### Post by dahlgren on 2010-02-17
I had the exact same issue.  Although not a proper fix, I removed rsyslogd(restarting the service was unsuccessful) and cpu usage went back down to normal.

---

### Post by plun on 2010-02-17
> **dahlgren said:**
> I removed rsyslogd(restarting the service was unsuccessful) and cpu usage went back down to normal.

Ok, I removed the rsyslog package and it was fine until I rebooted, after reboot ubuntoneclient gave high cpu so I also removed that one..

It is a laptop so it was burning hot after a while.....;)

---

### Post by plun on 2010-02-17
Bug filed:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rsyslog/+bug/523468](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rsyslog/+bug/523468)

---

### Post by MikeDK on 2010-02-19
have the same issue on alpha2 x86_64 logviewer shows filesystem /proc can not be read permission denied. did a clean install yesterday, only installed xchat and skype and after update today the rsyslogd shows 100-152% usage contantly. stopped the service and cpu came back to normal.

regards mikedk

---

### Post by Barcaro on 2010-02-19
Same issue here on Lucid i686, removing rsyslog and the cpu load now is normal.

---

### Post by piratemurray on 2010-02-19
Yup ditto AMD64 Lucid Lynx Alpha 2. This is eating away at my machine. What is this package and is it safe to remove? It makes watching Flash unbearably slow.

---

### Post by Julita on 2010-02-19
For cpu maintenance there is a great set of utilities cpufrequtils. Once you install it, you have cpufreq-info and cpufreq-set to manage the frequency and overheating. The demon cpufreqd is also great.

---

### Post by keypox on 2010-02-20
Same issue here removed rsyslog and cpu usuage back down. Just xorg and ff eating cpu lol.

---

### Post by Julita on 2010-02-20
Today was the record for the laptop temperature - 65C. Usually it's 55. I guess Opera is getting "heavier..."

---

### Post by zika on 2010-02-21
I've reported the same problem, not knowing about this thread, in a new therad.
I "solved" the problem with **sudo stop rsyslog**. Did not remove rsyslog, yet...
After reboot, rsyslog is burning CPU, again... So, I'll try to tame it in /etc/rc.local or somewhere similar...
Yes, putting **stop rsyslog** in **/etc/rc.local** tamed it...

---

### Post by plun on 2010-02-21
Ok, this is an ugly bug and hopefully resolved soon.

"Burning Laptop" was it for me.....:redface:

---

### Post by zika on 2010-02-21
> **plun said:**
> Ok, this is an ugly bug and hopefully resolved soon.

"Burning Laptop" was it for me.....:redface:The reason I've started to check is that my desktop (on the floor) was as loud as it never was... It's fans were working overtime... I thought I was imagining but once i saw the numbers, I knew...
The first thing I did, was, though, funny, chkrootkit... Paranoia...

---

### Post by ancleessen4 on 2010-02-24
Boinc was my problem-htop showed 98% CPU usage.
Package removed and cpu temps back to normal:)

---

### Post by zika on 2010-02-25
Upgrade solved the problem...

---

