---
title: "10.4 logging off after a few minutes without use"
date: 2010-04-08
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by tomislavp4 on 2010-04-08
Hi, guys! I am currently testing ubuntu lucid and I am very pleased with it but there is one thing that annoys me. When I leave the computer on and come back after a while I am logged out and I have to log in to my session again, is this some new feature or something? Because I had ubuntu 9.10 before and it didn't do this. I also searched for an option to disable it but didn't find anything. The problem with it is that I can't leave my torrent client on over night like I used to and it is annoying. Thanks

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-04-08
It should be in the power management settings under Adminstration --> Power Management

---

### Post by tomislavp4 on 2010-04-09
Yes I know, everything there is disabled and it is still logging me out after 10 minutes :confused:

---

### Post by plucky on 2010-04-09
> **tomislavp4 said:**
> Yes I know, everything there is disabled and it is still logging me out after 10 minutes :confused:

Check if you have power saving enabled in the BIOS settings.

Good Luck

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-09
Thread moved

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-04-09
Are you actually having to log in or are you having to unlock your screen?

If you check your screen saver preferences you will find the thing set at five minutes, lock screen, and black screen.

Uncheck lockscreen or set the time higher.  What ever blows your skirt up.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-09
The probrem may be in your screen saver's settings. Go to System> Preferences> Screensaver to make changes.

Cheers & Beers,
Ronnie

---

### Post by tomislavp4 on 2010-04-09
The first thing I want to do is apologize to the moderators for having to move the tread, I thought that that was the right place to post this but apparently I was wrong.

Thanks for all the replays guys, I really appreciate it. I think that it's solved now, the "problem" was the lock screen function of the screensaver like some of you said. I had the screensaver disabled from the startup programs so I thought that it was inactive and didn't even bother to check it. I will let the computer on overnight and see what happens, if the problem remains I'll post back.

Thanks, once more and have a nice day!

---

### Post by tomislavp4 on 2010-04-11
Nope, it still logs me out with everything in the powersettings and the screensaver disabled :confused:

---

### Post by amano on 2010-04-11
Well, it would be best to file a bug on launchpad then.

---

### Post by tomislavp4 on 2010-04-11
Will do :)

---

### Post by MichaelNW on 2010-04-11
> **tomislavp4 said:**
> Will do :)

What tracking number did you get?  I have the same problem and would like to monitor the status.

---

### Post by kinkajou45 on 2010-04-22
Same issue.  Checked all settings on power management and screen saver when it first came to my attention.  It doesn't seem to be related to either of those functions.  I have noticed updates are coming in pretty often (I downloaded the last beta version earlier in the week) and very minor glitches are disappearing with each update session. 

BTW, I have Lucid running on computers of various ages and manufacture, both desk top and laptop, and this particular behavior is consistent for the whole crew.  Otherwise this issue and difficulty in accessing some of the repositories have been the only bumps.  

Lynx rules.

---

