---
title: "10.04 and Dual Monitor flickering"
date: 2010-04-11
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by tbobo05 on 2010-04-11
I just upgraded to 10.04 and my previously working dual monitor setup is now defunct.  

System: 
Ubuntu 10.04 Beta 2
Ati X1250 in a Toshiba A215 Laptop
Samsung SyncMaster2333 23'' 1080p secondary monitor

Prior to upgrading my setup worked fine.  I used my external monitor set to 1920 x 1080 as my primary display and the laptop set to 1280x800 as my secondary display.  

After the upgrade my external monitor (VGA-0) is now flickering and distorted, almost like the refresh rate is out of sync.  

I have followed some suggestions as to using xrandr to set new modes and play with the refresh rates by hand.  Trying all refresh rates from 45Hz to 75Hz does not seem to help.  What else could be causing the flickering on my external monitor and not my laptop's display? What has changed in the newest update to Xorg to make the standard modes not work? Any ideas would be greatly appreciated!!

Optimum Mode for the Samsung external is 1920x1080 60Hz.

---

### Post by mirosul on 2010-04-14
I have the same problem on my Ubuntu 10.04 beta2, ATI X2500 video card.
Second monitor flickers and it worked in 9.10

Didn't find a solution so far...

---

### Post by jerome99 on 2010-04-14
I am having the same issue on a Lenovo T60 with the ATI 1440 gfx card

---

### Post by jerome99 on 2010-04-14
apparently the fix is [here]("http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/airlied/drm-2.6.git;a=commitdiff;h=267364ac17f6474c69b03034340f769b22f46105") but i have no idea on how to apply it.

[Source]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=27278")

---

### Post by evanct on 2010-04-14
bump, I need to know how to apply that fix too

---

### Post by jerome99 on 2010-04-15
it has been fixed with system updates (using pre-release updates)

---

### Post by ptgood on 2010-04-17
Same here... even with the latest updates....

ThinkPad T60p with ATI FireGL V5250

Any help? Any tips?

---

### Post by marijus on 2010-04-18
do you think this might be this bug?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/565305](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/565305)

---

### Post by ptgood on 2010-04-18
I don't know if the bug is exactly that.

More info: 
[LIST][*]with windows the same screen works perfectly.

[*]Also with Fedora, after an update of one month ago, the screen started flickering.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by Farenji on 2010-04-24
> **jerome99 said:**
> apparently the fix is [here]("http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/airlied/drm-2.6.git;a=commitdiff;h=267364ac17f6474c69b03034340f769b22f46105") but i have no idea on how to apply it.

[Source]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=27278")

It requires you to download the source code , apply the patch, then compile and install. If you've never done that, I suggest you wait until this is fixed by a software update.

But looking at the files patched, this patch will only do anything for radeon cards. I have a nvidia card with dual screen setup, and I have the same issues on my second monitor.

---

### Post by dr_latino999 on 2010-04-29
> **jerome99 said:**
> it has been fixed with system updates (using pre-release updates)

I just installed the RC today with the following hardware:

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV516 [Radeon X1300/X1550 Series]
01:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV516 [Radeon X1300 Pro] (Secondary)

And I have the flickering issue, so I don't believe a repository fix has been added.

---

