---
title: "10.04 (RC/Beta 2) ATI Mobility X300 Dual Monitors is completely b0rked"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by bluelamp999 on 2010-04-22
The title says it all really...

I've been running Ubuntu on my setup (Dell Latitude D810, ATI Mobility Radeon X300, 19" external Dell monitor) since 8.04 without issue.

With 10.04 however...

When starting up, both monitors show the Ubuntu logo on the purple background with the red dots. But when the boot sequence (GDM or whatever it's called) finishes everything goes completely bonkers...

The external monitor is ok showing the usual desktop but the laptop screen goes really weird with a gradually encroaching white, washed out effect coming in from the outer boundary of the screen.

When I try to use Preferences>Monitors to set up dual monitor mode (it starts in mirrored mode) both monitors just go completely garbled.

Obviously, I can't take a screenshot but if necessary I suppose I could take a photograph.

I haven't installed any external ATI drivers, I'm just using what comes with Ubuntu (which has always worked before.)

Does anybody have any idea wtf is going on?

Cheers...

Edit: BTW, the hardware is working fine in Windows...

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-04-22
Try disconnecting the external monitor - turning it off is not adequate. If once installed the problem persists, install the ATI restricted drivers. This is the only way I can get my dual monitor system up and running.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2010-04-22
HI

There is no ATI restricted drivers for that chip "ATI Mobility X300" and Lucid. Don't try it you will be unhappy. The default OSS  drivers is it on that legacy card. If you want a ATI restricted drivers you will need to go back to 8.04.4. You may be able to do a xorg.conf file to make it work, check 'man radeon'for more info.

Sharky

---

### Post by bluelamp999 on 2010-04-24
> **ronparent said:**
> Try disconnecting the external monitor - turning it off is not adequate. 

This is actually a brilliant idea. I'm annoyed that I didn't think of this myself...

However, depressingly, this did not help to fix the issue

> **ronparent said:**
> If once installed the problem persists, install the ATI restricted drivers. This is the only way I can get my dual monitor system up and running.

Thanks, but not an option with my particular card as Sharky has kindly pointed out...

What I have now done (just this minute!) is install a WUBI instance from the RC candidate ISO and run a full update (and yeah, I guess I really do need all those endless foreign language packs.)

And guess what? - EXACTLY.THE.SAME.ISSUE.

There are those who would point out that it's only a release candidate and that one should not expect everything to work perfectly.

A valid point...

However, how something so egregiously, disastrously, blatantly, plainly and horribly broken (in comparison to the previous release) could be allowed out the door is beyond me.

File a bug?

How could anyone other than the obsessed possibly file a bug if your displays are a moiré pattern of random gibberish? (Begs the question how/why I'm writing this right?)

Oh and BTW, when installing WUBI there were on screen messages saying things like "Installing blah, whatever ... 800% complete". This is just unbelievably slack, and makes the whole project look bad, sad and embarrassing.

If I was looking over somebody's shoulder whilst they're installing something and saw a message like the above I would have to question the integrity of what it is they're installing.

I'm ranting here but it's because I'm bitterly, deeply disappointed with something that I've spent the last 2 years eulogising.

And yes, I probably will get over myself. But I'm reaching out here...

Help please!

(maybe a simple 'bump' would have done here...)

---

