---
title: "10.04 Ubuntu Trash Bin Problem"
date: 2010-04-01
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by leeman101 on 2010-04-01
Hi i have been working with Lucid Lynx Beta 1 for a few days now and have noticed every time i attemp to open the trash bin, the trash bin becomes unresponsive before even loading the content.  However..., if i right click the trash bin icon in a panel, i can choose to empty the bin that way and it works fine. Is anyone else unable to open the Trash Bin to browse the contents as well with 10.04 Beta?

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-04-01
Threads about Lucid should be posted in the[ Lucid Development subforum]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=377"), as long as it is in development. I've asked for it to be moved ;)

---

### Post by leeman101 on 2010-04-01
Thanks for the move request..  tried my best to place it in the proper category.  now i know.
I havent found any other posts stating this problem... maybe im the only one?

---

### Post by QwUo173Hy on 2010-04-01
leeman101, I had this problem a while back - I'm talking weeks, but I haven't noticed it lately. Are you fully updated?

---

### Post by leeman101 on 2010-04-01
Yes i have fully updated everything.. at least to my knowledge.

---

### Post by QwUo173Hy on 2010-04-01
I've just deleted a few files and had no problem opening the folder. I remember that when I experienced the problem, I had a LOT of files and they were large. So I copied my music files to a new folder and deleted them. I had no problem this time around.

I'm not in-the-know with the Disk Utility in System->Preferences, but I'd run it's diagnostic tool on your hard-disk to make sure there are no corruptions. (It mightn't work on a mounted drive though)

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-04-01
If you run this command, it should shut down your PC and run fdisk, which will check your disks for errors.

```
sudo shutdown -rF now
```

---

### Post by leeman101 on 2010-04-02
Thanks guys.  This morning and so far today, the trash folder has had no problems.  I didn't change anything.. Not sure what the problem was but it works now.  :)

---

### Post by sixthwheel on 2010-04-02
No problems here either with the trash folder

---

