---
title: "10.04 beta 1 won't finish boot after upgrade from karmic"
date: 2010-04-05
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by vav on 2010-04-05
My 10.04 beta 1 gets stuck just after 'cannot mount /proc/bus/usb'

Interestingly, it booted up once, on the second try after the upgrade from karmic. So I thought it fixed itself, and rebooted - it doesn't go through any more. 

It's still 'alive' when stuck, so it honors a Ctrl+Alt+Delete and runs through the reboot again, only to stop again after reporting the /proc/bus/usb error.

How do I debug this? I don't even get a terminal! So I can't dump dmesg...

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-04-05
You will get more help if you post your beta-related issued in the proper beta testing forum: Development & Programming, Lucid Lynx Testing.

I will be asking the Mods to move this thread there for you.  Please look there for future replies.

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-04-05
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> You will get more help if you post your beta-related issued in the proper beta testing forum: Development & Programming, Lucid Lynx Testing.

I will be asking the Mods to move this thread there for you.  Please look there for future replies.

Done.

---

### Post by vav on 2010-04-05
Thanks... couldn't find the forum intuitively from the front page!

---

### Post by vav on 2010-04-06
I found my error: 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-release-notes/+bug/510415](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-release-notes/+bug/510415)

This bug is marked closed, but surfaced for me with my fstab line
usbfs /proc/bus/usb ...

At present my system luckily booted up, so I've put 'nobootwait' in all my fstab lines except / and /proc

---

### Post by vav on 2010-04-09
Now mountall consumes 100% cpu!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-09
There is no /proc/bus/usb in Lucid, if you comment out the entry in fstab you shouldn't have a problem.

---

