---
title: "10.04 Upgrade caused Vista not starting"
date: 2010-03-28
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by alex69 on 2010-03-28
Hi,
I've (I had) a double boot machine with karmic/Vista until I made the upgrade to ubuntu 10.04.
From that, the new GRUB installed caused that Vista (always seen by the grub configuration but with another name, now Vista is called "Windows Recovery Environment" starting from (hd0,2) as the old working configuration ) do not start when needed.

Now when I try to boot from Vista simply happen noting! the cursor start blinding faster for hours (I've tried to wait long time to whatch if something should happen...) 

If someone want to try to help me, I paste the "grub.cfg" for him:

GRUB.CFG
_________________________________________

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd1,3)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 795ff9dd-1494-4cc1-b513-f3bae3c8b0b7
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd1,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec6f1416-84e6-4e10-9faf-8939cff2fc4e
set locale_dir=($root)/grub/locale
set lang=it
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-17-generic" --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd1,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec6f1416-84e6-4e10-9faf-8939cff2fc4e
	linux	/vmlinuz-2.6.32-17-generic root=UUID=795ff9dd-1494-4cc1-b513-f3bae3c8b0b7 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/initrd.img-2.6.32-17-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-17-generic (recovery mode)" --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd1,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec6f1416-84e6-4e10-9faf-8939cff2fc4e
	echo	Loading Linux 2.6.32-17-generic ...
	linux	/vmlinuz-2.6.32-17-generic root=UUID=795ff9dd-1494-4cc1-b513-f3bae3c8b0b7 ro single 
	echo	Loading initial ramdisk ...
	initrd	/initrd.img-2.6.32-17-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-16-generic" --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd1,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec6f1416-84e6-4e10-9faf-8939cff2fc4e
	linux	/vmlinuz-2.6.32-16-generic root=UUID=795ff9dd-1494-4cc1-b513-f3bae3c8b0b7 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/initrd.img-2.6.32-16-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-16-generic (recovery mode)" --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd1,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec6f1416-84e6-4e10-9faf-8939cff2fc4e
	echo	Loading Linux 2.6.32-16-generic ...
	linux	/vmlinuz-2.6.32-16-generic root=UUID=795ff9dd-1494-4cc1-b513-f3bae3c8b0b7 ro single 
	echo	Loading initial ramdisk ...
	initrd	/initrd.img-2.6.32-16-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd1,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec6f1416-84e6-4e10-9faf-8939cff2fc4e
	linux16	/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd1,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set ec6f1416-84e6-4e10-9faf-8939cff2fc4e
	linux16	/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows NT/2000/XP (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b044cc1716d9b5d2
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Windows Recovery Environment (loader) (on /dev/sda2)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root='(hd0,2)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b870c80c70c7cf76
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2010-03-28
Try booting into a livecd and updating grub.
```
update-grub2
```

Please see links in signature for further grub troubleshooting steps.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-03-28
If the update grub does not work post this so we can see all the details:

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Be sure to highlight and use code tags (#) to make it easier to read when you post the results.txt.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-03-28
Moved to Lucid.

---

### Post by Steel-Bunz on 2010-04-24
Yesterday, I upgraded my friend's dual boot to Lucid RC. Same issue; "Windows Recovery Environment" is the only available GRUB entry for Windows... If I select it, the screen goes blank and Windows doesn't boot.. After 2-3 tries, it booted fine..

Fingers crossed... Could become a problem; lot of folks would have dual boot Karmic on a Vista system...

---

### Post by mmalone21 on 2010-04-24
It seem like this is a becoming a common issue. I installed lucid on a singe boot machine so have not experienced the issue but have corrupted my Master boot record in vista before on a dual boot machine. One thing I have learned is to let windows determine the time settings, anytime I do a dual boot Ubuntu / windows install I never change anytime settings in the Ubuntu installer and always install Vista first. If Ubuntu and Vista are already on the System then I update to the new; alpha, beta, release candidate, or final using the update manager and a wired Ethernet connection due to potential wireless card driver issues during the install. It may be worth posting a Bug report on launchpad. Just a thought.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-04-24
Sounds like a good feature to me.

However, others may differ.  You should run;
```

sudo update-grub

```
and then 
```

sudo grub-mkconfig

```
Check the output of the last command and you can see if the MS entry is correct.

Sometimes when that is run by the installer, or on an upgrade, it just doesn't quite get it right.  Running from terminal will fix this about 95% of the time (or better).

This is a problem with os-prober which has come a long way since 9.10 but still has a way to go.

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-04-24
> **mmalone21 said:**
> It seem like this is a becoming a common issue.
Confirmed that something's up: grub2 identified my Vista install as a recovery tool, and the recovery partition as Vista loader. More of a minor annoyance. I haven't looked into "fixing" it yet.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2010-04-24
I guess I ran into this too. After I upgraded Grub had identified my Vista install as "Windows Recovery Environment" and my Windows recovery partition as "Windows Vista" :lolflag:

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-04-25
In Windows 7 and Ubuntu dual boot with grub2  always reads the Windows 7 recovery partition as Vista. It is just the way Linux reads Windows. But I have used the option
in grub menu and it works as recovery for Windows 7.

---

### Post by Steel-Bunz on 2010-04-25
Just sent out a warning to some of my friends :( not to upgrade 9.10 to 10.04... No, this will not be a minor annoyance... In about a weeks time, lot of folks are going to click upgrade in their dual boot machine...:)

One thing we overlook is this: Lot of mainstream laptops/desktops sold  by HP, DELL, etc.., never come with Vista Recovery DVD... So,  people with Vista boot issues will not be able to recover their Windows  easily...

As one can imagine, this is difficult to recreate unless you have a dual boot system lying around and you have some vista installation dvds... First, dual boot 9.10 with Vista, then upgrade it to 10.04...

---

### Post by Steel-Bunz on 2010-04-25
Filed a Bug Report... [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/569656](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/569656)

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-04-25
> **Steel-Bunz said:**
> Filed a Bug Report... [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/569656](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/569656)
Thanks.

---

### Post by KrazyPenguin on 2010-04-25
"# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE"

Best advice to start with, I wouldn't edit that file.

---

