---
title: "10.04Beta installer boot location issue"
date: 2010-03-25
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2010-03-25
Just installed the 10.04Beta and found this forum.  So far its going pretty smooth.  My main issue is on the step 8 of 8 in the installer on the "advanced" button pop up dialog, the drop down to select the boot loader location doesn't seem to stick.  It appeared to work when I typed in the box to change /dev/sda to /dev/sdb.

Same issue I had with 9.10 where the installer is not honoring the BIOS boot order and making my SATA drive be sda when the bios will boot from IDE 0 primary which is also where the Beta is installed and is labeled /dev/sdb

I seem to notice few if any libxxx-dev packages available so far.  I wanted to get a head start on my version 2 application targeting 10.04 (version 1 was developed  on 6.06, and I ported to 8.04 easily, but the benefits weren't worth the pain of updating the systems already in use) but /usr/include is pretty empty in 10.04Beta :(

327 updates installed already!

Sorry to say the overall GUI function was greatly improved after installing the Nvidia proprietary drivers -- several window redraw problems went away.

--wally.

---

### Post by VMC on 2010-03-25
Regarding the non-sticking device. Your correct. I had the same problem. What you have to do is hand type the correct device yourself. It is misleading as it shows all you partitions, and once you select one, your lead to believe that it will be used. Its not.

---

