---
title: "10.04 install on RAID"
date: 2010-04-06
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by e4uforums on 2010-04-06
I'll be installing 10.04 tomorrow and I'm trying to get prepared.

This is my MB - [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813131363](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813131363)

My controller is setup as "RAID" in the bios.  I have 4 disks:

2x Seagate 1.5TB in RAID 1
1x Seagate 750GB Single Disk with Windows 7
1x WD 1 TB Single Disk brand new - un-partitioned and un-formatted 

I want to install 10.04 onto the 1TB WD drive that I just received.  My question - do I need any special drivers to complete the installation?  When I installed Win7 I needed to provide the RAID driver - will there be any special steps to installing 10.04 on this setup or can I just install from the Live CD?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-06
Moved to lucid testing forum.

---

### Post by Stason on 2010-04-06
> **e4uforums said:**
> 
1x WD 1 TB JBOD brand new


I dont see how one disk comes to be a "bunch"? 
	:wink:

---

### Post by e4uforums on 2010-04-06
Maybe I'm using the term incorrectly, but I've always used JBOD to describe a disk connected to a RAID controller that was not part of an array.

---

### Post by Stason on 2010-04-06
One disk is just that. Should you have any difficulties due to poor software raid support in ubuntu you might want to try the instructions here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1360445](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1360445) - it helped me for sure.

---

### Post by e4uforums on 2010-04-08
UPDATE:

I installed Lucid last night and everything (pertaining to RAID) went just fine.  The GUI installer ran without issue, installed to the new 1TB drive, and added my Windows 7 install from the 750GB disk to GRUB.  The 1.5TB RAID 1 was visible and accessible from within Lucid.

I had some miserable problems with my video card, but as I understand the ATI Proprietary drivers are not working fully in Lucid right now.  I should have come to the forums before I spent 3 hours installing, uninstalling and reinstalling the drivers in every different way possible.  ](*,)  You live and you learn!

---

### Post by bsmith1051 on 2010-04-08
> **e4uforums said:**
> The GUI installer ran without issue, installed to the new 1TB drive, and added my Windows 7 install from the 750GB disk to GRUB.  The 1.5TB RAID 1 was visible and accessible from within Lucid.
You had an existing Win7 install with a RAID-1 array managed by the motherboard controller?  This is what is termed 'fake raid' in Linux circles and I thought it was generally unsupported, out-of-the-box at least.  So it's good to hear that the current Lucid recognized it!

Also, are you sure it's treating it properly, i.e., if you write to the 'drive' it's saved to both?  The only way you'd know it, I think, would be to boot Win7 and do a check?

Or, is the dmraid driver loaded in Lucid? That's the driver for motherboard-based raid controllers.  If so, then you should be able run some kind of check from Lucid.

---

### Post by e4uforums on 2010-04-08
I didn't do any formal testing on the RAID 1 array.  As I mentioned I read some files from the drive successfully but that's all.  I read somewhere once that Linux could read an NTFS partition just fine, but writing to it was shotty - so in short, I didn't try writing any files.

It is certainly FakeRaid.

Just to clarify:

Win7 is on disk 1
Lucid is on disk 2
disk 3 & 4 are the RAID 1 array

---

### Post by keithy on 2010-04-08
FWIW,

The first Ubuntu distribution which correctly detected and allowed installation on my nvidia RAID0 array was Karmic.

has worked a dream with dual boot XP (although I dont use that much anymore :))

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-04-08
I know nothing about raid but I do have Hardy installed on my Dreaded Mother In Laws Vista machine (it will come in handy when Vista quits for some reason) and have no trouble reading or writing to the Vista files.

I would think that this functionality would be better in 10.04.  I am not going to put a testing release on her box and even less likely to put an MS product on mine so I have no way to test this.

I would give it a try, were I you, by creating a file, from Lucid, in Win JerryLewis Pro (or whatever you have) and experimenting with different forms of files.

I would think that the OOo files may loose some formating maybe (spread sheets - complex text) but simple text and image files should be no problem at all.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-08
I used fake raid as far back as Hardy, but gave it up due continued data corruption. The same two drives are in use two years later with no data problems.

I haven't tried it, but apparently software raid works much better, unless you have a dedicated raid card.

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-04-08
> I want to install 10.04 onto the 1TB WD drive that I just received. My question - do I need any special drivers to complete the installation?

Ubuntu should install on your 1TB drive -- its not a fake raid array. Ubuntu may not recognize your fake raid1 array but probably will. Although fakeraid is unsupported it often works transparently in ubuntu/debian. To be honest, i never use fakeraid because software raid works well in linux and there is little difference in speed. Now a hardware raid adapter --- thats a different story.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2010-04-08
The bottom line is that you are stuck with the use of 'fake raid' if you wish to access your raid arrays both with win 7 and ubuntu. This shouldn't be a particular problem especially now that dmraid is apparently installed with Lucid. You can easily check if your raid array is activated after booting lucid by writing **sudo dmraid -ay** in a teriminal. If the response is along the lines of <your raid drives> already active then the raid has been activated on boot. They should also show up as mountable drives in nautilus. If not you may have to establish a mount point and make a notation in fstab to mount them on boot. Unfortunately I cannot currently run Lucid on my only machine that currently uses a raid drive to check out the details of the behavior myself.

---

