---
title: "10.04 crashed very new to Linux"
date: 2010-04-14
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by drillerccg on 2010-04-14
Hi,

I have very limited knowledge of Linux but felt comfortable enough to venture out of the "norm" and install Ubuntu 10.04 on 6 computers I own and use for everyday usage. 3 are Dell Latitude laptops,2 old Dell Dimension desktops and one Compaq desktop.

Everything is fine for all Dell hardware. The Compaq is crashing at Login. I installed from a Live CD, erased the whole hard drive. Everything worked fine for a few days. Then I updated all packages through the update manager yesterday and now when I get to the Login, as soon as I click the user name, the mouse freezes. After a few seconds it appears to restart the Login page and the same thing happens. I can't go anywhere to diagnose the problem. Re-installed everything using a new Live CD and the same thing happened after I updated again. The only thing I found in Google was about the Video card from 2006. I do have an nvidia card that the "hardware drivers" activated with a new driver.

I'm thinking about installing 9.10 but really love the 10.04 on the other machines. Or I could re-install the 10.04 and not update it which makes me paranoid. Please if you help be very specific, I'm very new to Linux and my knowledge of programing is quite limited. Although I can follow direction quite well:P

---

### Post by luvgirl12345 on 2010-04-14
i would wait until the final release of 10.4... even though im using it on one computer and everythings fine. 10.4 is still in beta stage for a few weeks!

---

### Post by Miyavix3 on 2010-04-14
You could always try removing the gfx card for a few minutes and boot without it.

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-04-14
> **Miyavix3 said:**
> You could always try removing the gfx card for a few minutes and boot without it.
???
And how would that help in any way. Without a graphics card you can't get anything to display on your monitor...

@drillerccg:
If you are very new to linux, you should consider using a stable version of ubuntu instead of one that is still in beta. And the proper place to search for help with 10.04 is [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=377").

A quick search for "gdm crashes" in the 10.04 development forum would get you [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1443520&highlight=gdm+crashes"), which seems to discuss your problem. Not sure if there is any real fix for it yet.
In case you didn't know: gdm is the desktop manager, which among other things give you the login  screen.
And you should try to report this bug on [launchpad]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/"), so that it can be fixed before lucid is released.

---

### Post by darolu on 2010-04-14
> **jocko said:**
> In case you didn't know: gdm is the desktop manager, which among other things give you the login  screen.
This is not true.

GDM stands for GNOME Display Manager, a graphical login program.
GNOME (GNU Network Object Model Environment) is the Desktop Environment. Although I'm not entirely sure, the actual default "desktop manager" would be Nautilus as it controls the 'desktop' by default (icons, wallpaper).

---

### Post by drillerccg on 2010-04-14
[B] Thank you for the help jocko. I will post my issue in the mentioned forum also to help the developers. I guess I should wait for the stable version.
[/B]

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-04-14
Move to Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion

---

### Post by meborc on 2010-04-14
> **drillerccg said:**
> Hi,

I have very limited knowledge of Linux but felt comfortable enough to venture out of the "norm" and install Ubuntu 10.04 on 6 computers I own and use for everyday usage. 3 are Dell Latitude laptops,2 old Dell Dimension desktops and one Compaq desktop.

Everything is fine for all Dell hardware. The Compaq is crashing at Login. I installed from a Live CD, erased the whole hard drive. Everything worked fine for a few days. Then I updated all packages through the update manager yesterday and now when I get to the Login, as soon as I click the user name, the mouse freezes. After a few seconds it appears to restart the Login page and the same thing happens. I can't go anywhere to diagnose the problem. Re-installed everything using a new Live CD and the same thing happened after I updated again. The only thing I found in Google was about the Video card from 2006. I do have an nvidia card that the "hardware drivers" activated with a new driver.

I'm thinking about installing 9.10 but really love the 10.04 on the other machines. Or I could re-install the 10.04 and not update it which makes me paranoid. Please if you help be very specific, I'm very new to Linux and my knowledge of programing is quite limited. Although I can follow direction quite well:P

why don't you install from a daily live iso so you can try day-by-day at what point it will be fixed

or you could install from the cd you have and not upgrade until final release is out

---

### Post by xx58 on 2010-04-14
:rolleyes:You are the new and you need wait and only install stable version. 10.04 will relies 29 April, but  you supposed wait list 2 month and install only in last days on June. Every day go to Ubuntu forum and read how everybody doing and what kind problems 10.04 have and how do fix it? 10.04 are LTS and it will be there long time, so take your time.

---

### Post by CryptoPaul on 2010-04-14
> **drillerccg said:**
> Hi,

....

Everything is fine for all Dell hardware. The Compaq is crashing at Login. I installed from a Live CD, erased the whole hard drive. Everything worked fine for a few days. Then I updated all packages through the update manager yesterday and now when I get to the Login, as soon as I click the user name, the mouse freezes. After a few seconds it appears to restart the Login page and the same thing happens. I can't go anywhere to diagnose the problem. Re-installed everything using a new Live CD and the same thing happened after I updated again. The only thing I found in Google was about the Video card from 2006. I do have an nvidia card that the "hardware drivers" activated with a new driver.

....



Looks like you are experiencing this bug perhaps:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-96/+bug/553200](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-96/+bug/553200)

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-04-15
> **darolu said:**
> This is not true.

GDM stands for GNOME Display Manager, a graphical login program.
GNOME (GNU Network Object Model Environment) is the Desktop Environment. Although I'm not entirely sure, the actual default "desktop manager" would be Nautilus as it controls the 'desktop' by default (icons, wallpaper).
Yep. I meant to write display manager, not desktop manager...

---

### Post by Miyavix3 on 2010-04-16
> **jocko said:**
> ???
And how would that help in any way. Without a graphics card you can't get anything to display on your monitor...


onboard video

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-04-16
> **drillerccg said:**
> 

Everything worked fine for a few days. Then I updated all packages through the update manager yesterday and now when I get to the Login, as soon as I click the user name, the mouse freezes. After a few seconds ... 

It is great that you tale part in testing the beta and report problems. 

In order to avoid trouble as you described, I would search this forum before doing any updates. If there is a lot of 'latest update broke my installation'-posts here, wait a bit.

---

