---
title: "Can't get updates in chroot"
date: 2009-12-17
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-12-17
I am trying to work on one of my installs and I can't get anything to download.

Claims network-manager is working.

Other chrooted OS' work fine just not this one.

Tried;
> 
root@sam-desktop:/# ping [http://wcg.userfriendly.org/](http://wcg.userfriendly.org/)
ping: unknown host [http://wcg.userfriendly.org/](http://wcg.userfriendly.org/)

address copy/pasted from FF on working site.

What, Oh What do I do?

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-12-17
> **ranch hand said:**
> I am trying to work on one of my installs and I can't get anything to download.

Claims network-manager is working.

Other chrooted OS' work fine just not this one.

Tried;

address copy/pasted from FF on working site.

What, Oh What do I do?

What does this show:
ifconfig

Did you try:
Usage: /etc/init.d/networking {start|stop|restart|force-reload}

Also, here's some reading for your pleasure:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-12-17
Well the second one gave me this;
> 
root@sam-desktop:/# /etc/init.d/networking {start|stop|restart|force-reload}
stop: missing job name
Try `stop --help' for more information.
restart: missing job name
Try `restart --help' for more information.
force-reload}: command not found

and the first this;
> 
root@sam-desktop:/# ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1d:09:2d:0a:49  
          inet addr:10.0.0.4  Bcast:10.255.255.255  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21d:9ff:fe2d:a49/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:31173 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:25564 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:100 
          RX bytes:30274070 (30.2 MB)  TX bytes:7191540 (7.1 MB)
          Memory:febe0000-fec00000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:43913 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:43913 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:99819806 (99.8 MB)  TX bytes:99819806 (99.8 MB)

I ran start network-manager earlier and it said it was working, this has worked in the CLI in recovery to get me connected.

I can boot into the OS and the eht0 connection is great.  I just have a lot of stuff running here and do not like to leave it.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-12-17
When I try to ping that site you gave I got the same result:
vmc@vmc-desktop:~$ ping [http://wcg.userfriendly.org/](http://wcg.userfriendly.org/)
ping: unknown host [http://wcg.userfriendly.org/](http://wcg.userfriendly.org/)


By the way, that command I gave is its usage. You need to give only one parameter, like so:
/etc/init.d/networking start


Your 'ifconfig' looks just like mine. You can't download any file. Is that it?

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2009-12-17
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
That above file needs to list valid nameservers before a chroot can connect to sites by hostname.

This is usually done via copying the file from host into the chroot.

Regards
Iain

edit:
Oh, and it is:
```
ping wcg.userfriendly.org
```

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-12-17
> **tinivole said:**
> ```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```That above file needs to list valid nameservers before a chroot can connect to sites by hostname.

This is usually done via copying the file from host into the chroot.

Regards
Iain

edit:
Oh, and it is:
```
ping wcg.userfriendly.org
```
I believe that this is the problem.

The file in that OS just says "# Generated by NetworkManager" but my other OS' have a second line "nameserver 10.0.0.2".

Adding that second line made all the difference in the world.  Works great.

Thanks a whole bunch.  Now I can finish my abuse of that OS remotely and won't have to watch it suffer.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-12-19
Well, I really do thank you again tinivole.

I installed CentOS where my Lounge Lizard was (I'm bummed one of my Lizards died).  Guess what I had to do to Senseless.  Up Yum couldn't connect either because of an empty file there.

Upgrading right now.

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2009-12-20
No problems mate. Glad you got everything sort out OK. :)

---

