---
title: "2.6.32-2"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by cecilpierce on 2009-11-04
just got the 32 kernel, everything is good so far.

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2009-11-04
Upgraded yesterday, I think suspend is broken on my laptop. After a suspend the laptop didn't wake up, then wouldn't boot past the BIOS POST until I powered off and booted with no battery in!

Other than that, though, disk performance looks much better than under .31 which created huge amounts of IOWAIT for no apparent reason.

---

### Post by graaant on 2009-11-04
Works well for me too!
Performance is good, but for some reason I get strange colours around the usplash white Ubuntu logo :(

---

### Post by graaant on 2009-11-04
Works well for me too!
Performance is good, but for some reason I get strange colours around the usplash white Ubuntu logo :(

---

### Post by LKjell on 2009-11-04
Virtualbox is not working though. And I am not going to compile it..

---

### Post by caryb on 2009-11-04
> **LKjell said:**
> Virtualbox is not working though. And I am not going to compile it..

Yes I get this during the kernel install

> *  vboxnetflt (3.0.8)...                                                                                                                                    vboxnetflt (3.0.8): Installing module.
........(bad exit status: 10)
  Build failed.  Installation skipped.

Cary

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2009-11-04
[quick virtualbox fix for 3.0.8]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313143") 
3.0.10 uses this fix upstream

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-04
I got it this morning on a 9.10 upgrade install and on an upgrade from from 9.04.  They both seem to perform very well with it.

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-04
Quick question. What's the Alsa version in 2.6.32? I've heard it's 1.0.21, but I can't seem to find it anywhere to confirm. The reason I ask is because of the X-Fi I have.

---

### Post by ssam on 2009-11-04
> **Zoot7 said:**
> Quick question. What's the Alsa version in 2.6.32? I've heard it's 1.0.21, but I can't seem to find it anywhere to confirm. The reason I ask is because of the X-Fi I have.

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver)
lucid has 1.0.21+dfsg-3ubuntu1

there is an rss feed that will tell you all the package changes [http://feeds.ubuntu-nl.org/LucidChanges](http://feeds.ubuntu-nl.org/LucidChanges)

---

### Post by Zoot7 on 2009-11-05
> **ssam said:**
> [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver)
lucid has 1.0.21+dfsg-3ubuntu1

there is an rss feed that will tell you all the package changes [http://feeds.ubuntu-nl.org/LucidChanges](http://feeds.ubuntu-nl.org/LucidChanges)
Now that I did not know. Thanks for the information! :)

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2009-11-05
nvidia 190.42 fails to build for me with 2.6.32-2 and with 2.6.32-rc6.

2.6.32-rc5 is ok, but the nvidia module was built a couple of weeks ago with the karmic tool chain.

The 2.6.32-2 install failed last night (same problem as below).

Here's part of the output from dpkg when I tried to install 2.6.32-rc6 this morning:

```
Examining /etc/kernel/postinst.d. 
run-parts: executing /etc/kernel/postinst.d/dkms 
 * Running DKMS auto installation service for kernel 2.6.32-020632rc6-generic                                                                                                                                                                
 *  nvidia (190.42)...                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nvidia (190.42): Installing module. 
.......(bad exit status: 10) 
  Build failed.  Installation skipped. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      [fail] 

```

In the nvidia make log, I see this:

```
paul@lucid:~$ cat /var/lib/dkms/nvidia/190.42/build/make.log

DKMS make.log for nvidia-190.42 for kernel 2.6.32-020632rc6-generic (i686)

Thu Nov  5 11:20:20 GMT 2009



The C compiler 'cc' does not appear to be able to

create executables.  Please make sure you have 

your Linux distribution's gcc and libc development

packages installed.



*** Failed CC sanity check. Bailing out! ***



make: *** [select_makefile] Error 1

paul@lucid:~$ 


```

I have libc6, libc6-i686 and libc6-dev installed (all v2.10.1-3-ubuntu1)  and gcc v4.4.4.1-1ubuntu2.

Anyone else experience the same thing?

Back to using 2.6.32-rc5 for now.

---

### Post by VMC on 2009-11-05
> **graaant said:**
> Works well for me too!
Performance is good, but for some reason I get strange colours around the usplash white Ubuntu logo :(

Ok, that it explains the psychedelic phenomenon, I was seeing. I thought it had to do with xsplash.

---

### Post by wildweathel on 2009-11-05
> **LKjell said:**
> Virtualbox is not working though. And I am not going to compile it..

That is, you can't build the modules required to run a Virtualbox host?

I can't make it *boot* on Virtualbox 3.0.8 OSE with dynamic recompilation.  It hangs around the time it tries to initialize SMP, even if I set "nosmp." 
There's a big delay after "Checking 'hlt' instruction... OK." of several seconds.  Then "SMP alternatives: switching to UP code" and a maxed-out virtual CPU.

I think I'll try upgrading before trying to figure out what's causing this; make sure it's not a fixed Virtualbox bug.

---

### Post by linux6994 on 2009-11-05
The recent update including the headers allows Virtualbox 3.0.8 OSE to work just fine.

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2009-11-05
Booted 2.6.32-rC5
Tried to install/upgrade to 2.6.32-2
nvidia module 190.42 build failed

Then tried:

```
export IGNORE_CC_MISMATCH=1
```

This didn't work. However (to cut a long story short), booting 2.6.32-2 to the console and reinstalling nvidia 190.42 gave me a working system again.

```
cat /proc/version
Linux version 2.6.32-2-generic (buildd@rothera) (gcc version 4.4.2 (Ubuntu 4.4.2-1ubuntu1) ) #2-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 31 17:07:12 UTC 2009
```

whereas 2.6.32-rc5 was compiled with gcc v4.2.3 I think it was.

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2009-11-06
>  * Not starting NFS kernel daemon: no support in current kernel.

fack... lol

---

### Post by LKjell on 2009-11-06
I use 3.0.10 now. And I love the USB support.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-11-06
> **graaant said:**
> Works well for me too!
Performance is good, but for some reason I get strange colours around the usplash white Ubuntu logo :(

Same issue here. Did you file a bug report?

---

### Post by Aleyx on 2009-11-10
> **wildweathel said:**
> I can't make it *boot* on Virtualbox 3.0.8 OSE with dynamic recompilation.  It hangs around the time it tries to initialize SMP, even if I set "nosmp." 
There's a big delay after "Checking 'hlt' instruction... OK." of several seconds.  Then "SMP alternatives: switching to UP code" and a maxed-out virtual CPU.


I have the exact same problem with VirtualBox 3.0.10 (non-OSE).  The same virtual machine boots with kernel 2.6.31-14, though.

---

### Post by crowax on 2009-11-10
> **Aleyx said:**
> I have the exact same problem with VirtualBox 3.0.10 (non-OSE).  The same virtual machine boots with kernel 2.6.31-14, though.
Me too, I have the same problem

---

### Post by dino99 on 2009-11-10
work fine here

curiously, aptitude install -f want to install 31.14 again even if 31.15 is installed

---

### Post by xebian on 2009-11-10
> **dino99 said:**
> work fine here

curiously, aptitude install -f want to install 31.14 again even if 31.15 is installed

Aptitude will upgrade any version installed if there is a newer candidate.

Curiously, where did you get 31.15?  It must be not Ubuntu as I don't recall seeing any.  Ubuntu's version numbering is 31-14 not 31.14.

BTW running guest Kubuntu lucid 32-3 kernel here on VBox 3.0.10 PUEL on karmic host 32-3 kernel all 64-bit VTx/AMD enabled with no problem.  The only thing I can see different from others is I don't use dkms.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-11-10
> **xebian said:**
> 

Curiously, where did you get 31.15?  It must be not Ubuntu as I don't recall seeing any.  Ubuntu's version numbering is 31-14 not 31.14.



Came through an update.

---

### Post by xebian on 2009-11-10
> **DougieFresh4U said:**
> Came through an update.

That's interesting. Even packages.ubuntu.com search does not show it and it doesn't show in aptitude search either


```

p   linux-image                                      - Generic Linux kernel image.
v   linux-image-2.6                                  -
i   linux-image-2.6.31-13-generic                    - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.31 on x86/x86_64
i A linux-image-2.6.31-14-generic                    - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.31 on x86/x86_64
p   linux-image-2.6.31-14-server                     - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.31 on x86_64
p   linux-image-2.6.31-14-virtual                    - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.31 on x86/x86_64
p   linux-image-2.6.31-302-ec2                       - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.31 on x86/x86_64
p   linux-image-2.6.31-9-rt                          - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.31 on Ingo Molnar's ful
i   linux-image-2.6.32-2-generic                     - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.32 on x86/x86_64
i   linux-image-2.6.32-3-generic                     - Linux kernel image for version 2.6.32 on x86/x86_64
p   linux-image-ec2                                  - Linux kernel image for ec2 machines
i   linux-image-generic                              - Generic Linux kernel image
p   linux-image-rt                                   - Rt Linux kernel image
p   linux-image-server                               - Linux kernel image on Server Equipment.
p   linux-image-virtual                              - Linux kernel image for virtual machines

```

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-11-10
It's from Karmic via the backports----

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2009-11-11
Well, 2.6.32-2 goes black on Thinkpad with i830 video.  The xorg didn't change.  Workaround, boot 2.6.31-14 which still works on the same install and same intel video driver.

Another workaround is to edit the boot to use nomodeset.  Modeset works on 2.6.31-14 but not with 2.6.32-2.

Do note 2.6.32-2 on one of my other test pc's works.  It has i845 video.  

Karmic went thru a bunch of changes where xorg stayed the same, the linux-image changed and the i830 would go black. Eventually the karmic linux-image changed and the i830 started working again.  Even the i845 a couple times, and ati for a time.  On the i830 karmic RC works O.K. and lucid did as well until 2.6.32-2.

Launchpad bug directions say to run apport.  Apport?  Ever try to run apport with a black screen?  Or ubuntu-bug either?  So I did boot with nomodeset and tried to do ubuntu-bug, however after gathering all the data and selecting to send the report to development it says "Oops, something went wrong with launchpad" so no bug report.

Wonder what the next update will do.  Lucid's just getting started....

Jerry

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-11-11
> **autocrosser said:**
> It's from Karmic via the backports----

That's funny, I don't have it.. 

Ahh, it is in karmic-proposed.

```

     2.6.31.15.28 0
        990 http://archive.ubuntu.com karmic-proposed/main Packages

```

---

### Post by Aleyx on 2009-11-12
> **crowax said:**
> Me too, I have the same problem

Ah, seems like 2.6.32-3 corrected the problem.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2009-11-12
Black screen on 2.6.32-2 and 2.6.32-3 on IBM Thinkpad R31, i830 video just after selecting the linux-image from the grub boot menu.

Select linux-image 2.6.31-14 works O.K.  Same xorg driver so the problem is in the Lucid linux-image.

Trying to enter a launchpad bug, it says to use "apport" or "ubuntu-bug".  Neither work with a black screen.  I've tried using them by ssh from another computer, but neither worked before with a command line interface which is what you get with ssh.  They say enter "k" for keep but expect a fully working x-windows screen to be able to read my response.  If I had a fully working x-windows I wouldn't have a problem.

Workaround for 2.6.32-2 and -3, replace "quiet splash" with "nomodeset".

2.6.32-2 and -3 working on Compaq ati video.

2.6.32-2 no sound on IBM ThinkCentre A30 with i845 video.

Hmm... just wait for the next updates...

Jerry

---

### Post by hugmenot on 2009-11-12
I noticed it resumes more quickly from suspend, pretty much instantly. But after resuming I sometimes get screen corruption with Intel GM45  (i915) graphics. It flickers across large areas of the screen when things change on-screen.

---

