---
title: "10.4 Lucid - Video Playback Issue"
date: 2010-04-03
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by AP0ll0UK on 2010-04-03
After installing 10.4 this evening video playback is the best I've seen, no lines during playback and no bizarre artifacts on the screen.

Normal divx movies are generally ok but do lag and pause for a few seconds occasionally.

A 1080p movie does seem to have bigger issues during playback, when there is a lot happening on screen, fast moving objects or slow moving objects but lots of moving detail its lags or gets very pixelated.

My system is a 2.4Ghz Core 2 Duo with 1GB ram and a Ati x1900.

I'm not 100% sure if this is the correct place to be reporting issues for 10.4 so my apologies if its in the wrong place and I'm happy for this thread to be moved elsewhere if it is.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-04-03
It's not the right place -- the right place is the beta testing forum: Development & Programming, Lucid Lynx testing.

I'll be asking the Mods to move this thread there.  Look there for any future responses.

---

### Post by sk0al on 2010-04-04
Hi have the same problem,and I did not find an existing bugreport for this yet.

---

### Post by AP0ll0UK on 2010-04-04
Thanks for pointing out it wasn't the correct forum Mark, I hadn't spotted the test section, sorry.

I watched a film last night and the lag seems to be quite regular, it doesn't slow right down, its just as though the video starts running at a slightly lower framerate - that is on a normal Divx movie.

On a HD 1080p movie it is much more visible during the fast moving scenes as mentioned previously.

As a Windows user and virgin Ubuntu user, I'm not too sure how to start troubleshooting this. I've tried installing VLC but it suffers from the same issue. If I was in Windows I would start to look at drivers and codecs, in Lucid I'm using the out of the box driver for my x1900, I'm using the standard GStreamer codec which Totem suggested I use.

I'm not sure what else to look at.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-04-04
What software are you using to watch the high end video?

VLC or movie player etc?

EDIT:
ok see you're using totem.

I know for me, on 9.10 using VLC I just recently increased the cache vlc uses because 720p can lag at some points (skip some frames). I'm hoping the cache increase will help my problem. It is also a hardware problem for me as I got old onboard intel graphics.

---

### Post by AP0ll0UK on 2010-04-04
How did you increase VLC's cache please, is it in the settings? I can't check at the moment as I'm not in front of my PC.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-04-04
> **AP0ll0UK said:**
> How did you increase VLC's cache please, is it in the settings? I can't check at the moment as I'm not in front of my PC.

I found out how via google search.

tools->select 'show all' settings (bottom left corner)->input/codecs->access modules->select which input you want to increase cache for. DVD, File etc.

Default is 300ms, I increased mine to 5000 to see if I would notice any stuttering, but havn't watch much 720p lately to notice if it helped.

---

### Post by AP0ll0UK on 2010-04-05
Thanks for the suggestion, will give it a go now I'm back home and see what happens :)

---

### Post by Longinus00 on 2010-04-05
If you still have skips with the 1080p video it's likely the video is too high of a bitrate for your computer. Your only recourse (somebody correct me if I'm wrong) is to build a multithreaded version of mplayer. There's a few threads in the forums that deal with this but there may be a ppa you can use as well. This topic doesn't really have anything to do with lucid so you might try looking/asking around in the multimedia & video forum.

---

### Post by Lollerke on 2010-04-05
Just use this PPA. [https://launchpad.net/~ripps818/+archive/coreavc](https://launchpad.net/~ripps818/+archive/coreavc)
Install smplayer and set the decoding thread number to 2 in the performance options.

---

