---
title: "10.10-MM - So what are you looking forward to?"
date: 2010-04-27
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Slug71 on 2010-04-27
NO THEME COMMENTS PLEASE!

Me, 
BTRFS(without boot partition), Packagekit as the backend to USC(replacing aptdaemon) and Delta-Debs.

---

### Post by frustphil on 2010-04-27
- gnome shell
- new widgets (no?)
- new menus
- global menu ([http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/359](http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/359))
- more improvements on themes

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2010-04-27
> **Slug71 said:**
> NO THEME COMMENTS PLEASE!

> **frustphil said:**
> - more improvements on themes

well that lasted long :P

I'm also looking forward to GNOME Shell (or at least hearing what Canonical thinks of it) as well as what sort of developers are interested in USC 3.0

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2010-04-27
Chromium replacing Firefox

Banshee replacing Rhythmbox

Deploying and integrating Tracker (along e.g. Fster to create proper media folders)

Linking my user account to my Launchpad OpenID account would be awfully useful as well.

BtrFS support (I'll aim high, including boot loader support, if grub cannot do this it is a sign that it should be taken to the backyard to be put out of it's misery)

Nouveau 3D support

The usual slew of updates such as bringing in the most recent Mono, GStreamer, kernel and such.

One might also hope that non-stereo modes be enabled for SPDIF outputs.

Download-as-a-Service would be neat but likely a rather big project. Could perhaps start in Maverick.

Hopefully the new MSN VoIP P2P protocol would also be reverse engineered and implemented in the Maverick timeframe so I might finally migrate away from aMSN. If this is out of reach I will take a similar webcam only implementation as aMSN has for Telepathy.

Full integration of webservices such as GMail, Google Calendar and Google Reader in the desktop. It's embarassing that we can't do this properly yet.

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2010-04-27
No expectations = less frustration. :D

> **sabdfl]This is a time of change[/QUOTE]

If this means Obama-change I'm not afraid. :D

PS: Replace Empathy with something useful like Pidgin. :P

PPS:

[QUOTE=Slug71 said:**
> NO THEME COMMENTS PLEASE!

Great default wallpaper:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9181450&postcount=994](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9181450&postcount=994)

:D

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-27
wonder when canonical will make room into outdated / no more supported / duplicated apps .

Of course i wish better drivers and an easier way to format and install with a gui

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2010-04-27
- KMS working on multiple graphics card
- Out of the box multiseat (if everything goes according to plan, this is going to happen!)
- Improved ATi drivers (as always)
- Canonical supporting coreboot?
- Possibility to select other cloud services as a system default (like Dropbox instead of U1)
- Improved boot times
- Ubuntu One Film store?

---

### Post by manuelb on 2010-04-27
Tree-like/Folders structure in the Places' bookmarks!

---

### Post by Jordanwb on 2010-04-27
mtpfs or gphoto2 working.

---

### Post by jppr on 2010-04-27
64 bit flash :)

---

### Post by Steel-Bunz on 2010-04-27
A Flawless Upgrade path. My 8.10 to 9.04 was a disaster. So far, I have upgraded some of my friends' laptops from 9.10 to 10.04. It hasn't smooth been either (Skype not working OOTB, for example).

More often than not, a clean install is better. Would like to have an upgrade experience thats as smooth. Will make life a lot easy for many...

P.S: How many alpha/beta testers upgrade their systems instead of clean installs? How many of them are dual boot systems? Do we have enough test bed for this scenario, which is a very common one?

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-04-27
Upgrade worked fine for me until I decided to install rc then it got a bit hairy

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-04-27
wow not released yet and on to maverick I am going to follow this one from the start. Not a tech head but love to tinker.

---

### Post by csaket on 2010-04-27
Implementation of this [concept]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1442232") [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1442232](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1442232) instead of Gnome Shell :guitar:

---

### Post by godhika on 2010-04-27
[LIST]
[*]UI-improvements
[*]CS-decorations and RGBA support
[*]Chromium as default browser
[*]Global Menu
[*]Radeon power management with KMS
[*]tearless video playback
[*]general spit and polish
[/LIST]

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-04-27
> **csaket said:**
> Implementation of this [concept]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1442232") [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1442232](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1442232) instead of Gnome Shell :guitar:

Not used gnome shell yet but I hope it's a success .If not gnome might fork giving us more versions. I want Ubuntu to succeed in it's plan for global domination of linux LOL. That would only confuse things.

---

### Post by plun on 2010-04-27
I have already started with Maverick......:lolflag:

[https://launchpad.net/~ricotz/+archive/unstable](https://launchpad.net/~ricotz/+archive/unstable)

Maybe Gnome-Shell will be something... rather stable for the moment.

---

### Post by shafin on 2010-04-27
> **manuelb said:**
> Tree-like/Folders structure in the Places' bookmarks!
In the left pane of nautilus?

---

### Post by Jordanwb on 2010-04-27
> **jppr said:**
> 64 bit flash :)
Uh...

---

### Post by ohadle on 2010-04-27
Speech Recognition!

---

### Post by recluce on 2010-04-27
Just get Plymouth to work or put it out of its misery....

Other than that: finally focus on stability and the bug-count of the OS, we could probably survive a while without new gee-whiz-bang features. :)

---

### Post by Reiger on 2010-04-27
Gallium 3d drivers for ATI cards; power management for those too.
Matured support for SSD's. (Almost a cert since trim support is in 2.6.34 with matching libs; but hey, I still look forward to it!)
KDE 4.5

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-04-27
> **Reiger said:**
> Gallium 3d drivers for ATI cards; power management for those too.
Matured support for SSD's. (Almost a cert since trim support is in 2.6.34 with matching libs; but hey, I still look forward to it!)
KDE 4.5

seconded don't want to rely pn ati 
love gnome don't need to many effect.

---

### Post by Lucretius on 2010-04-27
better touchscreen support
improved software centre
no more synaptic and integrating system update with SC

---

### Post by x-shaney-x on 2010-04-27
Finally seeing things finished off and working how they should, in particular gwibber, plymouth, the new indicator menu/notifications system etc.

Seeing how far the nouveau 3D has come along.  I've tried it in it's current state and was pretty impressed.

Maybe even an Evolution that doesn't randomly crash? :P
(Ok maybe I went a bit far with that last one, perhaps for 11.04, 11.10, 12.04...)

---

### Post by Arla on 2010-04-27
Faster boot times, better stability, updated software packages.

A good replacement for Skype would be nice, but I'm not seeing it right now (and by good, it needs to work reasonably well on most platforms, reliable video/audio integration, and cross-platform capable (so I can have my parents use it on there windows PC).

Other than that, I'm really happy with my AWN setup right now, it's minimalist, but works really well for 99% of my needs.

---

### Post by hourna on 2010-04-27
a better, more stable firefox.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-04-27
Drivers, drivers, drivers.

10.04 intel is using drivers from December 2009, and not newer versions that were released because of problems with older <915 chipset. I think.
I see [xserver-xorg-video-intel](http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/xserver-xorg-video-intel) is for i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865, i915, i945 and i965. What driver do the newer intel graphics cards use?

Newer kernel will be nice. If they use latest one before 10.10 release (not whatever version they are working on now), that will make it much better than 10.04 version. SSD TRIM support will be nice.

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-04-27
> How many alpha/beta testers upgrade their systems instead of clean  installs? 
I'm running upgraded ubuntu on 9 separate boxes including 5 production machines. I plan on upgrading another 9 soon. I've had far more problems with kernel regressions during fresh installs. In fact, I prefer to just DD over a boot partition now.
 
As to percentages, I recall a dev saying the majority of hardy LTS installs were upgrades. 

> How many of them are dual boot systems?
I don't dual boot. Vbox supports multiple processors and open gl.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2010-04-27
Gnome-Shell & Delta-debs!!!!

BTFS would be a real plus also.

---

### Post by lockalidiot on 2010-04-27
Gnome-Shell, I have it on my notebook and I love it!
Working Plymouth.
Window controls back to the right!
Billions of new users!!!

---

### Post by wykedengel on 2010-04-27
I would like to use Thunderbird and Pidgin and have my notifications come up like when I used Evolution. Actually, if I can get a pre-installation menu that asks me what I would like to install, then have it install only those apps (plus dependencies). I would be really happy. I don't use a lot of the default stuff, so why should it bog down my install?

---

### Post by zekopeko on 2010-04-27
> **wykedengel said:**
> I would like to use Thunderbird and Pidgin and have my notifications come up like when I used Evolution. Actually, if I can get a pre-installation menu that asks me what I would like to install, then have it install only those apps (plus dependencies). I would be really happy. I don't use a lot of the default stuff, so why should it bog down my install?

And why should your preferences bog down my install? I don't use those applications.

Btw if you want to install stuff on the core then simply download the mini CD and install from there.

---

### Post by scradock on 2010-04-27
-scrap Software Center - barely improved from Add/Remove Programs, or whatever the kiddies' version used to be called. It seems to me that Synaptic is a pretty perfect balance between raw CLI (aptitude, apt-get) and "ooh there's an icon I can click on and get some program I've never heard of before".
- get rid of the BLACK SCREEN between Grub and Plymouth - it looks SO amateurish....

---

### Post by ronacc on 2010-04-27
dump ALL default apps and make everything a choice !

yeah right , fat chance , but as long as we're dreaming .

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-27
I'm looking forward to see what the devs have planned for the empty right side of the window.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2010-04-27
> **gnomeuser said:**
> 

banshee replacing rhythmbox

link my user account to my launchpad openid account would be awfully useful as well.

Btrfs support (i'll aim high, including boot loader support, if grub cannot do this it is a sign that it should be taken to the backyard to be put out of it's misery)

nouveau 3d support

the usual slew of updates such as bringing in the most recent mono, gstreamer, kernel and such.

Full integration of webservices such as gmail, google calendar and google reader in the desktop. It's embarassing that we can't do this properly yet.

+1

---

### Post by frustphil on 2010-04-28
How come no one wants a new widget style/theme? Gnome Shell + Current gtk widgets kills the entire desktop experience! That would be like KDE 4 :(

---

### Post by gnomeuser on 2010-04-28
Here is an example of what I would like to see in Maverick. 
[Tracker used to correct id3 tags and provide lighting fast UI, then flush the changes back to the file](http://vimeo.com/11270890)

---

### Post by mmcmonster on 2010-04-28
Getting rid of the menu bar on ALL applications, moving it into the top panel. (This is actually planned for the 10.10 netbook remix, to save vertical space.)

Between that and moving the buttons to the upper left corner, we'll basically have an OS X look. :-)

---

### Post by moviemaniac on 2010-04-28
> **Martje_001 said:**
> 
- Ubuntu One Film store?

Now THAT would be neat! However I doubt it's gonna happen with the DRM-infested MPAA...

What I'd like to see in Maverick:

- KMS Powermanagement for ATI cards
- Kernel 2.6.35 (which would bring KMS PM in a more advanced way than 2.6.34)
- improved ATI radeon drivers
- possibly Gallium drivers for R600+ as an optional package
- Gnome 3 with Gnome 2.30 ("classic look") as an otion
- Editshare's Lightworks packaged for Ubuntu (so I can get rid of OSX and Final Cut Studio...)
- Kernel-updates after release to new main versions (i.e. from 2.6.35 to 2.6.36). I know it's not gonna happen, but one can dream, eh?
- Removal of Plymouth and restoration of usplash/xsplash because this combination works on far more machines than Plymouth ;)

Last but not least: Not too many serious breakages during alpha/beta stages ;)

---

### Post by moviemaniac on 2010-04-28
> **Steel-Bunz said:**
> P.S: How many alpha/beta testers upgrade their systems instead of clean installs? 

Normally I always upgrade, however the Karmic-Lucid switch was a reinstall due to me moving from 32bit to 64bit. All the other machines in the house are being upgraded too - most of the time when the last beta or the RC come out.
I'll also upgrade my main working machine from lucid to maverick - in fact I'll do so next week when the toolchain is uploaded :D But I don't think this counts as a regular upgrade, now does it?

> **Steel-Bunz said:**
> How many of them are dual boot systems?

My machine is a dual-boot one with Mac OSX (need it for video editing...), my brothers mainly use Ubuntu but have Ubuntu/Win7 and Ubuntu/XP combos for playing their computer games...

---

### Post by wykedengel on 2010-04-28
> **zekopeko said:**
> And why should your preferences bog down my install? I don't use those applications.

Btw if you want to install stuff on the core then simply download the mini CD and install from there.

And how would my preferences bog down your install when nothing would be installed until the system asks you what you want (or don't want installed) before installing anything? I may be new to Linux, but I'm not an airhead.

BTW, I could easily do just that and use the mini CD, but the thread is about what I am looking forward to in 10.10. So, why can't I post what I am looking forward to in a distribution I use. Oh, let me guess, because it makes things too simple for noobs, right?

Let's take the 10.10 mini CD argument. Give me a mini, core, whatever you want to call me and say upon start up: "What would you like to install?" Let me choose which apps I would like to install. Have those programs (and their dependencies) install.

If  I want to use Pidgin and Thunderbird, allow those programs to connect with the notification thingie and that little mail icon and there you have it.

---

### Post by cpmman on 2010-04-28
1. A roll-back facility to enable users to roll back any upgrades or programs which introduce unexpected errors or problems on a program by program basis to include reversion of dependencies.  This facility was available on Sun Solaris in the 90s and was essential in a time-critical working environment.  Whilst I realise that backups can do this there is no backup which can intelligently reinstall only those parts of the operating system/programs which need to be changed even using rsync.  They provide a fixed time version rather than a dynamic reversion.

2. Selfishly but mentioned by other users the ability to choose which programs are installed at first installation with the installer ensuring dependencies are properly met.

3. There is still no simple way to ensure speaker/microphone/webcam support with the different configurations of these items - built-in/separate/jack/usb and mixtures of these.

4. ranch hand's approval.

---

### Post by priegog on 2010-04-28
- BTRFS would be sweet
- A working plymouth would make me very happy too (it doesn't work now for my machine so I don't know WTH I'm going to do to install 10.04)
- Pretty much everything Mark has decided UI-wise I absolutely love. Yeah, after much skepticism and pain, I've actually come to see where he wants to go, and I LIKE it. Not sure how all of this is going to fit in with gnome-shell, but... I trust him. 
- They should really get the netbook remix rolling, I'm not really feeling it (I use vanilla ubuntu on my netbook with my own UI tweaks)
- Much on the same topic, the new kid in the block for the next year are going to be the touchpad tablets (thanks apple). Which means someone should PROBABLY start doing something about the current miserable state of Linux on tablets (be them wacom-based, resistive or capacitive). This might include UNR-like UI decisions, but DEFINITELY a decent handwriting-recognition program. Cellwriter is nice and all, but it's not really much more useful than an on-screen keyboard. And it seems prehistoric compared to even xp's handwriting recognition, let alone vista and 7's.
-Please, please have a better way than "nomodeset" to boot into a "recovery shell". It's become painfully obvious to people like me how disgracefully ubuntu downgrades (or how it doesn't downgrade at all) when presented with an unsupported video card. Something that should be as simple as downgrading and booting in vesa-graphics mode to install the proprietary drivers is currently something that (at least seems) impossible. And it should be automatic, too.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2010-04-28
> **moviemaniac said:**
> 
What I'd like to see in Maverick:

- Removal of Plymouth and restoration of usplash/xsplash because this combination works on far more machines than Plymouth ;)

Last but not least: Not too many serious breakages during alpha/beta stages ;)

Thats what Alpha/Beta stages are for. 

The next Kernel should bring much more support for Plymouth in MM. Theres a good chance it may even ship with .35 since .34 is not to far from being final.
Since Plymouth can do what usplash/xsplash does i think that xsplash should be removed too. Just have Plymouth. I think the boot experience would be a lot smoother if it didnt have to go from one thing to another.

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2010-04-28
> **Jordanwb said:**
> Uh...

Are you using a PPA to get that 64bit flash? I dont see it in Synaptic. :confused:

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-28
I'm looking forward to see what appears in the right hand bit of the windows border!!!!

---

### Post by .:PiXi²:. on 2010-04-28
Support for hybrid graphics.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-28
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I'm looking forward to see what the devs have planned for the empty right side of the window.
+1

Replacing Firefox is a no-go, most school websites do not support Chromium.

Why would Canonical dump Rhythmbox after spending the money to set up the Ubuntu One store within it? I have never tried Banshee, so I can't knock it, but I have no reason to because Rhythmbox does a great job.

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2010-04-28
> **uRock said:**
> +1

Replacing Firefox is a no-go, most school websites do not support Chromium.

Why would Canonical dump Rhythmbox after spending the money to set up the Ubuntu One store within it? I have never tried Banshee, so I can't knock it, but I have no reason to because Rhythmbox does a great job.

So the school website acknowledges Chrome is getting more popular but won't bother to support it? Good job!

Also the Ubuntu One music store works in Banshee as well

---

### Post by Reiger on 2010-04-28
Well, I dunno about your school; but quite a few schools simply `buy' a website/ `hire' a programmer and do not have the technical expertise (or at least the persons who get to update it don't) to do much more than type a few articles.

---

### Post by uRock on 2010-04-28
> **Merk42 said:**
> So the school website acknowledges Chrome is getting more popular but won't bother to support it? Good job!

Also the Ubuntu One music store works in Banshee as well

It is col that Banshee has it, too. My school has the ability to add the notes on the Angel message boards, but Angel doesn't support  Chrome. My wife's college uses Blackboard for their servers and it doesn't support Chrome either. Hopefully that would change soon, because I love to use Chromium.
> **Reiger said:**
> Well, I dunno about your school; but quite a few schools simply `buy' a website/ `hire' a programmer and do not have the technical expertise (or at least the persons who get to update it don't) to do much more than type a few articles.
They own their own servers, but they do lease the software. I've been in the server room. A good place to cool off on a hot day.

---

### Post by QwUo173Hy on 2010-04-28
I would love to see an LCARS type interface. Also if the Ubuntu Store sold a USB powered[ transporter device]("http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3217/2281147654_543346a612.jpg") (which Canonical would need to invent), we could have developer / user meetups more frequently.

---

