---
title: "10.04 and Google Earth"
date: 2010-01-17
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Don DeGregori on 2010-01-17
**How about a New Year's Resolution fulfilled in April?**

make it work out of the box! and i mean google earth. no more it works for me and the other guy says it crashes. i think there are many more crashes or unusable conditions. ge is such a popular application. it's embarashing to say i have to fire up windows to look at google earth. if ge just works in ubuntu 10.04, this #1 distro will get many more converts. come on canonical, make this request job 1. ge should work just as well as windows ge. i'll even donate!

don

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-01-17
To the left of your A key you will find a Caps Lock key.  Please disengage.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2010-01-17
Just tried 'sudo apt-get install googleearth' on my Lucid Alpha 2 Desktop 64-bit and it's working fine.

Then again I've never had any problems with it before.

---

### Post by gja on 2010-01-26
I have to say I agree with the original poster.
I'm desperately trying to get Google Earth to work om my Dell D600 (i regard this as VERY common hardware) with 9.10.
All the fixes with the libcrypto renaming don't do it for me.

PLEASE, Google Earth is a major app. One Google guy and one Ubuntu guy and a few hours of work should fix this, right?

---

### Post by Ginsu543 on 2010-01-26
Have you tried adding the Medibuntu repository? You can do so by following the directions at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu). Once the repository is added, you can add Google Earth by simply starting up Synaptic Package Manager, searching for "googleearth", and installing the package. I've got Google Earth working on my 9.10 and I didn't have to do any of the libcrypto renaming fixes.

---

### Post by gja on 2010-01-26
Ginsu543:
Retried that yesterday (for the n-th time hoping for an update).
Total system freeze.

BTW I have to run 9.10 in safe graphical mode continuously too.
I only stay in 9.10 because my sound is now fixed, 9.04 had a lot of pulseaudio issues.

---

### Post by shwallace on 2010-01-26
I have googleearth install on a Toshiba laptop with an alpha release of Lucid - works fine. I have also installed GE on my desktop under 9.04 and it works fine. I have tried several times to get GE working on my desktop under 9.10 and it always locks up the whole computer! Does anyone have any idea what could be wrong here?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-01-26
I have seen complaints that GE will not play nicely with Compiz.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-01-26
> **Don DeGregori said:**
> **How about a New Year's Resolution fulfilled in April?**

MAKE IT WORK OUT OF THE BOX !!!  AND I MEAN GOOGLE EARTH. NO MORE "IT WORKS FOR ME" AND THE OTHER GUY SAYS "IT CRASHES". I THINK THERE ARE MANY MORE CRASHES OR UNUSABLE CONDITIONS. GE IS SUCH A POPULAR APPLICATION. IT'S EMBARASHING TO SAY I HAVE TO FIRE UP WINDOWS TO LOOK AT GOOGLE EARTH. IF GE JUST WORKS IN UBUNTU 10.04, THIS #1 DISTRO WILL GET MANY MORE CONVERTS. COME ON CANONICAL, MAKE THIS REQUEST JOB 1. GE SHOULD WORK JUST AS WELL AS WINDOWS GE. I'LL EVEN DONATE!

DON

As google earth is not maintained by Ubuntu, you need to direct your rant upstream to the google developers.

Also, to be honest, you are asking a lot, you want an application without bugs, that works for everyone ? good luck with that.

> **jamesisin said:**
> To the left of your A key you will find a Caps Lock key.  Please disengage.
+1

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-01-26
I love when people think when an application doesn't work that its an OS issue.

---

### Post by Ginsu543 on 2010-01-26
> **gja said:**
> Ginsu543:
Retried that yesterday (for the n-th time hoping for an update).
Total system freeze.

BTW I have to run 9.10 in safe graphical mode continuously too.
I only stay in 9.10 because my sound is now fixed, 9.04 had a lot of pulseaudio issues.
From what you describe, the problem doesn't seem to be with Google Earth but with your video driver. What video card are you using and what driver? You shouldn't have to run 9.10 in safe graphical mode.

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2010-01-26
I have a Dell laptop with 9.10 AMD64 installed, and google earth works just fine here.

Maybe it's a layer 8 problem.

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2010-01-26
OK, give me the code i will fix them all.

---

### Post by Ric_NYC on 2010-01-26
ATI video card?

---

### Post by pookiebear on 2010-01-26
> **Ginsu543 said:**
> From what you describe, the problem doesn't seem to be with Google Earth but with your video driver. What video card are you using and what driver? You shouldn't have to run 9.10 in safe graphical mode.

Bingo. I would try it on 10.04 alpha 2, since it has better ATI support for the 1yr and older video cards in the new Kernel.  Remember GE is 3D, if your 3D is not working then GE is not gonna work either.

---

### Post by Ric_NYC on 2010-01-26
> **pookiebear said:**
> Bingo. **I would try it on 10.04 alpha 2, since it has better ATI support for the 1yr and older video cards in the new Kernel**.  Remember GE is 3D, if your 3D is not working then GE is not gonna work either.


Hey... Where can I get more info about that? 

Thanks.

I have an ATI video card that worked "so-so" in the last 2 versions of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by TheNessus on 2010-01-26
Thanks to this thread, I am aware that I can download GE. works great on my 9.10.

---

### Post by AllRadioisDead on 2010-01-26
I think we need to make a new years resolution to not yell at forum members in caps lock, but hey that's just me.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-01-26
> **ihermit said:**
> I think we need to make a new years resolution to not yell at forum members in caps lock, but hey that's just me.

:lolflag:

---

### Post by gja on 2010-01-26
> As google earth is not maintained by Ubuntu, you need to direct your rant upstream to the google developers.

Also, to be honest, you are asking a lot, you want an application without bugs, that works for everyone ? good luck with that.


I don't fully agree.
If I upgrade to a later version of my OS, I expect apps that were working on the old version not to break in the new version. Especially common apps. Ok the blame is probably with google here, but a truckload of bug reports should warrant a few emails from Ubuntu to Google with some hints, no?

I also would not expect that I have to test every possible app with my new version before I know I can switch over.

But ok, if it works in an LTS version of Ubuntu (10.04 hopefully) I'll stick with that till my laptop dies. That's what i get for running a bleeding edge version then.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2010-01-26
Moved to Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion.

---

### Post by k64 on 2010-01-26
> **Rocket2DMn said:**
> Moved to Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion.

Thank you.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2010-01-26
lucid amd64 . ```
ron@ron-desktop2:~$ googleearth
/usr/lib/gio/modules/libgiofam.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
Failed to load module: /usr/lib/gio/modules/libgiofam.so
/usr/lib/gio/modules/libgioremote-volume-monitor.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
Failed to load module: /usr/lib/gio/modules/libgioremote-volume-monitor.so
/usr/lib/gio/modules/libgvfsdbus.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
Failed to load module: /usr/lib/gio/modules/libgvfsdbus.so
/usr/lib/gio/modules/libgiogconf.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
Failed to load module: /usr/lib/gio/modules/libgiogconf.so

```

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2010-01-27
I get this on Lucid 64-bit:
```
rob@lucid:~$ googleearth 
/usr/lib/gio/modules/libgiogconf.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
Failed to load module: /usr/lib/gio/modules/libgiogconf.so
/usr/lib/gio/modules/libgvfsdbus.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
Failed to load module: /usr/lib/gio/modules/libgvfsdbus.so
/usr/lib/gio/modules/libgioremote-volume-monitor.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64
Failed to load module: /usr/lib/gio/modules/libgioremote-volume-monitor.so
```
But it still works perfectly.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2010-01-27
it starts for me but then just sits there with a blank black window .

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2010-01-27
> **ronacc said:**
> it starts for me but then just sits there with a blank black window .
Using NVidia by any chance?

Using the nvidia-current drivers does not allow any OpenGL 3D application to work (bug #[511872](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/511872)) and hence when Google Earth loads up, you are greeted with a black screen. It does work with Sevenmachines PPA, but then that brings up a lot of other problems (with KDE4, OpenGL compositing fails).

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-01-27
With nvidia-current i have no problems in general with opengl, i'm guessing this might have more to do with 32 bit opengl on amd64. maybe ia32-libs needs updated to reflected the new alternatives system for graphics drivers

---

### Post by SevenMachines on 2010-01-27
speak of the devil, this should fix googleearth on amd64
ia32-libs (2.7ubuntu18) lucid; urgency=low

  * Freshen packages (LP: #506437). This will also make sure that the mesa
    libraries are installed in /usr/lib32/mesa (LP: #506435).

 -- Alberto Milone <alberto.milone@canonical.com>  Wed, 27 Jan 2010 09:30:39 +00

---

### Post by tghe-retford on 2010-01-27
And alas, ia32-libs 2.7ubuntu18 which just came through when I updated a couple of minutes ago has fixed the problem.

---

### Post by Vanishing on 2010-01-27
> **gja said:**
> I have to say I agree with the original poster.
I'm desperately trying to get Google Earth to work om my Dell D600 (i regard this as VERY common hardware) with 9.10.
All the fixes with the libcrypto renaming don't do it for me.

PLEASE, Google Earth is a major app. One Google guy and one Ubuntu guy and a few hours of work should fix this, right?

right...................................

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-01-27
I just installed this to test it and it worked out the box. In fact the graphics are much smoother than in karmic. Could be the 190 driver.

Specs:-
Asus M3A78-EH,2 250gig HD's, AMD64x2 5200+, 2gig ram, NVidia 8600GT 512meg.
Running 64 bit.

---

