---
title: "10.04 beta 1 cube?"
date: 2010-03-29
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by bigsmitty64 on 2010-03-29
I cannot for the life of me get the cube to work in 10.04 beta 1 64 bit.  I believe I'm setting everything the way it's supposed to be. I used it daily in 9.10.   Heres the deal, it works when I set 5 sides, but not 4. ?  with it set to four sides it just flips open like a wall type effect. I have looked and looked it over, am I missing something?

Here are my settings:

Compiz Config Settings Manager: cube and rotate cube are enabled

In Effects: Cube reflections and Deformation are enabled




In Simple Compiz Config Settings Manager:

 Profile= Ulimate

 Desktop Appearance= DesktopCube

Desktoop Columns = 4

Desktop rows = 2

Any help with this (probably an overlooked setting on my part) is greatly appreciated. Thanks,
Smitty

---

### Post by bigsmitty64 on 2010-03-29
also noticed that the "desktop columns" keeps changing back to 2 ?

---

### Post by bigsmitty64 on 2010-03-29
still kickin my butt  :(

---

### Post by overdrank on 2010-03-29
Moved to Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-03-29
Don't know about this Simple Compiz Config Settings Manager, never used, only  Compiz Config Settings Manager (if using ccsm then why use the 'simple' one?

Anyway works fine here (scroll on desktop is the only effect I ever use with cube and rotate cube enabled

You can only use 1 row for rotate cube, maybe try setting your rows to 1. - just r.click on the workspace switcher in your panel
(and maybe remove that simple ccsm, just use ccsm

---

### Post by bigsmitty64 on 2010-03-29
You've never used this? I always use it to set my columns and rows in the desktop tab. It has always worked before. I assumed everyone used them together.

[IMG]http://i73.photobucket.com/albums/i204/roccoscirocco/screenie.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-03-30
> **bigsmitty64 said:**
>  I used it daily in 9.10.   Heres the deal, it works when I set 5 sides, but not 4. ?  with it set to four sides it just flips open like a wall type effect. 

Desktoop Columns = 4

Desktop rows = 2


Hi,
For best results with the cube, don't use more than one row, only use 3 or more  columns. The bottom rows never worked for me with compiz desktop cube.  Multiple rows only seems to work for the 2D desktop switchers only. The desktop cube effects will not work for me as a 3D cube if there is less than 3 desktop columns. An easy way for me to remember this is: a box with only 2 sides is not really a box. It is only a flat object. > **bigsmitty64 said:**
> also noticed that the "desktop columns" keeps changing back to 2 ? As for simple ccsm, I find it works better to not change the number of desktops in simple ccsm. Instead, close simple ccsm, then change the number of desktops by right clicking on the workspace switcher in the gnome panel. 
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-03-30
> You've never used this?
No - I've found the defaults that are set for  compiz effects to be less than ideal so never enable them thru preferences -> appearance -> effects. (screen).  I can't imagine that those set by the simple ccsm would be any better.

i just enable 3d (nvidia-current drivers here for lucid), install ccsm, make the adjustments i want and that's it.

Basically here that's - enable rotate cube, viewpoint switcher, scroll on desktop,  adjust the rotate settings - particularly on a laptop to slow the scroll down.

Then adjust the general -> display, enable video playback, and remove some workarounds and unwanted effects.
The aim there is to eliminate any possible video tearing or issues with fullscreen controls in the video players I use.

---

### Post by bigsmitty64 on 2010-03-30
@ankspo71

"change the number of desktops by right clicking on the workspace  switcher in the gnome panel"

That did it!!

 I'd hid the bottom panel, and didn't realize that  it was set to 2 instead of 4 workspaces. I always assumed that changing it in simple ccsm saved it everywhere. Thank you all for your help. I appreciate ya sticking it out with me. :) 
Smitty

---

### Post by arnab_das on 2010-03-31
this came in very handy. thank you.

---

### Post by happyhappyRN on 2010-04-01
Right clicking on the switcher let me pick 4 instead of 2 or 5. Thanks!

---

### Post by gordong11 on 2010-04-01
Thanks I was having the exact same issue!! It fixed it.


I still can't get animations to work, like burn, magic lamp, explode, etc. though.

---

