---
title: "10.04... display issues (keeping persistent display mode)"
date: 2010-04-04
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by _mr_ on 2010-04-04
Right, just trying to get 10.04 running on my laptop and having a few issues. I had to use the alternate text-based CD for installation as this issue was preventing me from using the live CD, but now its installed I'm having a shot at sorting it.

Basically, every time I startup the screen is completely scrambled... I should think one of the sync rates or something is wrong and everything flickers vertically. It happens from the loading screen (just after GRUB) and onwards.

I can just about make out enough of what is on the screen to login, go to the monitor settings, then I have to switch the resolution down to 1400x1050, apply (at which point screen becomes ok), then switch it back to 1680x1050 and apply again (and from then on its fine, until the next reboot). Don't touch the refresh rate in that dialog.

So anyway, seeing as it works once I go in and change the settings, I'm trying to make these settings persistent.

I haven't used Ubuntu since before the changes to Xorg that meant there wasn't a config file by default so was a bit confused when I didn't find one, but I made an xorg.conf in /etc/X11/ which, as far as I can tell, is set up how I need it (I can post it if anyone wants it).

However upon rebooting, I get back to the same problem.

Strange thing is, running *'xvidtune -show'* before and after sorting the issue by cycling the resolution settings shows exactly the same display modeline before and after (which is the modeline I'm using in xorg.conf), and of course a different one for the 1400x1050 intermediate.

I'm starting to tear my hair out! It has to be something simple, but I don't want to have to change the resolution with a flickery screen every time I boot.

If anyone could lend me a hand it would be greatly appreciated!

Thanks.

---

### Post by _mr_ on 2010-04-04
Ok, I'm getting somewhere :)

Stopped trying to use xorg.conf and put the xrandr line in the gdm initiation script.

Logon screen onwards now works, but there's still a lot of very ugly flickering, mode changing, etc, during the splash screen.

I know this is a beta release and I can't expect it to be perfect, but I'm sure this is a simple config problem that I could sort somewhere.

Any ideas? Thanks.

---

### Post by _mr_ on 2010-04-04
Ok, so I realised I still had an entry in xorg.conf that was changing the resolution during startup.

So what currently happens is...

Mode in startup is unknown. Lots of flickering during first part of splash screen.

Changed to 1400x1050 by xorg.conf at end of splash screen.

Changed back to 1680x1050 by gdm init script. Fine from then on.


Strange thing is, if I remove the line from xorg.conf, it then doesn't work. The mode change happens from the script, but it stays flickery. It has to have the change away from 1680x1050 and back before it works.


Hmm....

---

### Post by romulor3 on 2010-04-05
Hi _mr_
same kind of problem here.
Could you post your xorg.conf ? I'd like to try your solution.
Thanks in advance,
romulor3

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-06
> **_mr_ said:**
> 
........
I know this is a beta release and I can't expect it to be perfect, but I'm sure this is a simple config problem that I could sort somewhere.


Which is why **all** 10.04 issues should be in the appropriate Development forum, not in forums **only** for released versions.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2010-04-06
Moved to the devel forum.

---

### Post by Xamiga on 2010-04-06
Please post your gdm init script as well as  xorg.conf.

---

