---
title: "Remove resolvconf?"
date: 2010-04-13
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Miguel on 2010-04-13
Fellow testers,

I was trying to get scrolling with my trackpoint (Thinkpad T400) working again, since the switch from hal to udev seems to have shaken things up, and wanted to install gpointing-device-settings. For some reason, aptitude wants to remove resolvconf. Really? Seriously? Well, yeah! Aptitude says that nothing depends on it, and since it's marked as automatic.... Anybody has a clue on what may be going on? 

For now, I'll unset the automatic flag and live with it. God knows what would happen if I killed it. I'd probably have to reboot into Vista and download the deb from there.

---

### Post by xfalcox on 2010-04-13
My resolvconf was giving erros every time I updated my system, so I just removed it.

System works fine.

Why? I dunno...

---

### Post by linusr on 2010-04-13
I'll wait before removing it...

looking at package description, application depending on resolvconf to resolved name server will fail? part of network manager?

I already have enough trouble connecting to wpa2-enterprise network!!

---

### Post by ljrmorgan on 2010-04-14
I just ran apt-get autoremove and resolvconf was listed as not being used by anything, so I uninstalled it.

Then again, autoremove also said my icon theme wasn't being used by anything and that got uninstalled too! I've kept a copy of everything I uninstalled, hopefully nothing else will break!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-14
the real name is : resolv.conf and its generated by networkmanager.

---

### Post by zika on 2010-04-14
> **dino99 said:**
> the real name is : Resolv.conf and its generated by networkmanager.
I beg to differ:
> resolvconf is a framework for keeping up to date the system's information about
 name servers. It sets itself up as the intermediary between programs that
 supply this information (such as ifup and ifdown, dhcp clients, the ppp daemon
 and local name servers) and programs that use this information (such as dns
 caches and resolver libraries).

---

### Post by Miguel on 2010-04-14
> **dino99 said:**
> the real name is : resolv.conf and its generated by networkmanager.

Pardon? I wasn't referring to the DNS configuration file /etc/resolv.conf but to the resolvconf package. It sure is a real package, not a virtual one. I'm on RHEL 5.4 right now, but a Debian squeeze machine I have access to doesn't have any package named resolv.conf available.

By the way, "aptitude why resolvconf" shows that vpnc suggests it, which is a pretty weak reason to stay installed.

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2010-04-16
If you use network manager or wicd or something to configure your network interfaces, you probably don't have much reason to have resolvconf installed.

If you specify your network configuration in '/etc/network/interfaces' and want to include a line for your DNS configuration, then resolvconf handles that.

Don't know how vpnc is configured, or how that plays with other network configuration stuff, so there could still be a reason to want resolvconf in combination with it. The original reason for resolvconf was to manage the conflicts between the various things that want to change the DNS configuration in the resolv.conf file. 

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-04-16
And all you fellers are ignoring its role in dial up, but folks on dial up are used to being ignored.

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-04-16
[QUOTE=ranch hand]And all you fellers are ignoring its role in dial up, but folks on dial up are used to being ignored.[/QUOTE]

Actually, they aren't Ranch Hand, when used, it plays the same role for a ppp type network interface as for the other types of network interface. As detailed by poster zika.

---

