---
title: "10.04 beta 1 issues and questions"
date: 2010-03-26
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by gordong11 on 2010-03-26
Just upgraded to 10.04 beta1:

I have four choices under Hardware drivers menu:

1. ver 173
2. nvidia (no version number shown)
3. 78 (not sure on exact number, but 2 digits)
4. current version (recommended) - No version number shown

When I upgraded from 9.04 none were selected and active, so i chose number 4 the recommended version. However, my mouse pointer is an x shape, some apps open mis-aligned and looks weird.

Im using an Nvidia 7900GT/GTO video card, does anyone have a recommendation on which version to use?

All apps take forever to open, and there are no top menus (File, open,close, minimize, etc)

why is my mouse pointer in an x shape?

Thanks so much

gord

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2010-03-26
By default 10.04 now uses the open source Nvidia driver.  While good politically, the driver still isn't there for me either.  I had window redraw bugs after installing 10.04Beta until I used the 173 proprietary driver.  I'm using a low end Nvidia, something like 5500 or 6200, while I only do 2D stuff, I do need great 2D performance.

---

### Post by Charlotte18 on 2010-04-09
Even though I'm using the proprietary nvidia driver, after today's updates my mouse pointer turned to an X and most applications cover the tool bar when they open. I also lost the minimize, resize, and close buttons today after the updates.  All this was working properly before today.

---

