---
title: "10.04 won't boot (suspect graphics problem)"
date: 2010-04-07
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by joeinnes on 2010-04-07
Hi,

I can boot up the LiveCD fine, so I decided I was going to install it to my hard disk. No problems were flagged up at the time, so I rebooted.

There was no splash screen, and after a few ureadahead (4) alerts, something rather strange happened. The display seemed to freeze, and then a multicoloured blob started growing from the middle of the screen (it looked a bit like oil dripped into water). Then, the computer overheated and shut itself down.

It is probably worth noting that Ubuntu has never accurately guessed my resolution, and usually, GDM boots up in a resolution too high for my screen.

I thought this was linked, so I tried rebooting with:

```
set gfxmode=1024x768x16
set gfxpayload=1024x768x16
```

What happened then, was that Plymouth flashed up, then dropped to a command prompt (ie: GDM didn't run).

I logged in and tried
```

sudo gdm
```

and was met with this error: 
```
Failed to connect to socket /usr/local/var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket: No such file or directory

```
I then tried

```
startx
```

and got "Waiting for protocol" (repeatedly)

Then I tried

```
sudo startx
```

which worked (ie: it gave me a desktop, although at a resolution that was too high for my screen), except that networking (and probably loads of other stuff) wasn't working.

So, it looks as though the set gfxpayload=1024x768x16 helped a bit, but I'm at a bit of a loss as to where to go from here.

Any ideas?

Cheers,

Joe

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2010-04-07
edit your bootup line and remove "quiet splash" and this way you'll vbe able to see what if anything weird in the background is going on. I know that when I removed the splash from my boot line in Lucid (4-5-10 download) is booted right to gdm BUT after entering a password and hitting enter, gdm just restarts. so i had to drop to tty1 and stop gdm, tehn just issue startx to get into the desktop. 

Remember, these beta releases are not for production machines, meaning you really should only be trying it out because you know how to test it, report on bugs etc etc.

I wish you luck.

---

### Post by joeinnes on 2010-04-07
I'm aware that betas shouldn't be used on a production machine... I'm not using it on anything critical... and I've got good backups, so nothing to worry about on that front.

Your suggestion fixed the problem... nothing particularly unusual in the output (a couple of broken pipe errors), but GDM loaded.

Thanks for your help, I'll mark this closed.

Summary of fix for future searchers:

The fix is to add to your Grub menu:

set gfxpayload=1024x768

and remove quiet splash from the kernel line.

---

