---
title: "10.04 Lucid beta and rt2870"
date: 2010-03-21
forum: Lucid Lynx Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by svvv on 2010-03-21
I'm using D-Link USB wireless adapter (rt28070 chipset) and WICD.

After upgrading my desktop from 9.10 to 10.4 (Kubuntu variant), wicd cannot connect to my network and says 'Bad password'. Password is correct and I'm using it right now on my laptop running 9.10. Wicd client found my wireless network but it cannot get any further. 

Details follow.
[LIST]
[*] My network is WPA2, wicd uses wext for WPA. 
[*] Network interface is wlan0. Command 'iwlist wlan0 scan' works fine. 
[*] rt2870sta is loaded, driver rt2800usb is blacklisted.
[*] Enabling rt2800usb does not help. Command 'iwlist wlan1 scan' cannot find any network.
[*] Everything was fine in 9.10 (rt2870sta was used, network interface called 'ra0').
[/LIST]

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-21
> rt2870sta driver is loaded, rt2800usb is blacklisted.How about rt2x00usb and rt2x00lib? Are they also blacklisted?

---

### Post by svvv on 2010-03-21
> **chili555 said:**
> How about rt2x00usb and rt2x00lib? Are they also blacklisted?

No, but they were not used according to lsmod. I just blacklisted them just to be sure. Nothing changed: wicd shows network but authentication fails.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-21
Please reboot and then let us see:```
dmesg | grep -e rt2 -e wlan
```Thanks.

---

### Post by svvv on 2010-03-21
```
$ dmesg | grep -e rt2 -e wlan
[   13.286903] rt2870sta: module is from the staging directory, the quality is unknown, you have been warned.
[   13.293690] usbcore: registered new interface driver rt2870
[   33.296010] wlan0: no IPv6 routers present

```

Sorry for typing it by hand, I cannot find any usb flash right now.

I'm afraid 2.6.32 has problem with rt2870sta.

Switching from wicd to knetworkmanager does not help.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-21
Have you tried to edit Properties and add your password directly as per the attached?

---

### Post by svvv on 2010-03-21
> **chili555 said:**
> Have you tried to edit Properties and add your password directly as per the attached?

Yes, of course, I have checked and retyped password at least twice and even switched to knetworkmanager (with the same result).

---

### Post by svvv on 2010-03-21
I boot old 2.6.31 kernel and eveything works just fine.

So it is a problem of 2.6.32 kernel. I think it is bettter to put it to launchpad.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-21
> So it is a problem of 2.6.32 kernel. I think it is bettter to put it to launchpad.It could be the driver or wpa_supplicant. Have you tried unencrypted? If it works, then it's probably wpa_supplicant.

I agree about reporting the bug.

---

### Post by unc0nn3ct3d on 2010-03-22
Yup, I'll chime in and report this same problem

Dmesg output

[   17.541185] rt2860sta: module is from the staging directory, the quality is unknown, you have been warned.
[   17.544757] rt2860 0000:08:00.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 19 (level, low) -> IRQ 19
[   17.545009] rt2860 0000:08:00.0: setting latency timer to 64

The other strange thing is that it seems the ethernet connection is also borked.  It will establish the connection fine but immediately afterwards it stops transmitting or receiving information.  

If you want to post the launchpad link that'd be great

---

