---
title: "Any xorg.conf suggestions for my Nvidia card?"
date: 2009-01-14
forum: Arch and derivatives
---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2009-01-14
Hey I'm trying to get my Nvidia Geforce 8400GS 512 DDR2 ram to work as well as possible on Arch.  I had it working perfectly on Hardy but its a bit inconsistent on Arch.

Either the newer drivers in Arch dont work as well (i have used 177 and beta 180.16 so far) or it could be a KDEmod3 thing (havent tried it with gnome yet) OR i need to add some Xorg options.  I have found many from googling but i am not sure which options to add or where in xorg to add them.

I've managed to get video working as normal with Mplayer/OpenGL output and compiz.  My compiz cube is still tearing though!  And about 5% of the time the wobbly windows will tear, but only if i wobble them in the upper right corner of my screen.  Weird. 

I guess i could always reinstall and reconfigure Hardy and just copy the xorg.conf and use it on Arch right?

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-14
My recommendation would be to try the latest beta version of the driver (I think it's 180.22 at the moment) -- they keep improving KDE performance in those betas, so this is your best bet for significant difference.  In my experience, with nvidia cards, it's best to keep the configuration as close to the default as possible and just use the latest available drivers.

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2009-01-14
Woops i meant to say 180.22, thats what i am using right now, thought on the nVidia site it says "If you boot up and see the Nvidia Beta splash screen, you will know it is installed properly" but I see no such screen.

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-14
Can you post your xorg.conf file?
Also, the output of this command:
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | egrep \[WE\]\[WE\]
```

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2009-01-14
[indrid@harlem ~]$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | egrep \[WE\]\[WE\]
Current Operating System: Linux harlem 2.6.27-ARCH #1 SMP PREEMPT Sun Dec 21 09:31:10 UTC 2008 i686
        (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/Type1" does not exist.
(WW) AllowEmptyInput is on, devices using drivers 'kbd' or 'mouse' will be disabled.
(WW) Disabling Keyboard0
(WW) Disabling Mouse0
(WW) Open ACPI failed (/var/run/acpid.socket) (No such file or directory)
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(WW) Warning, couldn't open module type1
(EE) Failed to load module "type1" (module does not exist, 0)




# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Tue Jan  6 10:03:55 PST 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Tue Jan  6 10:03:02 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_60 +0+0; 1280x1024 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-14
First of all you should take care of those warnings (WW) and errors (EE):

1) You can safely remove the whole "Module" section -- you don't really need it.  That should take care of the error.
2) Section "Files" should include paths to font directories for things like xfontsel to work correctly, it should, in most cases, list all the directories under /usr/share/fonts.  See the xorg.conf file below for an example.
3) The acpid warning can be fixed by installing acpid and adding it to the daemons array in rc.conf; alternatively you can add:
> Option "ConnectToAcpid" "false"
to Section "Device" in xorg.conf

I'm posting my xorg.conf for reference -- I don't need any input configuration and so on because this is done automatically with hal now:
```
Section "Files"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/TTF"
  FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/artwiz-fonts"
	FontPath	  "/usr/share/fonts/local"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA GeForce 7900GS"
	Driver		  "nvidia"
	BusID       "PCI:3:0:0"
  Option		  "NoLogo"		                "True"
	Option		  "Coolbits" 			            "1"
	Option		  "NoPowerConnectorCheck"
	Option		  "AllowGLXWithComposite"		  "True"
	Option		  "DPI"				                "96 x 96"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster 940bx"
	Option		  "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		  "NVIDIA GeForce 7900GS"
	Monitor		  "SyncMaster 940bx"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0 0
		Depth		  24
		Modes		  "1280x1024_75" "1024x768_75"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite"	                "Enable"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2009-01-16
Thanks for the help, but nevermind, I guess it was a KDEmod3 issue.  I did a fresh install with GNOME and everything is working beautifully, even XVideo output.

---

### Post by Nepherte on 2009-01-16
Warnings can be ignored at first. Solving EE will give you a working X environment.

You can fix the type1 error by removing
```
Load "type1"
```

The warnings concerning replacing keyboard0, ... are caused by hal which detects your input devices and replaces the configuration with a fdi file.

---

### Post by Open-SuSe-A-Me on 2009-01-16
Maybe one of the admins can mark this thread as solved, for some reason i don't see the option anymore.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2009-01-16
Since you guys solved the OP's Xorg, might you help me with these errors?  I haven't noticed any problems, but upon entering the command, I get:

```
$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | egrep \[WE\]\[WE\]
Current Operating System: Linux Arch64 2.6.27-ARCH #1 SMP PREEMPT Sun Dec 21 09:13:30 UTC 2008 x86_64
	(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(WW) Open ACPI failed (/var/run/acpid.socket) (No such file or directory)
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(WW) Warning, couldn't open module type1
(EE) Failed to load module "type1" (module does not exist, 0)
(EE) config/hal: NewInputDeviceRequest failed
(EE) config/hal: NewInputDeviceRequest failed
(EE) config/hal: NewInputDeviceRequest failed

```I now know how to fix the ACPI warning (I think) and the type1 warning/error, but any idea what the II MIT-SCREEN-SAVER and the config/hal errors are?

Also, why do you not need the "Modules" Section?  I haven't heard that before.

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-16
rsambuca: For acpi warning and type1 error see my post above.  To remove the hal warnings you'd need to enable hal hotplugging.

EDIT: Modules section -- I've read about it somewhere, don't remember where though...  You can still specify something there, in particular when you want to prevent a module from being loaded, but in the majority of cases xorg does a fine job autoloading the necessary modules.  If you remove the section from xorg.conf, start X and then read through the log you'll notice that modules are still being loaded when necessary, it happens automatically now.  I think it all has to do with the move to make the xorg.conf file optional in the long run.  In either case, if you make a backup of your config file you can try removing this section, starting X and seeing if you're missing something.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2009-01-17
Thanks a lot for the info fwojciec, I'll fiddle around with my Xorg and see if it gets rid of the errors.

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2009-01-17
> **Nepherte said:**
> Warnings can be ignored at first. Solving EE will give you a working X environment.

You can fix the type1 error by removing
```
Load "type1"
```The warnings concerning replacing keyboard0, ... are caused by hal which detects your input devices and replaces the configuration with a fdi file.
  yes, the module "Freetype" conflicts with Type1 which you don't really need

---

