---
title: "2.6.28 in Core"
date: 2009-01-16
forum: Arch and derivatives
---

### Post by ghindo on 2009-01-16
[2.6.28 has moved into the core repositories]("http://www.archlinux.org/packages/core/x86_64/kernel26/").  Time to pacman -Syu and reboot!  I've heard that the new kernel could mean a new installation media (with support for ext4) is on the way - does anybody know if this is true?

---

### Post by Barrucadu on 2009-01-16
Woo! Ext4! I may set up a partition to see what it's like. Then again, I may just stick with my beloved JFS.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2009-01-16
I've been running the 2.6.28 kernel. It is very nice.

And about the new kernel and install cd: its true. There was a new installer uploaded to the repos in December.

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-16
The first [glimpses]("http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?pid=481526#p481526") of the new iso are beginning to appear...

---

### Post by mips on 2009-01-17
> **smartboyathome said:**
> 
And about the new kernel and install cd: its true. There was a new installer uploaded to the repos in December.

The Archboot iso is not an official Arch release and uses kernel 2.6.27.7.

[ftp://ftp.hosteurope.de/mirror/ftp.archlinux.org/iso/archboot/Readme.txt](ftp://ftp.hosteurope.de/mirror/ftp.archlinux.org/iso/archboot/Readme.txt)
> Summary:
- This directory contains installation images based on archboot scripts.
- Those files are no official Arch Linux releases.
- Use them on your own risk.
- If you find a bug, please mail the archboot developer directly.[FONT=Verdana]ftp://ftp.hosteurope.de/mirror/ftp.archlinux.org/iso/archboot/Changelog-2008.12-1.txt[/FONT]
> GENERAL:
- kernel 2.6.27.7 usage
- pacman 3.2.1 usage

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2009-01-17
I am not talking about the Archboot iso. I'm talking about the update which came around the same time to the installer package in Arch's repository. :P

---

### Post by SomeGuyDude on 2009-01-17
I can't tell the difference.

With a kernel update, that's a good thing. :D

---

### Post by mips on 2009-01-17
> **smartboyathome said:**
> I am not talking about the Archboot iso. I'm talking about the update which came around the same time to the installer package in Arch's repository. :P

My bad, I read your post wrong. Dunno why I thought iso.

---

### Post by cardinals_fan on 2009-01-17
No difference on my Arch partition.  Works fine.

---

### Post by extruct on 2009-01-18
Im the only one who feels that after this update my pc became slower?

---

### Post by Nepherte on 2009-01-18
I don't experience any reduction in speed.

---

### Post by extruct on 2009-01-18
I can't handle it... Nvidia driver seems to be very sloow! Compiz is slow, running multiple software became slower :(

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-18
I have nvidia and 2.6.28 kernel running without any problems.  It must be something else, or perhaps your card doesn't like the new nvidia drivers for some reason.  Also, make sure to check xorg log (and other logs for that matter) to see if any problems are indicated there.

---

### Post by extruct on 2009-01-18
Everything seems fine..
Xorg.log have the same warning it had before the update, the only strage thing is:
```
Jan 18 07:35:35 WareWolf Error: Driver 'pcspkr' is already registered, aborting...
Jan 18 07:35:35 WareWolf Error: Driver 'pcspkr' is already registered, aborting...
Jan 18 12:54:47 WareWolf Error: Driver 'pcspkr' is already registered, aborting...
Jan 18 18:53:09 WareWolf sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Assuming drive cache: write through
Jan 18 18:53:09 WareWolf sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Assuming drive cache: write through
Jan 18 22:25:41 WareWolf Error: Driver 'pcspkr' is already registered, aborting...
Jan 18 22:25:41 WareWolf Error: Driver 'pcspkr' is already registered, aborting...
```
in Errors.log
Everything else is ok.
Heh Nvidia disappointed me again :( (or maybe its the kernel?)

---

### Post by MisfitI38 on 2009-01-18
Use ABS to recompile the previous version of nvidia and nvidia-utils against 2.6.28.
If that doesn't work, try downgrading the kernel.

---

### Post by Nepherte on 2009-01-18
How about disabling the pcspeaker (!pcspkr) in the MODULES() array in /etc/rc.conf?

---

### Post by extruct on 2009-01-19
I didn't try to recompile Nvidia yet, not pretty sure that the problem is here.
Anyway I disabled pcspkr in rc.conf and still have some warning during boot, something like:
"No state is present for card pcsp"
And then another 2-3lines that I can't remember.

[EDIT]
Oh and I can't downgrade since I don't have the packages :(

[EDIT2]
Full error during boot:
```

No state is present for pcsp
Unknown hardware "PC-Speaker" "" ""
Hardware initializing (author comment: or initialized) using guess mode
No state is present for pcsp

```

About nvidia, I did downgrade for 173.14.12 and it seems a bit faster, cant tell it for sure right now.

[EDIT3]
Blacklisting snd_pcsp in addition to pcspkr seems like fixed the booting error. Thanks.

---

### Post by SomeGuyDude on 2009-01-19
So wait, is there or isn't there ext4 support here?

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2009-01-20
> **SomeGuyDude said:**
> So wait, is there or isn't there ext4 support here?

There is EXT4 support in 2.6.28.

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-20
> **SomeGuyDude said:**
> So wait, is there or isn't there ext4 support here?

Here is what the partition layout on my laptop looks like as of this kernel:
```
> df -T -x tmpfs
Filesystem    Type   1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda6     ext4     9614116   5567324   3949120  59% /
/dev/sda3     ext2       93327     11521     76987  14% /boot
/dev/sda7     ext4   114102724  55895128  57057504  50% /home
```

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2009-01-20
> **fwojciec said:**
> Here is what the partition layout on my laptop looks like as of this kernel:
```
> df -T -x tmpfs
Filesystem    Type   1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda6     ext4     9614116   5567324   3949120  59% /
/dev/sda3     ext2       93327     11521     76987  14% /boot
/dev/sda7     ext4   114102724  55895128  57057504  50% /home
```

And you don't *have* to have a /boot partition if you use Grub2 (which is whwat I use ;)).

---

### Post by SomeGuyDude on 2009-01-20
Damn. I currenly have XFS rolling. Looks like I can't just do a simple upgrade.

---

### Post by mips on 2009-01-20
> **SomeGuyDude said:**
> Damn. I currenly have XFS rolling. Looks like I can't just do a simple upgrade.


I don't think you can convert xfs to ext of any version. I also use XFS which I'm happy with for now, btrfs will be out soon anyway.

---

### Post by SomeGuyDude on 2009-01-20
> **mips said:**
> I don't think you can convert xfs to ext of any version. I also use XFS which I'm happy with for now, btrfs will be out soon anyway.

Yeah, you can't. Ah well. What's up with BTRFS?

---

### Post by mips on 2009-01-20
> **SomeGuyDude said:**
> Yeah, you can't. Ah well. What's up with BTRFS?

[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Njk4Mw](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Njk4Mw)
[http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux-2.6.git;a=commit;h=73d59314e6ed268d6f322ae1bdd723b23fa5a4ed](http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux-2.6.git;a=commit;h=73d59314e6ed268d6f322ae1bdd723b23fa5a4ed)
[http://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page](http://btrfs.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page)

Unstable but there...

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2009-01-20
> **smartboyathome said:**
> And you don't *have* to have a /boot partition if you use Grub2 (which is whwat I use ;)).

I know, but I like it :)  Nothing is faster than plain ext2 for booting from.

---

