---
title: "2.6.20-16 Issue"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by eljefe6 on 2007-05-31
Is anyone else having an issue with the new 2.6.20-16 kernel?  Whenever I boot into the 2.6.20-16 kernel, I get a dramatic slowdown.  Everything, including the mouse and keyboard runs really slowly.

---

### Post by andrewbossie on 2007-06-01
i updated yesterday and with .16 i lost my wireless capabilities

---

### Post by reckless2k2 on 2007-06-01
There seem to be a lot of issues with the new kernel. You still have the capability to boot into the older kernel and that should be done until the new kernel is patched for these related issues.

---

### Post by tchorix on 2007-06-01
I'm using the new kernel and I haven't experience any problem. In fact, the problem with usb devices turning on the numlock pad seems to be gone. I have a macbook pro first generation

cheers
Tch

---

### Post by alloydwhitlock on 2007-06-02
I had an issue with the new Kernel, though I was using the madwifi drivers on a MBCD2.  I wonder if it's an issue with the newer MB/MBP's since they have to use madwifi drivers and/or the hardware itself.

Update:  I installed the new kernel and re-ran "sudo modprobe ath-pci" again - working this time

---

### Post by Tye on 2007-06-03
yeah i cant start the new kernel

it pretty much stops at the splash screen , no progress in the bar

then i get a black screen for a while then

/bin/sh:can't access tty; job control turned off
(initramfs)

---

### Post by Movi on 2007-06-07
Macbook Core2Duo here. Suspend stopped working on -16 here. It just hangs after balnking the screen. -15 worked fine. Reported a bug here [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/119186]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/119186")

However, ath_pci from svn trunk worked great.

---

### Post by joemo75 on 2007-06-08
> **eljefe6 said:**
> Is anyone else having an issue with the new 2.6.20-16 kernel?  Whenever I boot into the 2.6.20-16 kernel, I get a dramatic slowdown.  Everything, including the mouse and keyboard runs really slowly.

This kernel will not boot for me at all.  Intel D865PERL mobo.  Seems to be a SATA issue with my machine.  When I run in recovery mode it loops through hdg, hde, etc with interupt errors.  Sorry I can't be more specific. Kernel 2.6.20-16 runs fine THANK GOD.

---

### Post by Niker on 2007-06-09
seems to be the same problem for everyone. How could I blacklist any further kernel / kernel-headers updates?

---

### Post by Tye on 2007-06-14
I got it to load

i checked out my menu.lst and found different UUIDs for the new kernel so i changed it to the one 2.6.20-15 was using and it loaded

now i have a xserver problem, i suppose its the nVidia drivers

---

