---
title: "7.04beta trouble with touchpad"
date: 2007-03-24
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by PictureThis on 2007-03-24
I installed Kubuntu 7.04beta today on a MacBook Core 2 Duo 1,83GHz and after a suspicious smooth install have great difficulty with the touchpad/trackpad . I searched the forums here and most of the time it seems the touchpad is terribly slow (as in my case and I mean unworkable slow) and after some amendments not at all responsive/irregular in its behaviour. I edited the xorg.conf file and after some tweaking got it to work but that's about it. It doesn't show up in the "Computer Administration" and changing the values of the mouse parameters there doesn't seem to do anything.
I compiled and installed libsynaptics and ksynaptics hoping to gain some more tweaking control but this introduced some weird behavior. If I now start Kubuntu my touchpad more or less "works" but.... when I enter the  ksynaptics configuration window and change any value my pointer gets a life of its own. If I try hold the pointer in one position it will move in a Northwesterly direction :confused: 
The touchpad's response is still nowhere near its smooth behavior in OSX but still I really like the KDE desktop. (Hence Kubuntu) Maybe I should consider switching to mouse for Computer Administration (K)Ubuntu style ;-)

---

### Post by sedatg on 2007-03-25
For me, apt-get update/upgrade and a reboot solved the problem automagically.

---

### Post by PictureThis on 2007-03-25
apt-get did not resolve/change the trackpad's behavior: I read some more comments today and gmc seems to have similar experiences as can be read [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=391614). The stuttering and stalling makes fast precision pointing nearly impossible. (I'm writing this piece on the MacBook in Kubuntu but I have to be really careful with the trackpad :) ) My xorg.conf settings:

```
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
#	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mouse1"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"LeftEdge"		"100"
	Option		"RightEdge"		"1120"
	Option		"TopEdge"		"50"
	Option		"BottomEdge"		"310"
	Option		"MinSpeed"		"0.75"
	Option		"MaxSpeed"		"1.00"
	Option		"AccelFactor"		"0.0015"
	Option		"FingerLow"		"4"
	Option		"FingerHigh"		"5"
	Option		"MaxTapTime"		"180"
	Option		"MaxTapMove"		"220"
	Option		"MaxDoubleTapTime"	"180"
	Option		"VertScrollDelta"	"20"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"50"
	Option		"VertTwoFingerScroll"	"1"
	Option		"HorizTwoFingerScroll"	"1"
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"on"
EndSection

```

Am I doing something wrong in my setup or could it just be "Feisty"?

---

### Post by floke on 2007-03-25
Not just you.
Bug report filed.

See this thread: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/95887](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/95887)

---

### Post by PictureThis on 2007-03-26
The new driver did not end the jerky behavior of the pointer. When in motion it is a bit smoother but often it will not react upon a given input. Yesterday I only used Kubuntu, today I switched to OSX to rule out a trackpad malfunction. No malfunction. Smooth/responsive as ever in OSX.

---

