---
title: "7.04beta fails to boot in parallels"
date: 2007-03-24
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by entangled on 2007-03-24
I've just downloaded desktop 7.04 beta, burned to CD and booted my Mac mini from CD. Looks good and runs quickly, for a CD boot. 
However I wanted to use it on MacOSX under Parallels 3188. Parallels starts to boot the CD but hangs with a black screen after the boot prompt. Last message is 'failed RSDP'. Ubuntu 6.10 desktop also gives this message but does boot and install OK on Parallels.
I'm going to contact parallels, but they are not officially supporting Feisty, let alone a beta, so I don't expect any solution from them. You might be lucky on your parallels, but beware, Feisty beta might not work.

---

### Post by snellgrove on 2007-03-24
Mine's working fine

I upgraded a fresh install of Edgy to Feisty just now

It says that failed RSDP thing and sits on a black screen for a while but then works fine - The next thing I see is the login screen.

Give it a few minutes and see how you get on!

I think Parallels has display issues with Ubuntu - i.e. sometimes I end up with a black screen with only a mouse cursor. I have to use ctrl+alt+F1 to get to a terminal and issue the shutdown -r command, to reboot Ubuntu and then everythings fine again.

Think its to do with screensavers - not sure if I'm right though.

---

### Post by entangled on 2007-03-24
After some experimenting I found a workaround.
I had to start booting with the 6.10 desktop disk. A second or two after 'could not locate RSDP' message I suspended Parallels. I disconnected the CD drive and ejected the CD. I put in the 7.04 beta disk and re-connected. Finally I unsuspended Parallels and it carried on to boot the cd.
I think there is a new bug in casper, and how it mounts the cd from intramfs. Once the cd was mounted, using 6.10, the install could continue.

---

### Post by fluxin on 2007-03-24
live vga=771 noapic nolapic
That gets you to the boot splash but then you get "/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off" and get to the busybox screen

---

### Post by entangled on 2007-03-24
Yes, fluxin, I got that too but the workaround using the 6.10 disk gets a bit further.
However, although I can now boot under parallels I find that my usb mouse and usb keyboard are not recognized. Bluetooth doesn't work either so that's it - useless.
I am writing this from the live CD booting the mac mini directly, not through parallels. It boots completely normally and all devices work.
I am beginning to think that parallels recent upgrade to 3188, together with changes to ubuntu's casper, might be responsible for this problem. Perhaps I will regress to parallels 1970 and try again?

---

### Post by hajk on 2007-03-25
The RSDP issue comes about because Parallels does not (completely) support ACPI, so using the "acpi=off" boot option should solve that.

I'm trying to install 7.04 Beta in Parallels for Mac build 3118. The installation starts OK, asking questions about language and keyboard, but then hangs when it can't find a driver for the CD-ROM. None of the offered choices works! 

Just for reference: the Debian Etch RC-2 does get past this point, so probably the devs should add a few drivers before they release 7.04.

---

### Post by avihappy on 2007-03-25
I will try that boot option and see what happens.

EDIT: Nope, still hangs.

---

### Post by wimds on 2007-03-28
> **snellgrove said:**
> Mine's working fine

I upgraded a fresh install of Edgy to Feisty just now

How do you do that?

---

### Post by wimds on 2007-03-28
> **entangled said:**
> I've just downloaded desktop 7.04 beta, burned to CD and booted my Mac mini from CD. Looks good and runs quickly, for a CD boot. 
However I wanted to use it on MacOSX under Parallels 3188. Parallels starts to boot the CD but hangs with a black screen after the boot prompt. Last message is 'failed RSDP'. Ubuntu 6.10 desktop also gives this message but does boot and install OK on Parallels.
I'm going to contact parallels, but they are not officially supporting Feisty, let alone a beta, so I don't expect any solution from them. You might be lucky on your parallels, but beware, Feisty beta might not work.

I have the same problem with Parallels 3088 and Feisty :mad:

---

### Post by epkphoto on 2007-03-29
I also found this issue shortly after Feisty beta came out.  It is an issue with a CD virtualization change made by Parallels that the current infestation of the linux kernel in Ubuntu does not handle properly.  The issue actually appeared in Feisty Herd 5 with the newer kernel versions.  Additionally, the issue happens with the latest kernels in the Fedora 7 test releases.

If you guys want to help get this fixed, check out my bug report here: [https://launchpad.net/bugs/95830](https://launchpad.net/bugs/95830)

---

### Post by epkphoto on 2007-03-29
Also, check out the following threads in the Parallels forums (the first one was started by me):

[http://forums.parallels.com/thread10308.html](http://forums.parallels.com/thread10308.html)
[http://forums.parallels.com/thread10297.html](http://forums.parallels.com/thread10297.html)
[http://forums.parallels.com/thread10333.html](http://forums.parallels.com/thread10333.html)

---

### Post by Chrisj303 on 2007-03-30
Have you tried using VMware Fusion Beta? - that seems to sort most peoples problems with parallels!

chrisj303

---

### Post by brentj84062 on 2007-04-05
It would seem that the only way to bypass the problem right now is to install 7.04beta on top of an existing installation of 6.06 or 6.10. It's a good thing I still have the old images on hand. If someone doesn't and they want to install 7.04beta, the download links are still live for 6.06 and 6.10 at [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download")

---

### Post by entangled on 2007-04-06
After the suggestion by chris I am using vmware Fusion beta. Everything works - ubuntu installs, even have sound through the internal speaker.
At first sight Fusion beta blows parallels out of the water.

---

### Post by Chrisj303 on 2007-04-08
^ Did you manage to get the latest Beta? - Beta 3 came out 2 days ago! - no more debug code!, it runs a LOT faster.

---

### Post by Macintosh Sauce on 2007-04-08
[COLOR="DarkGreen"]I have the same issue in Parallels, but I have Feisty Fawn working in VMware Fusion Beta 3. Works quite nice too...[/COLOR]

---

### Post by frenkel on 2007-04-09
As a work around, you can change your os-type to solaris and then boot the install cd. After the installation has finished, you can change your os-type back, if you don't need the cd drive.

Frank

---

### Post by brentj84062 on 2007-04-09
I've acquired VMWare and it's working beautifully. I'm afraid that it trumps Parallels enough that I'll probably be using it from now on.

---

### Post by atom on 2007-04-09
> **brentj84062 said:**
> I've acquired VMWare and it's working beautifully. I'm afraid that it trumps Parallels enough that I'll probably be using it from now on.

My only complaint with vmware fusion is that with debugging turned on, the performance is painfully poor. vmware does this with betas, but the upside is they are free to try out.

guess i'll just have to keep waiting..

---

### Post by Chrisj303 on 2007-04-09
In VMware Fusion Beta 3 you can turn de-bug code off. PREFERENCES - 'Enable debugging checks' - (uncheck).

---

### Post by atom on 2007-04-10
awesome, thanks. i hadn't downloaded beta3 yet.

---

### Post by activejeff on 2007-04-19
> **frenkel said:**
> As a work around, you can change your os-type to solaris and then boot the install cd. After the installation has finished, you can change your os-type back, if you don't need the cd drive.

Frank

I can confirm, all I needed to do to get this working was lie to paralllels and tell them I was installing Solaris 10 instead. Seems like a good enough workaround for now?

---

