---
title: "./Configure problems"
date: 2007-07-28
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by ripdog on 2007-07-28
I just installed this copy of Kubuntu on my iMac, and have been unable to compile much at all. I Have installed build-essentials, which fixed one problem, but now anothers appeared.```
checking for X... configure: error: Can't find X libraries. Please check your installation and add the correct paths!

``` This was when trying to configure the QTcurve GTK theme.

So, i tried to fix it. After some digging, i found libX11-X11R7.2-1.1.1 on x.org,thinking that it have X and lib in the name, would fix it. Oh well.```
checking for XPROTO... configure: error: Package requirements (xproto >= 7.0.6) were not met:

No package 'xproto' found

Consider adjusting the PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment variable if you
installed software in a non-standard prefix.

Alternatively, you may set the environment variables XPROTO_CFLAGS
and XPROTO_LIBS to avoid the need to call pkg-config.
See the pkg-config man page for more details.
```
^^ configuring libX11-X11R7.2-1.1.1.

There was no sign of "xproto" in the repos,and a quick Google picked up nothing, so i'm stumped. Thanks in advance.

PS: It's 3:30 AM here, so i might have messed something up. Please don't be too harsh :(

---

### Post by jmaryinchina on 2007-07-28
Look at xorg packages which are already installed in synaptic and install their equivalent with dev extension.
Then try again.

---

### Post by Smu on 2007-07-28
I think xproto should be included in the xlibs package. Have you got it installed?

---

### Post by ripdog on 2007-07-28
Well, i *think* the second one WAS xlibs. =\ 


I searched for all likely words like xlibs, xorg, and even plain X, but no mention of xlibs in adept.

Hang on, i just installed Synaptic (I'm running Kubuntu), and there was a whole section devoted to xlibs. I installed almsot the whole thing, ill edit with the results.
Thanks guys :)

EDIT: Nope, that would be tooo easy. New error: ```
checking for KDE... configure: error:
in the prefix, you've chosen, are no KDE headers installed. This will fail.
So, check this please and use another prefix!

```

Ill go search through synaptic...

EDIT2: Well, i THINK it installed properly, but i can't check it, as it is a Beryl theme, and window borders don't show for me.

Thanks for the help, guys.

---

### Post by russo.mic on 2007-07-29
what exactly are you trying to compile?

make sure you install emerald and emerald-theme packages, and run emerald if nessassary.

good luck.

---

### Post by luisbg on 2007-07-30
do you have build-essential package installed?

luisbg

---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2007-07-30
Usually the INSTALL or README will tell the dependencies.  If not ask the developer.

---

