---
title: "2.16 GHz Intel Core 2"
date: 2007-04-20
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by julianbond007 on 2007-04-20
Hello ubuntu community. I'm new to the site and I wanted know which download do I use for my Intel mac to install ubuntu? Also, does ubuntu work with parallel on a mac?

---

### Post by zenwalker on 2007-04-20
Whats intel mac??

I never heard any brand from intel by that name at all.

Any ways, if your is a core 2 duo processor or Athlon 64, then use 64bit Ubuntu ver. Or else if yours a intel p4 or similar then go for PC edition.

And i dont know about (If at all if your asking about Apple MAC computer) mac ver if at all if they do support. But how ever, you can use Ubuntu via VMWare.

---

### Post by julianbond007 on 2007-04-20
Actually I should of said that my computer is a MacBook Pro laptop.  Thanks for the reply.:)

---

### Post by magic-neophyte on 2007-04-20
Hi,

You can also use normal Ubuntu, Feisty Fawn 7.04 works fine and fast for me on a Core Duo Mac mini (NOT Core 2 Duo!). Sometimes the 64-bit editions have some problems, see the FAQ on the 64-bit subjects on this forum. 

It may be tricky to get video properly working, Many people seem to have this problem. 

Magic Neophyte

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2007-04-20
> **zenwalker said:**
> Whats intel mac??

I never heard any brand from intel by that name at all.

Any ways, if your is a core 2 duo processor or Athlon 64, then use 64bit Ubuntu ver. Or else if yours a intel p4 or similar then go for PC edition.

And i dont know about (If at all if your asking about Apple MAC computer) mac ver if at all if they do support. But how ever, you can use Ubuntu via VMWare.

If you are going to get techinical, it is Mac, not MAC.

---

