---
title: "... Bottles of Beer."
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2007-10-23
Sorry it's late, having thoughts of suds.

I'm not able to sleep (my ears are killing me) and there are so many noises in the place it driving this person crazy.  Unfortunately, what I do puts me in a situation where people dramatically increase the air pressure in my abode.  They do this, to try and force me into a society.   I am getting to the stage where my ears just constantly ring.  But thats another story... 

As for the MacBook, it's sweet running.   I have a custom system that I've ironed most the bugs out of.  Some things that are different are:  I use mplayer instead of totem, without the gui frontend mplayer rocks.  I use gvim instead of gedit.  If a person mostly does text stuff, it can be set up real nice.

Plus I've been able to find some good games after a considerable deal of looking.  Neverwinter Nights isn't a great port but it can be interesting.  You can still find copies of it selling still.  Also I fount out that wine does American McGee's Alice beautifully.  I forgot all about it until I was reading over at Franks Corner.  I've never played it before - it's pretty cool.  Also I play Continuum via wine - great game but better be on good terms with the mod because they will cheat.

I have gnome installed but I'm using Xfce4 as my gnome installation has a couple bugs.  Xfce4 is pretty neat.  Xfce4 for those that haven't tried it is pretty much a gnome light installation.  It is a quick and responsive and not that much different than is regular ubuntu.

Gnome has been tried to integrate compositing effects into the desktop for several releases now, but they haven't done it yet.  I think with all the new things done with Compiz-Fusion it's been put off.  Xfce4 has built on it though and I like it alot.  Though Compiz-Fusion wasn't over heavy in Gnome, its integration just didn't feel quite right.  Xfce4 does a nice job with compositing with only the effects a really need.

I might just stick with Xfce4.

Here's a look:

---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2007-10-23
Has anyone used Gutsy yet?  Is it any better than before?

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2007-10-23
> **Dirk.R.Gently said:**
> Has anyone used Gutsy yet?  Is it any better than before?Pretty good. Some Graphics issues due to the new way of doing things in xorg.

  Probably need to update FAQ sometime.

---

