---
title: "7.10 freezes on bootup.. haven't even installed"
date: 2008-04-17
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by pimpdaddypiggy on 2008-04-17
Hi, I recently attempted to boot 7.10 on my g4 intel mac (1st generation of intel based macs, but in not positive about that) anyways once I boot up I get 

Running local boot script
                            [OK]

Not that exactly but im sure you've all seen this topic before.

I have looked everywhere for answers and tried many many things, the last thing I normally do is make a new thread but after 3 hours of searching i'll make an exception. any ideas or sure thing fixs would be greatly appreciated. If you require specs' just ask, 
also im not a programmer so please don't just through code at me.

EDIT: Sorry i forgot to mention that i wasn't sure if this belongs here or in absolute beginner talk..

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-04-17
well, first, you need to clear up your terminology... a G4 Mac is a PPC-based mac. If you have an Intel Mac, then you need to tell us what kind of Mac it is, and what version... 

look in system profiler, and you should see the version in a format like:

iMac5,1

---

### Post by turcott on 2008-04-17
which option are you selecting #1 where it says to install it, or the other # to install OEM manufacturer install...only reason i ask is i tried the OEM install, things went well but when asked to reboot to finish the install i couldn't get ubuntu to boot up, it would just give me a white screen.  Installed it using selection #1 and things went fine, tried the other way once again and it did the same thing...so now i have it installed once again using #1 and things are well so far...ubuntu is great, who needs OSX when you have open source from Ubuntu, lol.

---

### Post by pimpdaddypiggy on 2008-04-18
> **turcott said:**
> which option are you selecting #1 where it says to install it, or the other # to install OEM manufacturer install...only reason i ask is i tried the OEM install, things went well but when asked to reboot to finish the install i couldn't get ubuntu to boot up, it would just give me a white screen.  Installed it using selection #1 and things went fine, tried the other way once again and it did the same thing...so now i have it installed once again using #1 and things are well so far...ubuntu is great, who needs OSX when you have open source from Ubuntu, lol.

I am indeed using the first install option.
(install or boot ubuntu)

> **cyberdork33 said:**
> well, first, you need to clear up your terminology... a G4 Mac is a PPC-based mac. If you have an Intel Mac, then you need to tell us what kind of Mac it is, and what version... 

look in system profiler, and you should see the version in a format like:

iMac5,1
It is an intel based mac, however it was my under standing that apple continued calling there macs G4-G5 even after they bought rights to use the intel chip,
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_iMac](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_iMac)
My intel mac is the first one one the chart of this wiki page,(intel core duo) any and all help appreciated.

If anyone knows how long it's supposed to take (form experience) for ubuntu to run the 
* running local boot script (/etc/rc.local)
that would also be appreciated, install guides don't seem to care about this part apparently it's is supposed to take some time.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-04-18
> **pimpdaddypiggy said:**
> It is an intel based mac, however it was my under standing that apple continued calling there macs G4-G5 even after they bought rights to use the intel chip,
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_iMac](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_iMac)
My intel mac is the first one one the chart of this wiki page,(intel core duo) any and all help appreciated.

If you have a Mac that is callled iMac G5 then it is a PPC mac. These "look" the same as the White Intel-based Macs (Core Duo and Core2 Duo). If you have the Core Duo (and not the Core2 Duo) then I would assume that you Mac is designated iMac4,1. 

> **pimpdaddypiggy said:**
>  If anyone knows how long it's supposed to take (form experience) for ubuntu to run the 
* running local boot script (/etc/rc.local)
that would also be appreciated, install guides don't seem to care about this part apparently it's is supposed to take some time.
Nope normally it flies by and you never really see it (actually the ubuntu bootsplash is usually up so you don't see anything).

I would guess that is a bad disc... When it stops booting, can you press any keys and get it to do anything? Try using ALT+F2, ALT+F3, etc to get to a login prompt.

I would really try getting the Hardy Release Candidate which should now be out. You may have better luck.

---

### Post by pimpdaddypiggy on 2008-04-19
Well, thank you for your help, i went ahead and attempted to dual boot using an altrnate installer, of course my horrible luck with technology meant this wasn't going too work it stopped at 33% installing and then it cycled through cannot find these two files i don't remeber anyways

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-04-19
> **pimpdaddypiggy said:**
> Well, thank you for your help, i went ahead and attempted to dual boot using an altrnate installer, of course my horrible luck with technology meant this wasn't going too work it stopped at 33% installing and then it cycled through cannot find these two files i don't remeber anywaysI am almost 100% positive that you are getting bad burns. very the download, burn as slow as you can and try again.

---

### Post by pimpdaddypiggy on 2008-04-21
Bad burns eh? I guess it's plausible. not that it matters now, i managed to explode my mac when ubuntu glitched and decided to portion the drive 4 times thus killing osx. i had to wipe the drive, mum wasn't too happy with that so i'll most likly get an external drive for my next attempt. thank you anyways.

-Piggy

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-04-22
> **pimpdaddypiggy said:**
> Bad burns eh? I guess it's plausible. not that it matters now, i managed to explode my mac when ubuntu glitched and decided to portion the drive 4 times thus killing osx. i had to wipe the drive, mum wasn't too happy with that so i'll most likly get an external drive for my next attempt. thank you anyways.
Well, first, you shouldn't need to partition the drive 4 times... If you have done it once, then you have to work with the changes you have already made. There is an excellent partitioning tool on the Ubuntu Live CD called gparted that should give you good insight into the layout of your disk. Secondly, you won't be able to boot ubuntu from an external hard drive.

---

