---
title: "2.6.24-12 in gutsy"
date: 2008-03-09
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-09
Hello,

I've just installed linux image 2.6.24-12 from hardy on my gutsy system and the good news is keyboard and touchpad work great, but there's some bad news, too. My bluetooth, sound and ndiswrapper stopped working! I do have the modules, some of them just won't load.

```

robzon@robzon-mac:/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/pci$ sudo modprobe snd_hda_intel
FATAL: Error inserting snd (/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/acore/snd.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
WARNING: Error running install command for snd
WARNING: Error inserting snd_hwdep (/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/acore/snd-hwdep.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
WARNING: Error inserting snd_timer (/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/acore/snd-timer.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
FATAL: Error inserting snd (/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/acore/snd.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
WARNING: Error running install command for snd
WARNING: Error inserting snd_timer (/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/acore/snd-timer.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
FATAL: Error inserting snd_pcm (/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/acore/snd-pcm.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)
WARNING: Error running install command for snd_pcm
FATAL: Error inserting snd_hda_intel (/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/pci/hda/snd-hda-intel.ko): Unknown symbol in module, or unknown parameter (see dmesg)

```

ndiswrapper is loaded:

```

robzon@robzon-mac:/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/pci$ lsmod | grep ndis
ndiswrapper           192920  0 
usbcore               146028  7 ndiswrapper,uvcvideo,appletouch,usbhid,ehci_hcd,uhci_hcd

```

and the driver seems to be installed:

```

robzon@robzon-mac:/lib/modules/2.6.24-12-generic/ubuntu/sound/alsa-driver/pci$ ndiswrapper -l
bcmwl5 : driver installed
        device (14E4:4328) present (alternate driver: ssb)

```

Still, I get no interface for my wifi card. Same story with bluetooth (bluetooth module loaded, no device).

Any help is greatly appreciated!

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Belak on 2008-03-09
I'm assuming this "(see dmesg)" may be helpful. I can't remember if you have to run it with sudo, but it should help give you a bit more info. Just look for the relevant lines. There'll be a lot of them.

---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-09
Ah, yeah, I've checked dmesg just forgot to post the output. IIt only listed some symbols it couldn't find for specific modules. I'll post the output next time I boot the 2.6.24 kernel.

---

### Post by knx2 on 2008-03-09
I am also having this problem.  None of my snd modules will load.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-03-09
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24/+bug/200338](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24/+bug/200338) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br] 				There are some big issues with the latest kernel release. Stick with -11.

---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-10
Unfortunately -11 has no patches for aluminum keyboards, which also makes it unsuitable. 2.6.22 locks up on suspend, 2.6.24-11 has no patches and -12 has no drivers. Dammit :)

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-03-10
> **robzon said:**
> Unfortunately -11 has no patches for aluminum keyboards, which also makes it unsuitable. 2.6.22 locks up on suspend, 2.6.24-11 has no patches and -12 has no drivers. Dammit :)We have had patches on the Hardy kernels for a long time in the mactel-support repo

[https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive](https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive)

---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-10
> **cyberdork33 said:**
> We have had patches on the Hardy kernels for a long time in the mactel-support repo

[https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive](https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive)

Yes, I've tried to use that kernel on Gutsy, but apt-get complained about some dependencies. I don't want to mess up my system too much.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-03-10
> **robzon said:**
> Yes, I've tried to use that kernel on Gutsy, but apt-get complained about some dependencies. I don't want to mess up my system too much.

there is a hardy archive and a gutsy archive, you have to use the one for your distro. Keyboard patches are on all of them.

---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-10
The thing is, the mactel support repo for gutsy has only 2.6.22 kernel, which locks up on suspend. I'm using that kernel now and suspend is the only thing that I'm really missing. 2.6.24 works great with suspend but the one from mactel repos won't install (cuz it's for hardy only and apt-get won't install it) and the one in official ubuntu repos has a lot of other issues (bluetooth, sound, ndiswrapper...). I guess I'm kinda stuck there and just have to wait for hardy.

Btw. hardy kernel has the keyboard patches in place, still the brightness keys won't work.

---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-10
Ok, quick update:

after today's kernel upgrade sound and brightness keys work! \o/

the only two things missing are bluetooth and ndiswrapper. the modules load flawlessly, dmesg says it registered new devices, but there are no interfaces in iwconfig neither with hciconfig.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-03-10
> **robzon said:**
> The thing is, the mactel support repo for gutsy has only 2.6.22 kernel, which locks up on suspend. I'm using that kernel now and suspend is the only thing that I'm really missing. 2.6.24 works great with suspend but the one from mactel repos won't install (cuz it's for hardy only and apt-get won't install it) and the one in official ubuntu repos has a lot of other issues (bluetooth, sound, ndiswrapper...). I guess I'm kinda stuck there and just have to wait for hardy.

Btw. hardy kernel has the keyboard patches in place, still the brightness keys won't work.suspend worked on 2.6.22 although there were issues with the fglrx driver then. This was all fixed though in the newer drivers.

I don't know what was wrong with your bluetooth and ndiswrapper.. .I didn't see anyone else having those issues.

---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-11
Another update :-)

There's only source packages for linux-2.6.22 in the mactel gutsy repos. No binaries.

I got wifi working on 2.6.24. The new ssb driver is blocking the device. I had to unload ssb and ohci_hcd manually and then reload ndiswrapper to make it work.
I've tried adding these two modules to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist but it doesn't work. I have a feeling that those 2 modules are loaded from initram. Do you have any idea how to stop them from loading?

Still no luck with bluetooth.

---

### Post by robzon on 2008-03-11
And more...

I had to rename the two modules and then rebuild initrd file for the mactel kernel. Now they don't get loaded on boot and my wifi works very well. There's a bug for the ssb vs. ndiswrapper conflict on the launchpad:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/188621](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/188621)

Still no luck with bluetooth. All the modules are in place but interfaces are found. Strange.

---

