---
title: "Need Major Help Right Clicking"
date: 2008-03-03
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by k3y5rmy1if3 on 2008-03-03
I have tried countless tutorials on how to set up right clicking, two finger tap, three finger tap, etc. Not even f12 or f11 works, and i cant find any way to set it up! if someone can please help on how maybe to ctrl click to right click or something that would be really great.

---

### Post by ronocdh on 2008-03-04
I recommend using Qsynaptics. I personally hate one-finger tapping, because I always accidentally click while mousing around. I use the hardware button for left-click, two-finger tap for right-click, and three-finger tap for middle-click.

Qsynaptics will be very friendly with you in this. (sudo apt-get install qsynaptics)

If you're interested, you can customize your xorg.conf to such a degree that you won't need to run things like Qsynaptics, but try this first and see if it helps at all.

You'll have to add "SHMConfig" option to your xorg.conf and set it to "true" in order for Qsynaptics to run, but that's all the editing you'll have to do. (sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf)

Reply with results and we'll help you from there. 8-)

---

### Post by k3y5rmy1if3 on 2008-03-04
Yeah...I got it via terminal, then added the line to the "synaptics touchpad" section in the xorg config. note; i did notice there was already a line that said the same thing but it was set to on, not true. none the less, i relogged, and it's still the same. am i supposed to activiate it somehow?

---

### Post by k3y5rmy1if3 on 2008-03-07
can someone please help me?

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-03-07
First, please stop posting new threads about the same thing. Stick to one so that everyone can see what you have and have not tried, and other information you have posted.

Please post, specifically, what Mac you are on (Macbook? Macbook Pro? Macbook Air?) and the version of that hardware (when you got it would be a good indication of this if you do not know).

Please post what version of Ubuntu you are using. There have been several issues with the touchpad support recently, and there should be fixes.

Please post the content of your xorg.conf, try regenerating your xorg.conf with the following command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by k3y5rmy1if3 on 2008-05-11
here are the contents;

```

```# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Color LCD"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Color LCD"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection ```

```

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-05-11
You do not have any options configured for right-clicking. You should be able to tap with two fingers and three fingers to get middle and right clicks. A more extensive how to is here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=493758](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=493758)

There is a new Apple Users forum. Please post there in the future:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328)

---

### Post by k3y5rmy1if3 on 2008-05-20
well...two finger and three finger taps does not work...i have tried...

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-05-20
> **k3y5rmy1if3 said:**
> well...two finger and three finger taps does not work...i have tried...
the option is not in your xorg.conf... you have to add it.

---

### Post by k3y5rmy1if3 on 2008-05-20
i think i went through with this....multiple times, using the macbook santa rosa guide. none of them worked, and i have other threads with my previous attempts...

---

### Post by k3y5rmy1if3 on 2008-05-20
i've been through trying to change the xorg.config before for finger taps, it just doesnt work...now what would be great is a way to make a key such as like, f12, work as right click, which it doesnt by the way. its really irritating to connect an external mouse every time i need to right click.

---

