---
title: "dual screen mac macbook"
date: 2008-04-16
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by mkgkg on 2008-04-16
hi, i 've macbook santarosa v 3,1. i have another screen with 1024X800 resolution. i bought the adapter mini dvi for the external monitor. 
so,  i wanna work with 2 different monitors like a biggest desktop. now i can only have a copy of the same desktop in all two screens at the resolution of 1024X800. how can i do?
i'm using hardy
my X11/xorg.conf is :


[PHP]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"it"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        # updated 2007-12-07
        # use command "synclient -m 1" to see raw output
        # common stuff
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        
        # not using edge scrolling
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
        Option          "VertEdgeScroll"        "0"
        
        # use two finger scrolling
        Option          "VertTwoFingerScroll"   "1"
        Option          "HorizTwoFingerScroll"  "0" # set to 0 if you don't want horizontal scrolling
        
        # scroll speed, lower is faster
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "10" ####10
        Option          "VertScrollDelta"       "10"

        # minimum pressure motion factor
        Option          "PressureMotionMinZ"    "20" ####


        # touch and untouch thresholds, higher numbers if you like to push hard
        Option          "FingerLow"             "10"
        Option          "FingerHigh"            "20" # change to 30 or 40 if you like

        # borders based on output from synclient
        Option          "LeftEdge"              "20"
        Option          "RightEdge"             "1200"
        Option          "TopEdge"               "20"
        Option          "BottomEdge"            "370"

        # speeds, smaller number for a slower mouse
        Option          "MinSpeed"              "0.8" # 0.5 is very slow, 1.5 is very fast
        Option          "MaxSpeed"              "1.2" # up to 1.5 works ok
        Option          "AccelFactor"           "0.10"

        # tap times, change to suit your tapping habits
        Option          "MaxTapMove"            "100"
        Option          "MaxTapTime"            "100"
        Option          "MaxDoubleTapTime"      "200"
        
        # don't change these or two finger tap stops working
        Option          "TapButton2"            "3"
        Option          "TapButton3"            "2"

        # must be commented out or normal tapping wont work
        #Option         "TapButton1"            "0"

        # needed for disabled while typing fix  
        Option          "SHMConfig"             "on"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection[/PHP]

---

### Post by PartisanEntity on 2008-04-26
I have the same problem and am looking into it, let us know if you find something, I hope it's as simple as adding the info to xorg.conf.

---

### Post by Eniak on 2008-04-29
> . In Hardy Heron, the default ati driver, which is automatically selected, now supports the video card in Macbook Pros, though without 3D acceleration. However, the radeonhd driver appears to be required in order to use analog (eg, VGA using an adapter) external monitors - monitors that actually use DVI are supported in the ati driver with xrandr.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro)

I think it's some how related to it, well at least in my case...
I used to run dual screen in all 3 OSs with an old sony 17" perfectly fine... It died and I bought a Samsung syncmaster 2032MW 20". It works perfectly on OS X, on Windows it doesn't work with any kind of wide resolution and In linux I can't get more then 1440x900 (or something like that) while I should get 1680x1050,,, I couple of hours ago I upgraded Ubuntu from 7.10 to 8.04, I first installed the RadeonHD driver and got the samsung to work in the right resolution but once I installed the fglrx the problem came back.
I am using a VGA-DVI adapter because Samsung is too cool to "give" the DVI cable with the monitor. I think the use of this adaptor can b the cause for this problem on Windows and Ubuntu... I'll buy a DVI cable as soon as possible and will let you know here.

If anyone knows a work around for this problem I'd b more then happy to know

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-04-29
please post in the new forum:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=328)

---

