---
title: "ubuntu feisty fawn herd 5 on my macbook"
date: 2007-03-04
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by sedatg on 2007-03-04
Just installed herd 5.
My risky mini howto/report for a "Black Core Duo:
- download & burn herd 5 iso in os x
- download & install refit in os x
- download & install boot camp in os x
- fire up boot camp assistant in os x & create a large enough partition (5G here, initially failed as my HD was heavily fragmented, solved by downloading the idefrag os x live cd and running it after a restart)
- insert ubuntu feisty herd 5 live cd and reboot
- select boot from linux live cd
- select keyboard, language
- press F6, append lpj=8000000, press enter, have patience as your live desktop loads
- start ubiquity installer
- continue until partitioning options
- select manual partitioning, delete the partition boot camp installed (fat32)
- go back, select largest free space
- watch ubiquity throw an error message at you
- select manually partition again
- create a main partition (ext3) and a swap partition
- start installing
- play some game while installling
- watch ubiquity throw an error about 'mouseemu something' during the final stages >95%)
- wait while it quits unexpectedly without any other notice/dialog coming up
- don't wait for some dialog or whatever, this was it wrt installation
- reboot, eject live cd,  enter refit partition menu (don't know if this is strictly necessary), sync partitions
- reboot and try booting ubuntu from the refit menu
- no dice
- reboot into os x just to be sure you didnt lose everything :p
- reboot and try booting ubuntu again
- no dice
- reboot and try again
- screen stays black
- reboot and watch grub2 automagically show up and boot ubuntu
- 30 min process ends here ;)

todo:
- get rid of mouseemu error every time apt-get runs (apparently ubiquity installer crapped out during copying/installing mouseemu, solved by reinstalling mouseemu throught apt-get)
- fix resolution (install 915 resolution)
- fix keyboard
- fix backlight keys
- try webcam (works after selecting v4l2 in ekiga, couldnt get it to work a second time though after a reboot)
- try internal microphone
- try compiz (works fine, but the sticky windows are extremely annoying on a 13.3 inch display. i so want to turn that off)
- try hibernating (works fine, albeit a bit slow, and need to go through ubuntu while waking up)
- try battery
- ...

Any help on one of the todo items or any questions?

---

### Post by wigglydiggly on 2007-03-05
Been running Feisty on my C2D Macbook for a month and works fine.  -915resolution seems to work
-I've never had the mouseemu error
-Isight works but I haven't got the mic to work- so not much use
-been running Beryl for a while, no real problems
-suspend seems to work, never tried hibernate (never had luck with that on any labtop)
-Battery life seem good- but then again its showing 11 hours 44 mins right now but get somewhere between 3-4 hours usually
-Haven't tried it yet, but there are ways to get the touchpad to work more like OSX with appletouch kernel mods- beyond my skills at the moment
-Need to use NDISWrapper for wireless but works
-Can't remember what I did but backlight and volume controls work
-Biggest complaint "There is no right mouse button"  again I believe there is a work around but haven't got it to work.

Its nice hardware, Ubunu runs great on it.  If you find some answers please post them.

---

### Post by ouilsen on 2007-03-06
> **wigglydiggly said:**
> 
...
-Haven't tried it yet, but there are ways to get the touchpad to work more like OSX with appletouch 
...
-Biggest complaint "There is no right mouse button"  again I believe there is a work around but haven't got it to work.
...
Its nice hardware, Ubunu runs great on it.  If you find some answers please post them.

First you have to follow this [guide]("http://wiki.debian.org/MacBook"). Look for "initramfs". This should get you the appletouch module load before usbhid.

Then set up the synaptics driver in your xorg.conf to your liking.

Here's mine:

```
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"ch"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"fr_mac"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
       Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
       Driver          "synaptics"
#       Option          "CorePointer"
       	Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
       	Option          "Protocol"              "raw"
       	Option  "LeftEdge"      "100"
       	Option  "RightEdge"     "1000"
       	Option  "TopEdge"       "50"
       	Option  "BottomEdge"    "310"
       	Option  "FingerLow"     "0"
       	Option  "FingerHigh"    "0"
	Option 	"MinSpeed"	"0.7"
       	Option  "MaxSpeed"      "1.5"
	Option 	"AccelFactor"	"0.07"
	Option 	"MaxTapMove"	"30"
	Option	"MaxTapTime"	"100"
	Option	"TapButton1"	"0"
	Option	"TapButton2"    "3"
	Option	"TapButton3"    "2"
	Option	"RTCornerButton" "3"
#       Option  "MaxDoubleTapTime"      "180"
#      	Option  "VertScrollDelta"       "30"
       	Option  "HorizScrollDelta"      "10"
       	Option  "SHMConfig"     "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"	# Change to 
							# /dev/input/event
							# for USB
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"	# Change to 
							# /dev/input/event
							# for USB
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"	# Change to 
							# /dev/input/event
							# for USB
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-64
	VertRefresh	43-60
	Gamma		0.8
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"	"CorePointer"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"	"AlwaysCore"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
```

To understand what the options mean look [here]("http://www.die.net/doc/linux/man/man5/synaptics.5.html"). This way it is set up to have NO left mouse button tap. Right clicking is either top right corner tap or two finger tap. Vertical scrolling is disabled since it sucks in firefox (used as "back" or "forward"). Also I can't get the touchpad more sensitive although this would be necessary.

---

### Post by wigglydiggly on 2007-03-07
Thanks for the HOW-TO I got it to work using your xorg.conf and then switched it to US language but that stopped it from working.  I keep getting this error when I switch it to US English Macintosh

Error activating XKB configuration.
It can happen under various circumstances:
- a bug in libxklavier library
- a bug in X server (xkbcomp, xmodmap utilities)
- X server with incompatible libxkbfile implementation

X server version data:
The X.Org Foundation
70200000

If you report this situation as a bug, please include:
- The result of xprop -root | grep XKB
- The result of gconfto

brad@MacBook:~$ xprop -root |grep XKB
_XKB_RULES_NAMES_BACKUP(STRING) = "xorg", "pc105", "ch", "mac", "lv3:ralt_switch"
_XKB_RULES_NAMES(STRING) = "xorg", "pc105", "ch", "mac", "lv3:ralt_switch"

brad@MacBook:~$ gconftool-2 -R /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/kbd
 layouts = [us  mac,ch  mac]
 model = macbook78
 options = [lv3 lv3:ralt_switch,grp     grp:alts_toggle]
 overrideSettings = true

This is my current xorg.conf
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "ch"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
        Option          "XkbVariant"    "mac"
EndSection

---

### Post by wigglydiggly on 2007-03-07
Thank you Ouilsen.  I think I got it figured out now.  Right clicking works great thanks to your help.  I just needed to use Apple Laptop layout instead of Macbook/Pro.  The scrolling doesn't work so well but I can live with that.  Hopefully Feisty will have all this figured out by release.  Thanks again.

---

### Post by ouilsen on 2007-03-08
Yes indeed, scrolling is not too good. Also, the touchpad sometimes doesn't detect my movements and I don't know why. If I touch it very softly, then move around and also start pressing harder, it won't detect any movement. 

This doesn't seem to be related to the xorg.conf, since "synclient -m 1" doesn't give any output either. I hope it can be fixed some time through the appletouch module.

---

### Post by sedatg on 2007-03-09
My relevant xorg.conf setup for a touchpad +/- working like within os x (doesn't feel as smooth though, as it doesn't ignore unwanted accidental touches while typing to my liking):

Section "ServerLayout"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
      Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
      Driver "synaptics"
      Option "CorePointer"
      Option "Device" "/dev/input/mouse0"
      Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
      Option "LeftEdge" "100"
      Option "RightEdge" "1100"
      Option "TopEdge" "50"
      Option "BottomEdge" "300"
      Option "FingerLow" "20"
      Option "FingerHigh" "30"
      Option "MaxTapTime" "150"
      Option "MaxTapMove" "90"
      Option "MaxDoubleTapTime" "180"
      Option "VertScrollDelta" "25"
      Option "HorizScrollDelta" "30"
      Option "VertTwoFingerScroll" "true"
      Option "HorizTwoFingerScroll" "true"
      Option "FastTaps" "true"
      Option "TapButton2" "3"
      Option "TapButton3" "2"
      Option "MinSpeed" "0.79"
      Option "MaxSpeed" "0.88"
      Option "AccelFactor" "0.0015"
      Option "SHMConfig"  "on"
EndSection

add to the end of /etc/modules:
appletouch
usbhid

add to or create if necesarry /etc/modprobe.d/appletouch:
blacklist appletouch
blacklist usbhid

All this can be found in the wiki and forum, yet took me some time to figure it somewhat out and actually get it workable on my 1st gen blackbook...

---

### Post by bazmonkey on 2007-03-10
> **ouilsen said:**
> Yes indeed, scrolling is not too good. Also, the touchpad sometimes doesn't detect my movements and I don't know why. If I touch it very softly, then move around and also start pressing harder, it won't detect any movement. 

This doesn't seem to be related to the xorg.conf, since "synclient -m 1" doesn't give any output either. I hope it can be fixed some time through the appletouch module.

Yeah, the touchpad has really been bothering me, as it just doesn't feel "right".  Changing FingerLow and FingerHigh (the pressure at which the driver interprets a release and touch, respectively) both to 0 helps a little.  Also, if you have the patch Jason Parekh wrote (IDK if it was ever added to the official source, it wasn't as of 2.6.18), which modifies how the driver behaves, it helps... a little.  Also, the patch changes the minimum pressure accepted by the driver (pressures lower than 10, for example, are ignored) from a simple declaration to a module option, so you can start appletouch with "threshold=0", or whatnot.  Changing that helps a little.

After changing everything I can, it's still not right.  What you're talking about, where moving very softly and then adding pressure doesn't register, is very annoying.  Also, if you are moving the curser around in OS X and then add another finger, you can scroll.  Likewise, you can just keep one finger pressed and scroll by moving the other finger.  The synaptics driver only two-finger scrolls if both fingers are pressed simultaneously, a-la a two-finger click.  This isn't a problem with the appletouch module; it's just how the synaptics driver interprets finger presses (and how every other touchpad I've used works).  I've abandoned the two-finger clicking for the more commonplace edge scrolling.  Seeing as how Apple's trackpads are HUGE, it's no big deal.

---

### Post by ouilsen on 2007-03-11
Too bad. I hoped the "pressure adding" thing would be some setting in the appletouch module. It's a pitty. This is the only reason I still only use OS X. I've never seen a better trackpad behaviour. I'll keep Ubuntu on my system till I find a solution. That's for sure.

---

### Post by vh1 on 2007-03-11
yeah, the synaptics driver really doesn't compare to the native OSX trackpad behavior.

back to getting feisty on a macbook, I can't seem to get it to boot. I managed to get edgy running fine (how, I don't remember :$) and instead of doing a dist-upgrade I figured why not just do a fresh install

the install goes great, up to when it installs grub and breaks. that's nothing. I just chroot into the /target filesystem, install and setup lilo. that works fine (partition table has already been modified due to edgy). when I reboot the laptop, rEFIt sees the install, and it boots. but when it gets to loading the usbhid module it just stops there.

it's not hanging, because keyboard input still works, and I can switch VTs, it just doesn't go anywhere from there. I'll try grub2, but I don't think that will do any better since the kernel still boots from lilo

does anyone have any ideas? I can try to take some pictures of the screen if needed

---

### Post by zpon on 2007-03-12
Am i the only one having problems with ndiswrapper in feisty herd 5? It worked fine on edgy, but in feisty i cant use it, iwconfigure only shows lo and eth0. And i ndisgtk i get the error "Hardware pressent: no". If i try to chose hardware manually (with ndiswrapper -d 168C:0024 net5416) i get "Driver 'net5416' is used for '168C:0024'"

Can someone help?

---

### Post by Zelut on 2007-03-15
I've followed your steps pretty closely but when I try the Ubuntu partition I get 'no bootable partition' type error.  How do I sync the partitions at boot time?

i'm going to give the alternate CD a try, but I almost feel like I'm grasping at straws.

---

### Post by ouilsen on 2007-03-16
There's an option in the rEFIt boot menu to sync the partitions, just below the OS choices. I had also this problem, but I don't know how I solved it. If you don't want to reinstall you can also try to boot with the Live CD, chroot to the Ubuntu on your hd and rerun grub.

---

### Post by Meck1982 on 2007-03-17
Hello out there, all Macbook users should be warned from using feisty. I installed herd 5 and was the same as the thread starter describes. The then I run the update manager, which killed my system totally. After many updates (I think about 500MB in total) my Ubuntu just freezes on system start. Any help appreciated about this issue...

---

### Post by david_edmundson on 2007-03-17
Meck1982, myself and several others have experienced this also. It has been reported and confirmed.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/91940](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/91940)

As a temporary "fix" simply select the older kernels. If needs be, boot in via a live CD and change the "Default" value in /boot/grub/menu.lst to the number of the last kernel that booted in the grub list. (remember the first entry is 0)

---

### Post by xoai on 2007-03-18
After upgradding to Feisty Fawn from Edgy I can not boot with kernel 2.6.20-11

the error is "ata1.0: failed to set xfermode (err_mask=0x4)"

Does anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by sedatg on 2007-03-18
I can confirm 2.6.20-12 fixes this on my macbook is as indicated in the mac mini thread.

Don't know when this will be rolled out via auto-update though.

I just installed the updated packages found by going through the repositories with synaptic.

---

### Post by vnbuddy2002 on 2007-03-19
> **xoai said:**
> After upgradding to Feisty Fawn from Edgy I can not boot with kernel 2.6.20-11

the error is "ata1.0: failed to set xfermode (err_mask=0x4)"

Does anyone know how to fix this?

When you are at grub menu, select the kernel you want to load, then press "e" to edit the second line for additional kernel parameters.

Make sure you have, "irqpoll acpi=force nopic". If not, add it and press enter. Finally, press "b" to boot that kernel with the new parameter

If you successfully boot the laptop, edit /boot/grub/menu.lst and look for kopts and append the above parameters to that line

---

### Post by xoai on 2007-03-20
Poor me. I still get the same error. Can you post yout customed kernel 2.6.20.3 config? I am gonna upgrade kernel.

---

### Post by onyxrev on 2007-03-21
> **xoai said:**
> After upgradding to Feisty Fawn from Edgy I can not boot with kernel 2.6.20-11

the error is "ata1.0: failed to set xfermode (err_mask=0x4)"

Does anyone know how to fix this?

I have the same problem.  The only solution for me was to go back to 2.6.20-9.

---

### Post by sedatg on 2007-03-21
Again, for the technically challenged, just select the latest working kernel version from the grub menu, then simply go through synaptic and manually select all relevant 2.6.20-12 packages. This should solve your problems as this bug was fixed.

---

### Post by xoai on 2007-03-21
the problem is all other kenels dont work (2.6.19.1 and 2.6.17-x). I can`t boot so I think I will have to use an Ubuntu live CD to upgrade kernel ><

---

### Post by buschi on 2007-03-22
hi!

here is just another report on how i installed ubuntu feisty herd 5 on a new white macbook 2GHz core duo. i did many things exactly as

> **sedatg said:**
> Just installed herd 5.
My risky mini howto/report for a "Black Core Duo:
- download & burn herd 5 iso in os x

actually, i started with herd 4 64bit. as far as i understand, the processor is 64bit and therefore this version should be able to take advantage of that. the install went fine, however i was not able to boot it. i read that this is due to refit which would have to be compiled with a 64bit option. therefore i restarted with herd 5 32bit intel version.
> 
- download & install refit in os x
- download & install boot camp in os x
- fire up boot camp assistant in os x & create a large enough partition

as the macbook was new, i gave as much discspace to ubuntu as possible. bootcamp didn't let me make the os x partition smaller than (occupied + 5GB)
> 
- insert ubuntu feisty herd 5 live cd and reboot
- select boot from linux live cd
- select keyboard, language
- press F6, append lpj=8000000, press enter, have patience as your live desktop loads

i did not append anything -- as far as i remember, my keyboard was not working at this point and i didn't add anything later on. i never had any problems with the kernel.
> 
- start ubiquity installer

it seems to me that i always get errors during the install when i do not disable now these mount removable drives automatically options. if i don't do that, there will be an error after partitioning.
> 
- continue until partitioning options
- select manual partitioning, delete the partition boot camp installed (fat32)
- go back, select largest free space
- watch ubiquity throw an error message at you
- select manually partition again
- create a main partition (ext3) and a swap partition

the efi-partition should not be mounted -- set it to "donotuse"
> 
- start installing
- play some game while installling
- watch ubiquity throw an error about 'mouseemu something' during the final stages >95%)
- wait while it quits unexpectedly without any other notice/dialog coming up
- don't wait for some dialog or whatever, this was it wrt installation

i did not see this. it said 'installation done, eject cd and reboot'. however, the "eject" button did not work at that time. so booting one more time into os x was necessary.
> 
- reboot, eject live cd,  enter refit partition menu (don't know if this is strictly necessary), sync partitions
- reboot and try booting ubuntu from the refit menu

worked for me. i then did an update which took quite some time but of which i think it improved things quite a bit.
> 
- get rid of mouseemu error every time apt-get runs (apparently ubiquity installer crapped out during copying/installing mouseemu, solved by reinstalling mouseemu throught apt-get)

for me, reinstalling did not solve the problem, i had to deinstall and install again.
> 
- fix resolution (install 915 resolution)
- fix keyboard

i have an international keyboard. there were two problems: the key left of the '1' gave a tilde and the key left of the z gave less or greater. in addition to that, i wanted to access the german umlauts when pressing the option (alt) key and 'a', for example. i read that xmodmap should be avoided and xkb is the way to go. after quite some time and many unreconstructable steps, i think that the only thing to be done is the following:
```
sudo gedit /usr/share/X11/xkb/symbols/de_us

```
de_us is just a name. it is mainly due to the fact that i used [http://www.linux-magazin.de/heft_abo/ausgaben/2003/10/deutsch_amerikanische_freundschaft]("http://www.linux-magazin.de/heft_abo/ausgaben/2003/10/deutsch_amerikanische_freundschaft") and [http://iffwww.iff.kfa-juelich.de/~wuttke/doku/doku.php?id=jwu:us_de]("http://iffwww.iff.kfa-juelich.de/~wuttke/doku/doku.php?id=jwu:us_de")
. the file de_us is based on /usr/share/X11/xkb/symbols/macintosh_vndr/us which seems to be the keymap used by default. my de_us looks like:
```
// $XConsortium: macintosh /main/10 1996/01/29 19:54:54 kaleb $
// $XFree86: xc/programs/xkbcomp/symbols/macintosh/us,v 1.8 2003/08/04 10:32:31 eich Exp $

// symbols definition for a Macintosh "Extended" keyboard
// edited for umlauts, paragraph, and less/greater sign

xkb_symbols "extended" {

    name[Group1]= "U.S. English";
    key <ESC>  {        [ Escape                        ]       };

    // Alphanumeric section
    key <TLDE> {        [   section,    plusminus       ]       };
    key <AE01> {        [         1,    exclam          ]       };
    key <AE02> {        [         2,    at              ]       };
    key <AE03> {        [         3,    numbersign      ]       };
    key <AE04> {        [         4,    dollar          ]       };
    key <AE05> {        [         5,    percent         ]       };
    key <AE06> {        [         6,    asciicircum     ]       };
    key <AE07> {        [         7,    ampersand       ]       };
    key <AE08> {        [         8,    asterisk        ]       };
    key <AE09> {        [         9,    parenleft       ]       };
    key <AE10> {        [         0,    parenright      ]       };
    key <AE11> {        [     minus,    underscore      ]       };
    key <AE12> {        [     equal,    plus            ]       };

    key <AD01> {        [         q,    Q               ]       };
    key <AD02> {        [         w,    W               ]       };
    key <AD03> {        [         e,    E               ]       };
    key <AD04> {        [         r,    R               ]       };
    key <AD05> {        [         t,    T               ]       };
    key <AD06> {        [         y,    Y               ]       };
    key <AD07> {        [         u,    U,      udiaeresis,     Udiaeresis     ]};
    key <AD08> {        [         i,    I               ]       };
    key <AD09> {        [         o,    O,      odiaeresis,     Odiaeresis     ]};
    key <AD10> {        [         p,    P               ]       };
    key <AD11> {        [ bracketleft,  braceleft       ]       };
    key <AD12> {        [ bracketright, braceright      ]       };
    key <BKSL> {        [ backslash,    bar             ]       };

    key <AC01> {        [         a,    A,      adiaeresis,     Adiaeresis     ]};
    key <AC02> {        [         s,    S,      ssharp          ]       };
    key <AC03> {        [         d,    D               ]       };
    key <AC04> {        [         f,    F               ]       };
    key <AC05> {        [         g,    G               ]       };
    key <AC06> {        [         h,    H               ]       };
    key <AC07> {        [         j,    J               ]       };
    key <AC08> {        [         k,    K               ]       };
    key <AC09> {        [         l,    L               ]       };
    key <AC10> {        [ semicolon,    colon           ]       };
    key <AC11> {        [ quoteright,   quotedbl        ]       };

    key <LSGT> {        [ quoteleft,    asciitilde      ]       };
    key <AB01> {        [         z,    Z               ]       };
    key <AB02> {        [         x,    X               ]       };
    key <AB03> {        [         c,    C               ]       };
    key <AB04> {        [         v,    V               ]       };
    key <AB05> {        [         b,    B               ]       };
    key <AB06> {        [         n,    N               ]       };
    key <AB07> {        [         m,    M               ]       };
    key <AB08> {        [     comma,    less            ]       };
    key <AB09> {        [    period,    greater         ]       };
    key <AB10> {        [     slash,    question        ]       };

    key <SPCE> {        [  space                        ]       };
    // End alphanumeric section

// option key will give acess to second group
    modifier_map Mod5   { <LALT> };

    include "keypad"

    key <KPEQ> {        [  equal                                ]       };
};

hidden
xkb_symbols "oldmac" {

    include "macintosh_vndr/us(extended)"

    // Begin "Function" section
    key <FK01> {        [  F1           ]       };
    key <FK02> {        [  F2           ]       };
    key <FK03> {        [  F3           ]       };
    key <FK04> {        [  F4           ]       };
    key <FK05> {        [  F5           ]       };
    key <FK06> {        [  F6           ]       };
    key <FK07> {        [  F7           ]       };
    key <FK08> {        [  F8           ]       };
    key <FK09> {        [  F9           ]       };
    key <FK10> {        [  F10          ]       };
    key <FK11> {        [  F11          ]       };
    key <FK12> {        [  F12          ]       };
    key <FK13> {        [  Print        ]       };
    key <FK14> {        [  Scroll_Lock  ]       };
    key <FK15> {        [  Pause        ]       };
    // End "Function" section

    // Begin "Editing" section
    key  <INS> {        [  Insert       ]       };
    key <HOME> {        [  Home         ]       };
    key <PGUP> {        [  Prior        ]       };
    key <DELE> {        [  Delete       ]       };
    key  <END> {        [  End          ]       };
    key <PGDN> {        [  Next         ]       };

    key   <UP> {        [  Up           ]       };
    key <LEFT> {        [  Left         ]       };
    key <DOWN> {        [  Down         ]       };
    key <RGHT> {        [  Right        ]       };
    // End "Editing" section

    key <BKSP> {        [ BackSpace                     ]       };
    key  <TAB> {        [ Tab,  ISO_Left_Tab    ]       };
    key <RTRN> {        [ Return        ]       };
    key <CAPS> {        [ Caps_Lock     ]       };
    key <NMLK> {        [ Num_Lock, Pointer_EnableKeys          ]       };

    // Begin "Modifier" section
    key <LFSH> {        [  Shift_L      ]       };
    key <RTSH> {        [  Shift_R      ]       };
    key <LCTL> {        [  Control_L    ]       };
    key <RCTL> {        [  Control_R    ]       };
    key <LALT> {        [  Alt_L, Meta_L ]      };
    key <RALT> {        [  Alt_R, Meta_R ]      };
    key <LWIN> {        [  Super_L      ]       };
    key <RWIN> {        [  Super_R      ]       };
    // End "Modifier" section

    // begin modifier mappings
    modifier_map Shift  { Shift_L, Shift_R };
    modifier_map Lock   { Caps_Lock, ISO_Lock };
    modifier_map Control{ Control_L, Control_R };
    modifier_map Mod2   { Num_Lock };

    //  Fake keys for virtual<->real modifiers mapping 
    key <LVL3> {        [ ISO_Level3_Shift      ]       };
    key <MDSW> {        [ Mode_switch           ]       };
    modifier_map Mod5   { <LVL3>, <MDSW> };

    key <ALT>  {        [ NoSymbol, Alt_L       ]       };
    modifier_map Mod1   { <ALT>, <LALT> };

    key <META> {        [ NoSymbol, Meta_L      ]       };
    modifier_map Mod1   { <META> };

    key <SUPR> {        [ NoSymbol, Super_L     ]       };
    modifier_map Mod4   { <SUPR> };

    key <HYPR> {        [ NoSymbol, Hyper_L     ]       };
    modifier_map Mod4   { <HYPR> };
    // end modifier mappings

};

```
i think that the lower section ('oldmac'....) is not used and could be taken out. this has now to be loaded which can be done with
```
setxkbmap -layout de_us
```
making a small script containing exactly this line and adding that to the session-startup thing will then always load the changed keyboard. note that the keys are not changed before login (i actually didn't try but i guess they won't be changed in the ctrl alt 2 etc terminals either)
> 
- fix backlight keys

worked for me.

i then installes the synaptics driver (well, i didn't install it, i just added this blacklist, ... stuff and the xorg.conf commands). however, i do not like it at all. i don't see any advantages and i could not figure out how to avoid giving 'back' and 'forward' commands in firefox all the time. right mouse klick with two fingers worked in 2/3, three finger for middle mouse never. i tried the RBcorner things (see man synaptics) but it didn't work either. to my best knowledge, i undid all changes (blacklist stuff etc). now the mouse works fine and the ir remote also.

what does not yet work is the middle and right mouse button. it seemed reasonable to me to set ctrl + click as middle and option + click as right. i tried to do so with mouseemu but it simply does not react on the pressed keys.
i got the numbers for the modifiers from xev, they were 0x1d and 0x38. 1d (hex) = 29 (dec) and 38 (hex) = 56 (dec). my /etc/default/mouseemu is:
```

MID_CLICK="-middle 29 272" # control key + mouse click
RIGHT_CLICK="-right 56 272" # option key + mouse click 
```

in the keyboard menu, i set the right command key as compose, that's very convenient.

another thing i did not manage so far is how to use the remote to operate a pdf-presentation. it works in the media player. i guess one could use the keycodes (xev said that track back is 144, track forward is 153 and menu is 158) and map them to page up/down but that's kind of ugly, isn't it?

---

