---
title: "2.6.20-16 + madwifi"
date: 2007-05-28
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by pacanukeha on 2007-05-28
Hey all,
I have v2 c2duo MBP 17".  With madwifi I have everything working fine (WPA/WEP) on kernel 2.6.20-15.

Today a new kernel build was released (2.6.20-16) that doesn't work at all - madwifi builds and installs but it doesn't create a device and no errors appear in dmesg.

Just a warning.  I rolled back to -15.

---

### Post by Ilove2023 on 2007-05-28
I did the upgrade too, I just had to reinstall madwifi to get it to work again.

---

### Post by pacanukeha on 2007-05-28
I downloaded both 0.9.3.1 and trunk, recompiled, reinstalled and both failed to give me a device.  I can't use the madwifi build that I used for 2.6.20-15 because it is no longer available.  *shakes fist at sky*

---

### Post by Gen2ly on 2007-05-28
2.6.20-version are release-canidates I believe?  I compile my drivers in and the source uses the kernel as reference.  Hence installing a new kernel means I have to reinstall the drivers too.  (e.g. /lib/modules/2.6.22-rc1-macbook-coreduo/net/ath_pci.ko)

---

### Post by pacanukeha on 2007-05-30
Greetings Mr. Gently,
Yeah, I tried recompiling&reinstalling the drivers, but they don't work.  No errors, but no device is created when they load.

---

### Post by cevans on 2007-05-30
You can't use the released version of madwifi for a c2d mbp, can you? I'm using [r2372]("http://snapshots.madwifi.org/madwifi-ng/madwifi-ng-r2372-20070525.tar.gz").

---

### Post by pacanukeha on 2007-06-04
I am using r2206 with 2.6.20-15 with the apparently unnecesary ath_hal-20070428 patch.

---

### Post by ivesjd on 2007-06-04
You could just not use the newer kernel. Im not because its just a hasle. Everytime I try to boot to it, I get a kernel panic. 
1st gen Macbook, CD.

---

### Post by cevans on 2007-06-04
> **ivesjd said:**
> You could just not use the newer kernel. Im not because its just a hasle. Everytime I try to boot to it, I get a kernel panic. 
1st gen Macbook, CD.

Are you using the madwifi from svn with the newer kernel? If so, that would explain the panic.

---

