---
title: "7.10 Mackbook wireless"
date: 2007-09-27
forum: Apple Intel Users
---

### Post by Loki1989 on 2007-09-27
should it be able to work automatically and what do I do if it doesn't. I have been waiting for gutsy hoping for it to have the apple atheros wireless installed like it is on my Desktop. please help me get things straightened out.

---

### Post by peestandingup on 2007-09-28
After the update, my wireless still doesn't work. Pretty frustrating.

---

### Post by rouben on 2007-09-28
At the moment, the driver included in Gutsy doesn't recognize the AirPort on Macbooks. You can compile the driver from source, but it's a bit of a daunting task... here are the instructions if you'd like: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474144](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474144) This thread has lots of different instructions on how to get various things working.

Good luck!

---

### Post by dmber on 2007-09-29
this is so weird to me that Gutsy doesn't recognize the airport, but Feisty recognized mine from the get go.  i know nothing about programming an OS, but what would happen that would make it take a step backward like that?

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2007-09-30
> **dmber said:**
> this is so weird to me that Gutsy doesn't recognize the airport, but Feisty recognized mine from the get go.  i know nothing about programming an OS, but what would happen that would make it take a step backward like that?
Changes to fix something else...

File a bug report, the fact that it WAS working before and is broken now, makes it higher priority.

---

### Post by dmber on 2007-09-30
I appreciate all your replys, cyberdork.  

I'm actually not running Gutsy yet, just asking based on other people's posts.  I'm hoping to wait until wireless is fixed...

Are we Ubuntu-on-Macs a pretty small portion of the Ubuntu population?  What I mean is, do the programmers tailor any of their programming specifically to work with Mac hardware?

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2007-09-30
> **dmber said:**
> I appreciate all your replys, cyberdork.  

I'm actually not running Gutsy yet, just asking based on other people's posts.  I'm hoping to wait until wireless is fixed...

Are we Ubuntu-on-Macs a pretty small portion of the Ubuntu population?  What I mean is, do the programmers tailor any of their programming specifically to work with Mac hardware?
small portion yes. Although it seems that many people using linux on a mac are using Ubuntu. Gentoo maybe close.
They will include bug fixes / workarounds, etc for Macs (the do include  some mactel patches in the Ubuntu kernel.) Someone just has to take the initiative to implement a fix.

---

### Post by oneoverzero on 2007-10-02
I'm on a Macbook (Gen. 2) running Gutsy, and my wireless card worked after installing madwifi (Using the instructions in the wiki).  I have to connect using the terminal each time I boot up, but thats not so much of a big deal for me.

---

### Post by velazquez.esq on 2007-10-03
I couldn't get gutsy to work as it needed the madwifi drivers and I don't have a local network connection to download the needed files.  Tried downloading a file as specified (in another computer) but it failed installation due to failed dependencies.

I would appreciate any help, thanks,

~velazquez.esq

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2007-10-03
> **velazquez.esq said:**
> I couldn't get gutsy to work as it needed the madwifi drivers and I don't have a local network connection to download the needed files.  Tried downloading a file as specified (in another computer) but it failed installation due to failed dependencies.

I would appreciate any help, thanks,

~velazquez.esq

you can use ndiswrapper and the windows driver to get it working long enough to install the dependencies.

---

