---
title: "11.04 Unity - Where is Startup Disk Creator?"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by markhorrocks on 2011-04-30
I just did an online upgrade to 100.40 from 10.10 and it hangs on reboot. I managed to get in using the selection "previous version of ubuntu" but still have the unity desktop. 

I now want to download 11.04 and reinstall the OS from a USB stick but can't find the Startup Disk creator in the Unity Desktop. 

Any help greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-04-30
Open up the dash (ubuntu button, upper left) and type in st 
it will show up after 2 letters

---

### Post by markhorrocks on 2011-04-30
Thanks for that, I found it. 

How can i browse the administration utilities? The method you described requires knowing the name of the required utility in order to find it. I can't find any browse option.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-04-30
Press the Applications lens on the Unity launcher, and top right of the Dash you will have an "All Applications" drop down menu from which you can select the desired category.

---

### Post by markhorrocks on 2011-04-30
Found them too, they are all lumped into one kitchen sink in installed apps, it seems really weird. I kind of preferred the old categorized style of Gnome.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-04-30
> **markhorrocks said:**
> How can i browse the administration utilities?
Bizarrely, the settings are on the power icon. See the [Natty UI options thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741293") for more info.

---

### Post by GJCGJC on 2011-04-30
There's an application shortcut in the unity launcher - it looks like a magnifying glass with a plus sign in it. You can invoke the same thing by holding the super (Windows) key and pressing 'a' for application. Holding super and pressing 'f' lets you browse files.

---

### Post by markhorrocks on 2011-04-30
> **howefield said:**
> Press the Applications lens on the Unity launcher, and top right of the Dash you will have an "All Applications" drop down menu from which you can select the desired category.
There is no drop down menu, it opens a screen with a search box and a bunch of icons with a label "shortcuts".

---

