---
title: "(22.04) wayland + AMDGPU = crashes"
date: 2024-07-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by csae2608 on 2024-07-27
hello ,

i have noticed issues on a fresh installation of Ubuntu 22.04 with Wayland when in combination with official AMDGPU driver by amd (laptop has radeon rx550x graphics)

issue 1

1. firefox snapd installed version does not start (difficulty installing other version of firefox).
2. telegram desktop crashes when clicking video in pip-mode

there may be more issues.


if i try to start ubuntu 22.04 on xorg, it would get me back to login screen after entering password (same for gnome-classic xorg).


how can i troubleshoot if the amdgpu driver is correctly installed?


thank you very much.

---

### Post by csae2608 on 2024-07-27
could install another firefox version via PPA mozillateam but it would not start properly?


XPCOMGlueLoad error for file /usr/lib/firefox/libmozgtk.so:
libwayland-client.so.0: failed to map segment from shared object
Couldn't load XPCOM.

---

### Post by tamjk on 2024-08-10
$ echo $XDG_SESSION_TYPE
x11

$ neofetch

--------------------- 

OS: Ubuntu 22.04.4 LTS x86_64 
Host: Inspiron 5567 
Kernel: 6.5.0-45-generic 
Uptime: 4 hours, 32 mins 
Packages: 3618 (dpkg), 23 (flatpak), 
Shell: bash 5.1.16 
Resolution: 1920x1080 
DE: GNOME 
WM: Mutter 
WM Theme: Adwaita 
Theme: Yaru-purple [GTK2/3] 
Icons: Yaru-purple [GTK2/3] 
Terminal: gnome-terminal 
CPU: Intel i5-7200U (4) @ 3.100GHz 
GPU: Intel HD Graphics 620 
GPU: AMD ATI Radeon R7 M260/M265 / M 
Memory: 3523MiB / 15882MiB 

Primary GPU: AMD Radeon R7 M445      Driver: Mesa amdgpu



I just noticed a few days ago that I was on X.11 again after having Wayland since 22.04 came out.

This coincides with update messages about some XDG env variables and Firefox freezes.

I can reconfigure the /etc/gdm3/custom.conf file to revert to Wayland but the system freezes half-way through boot-up. If I leave it long enough it just shuts down.

I had suspected this switch back to X.11 came when I updated to 22.04.4 lately. 

But your post seems to suggest that it was initiated at Ubuntu when the demands of Wayland seem to outstrip 22.04's capability to handle it.

---

