---
title: "18.04 Teamviewer problems"
date: 2018-09-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-12
I can not get TV 13 to load its GUI. I think it may be to do with running Wayland. Of course if you know a better approach please let me know how.

 I no longer see a  settings wheel when logging into Ubuntu. Just name and password. I had intended to choose xorg but I can not find how to choose it. Any ideas please?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-09-12
Before login, click on the gear.  Choose xorg.
xorg is the default for 18.04, so you had to go out of your way to get Wayland running.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-12
My problem is the gear is not there. So there is nothing to click on! As a shortcut out of this problem: Is there a command line that will advise if I am running under xorg?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-09-12
```
$ pgrep Xorg
```
That should return a PID.

BTW, most screen sharing/capture tools don't work with Wayland.  I think that was the main reason 18.04 didn't ship with Wayland by default.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-12
Does this mean it is running xorg?


robins@robins-desktop:~$ pgrep Xorg
1062
1373

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-09-12
Looks like you are running 2 instances.  What does **top** show?
Do you have 2 video cards?

No gear on the login screen? How do you change between DEs or Window Managers?

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-13
> **TheFu said:**
> Looks like you are running 2 instances.  What does **top** show?
Do you have 2 video cards?

No gear on the login screen? How do you change between DEs or Window Managers?

I used to be able to move between window managers via the gear on the login screen. It no longer shows.

I do not have 2 video cards. 

This is the latest result of the command:
pgrep Xorg
1032
1464

The following from Htop shows the result of filtering on zorg

[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/JcSkGkX.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-13
Is the absence of the gear symbol anything to do with the uefi setup in the boot section?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-09-13
Please post text, not images whenever possible. Lots of people pay by the byte for downloads.

> **Robbyx said:**
> Is the absence of the gear symbol anything to do with the uefi setup in the boot section?

Doubtful. It is the login manager. You can install another DE/WM and that should install the login manage for that other DE/WM.  It might reset the gear icon.  I'm guessing. Don't know.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-13
> **TheFu said:**
> Please post text, not images whenever possible. Lots of people pay by the byte for downloads.
.

As you may have guessed, I could not copy the text and so had to fiddle around taking a screen shot and then hosting it on an appropriate site!

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-13
Now that I know that I am running 18.04 with Xorg I wonder what is causing Teamviewer 13 not to load its gui. Would you be willing to help me trouble shoot it?

BTW: did the screen shot of htop explain why I appear to be running 2*xorg?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-09-13
> **Robbyx said:**
> Now that I know that I am running 18.04 with Xorg I wonder what is causing Teamviewer 13 not to load its gui. Would you be willing to help me trouble shoot it?

BTW: did the screen shot of htop explain why I appear to be running 2*xorg?

I know that **top** output can be redirected to a text file. I'd be surprised if htop couldn't.

I won't use teamviewer (security concerns with 3rd parties) and don't consider 18.04 ready for use at this point for my needs.  I use different solutions for remote GUIs, but what I would use isn't workable for everyone.

Happy to share what I know.  I only replied because Wayland is an easy answer. Turned out to be wrong. Sorry.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-13
Thank you for your kind offer. If you come across a solution please let me know. From what I have read the problem  is connected to Wine as TV uses wine in ubuntu. It has  been suggested that the GUI that is not loading is the wine Gui. I do have Wine working in that I use a 32bit password manager via Wine. I am therefore unclear what more I can expect from wine.I have installed dependancies for both 32bit and 64AMD, of course, without success with TV. 

I have posted a question in another conference asking if it is possible and easy to access a windows 8.1's desktop  from ubuntu 18.04 as I noted that windows has a remote access switch.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-09-13
I run Teamviewer on 5 different machines: all running 18.04. I would try removing it and re-installing it.  I did not have any problems at all getting it to work.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-09-14
My solution is to use ssh and x2go for over the internet and straight X/Windows remote GUIs on the LAN. The remote system needs to allow ssh on some port for x2go.  I use high ports and only key-based authentication.  On the LAN, ssh with X11forward allowed works very easy.  It just requires too much bandwidth for WAN use.

I gave up on WINE years ago when it became more hassle than just keeping Win7 inside a VM to run the 3 windows programs I still need. I run Windows media center inside that VM.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-09-14
I never heard of TV using Wine.  4 of 5 of my machines do not have Wine installed on them, Considering the extremely small size and quick installation of TV, I find it difficult to believe it runs on Wine.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-14
> **Autodave said:**
> I run Teamviewer on 5 different machines: all running 18.04. I would try removing it and re-installing it.  I did not have any problems at all getting it to work.

I have done that previously. For a day I managed to get TV to load and then it stopped working. Are there any other settings such as in your UEFI that may be the cause of your success?

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-09-15
> **Robbyx said:**
> I have done that previously. For a day I managed to get TV to load and then it stopped working. Are there any other settings such as in your UEFI that may be the cause of your success?

None. I have been nusing TV for about 5 years now, across many different machines, and have never had an issue on 16.04 or 18.04.

---

### Post by Adam_GUI on 2018-09-15
Open a terminal and cd to "/opt/teamviewer/tv_bin/script"
Then, "./teamviwer"

What does it output when trying to paint the program UI?

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-15
robins@robins-desktop:/opt/teamviewer/tv_bin/script$ ./teamviewer

Init...
CheckCPU: SSE2 support: yes
Checking setup...
Launching TeamViewer ...
Launching TeamViewer GUI ...
robins@robins-desktop:/opt/teamviewer/tv_bin/script$

---

### Post by Adam_GUI on 2018-09-15
> **Robbyx said:**
> robins@robins-desktop:/opt/teamviewer/tv_bin/script$ ./teamviewer

Init...
CheckCPU: SSE2 support: yes
Checking setup...
Launching TeamViewer ...
Launching TeamViewer GUI ...
robins@robins-desktop:/opt/teamviewer/tv_bin/script$

No error and no draw, huh?
I'd side on purging the program and reinstalling.

"sudo apt-get purge teamviewer" 
This will remove all your teamviewer configuration files along with the program files.

Then, reinstall and try again.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-09-16
I reinstalled, and tried again. Sadly I have the same problem ie GUI not loading.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-10-19
Could I please have some help with this correspondence:

I have been having correspondence with Teamviewer over my inability to load their program in Ubuntu 18.04. 

Latest reply from TV

> It looks like you are using some sort of firewall or other tool that limits network access to localhost, e.g. iptables, SELinux, AppArmor or similar. The only thing I see is that our processes are unable to connect to each other. On a new, stock Ubuntu installation you should not have such 

My response:

> Re: Further log files
 I can only see in synaptic the Ufw standard firewall as being installed. I can not find it in the application lists as a program to run. The IP tables are ticked as being installed (Ufw is the front end of them) but I do not know what they are set at.

I will take your suggestion to the Ubuntu support conference and see if anyone can help me open  ufw and also give me some insight into the apparent existence of a firewall that is blocking TV.  It would help me if you could propose some command lines to discover what is doing the blocking.

What is likely to be blocking TV13?

I have just written again  to TV as follows. 

> Firewall check
I have just run the following.  Does it back up your contention that the firewall is blocking TV13? Please bear in mind that my problem with TV13 is at the loading stage when it is unable to load the graphics. 

sudo iptables -L [sudo] password for robins:


sudo iptables -L


[sudo] password for robins: 
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target prot opt source destination 
ACCEPT all -- anywhere anywhere 
ACCEPT all -- anywhere anywhere state RELATED,ESTABLISHED
ACCEPT all -- anywhere anywhere

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target prot opt source destination

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target prot opt source destination 
ACCEPT all -- anywhere anywhere 
ACCEPT all -- anywhere anywhere state RELATED,ESTABLISHED
vpnacallowedip all -- anywhere anywhere 
lan all -- anywhere anywhere 
DROP all -- anywhere anywhere 
lan udp -- 192.168.0.0/16 anywhere udp spts:bootps:bootpc dpts:bootps:bootpc
lan udp -- 10.0.0.0/8 anywhere udp spts:bootps:bootpc dpts:bootps:bootpc
lan udp -- 172.16.0.0/12 anywhere udp spts:bootps:bootpc dpts:bootps:bootpc

Chain lan (4 references)
target prot opt source destination 
ACCEPT all -- 192.168.0.0/16 192.168.0.0/16 
ACCEPT all -- 192.168.0.0/16 10.0.0.0/8 
ACCEPT all -- 192.168.0.0/16 172.16.0.0/12 
ACCEPT all -- 10.0.0.0/8 192.168.0.0/16 
ACCEPT all -- 10.0.0.0/8 10.0.0.0/8 
ACCEPT all -- 10.0.0.0/8 172.16.0.0/12 
ACCEPT all -- 172.16.0.0/12 192.168.0.0/16 
ACCEPT all -- 172.16.0.0/12 10.0.0.0/8 
ACCEPT all -- 172.16.0.0/12 172.16.0.0/12

Chain vpnacallowedip (1 references)
target prot opt source destination 
ACCEPT all -- anywhere no.rdns-yet.ukservers.com

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-10-20
In the hope I get a solution to this TV problem I have opened a new topic just on the firewall aspect at
 
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2404132&p=13810084#post13810084](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2404132&p=13810084#post13810084)

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-10-21
Are you using a VPN?  Just read another post where the person fixed their TV13 by disabling VPN.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2018-10-21
Thank you. Disabling my VPN  appears to be the solution.

---

