---
title: "12.04 Hot Corners set in Ubuntu Tweak do not always work"
date: 2012-06-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Comokanu on 2012-06-01
I have set hot corners to ease window navigation by downloading and configuring Ubuntu Tweak. I have set up the corners such that:

Top left: Shows all windows
Bottom left: Show desktop
Bottom right: Show all workspaces

They work just fine, but most of the time time when I log back into Ubuntu some of the hot corners do not work and I have to toggle the setting in Ubuntu Tweak each time.

I have a dual monitor setup with one 1440x900 and a 1024x768 on its right and they are configured so that the bottom edges of the screen match(as a result I can't set hot corners on the top right of my desktop). I am also running the **Unity desktop environment**.

It's not that inconvenient but it would be nice to be able to fix this.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by christophski on 2012-06-08
This seemed to fix it for me: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/140759/scale-plugin-keeps-forgetting-hot-corner-settings-on-restart](http://askubuntu.com/questions/140759/scale-plugin-keeps-forgetting-hot-corner-settings-on-restart)


    [LIST]
[*]Run gconf-editor from Terminal or Alt+F2
[*]    Navigate to apps > compiz-1 > general > screen0 > options > active_plugins
[*]    Move "Scale" to the bottom of the list.
[*]    Move "Expo" to bottom right above "Scale" and underneath Unityshell.
[/LIST]

you might have to install gconf-editor first.

---

### Post by jttrs on 2012-08-10
hi,

I have the same problem with corners not loading after a restart and I've seen that solution several times around the web, seems to work for most people.

However, it does not work for me: I don't have "apps > compiz-1 > general > screen0 > options > active_plugins"; there is no 'active_plugins' at the end of that tree but the rest of them are there.

Though I do have an identical tree starting with 'compizconfig-1' in addition to 'compiz-1'.  And it has the correct 'active_plugins', but sending expo and scale below unityshell there does not fix my problem...

J

---

### Post by Canaryguy on 2013-05-10
I'm using Ubuntu 13.04

I had to follow the following path after I had opened gconf-editor:

apps>compizconfig-1>profiles>unity>general>screen0>options and double click on active_plugins (on the right)

Then I did what christophski indicated and restarted the system. It worked for me.

Thanks.

---

### Post by griffjon on 2013-06-14
I also didn't have it in the apps > compiz-1 > general > screen0 > options > active_plugins hierarchy.  Creating it with the options from the other lists helped for me (13.04, 64bit)

---

