---
title: "9.10 Login screen fail."
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Gixxy on 2009-10-31
I just upgraded to 9.10 and displaying the username on login = fail. I don't see any easy way to disable this and can not for the life of me understand why ubuntu would do this to us? 

Anyone know how to get rid of this? I would like very much not to be giving half the puzzle away for anyone within reading distance. Autologin is not an option...

thanks :)

---

### Post by Repentinus on 2009-10-31
Applications -> System Tools -> Configuration Editor -> apps -> gdm -> simple-greeter -> tick disable_user_list

If you can't access Configuration Editor in System Tools then: Preferences -> Main menu -> System Tools -> enable Configuration Editor

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-10-31
> **Gixxy said:**
> I just upgraded to 9.10 and displaying the username on login = fail. I don't see any easy way to disable this and can not for the life of me understand why ubuntu would do this to us? 

Anyone know how to get rid of this? I would like very much not to be giving half the puzzle away for anyone within reading distance. Autologin is not an option...

thanks :)

The new GDM requires a bit more work--there are volumes of information on configuring in the (closed) Karmic-testing Forum--that is in Development & Programming--You will not be able to do all the things you could in the old GDM--The config Panel is a WIP & we only have a small sub-set of what we did.....

---

### Post by Gixxy on 2009-11-01
The gui way to disable_user_list didn't work. But I found how to do it with command line.

```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --type bool --set /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/disable_user_list 'true'

```
Thanks for the help :)

---

