---
title: "8.10 Screen Resolution Intrepid"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by catflea on 2008-11-01
I'm having problems with the autodetecting of my monitor..

is there any way to force the screen resolution in Intrepid?   This is doing my head in!

---

### Post by NawaMan on 2008-11-01
Would you give more detail? What exactly is the problem?

---

### Post by acm321 on 2008-11-02
Is the xserver properly configured?

---

### Post by catflea on 2008-11-02
I have an LG 19" CRT which was recognised the first time I installed 8.10 automatically set 1600x1200 - which is my preferred res.

However on running the update manager it seemed to lose this info and could not find the monitor again.  After much mucking around I ended up losing picture completely and did a clean install.

On a clean install the monitor still isn't recognised!    I have no idea if xserver is configured,  and I wouldn't know how to check!

I'm not a complete idiot but don't tend to get too involved with the "system" stuff.    It used to be that you could edit xorg.conf to give the option to run a certain screen resolution.  But that doesn't seem to work anymore!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-11-02
> **catflea said:**
> I have an LG 19" CRT which was recognised the first time I installed 8.10 automatically set 1600x1200 - which is my preferred res.

However on running the update manager it seemed to lose this info and could not find the monitor again.  After much mucking around I ended up losing picture completely and did a clean install.

On a clean install the monitor still isn't recognised!    I have no idea if xserver is configured,  and I wouldn't know how to check!

I'm not a complete idiot but don't tend to get too involved with the "system" stuff.    It used to be that you could edit xorg.conf to give the option to run a certain screen resolution.  But that doesn't seem to work anymore!

Ok what is the model of the graphics card?
Have you tried booting into recovery mode and use the xfix option to correct the graphics?

---

### Post by catflea on 2008-11-02
I *think* its a radeon 9250.   Not tried xfix - didn't even know it existed!

---

### Post by catflea on 2008-11-02
xfix sorted it.   I'm now viewing at a glorious 1600x1200

Thanks \\:D/

---

