---
title: "Fix Windows Partition Using Ubuntu?"
date: 2007-04-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by eeefresh on 2007-04-30
I have been dual-booting Windows MCE and Ubuntu 7.04 for a few weeks now without a problem.  However, I recently installed some new programs on my XP partition and now it boots up to the desktop, then freezes while loading the startup programs.  I can't CTRL-ALT-DELETE or anything.  I can only do a hard reboot.  I'm not certain if the problem is a software conflict or an issue with the partition itself.  I was able to boot into safe mode, but one of the suspect programs isn't showing up in the Add/Remove list....though it does show up in the system tray when I boot normally. 

Then I figured I could boot into Ubuntu, access the NTFS/Windows partition and remove some of the programs from the startup folder, which would hopefully allow me to boot into Windows again.  However, the NTFS partition that *used* to mount automatically when I booted into Ubuntu is no longer there.  Does that mean its a disk issue?  Can I manually remount it?  Are there any tools that I can run via Ubuntu that can scan the NTFS partition for errors?

Basically I am hoping to fix Windows, but if that's not possible, I would like to at least access the partition to backup some files before reformatting.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by phiphedog on 2007-04-30
have a look in your /etc/fstab file for the name of the windows partition and you can try to manually mount it using the following command

Assuming your windows partition is called hda1 and you have the folder /media/hda1

sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/hda1 /media/hda1

Running the command 

sudo mount -a

Will mount all the disks in your fstab file

---

### Post by eeefresh on 2007-04-30
It gave me this message:

```
mount: mount point /media/hda1 does not exist
```

Here is what my fstab file says:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=7326ab42-f946-4c55-806b-5129f78fc9ac / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=421C9B75E07FB76E /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=007b9a9a-b1b8-417c-a6d5-53c19bacab40 /media/sda4 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=82bf7b96-b215-4380-bb8d-f1d38fabad5c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

/dev/sda4        /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
```

---

### Post by phiphedog on 2007-04-30
ok, so your windows ntfs partition is called sda1 and it is located at /dev/sda1

to mount manually you will need to type 

sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sda1 /media/sda1

Try this and let me know how it goes.


You can run this command to check the file system

sudo fsck /dev/sda1

---

### Post by phiphedog on 2007-05-01
Just a tip to get your windows working. You can boot into safe mode by tapping F8 as it starts up and then go to START-->Run and type msconfig.

In here there'll be a startup tab, you can remove all the ticks and try and reboot and see if that works. If it does then keep going into START-->Run msconfig and ticking one box and restarting, then the next box and restart and kkep doing this until you find the offending program.

Or just try a system restore.

---

### Post by eeefresh on 2007-05-01
Safe Mode did the trick!  Once I was able to keep the rogue program from coming on at startup, Windows booted fine.  Then I rebooted into Ubuntu and the NTFS partition automagically appeared!

Thanks for the assistance!

---

### Post by phiphedog on 2007-05-01
Good Stuff, another problem bites the dust.

---

