---
title: "12.04 - Setting ALT+F1 to custom shortcuts reset after reboot"
date: 2012-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ekidmose on 2012-05-02
As far as I can tell the the default behaviour when pressing ALT+F1 in 12.04 is to highlight the "Dash Home" button in the launcher, allowing for selection between locked and open applications using the arrow keys and return. I would however prefer to customise this keyboard shortcut to something else (gnome-terminal).

Therefore I go to System Setting > Keyboard > Shortcuts > Custom Shortcuts and add an entry, and assign it to ALT+F1. At first everything seems to be all milk and honey - as in working - but after a restart the behaviour defaults back to highlighting Dash Home, while everything looks like I want it to under Custom Shortcuts. 

The only solutions I've been able to find is to disable it and reassign it to ALT-F1 after every restart...

Any suggestions?
Should a bug report be filed somewhere? (I'm fairly new to the community, s'pose it isn't obvious :) )

---

### Post by Felix-the-Cat on 2012-08-31
[I removed as much of Unity as possible and put Gnome back.]("https://sites.google.com/site/howtomakeubuntu1204notterrible/") For those who ran across this looking for a similar solution but in gnome this is what you need to do to get the Alt+F1 menu key back:

```
gconftool-2 --set /apps/metacity/global_keybindings/panel_main_menu --type string "<Alt>F1"
```

Probably just can't do this in Unity. Seems to be that whole interface is built around the idea that users are too dumb to know what they are doing so don't give them options. * rant over *

---

