---
title: "Bug Report / Last ditch help attempt"
date: 2005-08-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-03
Hi all, i've spoken to various people who are 'in the know' about these things and I think that my xorg.conf is in the best possible shape it can be and still fglrxinfo is giving the wrong answer.
The main test to see if my Gfx card is working is running any of the openGL screensavers which are still all PAINSTAKINGLY slow.. anything else anyone can do is much appreciated otherwise I assume my shiny new GFX card isn't supported and it needs to be built in.

Included output and xorg.conf:

henri@serenity:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.2.1)

henri@serenity:~$


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "unix/:7100"                        # local font server
        # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
#        Load        "bitmap"
        Load        "dbe"
        Load        "ddc"
#        Load        "GLcore"
        Load        "glx"
        Load        "dri"
#        Load        "extmod"
        Load        "freetype"
#        Load        "int10"
#        Load        "record"
        Load        "type1"
        Load        "vbe"
        Load        "v4l"
        Load        "xtt"

        SubSection "extmod"
                Option "omit xfree86-dga"
        EndSubSection

EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier        "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver                "keyboard"
        Option                "CoreKeyboard"
        Option                "XkbRules"        "xorg"
        Option                "XkbModel"        "pc105"
        Option                "XkbLayout"        "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier        "Configured Mouse"
        Driver                "mouse"
        Option                "CorePointer"
        Option                "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option                "Protocol"                "ImPS/2"
        Option                "Emulate3Buttons"        "true"
        Option                "ZAxisMapping"                "4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option                "HorizScrollDelta"        "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier        "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M300 (M22)"
        Driver                "fglrx"
        BusID                "PCI:1:0:0"
#        Option "NoDDC"
# === disable/enable XAA/DRI ===
        Option        "no_accel"        "no"
        Option        "no_dri"        "no"
# === misc DRI settings ===
        Option        "mtrr"                "off"
# === Misc Options ===
        Option "UseFastTLS"        "0"
        Option "BlockSignalsOnLock"        "on"
        Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
        Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
# === Center Mode (Laptops Only) ===
        Option "CenterMode"        "off"
        Option "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
        Option "ForceGenericCPU"        "no"
        Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier        "Generic Monitor"
        Option                "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier        "Default Screen"
        Device                "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M300 (M22)"
        Monitor                "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth        24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                1
                Modes                "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                4
                Modes                "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                8
                Modes                "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                15
                Modes                "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                16
                Modes                "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth                24
                Modes                "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier        "Default Layout"
        Screen                "Default Screen"
        InputDevice        "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice        "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice        "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode        0666

---

### Post by grim42 on 2005-08-03
I've checked up on your previous posts and see how you installed it.

I struggled myself to get the ATI drivers working -- I eventually got it working using the same guide as you: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557).

However I don't see the M300 listed on the ATI Linux Driver supported cards page: [http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.14.13.html](http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.14.13.html)
So it could be that your device isn't yet supported -- is it quite new?

[B]
A few things to try:
[/B]

1. There's a section 2 under "TROUBLESHOOTING TIPS" in that guide that shows how to install the drivers when X is not running. Try that if you haven't already.

2.  The thing that was causing my problem:

The guides says that the line ```
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
``` is not important. That's not entirely true -- many ATI cards have dual head functionality, even if they don't have dual output connectors. Possibly try changing that "1" to a "2"?

3. Move the section

```
SubSection "extmod"
Option "omit xfree86-dga"
EndSubSection
```

a few lines up to where you've got ```
#Load "extmode"
```.

---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-04
[QUOTE=grim42]I've checked up on your previous posts and see how you installed it.

I struggled myself to get the ATI drivers working -- I eventually got it working using the same guide as you: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557).

However I don't see the M300 listed on the ATI Linux Driver supported cards page: [http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.14.13.html](http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/linux_8.14.13.html)
So it could be that your device isn't yet supported -- is it quite new?

[B]
A few things to try:
[/B]

1. There's a section 2 under "TROUBLESHOOTING TIPS" in that guide that shows how to install the drivers when X is not running. Try that if you haven't already.

2.  The thing that was causing my problem:

The guides says that the line ```
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
``` is not important. That's not entirely true -- many ATI cards have dual head functionality, even if they don't have dual output connectors. Possibly try changing that "1" to a "2"?

3. Move the section

```
SubSection "extmod"
Option "omit xfree86-dga"
EndSubSection
```

a few lines up to where you've got ```
#Load "extmode"
```.[/QUOTE]
 Thanks for getting back to me, tried altering it to a two but it just stopped X loading the Desktop environment altogether on startup...

Anyone else got a brilliant mind? ;)

Henri

---

### Post by kleeman on 2005-08-04
Check /var/log/Xorg.0.log for messages with (EE) these will tell you (albeit possibly cryptically) why fglrx is not loading properly.

---

### Post by ph8 on 2005-08-04
oo! Good call!

(EE) fglrx(0): DRIScreenInit failed!
(WW) fglrx(0): ***********************************************
(WW) fglrx(0): * DRI initialization failed!                  *
(WW) fglrx(0): * (maybe driver kernel module missing or bad) *
(WW) fglrx(0): * 2D acceleraton available (MMIO)             *
(WW) fglrx(0): * no 3D acceleration available                *
(WW) fglrx(0): ********************************************* *


I can't find any DRI package though.. any advice?

---

### Post by Omnios on 2005-08-04
Only thing I know about ATI vid is not to buy one unless your doing graphics work. However A game I play has some interesting fixes for certain aspects of it.

 [http://nwn.bioware.com/forums/  ATI stuff](http://nwn.bioware.com/forums/viewtopic.html?topic=405580&forum=72) 

 Hope this helps find a over all solution!

---

### Post by grim42 on 2005-08-04
The output from my log file is like this:

> 
(II) fglrx(0): DRIScreenInit done
(II) fglrx(0): Kernel Module version matches driver.
(II) fglrx(0): DRI initialization successfull!
(II) fglrx(0): [DRI] installation complete



Some more things to try:

1. Try changing your *Device* section as follows (how mine looks):

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility M300 (M22)"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection
```

or at least try commenting out the "Screen 0" just before your EndSection.

2. Are you sure about those very specific resolutions you've got set there 1440x900?

Try adding a regular 1024x768 to the 24 bit & 16 bit depths settings to see if that works.

```
SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
```


3. Also, try changing the default depth to 16.

---

### Post by JLTB on 2005-08-04
Hi ph8,

I got a similar log as you when my kernel module wasn't loading correctly.  I couldn't get it going for the longest time and resorted to reinstalling the OS (i had 64bit originally and downgraded to 32bit to get more package support).  After that I followed the ati installer guides i found in PAINSTAKING detail and it worked that time (just with the normal ubuntu driver).  Then I went on to getting the 8.14.13 driver going.

Basically my problem was that the kernel module (though the .ko file was located in the right spot and it was modprobed ... etc) just wasn't loading right.

Sorry I don't have a better answer

PS: I'm using a much more compatible card I bet, Radeon 9600XT.

---

