---
title: "10.04 LTS Keyboard Language problem"
date: 2010-07-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Redemp on 2010-07-17
Yesterday i was playing around with Ubuntu Server on a another machine using SSH and trying to start a Gnome session. I was having to or more terminal Windows open and by mistake typed "gnome-session" in my on local computer terminal Window. 

Well everything became garbled and messed up but after some time i found the restart button and restarted my local computer. 

When i then logged in again my Keyboard was messed up. The key on my Keyboard that corresponds to "Ö" became "+" and some letters became numbers instead of letters.

Tried to change from Swedish to USA Keyboard layout (System-->Preferences->Keyboard
but the same problem was there. Keyboard Model Generic 105-Key (Intl) PC.
Letter on the USA Layout produced numbers instead of letter.

What did solve it was if i switched from my login session to "root" That has Swedish Layout. Then logged out from Root and back to my Session.

Then the Keyboard is ok. But that seems like a hassle to do every time a want to use my computer. 

I have also tried to change layout at the login screen.

Editing the Xorg file. But there are no Keyboard Settings in that file only this
```
Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```setxkbmap se - No Change
sudo dpkg-reconfigure console-setup

Anyone got a solution?

---

### Post by Redemp on 2010-07-17
OMG i feel so stupid. The numlock key was pressed, but my laptop don't show that it is pressed.

What a simple solution, i fell so dumb. lol

---

### Post by yossell on 2010-07-17
That's ok - at least you had the decency to come back and tell us! 

If you mark the thread as solved fewer people will click on it to see what it's about and if they can help; hardly anybody need know!

---

