---
title: ".m4a player?"
date: 2006-07-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tartarian on 2006-07-16
All my music files are in the .m4a format (courtsey of iTunes) and I'd like to play them in Kubuntu. I'e tried amarok and it plays them just fine, but it wont add them to my collection or read any of the track info/album art etx etc. Can anyone reccomend a app that will play and read .m4a or a workaround for Amarok? Thanks!

---

### Post by Third Thoughts on 2006-07-16
> **tartarian said:**
> All my music files are in the .m4a format (courtsey of iTunes) and I'd like to play them in Kubuntu. I'e tried amarok and it plays them just fine, but it wont add them to my collection or read any of the track info/album art etx etc. Can anyone reccomend a app that will play and read .m4a or a workaround for Amarok? Thanks!

I believe that xmms can read them with the appropriate plugin. You can also convert them from .m4a to .mp3 as long as they aren't music store tracks (.mp4). For the xmms plugin, get xmms-mp4 from the repos. This should allow you to play both protected and unprotected formats. For the conversion check out this website [http://www.togaware.com/linux/survivor/m4a_mp3.html](http://www.togaware.com/linux/survivor/m4a_mp3.html). If you want to convert protected files I'm afriad you'll have to burn them to a CD and then re-rip them :( Three cheers for DRM!

~Andrew S.

---

### Post by hopstah on 2006-08-03
the newest amarok - version 1.4 - handles .m4a files just fine.  make sure they're not protected m4a though, as almost all itunes content is.  if that's the case, you're looking at more difficulties.

now for some better .m4b support.....

---

### Post by fireandlight27 on 2006-08-09
> **tartarian said:**
> All my music files are in the .m4a format (courtsey of iTunes) and I'd like to play them in Kubuntu. I'e tried amarok and it plays them just fine, but it wont add them to my collection or read any of the track info/album art etx etc. Can anyone reccomend a app that will play and read .m4a or a workaround for Amarok? Thanks!

How did you manage this, I'm running Amarok 1.4 on Ubuntu on an AMD64 machine.  Amarok will add my m4a files but it won't play them.  The FAQ says you need gstreamer-faad, which I have, and gstreamer-quicktime, which I cannot find for Ubuntu.  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by roflcopter_1 on 2006-08-09
Do you have all the repositories enabled?
Edit: I don't think there is such thing as gstreamer-quicktime. Make sure you have all the repositories enabled, and then open synaptic and search for quicktime. Some of the results are obviously not necessary, but try installing ones that sound right until .m4a's are playable. Sorry this is the best help I can give, I don't have an iPod.

---

### Post by fireandlight27 on 2006-08-09
All of repositories in the Synaptic list are enabled, I installed exerything quicktime related I could find, all of the gstreamer plugins are installed and Amarok still won't play m4a files.  I tried moving a file to my home folder (all of my m4a files are on a read-only NTFS partition) but Amarok still would not play it.  Both totem and vlc will play m4a music, but xine and amarok will not.

---

### Post by tartarian on 2006-08-10
I use Xine as my Amarok engine, not g-streamer. Not an expert really, just did it out of the box.

---

### Post by petersjm on 2006-08-10
Banshee plays all my .m4a files perfectly and acts just like iTunes in most regards.

Like Tartarian, Amarok will play my .m4a files but not import them to the collection or read their metadata... (I'm not on my linux box at the minute so can't confirm what version of Amarok I have)

---

### Post by fireandlight27 on 2006-08-10
I also use Xine as my Amarok engine.  The Amarok faq says you have to have gstreamer-faad and gstreamer-quicktime to play m4a files.

---

### Post by petersjm on 2006-08-10
As an update to my post above, I've just updated Amarok to 1.4.1 and it's playing my m4a files fine now, and even pulling in the metadata! I'm a happy bunny! Here's hoping it works for you, too, Tartarian.

---

### Post by fireandlight27 on 2006-08-12
I managed to fix the problem I was having.  I installed libxine-extracodecs.  It wasn't in synaptic but it installed fine when I found it on the ubuntu packages website.  Amarok now plays m4a files for me fine.

---

### Post by Dubbayoo on 2006-08-12
gtkpod-aac

---

