---
title: "Help setting 8.10 desktop resolution"
date: 2008-12-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Daggoo on 2008-12-15
I'm running Ubuntu 8.10 on VMware ESX server and would like to increase the desktop resolution beyond the values supported by the host's graphics card. It's an ancient embedded ATI chipset with 8 MB of VRAM.

It appears that configuration of graphics has completely changed with 8.10:
[LIST]
[*]"sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" doesn't work
[*]"sudo apt-get install displayconfig-gtk" fails
[*]The file /etc/X11/xorg.conf if practically empty
[*]Adding a "Display" subsection to xorg.conf and restarting doesn't do anything.
[/LIST]
What do I need to do?

Thanks,

Andreas

---

### Post by imdfuture9999 on 2008-12-23
> It appears that configuration of graphics has completely changed with 8.10:

    * "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" doesn't work
    * "sudo apt-get install displayconfig-gtk" fails
    * The file /etc/X11/xorg.conf if practically empty
    * Adding a "Display" subsection to xorg.conf and restarting doesn't do anything.


as of above evn i had tried the same on ubuntu 8.10 intrepid ibex ,but the resolution does not show ne options to exceed more than 1024x768 (4:3) mark.. i hav got nvidia 7600gs card which can give more resolution..   i am evn posting my xorg.conf file but tat evn shows empty
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection:confused:

pls find a solution to this..

---

### Post by unkilbeeg on 2008-12-24
I've had a similar problem.  My ancient flatscreen supports 1024x768, but the automatic detection in Ubuntu's current setup sets the monitor to 800x600.  What's worse, is it sets the desktop to 896x762, so *all* controls are offscreen.

Here's how I fixed it.

I downloaded a livecd of MINT, which is an Ubuntu offshoot.  The current version of MINT is 6, and it has the same problems that Ubuntu does.  However, I happened to have an old version 4 of MINT lying around, and I booted from it.  It came up in beautiful 1024x768 resolution.  I mounted the hard drive and copied MINT's /etc/X11/xorg.conf over to my home dir on the hard drive.  [http://www.linuxmint.com/oldreleases.php](http://www.linuxmint.com/oldreleases.php)

After I rebooted into Ubuntu, I logged in on VT1 (you can poke around on the graphical desktop and if you get lucky you might hit the menu even if you can't see it, but I preferred to just go straight to a terminal.)  I made a backup copy of the Ubuntu xorg.conf and then copied the one I had saved from MINT over the top of it.  Restarted X (you could just reboot if you wanted) and it booted up with my *real* resolution.  My desktop was still screwed up, so I had to delete my Gnome settings, but then it was fine.

Recent versions of Ubuntu have really screwed up the automatic detection of video settings.  8.04 and 8.10 both have this problem.  They work fine on new hardware, but not so well on older stuff.

---

