---
title: "Need Video Help"
date: 2005-10-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Georgie-o on 2005-10-13
When I boot-up with the monitor turned on, my screen has verticle thin blue lines and sometime the monitor goes crazy and gets stuck on different parts of the screen and freezes in an unusable state.  When I leave the monitor off during the boot-up process, I get no distortion problems, but the monitor is stuck in a resolution of 640x480.  The Resolution options pull-down menu doesn't show any other options.
Is this a video card driver issue?  If so, whats the fix?

Thanks

---

### Post by vrecan on 2005-10-13
can you tell us your video card and post a copy of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.  Then we can go from there.

---

### Post by Georgie-o on 2005-10-13
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E171FPb"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"DELL E171FPb"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Georgie-o on 2005-10-13
the card appears to be:

Intel Corp 
82815 CGC [Chipset Graphics
PCI

-it is the standard card in a Dell Optiplex  GX 150(small form factor, PIII)

Thanks for any assistance...

---

### Post by vrecan on 2005-10-13
the I810's are well known for being problem child's in linux.  For the boot process you are going to need to add this to your kernel parameters on boot:

vga=771

when your system boots up you need to hit enter to go to the grub menu and then hit e .  This will open grub in edit mode and add vga=771 to the end of your kernel parameters.  

tell me if this helps at all.

---

### Post by Georgie-o on 2005-10-13
I'm a new at linux and can't figure out when during the boot-up to press "enter"?


Also, just so I know what to do when I get there, how do I now what the end of my kernel parameters are?  Do you need to save anything or is automatice once entered?

I know this is basic stuff but I'm trying to learn my way around linux with a second computer, if I can't get video to work right I'm going to need to admit defeat and keep paying Bill Gates.

:(

---

### Post by vrecan on 2005-10-13
its no problem my fault for being vague.. been a bit since I have done it.. 

when you first turn it on it will say press esc and have a count down in the top left corner.. thats my fault its not enter :P its esc.  its a real quick countdown so hit it as soon as possible.

then hit e and then go down 1 line and add this:

your kernel will look something like this->

/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.12-9-386 root=/dev/hda1 ro quite splash 

just add the vga= line right after splash

then hit enter and hit b to boot with this setting..

---

### Post by Georgie-o on 2005-10-13
Thanks for the specifics.  I added it (I believe correctly)

I put one (1) "space" between splash and vga=771

" splash vga=771 "


It then said something about looking at videos or something or continue boot...

I continued to "boot"

The monitor responded the same.  Any other thoughts?  Or did I do something wrong?

Thanks

---

### Post by vrecan on 2005-10-13
nope thats right.. it could be a bios issue with your laptop.  Sometimes a bios update can fix these problems if it really is an issue with the video card not reporting its info correctly to ubuntu.  I am out of idea's other then that for now.. sorry.

---

