---
title: "11.10 Gnome shell, no hot corner"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by grigglestone on 2011-10-21
The following thread deals with disabling hot corner behavior [http://askubuntu.com/questions/5573/how-do-you-disable-the-automatic-activation-of-gnome-shell-activities-button](http://askubuntu.com/questions/5573/how-do-you-disable-the-automatic-activation-of-gnome-shell-activities-button)

I have the opposite problem in that I can't get hot corner to work. I see no ripple effect or activation occurring.

I thought it might be something to do with compiz. I found compiz-pugins-extra was not installed, so I added that and reinstalled Gnome shell, but still no hot corner.

I followed teh thread above to see if I needed to reverse what it said but found the settings in layout.js were correct.

What else could it be?

Any thoughts would be most welcome.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2011-10-22
You can try hitting the super/windows button to see if you can toggle in and out.  I found that upgrading from 11.04 causes some minor bugs with Gnome Shell.

---

### Post by grigglestone on 2011-10-22
> **drawkcab said:**
> You can try hitting the super/windows button to see if you can toggle in and out.  I found that upgrading from 11.04 causes some minor bugs with Gnome Shell.

thanks I was aware of the windows button usage, but I was looking to understand the hot corner behavior and why that does not work

---

### Post by crdlb on 2011-10-22
GNOME Shell doesn't use compiz. Are you using any Shell extensions? The Applications menu extension in particular is known to cause this.

---

### Post by grigglestone on 2011-10-22
> **crdlb said:**
> GNOME Shell doesn't use compiz.

So if I'm committed to the GNOME Shell I should be able to totally remove compiz?

> **crdlb said:**
> Are you using any  Shell extensions?

I have:

[LIST]
[*]The alternative status menu (but I think I had the problem before I installed that)
[*]Battery
[*]Network
[*]Speaker
[/LIST]

 > **crdlb said:**
> The Applications menu extension in particular is known  to cause this.

Not using it .. appmenu-gtk was installed, but I removed that.

Any further thoughts would be most welcome.

---

### Post by cbowman57 on 2011-10-22
Yes, you can dump compiz.

Hit alt+f2 then type lg & press enter.  Look to see if there are any problems listed under the Errors tab.

---

### Post by grigglestone on 2011-10-22
> **cbowman57 said:**
> Yes, you can dump compiz.

Hit alt+f2 then type lg & press enter.  Look to see if there are any problems listed under the Errors tab.

no errors .. did completely remove compiz and unity and now get the hot corner

happy camper!

---

### Post by cbowman57 on 2011-10-22
Super! :)

---

