---
title: "20.04 Crypt setup password not working"
date: 2021-07-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mollie4168 on 2021-07-05
Hi,

I'm trying to figure out why my encryption password isn't working and what to do about it.  I've had the same encryption set up for a couple of years at least, and the only thing that changed is that it was a restart from the most recent system updates.  My whole disk is encrypted, so I can't get into anything currently.  

After Googling this issue, I saw that sometime keyboard layouts got switched.  Even if that might have been an issue (between US and UK), it would not make a difference with my particular encryption code.

I'm submitting this through a different laptop, and on my ubuntu computer, I'm currently in initramfs.  Please be really specific about what I should do because I my programming-sort of literacy is very low.  

Many thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-07-05
Every time I've had a similar issue, it was my fault - user error.  Once my keyboard had started having a fault.  More often than not, I'm entering the wrong challenge for my Yubikey, so the response the key provides as input into the decryption is incorrect.

If we choose to use encryption, we must, absolutely must, have excellent backups.  I also setup 3 slots to be able to decrypt the storage.  One slot is a completely random, 66 character passphrase that I'd have trouble entering on a good day with perfect hardware and a helper.  The other 2 slots are for Yubikey challenge/response codes - for 2 different yubikeys.  Wouldn't be good to only have 1, since it can break or be lost or stolen.  I used to have a short passphrase + static yubikey entry (put both together for the full passphrase), but since it was static, anyone with physical access to the yubikey and how they work (short or long press for different modes) could slurp that part out and only need my 12 character, shorter, entry to complete the total decryption.

How good are your backups?

---

### Post by mollie4168 on 2021-07-06
I completely agree that password problems typically come down to user error which is why I tried to check for that as much as I could before posting.  I searched and posted in part to see if there might be any other random thing that people were aware of.  

Because I didn't know how to get out of initramifs, I unplugged the laptop, let it die, and booted it back up this morning.  It took my passphrase on the first try, so I'm going to assume that there was something I wasn't seeing yesterday.  

I had no idea if I had any backups because I've never had to use any in the whole time I've had the encryption set up.  Your response made me check my password manager, and I do, indeed, have a similar probably 60-some random character backup.  However, when I booted up to try it, my regular passphrase worked, so I didn't need to try it, but I appreciate that now I remember I have one!

---

