---
title: "desktop background image on dual monitors"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by charlie22 on 2009-04-24
On Ubuntu 9.04 I've got dual monitors set up (not mirrored). I was searching for some wallpapers but when I find a good one, right click on it, and choose Set As Desktop Background... it doesn't work like I'd expect. If I choose to stretch the image then one image is stretched over both screens and it looks terrible. If I choose center then one image is centered between the two screens.

How can I get the image to fit to both monitors separately?

Also, is it possible to have different backgrounds for different monitors?

Thanks

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-04-24
What type of video card do you have?

---

### Post by charlie22 on 2009-04-24
NVidia GeForce 8800 GTS

---

### Post by charlie22 on 2009-04-25
Turns out a driver wasn't installed. I installed the NVidia driver version 180. I get the image on both screens now except on my right monitor there is a column of black space about an inch wide where I can't get the image to span over, but I can still move and see my mouse in that area.

Another odd thing I noticed is that although I can move my mouse from one monitor to the next, I can't drag windows between the 2 monitors. When I attempt to move a window off the edge of my primary monitor that window is dragged into the second workspace on the same monitor. This is an issue since that is pretty much the whole point of having dual monitors.

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-04-25
do you have the nvidia x server setting under system>administration>nvidia xserver settings.
There you will find x server display config settings it should be in there if not then 
something else is wrong and will look into it more.

---

### Post by charlie22 on 2009-04-25
Yes it is there. Once I installed the driver I had to open up that tool and enable my second monitor. What specific settings should I be looking for in there to fix that black column and/or dragging windows between monitors?

It should be noted that both monitors are at different resolutions since they don't both support 1600x1050 (my preferred resolution for my primary monitor).

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-04-25
You can look [here]("http://www.thecrumb.com/2008/01/22/ubuntu-nvidia-and-two-monitors/") and see if this help setting up dual displays.

---

### Post by charlie22 on 2009-04-27
I had no luck. I forgot to backup my old xorg.conf file buy I managed to get my system close to like it was before, only now my logon screen shows up on my secondary monitor and any applications I open from either monitor menu only open and stay on the secondary monitor.

Here is my xorg.conf file

> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" RightOf "Screen1"
    Screen      1  "Screen1" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer X203W"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Philips MAGNAVOX TV"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 68.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 62.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTS"
    BusID          "PCI:2:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTS"
    BusID          "PCI:2:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


I tried modifying values here and there, along with using the NVidia X Server Settings tool, but this is the xorg.conf file I came up with. I still some of my other problems previously posted. I do have one wallpaper image on two separate screens, but I can not drag applications between screens. How different resolutions are handled is a little weird too.

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-04-28
First, check xorg.conf, the main location for display settings in Linux. Type sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup. This ensures that you have a backup copy in case some of the settings your about to edit break X and don&#8217;t allow you to use a graphical interface! I suggest always doing thins before changing settings in Linux manually to ensure easy recovery later. Now your ready to edit the settings, so type sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Under the module section, replace &#8220;nv&#8221; with &#8220;glx&#8221;. Under the device heading, make sure that Driver says &#8220;nvidia&#8221;. Under the screen section, add the following line:

Option &#8220;RenderAccel&#8221; &#8220;true&#8221;.

Now save your changes and close gedit.reload X to ensure that your now using the proper drivers. Reload X  or restart the pc. 


Assuming everything went well, your quite close to having dual screens working.Go back into xorg.conf using sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Now go back under the heading &#8220;Screen&#8221;. Let&#8217;s add a few lines:

##This turns on NVidia&#8217;s TwinView
Option &#8220;TwinView&#8221;
##Here I&#8217;m setting the resolution to the individual monitors.
Option &#8220;MetaModes&#8221; &#8220;1280×1024 1280×1024&#8243;

That should be it! Restart X or your pc and you should have two screens. If the orientation of the screens is off, try this under the &#8220;Screen&#8221; heading&#8230;

Option &#8220;TwinViewOrientation&#8221; &#8220;LeftOf&#8221;

LeftOf can be LeftOf, RightOf, Below, Above, or Clone.

Hope that was helpful!

---

### Post by charlie22 on 2009-04-28
Sorry, not much worked. I decided to re-enable Xinerama and then just created an image with the wallpaper I wanted, duplicated side-by-side and then settled for similar resolutions.

Thanks though.

---

