---
title: "10.10 Maverick memory leak when accessing second internal drive"
date: 2011-01-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by totallyspun on 2011-01-10
Hey, tried everything I can think of with my limited Ubuntu knowledge, looking for some assistance on this one.

Recently upgraded through the upgrade manager from 10.4 LTS to 10.10 Maverick. Not entirely sure that this issue is related to the new version, but the time-line would suggest a link. Also, never happened on previous installs. My system is a 3GHz pentium 4 with 2GB ram.

I frequently unrar from archives on my primary hard drive to a  target location on a secondary storage drive, both on board SATA. This is where I'm experiencing the  problem mostly, although a straight file copy/move in the same  direction results in the same. I can get through about 2-300MB of write  to the drive before it grinds to a halt, have to reboot the entire  system.

Since the upgrade the second drive has had this probelm with write/access. Seems okay to read, but any time I write to it freezes up the entire system as described above. System monitor doesn't seem to indicate anything using resources unexpectedly, neither does TOP except that memory usage will go to about 80% used up even with no user applicaitons running. When it's frozen I do see a peak out of CPU usage through System Monitor every ~35 seconds, but cannot determine which program is using it.

Thought doing a fresh 10.10 install from CD might help; didn't. Upgraded storage drive to ext4 to match primary drive, didn't help. have opened up machine and done a  throrough cleaning and checked all cords to the drives. Have cleared as much space on the storage drive as possible - it was about 90% full, down to about 75% now, which never presented this problem when It was that full previously (previous ubuntu versions).

Have tried both unrar and unrar-free. Doesn't seem to be a problem with unrar because it can unpack to a same-disk target no issue and quite fast, and also regular copy or write to storage drive does the same thing.

I'm at a loss, and this problem makes this system virtually unusable for me. Would really appreciate any insight from the community. I'm happy to provide any additional details needed. Might need steps to find them if they're intermediate-advanced in nature to get.

Thanks!

---

### Post by hsoulen on 2011-01-13
Just a silly question, would your second HD happen to be formatted with NTFS?

Hank

Scratch that... Sorry I did not see the part about formating the partition to ext4...

Anything in the logs? Could it be a failing HD?

---

### Post by totallyspun on 2011-01-18
Where and what would I be looking for in the logs? And how would I tell if it's a failing drive?

I did run the Disk Utility included in Maverick and it showed everything as healthy on the drive.

---

### Post by hsoulen on 2011-01-21
> **totallyspun said:**
> Where and what would I be looking for in the logs? And how would I tell if it's a failing drive?

I did run the Disk Utility included in Maverick and it showed everything as healthy on the drive.

No worries, if you are not seeing any smart errors etc then it is not a failing drive.

The only similar experience I have had were with NTFS drives, never with ext3/4.

Any other folks want to chime in?

Hank

---

