---
title: "11.10 Fonts"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pgn674 on 2011-10-15
Does anyone know what fonts Ubuntu 11.10 uses? I installed gnome-tweak-tool, and used it (called Advanced Settings) to see what the fonts are. Following is a table with the part of Ubuntu the font is used in, Advanced Settings's name for the font, what I think the actual font file is (based on appearance), and what Font Viewer calls this actual font file. Does anyone agree or disagree?```
Default font		Ubuntu		/usr/share/fonts/truetype/ubuntu-font-family/Ubuntu-R.ttf	Ubuntu, Regular
Document font		Sans		/usr/share/fonts/truetype/ttf-dejavu/DejaVuSans.ttf		DejaVu Sans, Book
Monospace font		Ubuntu Mono	/usr/share/fonts/truetype/ubuntu-font-family/UbuntuMono-R.ttf	Ubuntu Mono, Regular
Window title font	Ubuntu Bold	/usr/share/fonts/truetype/ubuntu-font-family/Ubuntu-B.ttf	Ubuntu, Bold
```

---

### Post by doncletus on 2012-01-16
I'm not an expert (not at all) but your observations make sense to me.
Thank you for sharing this. I've been looking on the Internet for the folder where the fonts are installed and this is the first useful post I found.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-01-16
I don't quite understand what you are trying to say . The fonts in use are displayed in Advanced Settings . Some Gnome Shell themes have their own fonts which can be different from the system fonts and are set in the theme CCS . From my experience so far this only affects the top panel in the Gnome shell .

Edit :

The web browser can be set to use the system font or you can allow the web page to use its own .

---

### Post by pgn674 on 2012-02-03
Frogs Hair, I had wanted to find the actual font files that Ubuntu uses throughout the system by default (or maybe just throughout Unity), such as the monospace font that Terminal uses by default.

I just found that Canonical offers the Ubuntu Font Family for download, and it appears to me that these are the fonts that Ubuntu 11.10 uses by default: [http://font.ubuntu.com/](http://font.ubuntu.com/)

---

