---
title: "7.04  or  7.10 ??"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tropcky on 2007-10-21
hi all guys lets say what we think about about 7.10   i used it from 18/oct   to   20/ oct  short time ha ??  ya right  but u know what i think 7.04 is better   i dont know y   but i just feel that thats y i am back 2 it agen   what do u think?

---

### Post by super-sauce on 2007-10-21
7.10 installed on my computer, but as soon as it was switching to the gui login screen my monitor just went black.  The green light that says it's got a signal went off, and just the orange "standby" light was on.  Re-installed 6.06, never tried 7.04 :p

---

### Post by tropcky on 2007-10-21
will as i see 7.04 is better than both  6.06 and 7.10

---

### Post by g4m3b0y on 2007-10-21
I'm using 7.10 right now (xubuntu) and i have to say that 7.04 is better. going to re-install 7.06 since it's pretty much polished off and doesn't have the issues that I have with configuring my desktop like a disappearing battery monitor on the panel and a volume control that doesn't work for my laptop :( my machine works fine with 7.06

---

### Post by tropcky on 2007-10-21
ya thats right i already reinstalled 7.04  i used 7.10 only for 2 days   and i wont use it agen

---

### Post by bonestonne on 2007-10-21
well, here's my stance on this.

7.10 is good right now, but i'm also running 64 bit. i got to 7.10 via the Update Manager. Well, it went very smooth to what i know.

after rebooting, i came across a couple issues. 1) i don't like this whole Pidgen thing. Gaim was great, i don't like pidgen. 2) the first time i used it, i did not have the top bar on any window with the minimize, maximize and close option, nor could i resize any window. i got away through the right click menu, and was less than satisfied, but it worked. after another reboot, and changing the visual settings however, it came back. 3) i have not yet tried to go wireless with this.

it has altered my Grub boot list, but i fixed that effortlessly. it works with my Apple Mighty Mouse, wired network, wireless keyboard, speakers, and external and internal drives.

i triple boot my system, and the other two partitions were unaffected [and left on the boot list] so i have no complaints.

i have yet to do my work on it, but i doubt i'll be affected in that department.

i think this distro is pretty good so far, but my needs are different than others, so i like this.

the new menus are alright, but i don't see much use in all of the new stuff.

---

### Post by ubuntu dave on 2007-10-21
Every bit of my hardware works in 7.10.
The default software is better.
It's snappier than any other Ubuntu.
It's as stable as ever.
It's also prettier.
No looking back - guess I was lucky.

(Using 64bit and 32bit since tribe 5, just 64bit since release.)

---

### Post by stapler123 on 2007-10-21
On my hardware, both my desktop and my laptop. 7.10 seems to be the way to go.
 My Desktop never had much of a problem with 7.04, but my laptop wasn't much into anything but 6.06. It took quite a bit of fandanglling  just to get a gui going. It always seemed strange to me that the live cd would get the settings right and the actual install to the hd wouldn't. That was pretty much my experience with every distro I tried on it except 7.10. I could get them running eventually, but it always took about a day to get everything ironed out (and acpi stuff rarely even when I tried to fix it).

With  7.10 the only problem I have is the wifi button light on the front of the laptop doesn't light up, and I know how to fix that from previous Linux adventures. Also my mobility card is on the compiz blacklist, but taking it off wasn't too hard. Those two things actually put that among the easiest installs i've done on that machine, including windows from the acer restore disk.

---

### Post by julep on 2007-10-21
I'm using 7.10 but it's definitely not as stable as 7.04. There's nothing serious enough to make me go back to 7.04, just little annoyances. 

Booting into a Gnome session definitely takes longer (I feel like I'm using windows again). Sometimes Gnome complains and suggests that I should log out and log back in, If I don't, random things don't work. If I log out and log back in, everything works fine.

Pressing CTRL+ALT+F1-F6 switches to tty1 - tty6 but pressing CTRL+ALT+F7 gives me a blank screen, CTRL+ALT+F8 gives me a screen with left-over boot messages and CTRL+ALT+F9 gets me back to my X session. This is just wrong!

Looking froward to 7.11.

---

### Post by chlorinekid on 2007-10-21
> **ubuntu dave said:**
> Every bit of my hardware works in 7.10.
The default software is better.
It's snappier than any other Ubuntu.
It's as stable as ever.
It's also prettier.
No looking back - guess I was lucky.

(Using 64bit and 32bit since tribe 5, just 64bit since release.)

totally agree. for the first time since..ever...once i put ubuntu 7.10 on my laptop everything just worked. the screen res was configured so no need to start messing around with ndiswrapper, the wireless network was found and easily connected to. 7.10 is by far the best and most stable yet. love it.

=D> =D> =D>

---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2007-10-21
Well, I've installed 7.10..and them 7.04....and back to 7.10......about 3 times each since Thursday. I had things working and exactly how I wanted them to be with my original 7.04 install., Unfortunately, when I tried to recreate my settings from scratch, I was unsuccessful. In any event, I have 7.10 installed on my laptop NOW and it is great. 

I do have a couple problems that I have been wrestling, but I've decided to work around it until there is a fix. 

1. When I plug-in and use my 22" Widescreen monitor, Compiz does not recognize that my screen is 1680x1050 instead of 1280x800 (my laptop's screen res). I have a work around for that, but it's not 100% correct.

2. One or two 7.10 installs ago I kept getting (at random....I think) a couple thin horizontal lines that would appear on my screen and not go away. Rebooting would not get rid of them.

For the time being, I'm using my laptop as a laptop withOUT the 22" monitor.......until there is an update to fix this problem. (Several other folks have had this very same problem and a bug report has been filed.)

---

### Post by computerex on 2007-10-22
In my opinion 7.10 is excellent. It literally takes me about 25 minutes to make the system completely usable, with all the programs I need. In about 1 hour, I get a fully customized system that looks and behaves exactly how I want it to. Fiesty was excellent as well, but I had to go through a lot of steps to make some stuff work. Beryl for example. Beryl ran slower in 7.04 as well. Compiz Fusion works a lot better. The only thing I miss about Feisty is that it had sound file previews.

---

### Post by tropcky on 2007-10-22
will when i used 7.10  ( and thats in 2 days ) i had alot problems first one the start up was sooooo slow really slow  and the sursec list was so poor   really   and  the system it self was slow alot of problem when u do update   and when u install    man really bad dream   so thats y i am back to 7.04   fast easy stable

---

### Post by jespdj on 2007-10-22
Please use real words, your posts are very hard to read because you're not typing plain English and because you are not using capitals and punctuation.

Which version works best on your computer depends on the hardware. On my XPS M1330 laptop, 7.10 works great and any older version doesn't work very well at all, because the hardware is so new that it isn't supported properly on the older versions.

So, in my experience, 7.10 is better than anything else.

---

### Post by garren on 2007-10-22
> **jespdj said:**
> Please use real words, your posts are very hard to read because you're not typing plain English and because you are not using capitals and punctuation.
I think it's pretty clear that English is not his first language, and, being from Egypt, reading from left to right probably isn't even natural for him!  So I think we can officially give him a break.  As for myself--I couldn't write one word in Arabic.  :)

As for which version of Ubuntu to use, I'm really glad this thread is here, because I just graduated college and no longer have any reason to use Windows, so I'm planning to install Linux this week, but I'm still collecting opinions on whether I should install 7.04, 7.10, or OpenSUSE 10.3.  So I'll be watching this post.

I'm leaning toward 7.10, and thinking perhaps I'll install OpenSUSE in a VM so I can compare the two.

---

### Post by tropcky on 2007-10-22
> **garren said:**
> I think it's pretty clear that English is not his first language, and, being from Egypt, reading from left to right probably isn't even natural for him!  So I think we can officially give him a break.  As for myself--I couldn't write one word in Arabic.  :)

two.

will thank you so much for that really thank u bro  and i am really trying 2 be better in English 

and about 7.10 will the badest problem ever with me  is with my sound card  its didnt configure it by any way i try like 5 h  2 make it work but i got nothing   but when i use 7.04 i got no problem with it i just got no problem with any thing  so 7.04 is the best for me

---

