---
title: "10.10 - window decoration issues - installed unity 2d, still issues"
date: 2011-03-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by _salem_ on 2011-03-11
So I have a strange problem, on my laptop with Ubuntu 10.10 with default desktop environment.

I did something playing around with compiz, and I lost my window decorations.

I spent many hours trying to fix it (enabling window decorations in effects didn't work, nor did uninstalling and reinstalling both compiz and metacity, etc. Tried lots of things, most I have now forgotten), but the best I could do was just add 'metacity --replace' to my startup programs, and that worked. 

Logging in to the same computer as other users, window decorations were always fine.

So then i read about unity 2d (qt) on 10.10, so I went ahead and installed that as I like it.

worked great, except when i maximise a window, it has no max/min/close buttons on the panel. just the name of the application. and i found that if i remove the metacity --replace from startup applications, i still don't have window decorations on windowed applications.

again, it all works fine if i log in as a different user.

So, anyone know what the problem could be, and/or is there away to completely wipe my desktop environment and rebuild it from scratch?

---

### Post by jaguar.lxxiv on 2011-03-11
If the settings work fine through other accounts, I would start looking around in your home directory. I'm not exactly sure where to look though. :)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-11
Please check what is stated in "CompizConfig Settings Manager -> Window Decoration -> Command". It should be:
```
/usr/bin/compiz-decorator
```
Also, the field "Decoration windows" should state "any".

---

