---
title: "10.04.2 install, gnome missing top menu bar?"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by danpaluska on 2011-04-29
just installed 10.04.2 on a slightly older compaq p3 desktop.
install went fine.
set to login automatically.

it boots into gnome but there is no top menu bar.

i can use alt-f1 to run an application

but how do i get to the preferences and administration menus?

thanks,
dan

i made a youtube video showing the error and i would include it but i think that's why my last post on this topic didn't make it through the spam filter.
if it's useful and there's a way to post it, let me know.

---

### Post by cantorman on 2011-04-29
I didn't see this until 11.04.  After upgrade and reboot, gnome-panel was not running.  Workaround:  I made a launcher on the desktop for gnome-terminal, launched gnome-terminal, and from there launched gnome-panel. Next I used System->Preferences-Startup Applications to add gnome-panel to the list of things that start up.

But this is all very wrong.  Still investigating, will report back.

my system is a dell 690 with amd64 processor for those who are keeping score.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-29
I guess, you are referring to this video:
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cknmOayGd20](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cknmOayGd20)

Judging from my recent experience, Youtube videos seem to be allowed generally.

So, your actual issue is that the panels are there, but set to autohide, and because Compiz interferes with the edges they simply don't recognize that your mouse pointer is at the edges, and don't come up. See here on how to workaround that:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10295087#post10295087](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10295087#post10295087)

After you have modified the settings, you can also just run "killall gnome-panel" in a terminal to make them reload.

Greetings.

---

### Post by danpaluska on 2011-04-29
ok.

so i open a terminal and ttry to run gnome-panel.
it tells me it's already running.
weird...
i type ps -A 
find out that gnome panel is pid 1105
kill -9 1105

and voila, the top and bottom menu bars show up.

and i went into startup preference and checked the box to remember currently running applications and...

what about reboot?

top and bottom bars are alive upon reboot. 
do i understand? not very often. but i'm happy with the result.

thanks!

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-29
*Was* the video yours? If yes, then what you did wouldn't change anything.

---

