---
title: "8.04 or 8.10"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jasonmichel on 2009-01-19
Just curious which one you all think is the better release. I've installed 8.10 and its buggy as hell, and the biggest issue is my sound won't work.  SO i am thinking of back reving to 8.04 and see if that will fix my sound issue, buddy has exact laptop and runs 8.04 fine.  Will i lose anything by doing so?  thanks

---

### Post by Montblanc_Kupo on 2009-01-19
8.04 seemed a lot more stable (go figure). I had trouble running certain things... flash & java sucked for me on 8.04 but seem to be working in 8.10.

So far I haven't seen anything in 8.10 that you couldn't do with 8.04 and since it's the LTS release... if you plan on sticking with an OS for a bazillion years... you'll have support for it for longer. Although, honestly, with all the buzz on jaunty... I'll probably early adopt that once it's a stable release.

I'd be surprised if changing from 8.10 to 8.04 fixed a hardware issue like a sound card... could give it a shot (pop in his live cd and see what happens?)... but it seems to me that there might be something else going on... either a problem on your hardware, or an install he's done you haven't.

Good luck.

---

### Post by jasonmichel on 2009-01-19
thanks for the info.  Yeah i've scoured board after board looking for a solution..i see alot have my issues but no fixes...damn hda_intel alsa driver...i am NOT a fan of pulse thus far

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-01-19
This far every single Ubuntu release has been both better and faster than previous ones for me.

Same applies in general, but there seems to always be some setups that have new problems with new releases. In that case it's of course OK to stay with the old version. Use what works best for you. But you still need to remember that sooner or later you'll have to upgrade.. ;)

The point of this post is that you shouldn't ask other people which version to run. In theory the latest version is always the best, but only you can know which version works best on *your* computer.

---

### Post by Chudilo on 2009-01-19
I had major problems after an update from 8.04 to 8.10.
Lost SB Audigy2 sound and webcam and Nvidia drivers.

After a fresh install of 8.10 got it all back faster and better then ever, including a number of fixes for other things.

---

### Post by Montblanc_Kupo on 2009-01-19
> **mcduck said:**
> The point of this post is that you shouldn't ask other people which version to run. In theory the latest version is always the best, but only you can know which version works best on *your* computer.

Well... he was asking for people opinions if he would lose anything by not upgrading to 8.10 to make that evaluation.

In theory maybe... ;)

---

### Post by sunny_nwho on 2009-01-19
I felt 8.10 faster than 8.04 but then 8.04 is an LTS so it must be more stable than the other releases. If you like to take a little risk then go with 8.10 and keep upgrading every 6 months. I do that. If you dont want to trouble yourself with major updates then stick to 8.04 and update every 6 months

---

### Post by SamNSane on 2009-01-20
Since it's a portable machine, and you might move around from network to network with it -- the network manager applet in 8.10 is VASTLY superior to the one in 8.04. I run 8.04, and I couldn't stand its network manager applet, so I replaced it with WICD.

On the other hand, I've seen a number of ultra-portable laptops with serious power management problems in 8.10 that work fine in 8.04. Judging from the almost total lack of response to posts I've made about it, here and elsewhere, I'd say that those power management issues are probably fringe issues. But if your system is affected like these Panasonics are, it makes 8.10 absolutely useless.

Sounds like you've run into some "disagreements" between 8.10 and your hardware. The only way to know for certain whether or not 8.04 will be better for you is to try it.

There's nothing functionally important missing in 8.04 that can't be compensated for in one way or another. It's a pretty good OS.

---

