---
title: "[14.04] keepassx auto-completion messed up with browsers"
date: 2014-06-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by juju43 on 2014-06-08
Hello,

I tried 14.04 on my netbook and keepassx auto-completion (as advanced feature: global shortcut) is not working and can usually mess up with the two browsers I tested (firefox and chromium). All keyboard input are garbled and I need to restart application to make it work again. Other like terminal does not seem affected. Alternative, no completion at all even if I added manually an Auto-Type-Window.
It was working like a breeze on 12.04

That's a strange bug. Anybody get it also? What could help to debug?

Thanks

(keepassx 0.4.3)

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2014-06-09
Interesting.  I need a fix for this too because it's doing the same thing with mine.

I have the same version too.

It used to work fine but then just started out of nowhere.

I'll be watching this topic for a fix.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2014-06-09
Here's something about autotype from their install notes page:

[http://keepass.info/help/v2/setup.html#mono](http://keepass.info/help/v2/setup.html#mono)

> [B]Global Auto-Type:
In order to use [global auto-type]("http://keepass.info/help/base/autotype.html#autoglobal"), you need to create an appropriate system-wide hot key. This only needs to be done manually once. KeePass performs global auto-type when it's invoked with the --auto-type [command line]("http://keepass.info/help/base/cmdline.html") option.[/B]

I never used a hotkey.  I wonder if that's why it messes up?  I'm going to starting now and see if it cures the problem.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2014-06-09
I wonder too if it has a bug that involves having a lot of passwords saved.  Maybe that's why it didnt happen before because I didnt have a lot saved?  So I deleted about 6 of them for sites I rarely use.  Lets see if that helps it.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2014-06-09
Well.........  I deleted some like I said and have been using ctrl+v but it's still doing it.  Must be a bug......  I wonder why it didnt do it at first.  Weird.

---

### Post by juju43 on 2014-06-11
Well, I don't think, it's password count related... have hundreds of them and it's working fine on precise/12.04. mess up on 14.04

Just to be sure, I'm speaking of keepassx, not keepass2 which is mono (and by the way, is not able to import/export kdb/v1 db outside of Windows it seems)
Ctrl+V works for me but is a bit less optimal than the global auto-type which was working before.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2014-06-11
Well..........


I decided to install keepass2 and import the passwords as an xml file.  It's a minor inconvenience to put in the settings again since it couldn't use the saved keepassX database but it's worth it for me. ....  at least this one works! :)

---

### Post by juju43 on 2014-08-06
For the archive, the problem is with ibus. disable it in preferences/input and it's ok as exposed here
still apply with current 14.04.1

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/449361/keybord-input-not-work-in-chromium-34-ubuntu-14-04-aura-260972-using-fcitx-wo](http://askubuntu.com/questions/449361/keybord-input-not-work-in-chromium-34-ubuntu-14-04-aura-260972-using-fcitx-wo)
[https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=360388](https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=360388)

---

