---
title: "Locales problem (scandic symbols issues)"
date: 2005-09-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by blueturtl on 2005-09-12
I originally installed Hoary like this:
I selected the English language version.
I set my Location Finland.
I selected the GMT+2h timezone.

After this all seems to be well except emails I send with characters such as Ä or Ö are displayed funny on the other end (also if replied to, I will get a garbled message back). When chatting online with XChat, others say typing Ä or Ö results in the same kind of garbled message on their end. I can view the umlauts just fine, ones I type, and ones they type.

Also sometimes in the console I would get a "locale en_FI not supported, try selecting another..."

I recently tried a sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales and set my default to en_US instead of en_US.UTF8. Now it seems my IRC and email are fixed but I've run into a new problem. When I create a file or a folder under Gnome their names are garbled in console mode!  ](*,) 

If I create a folder "äänimies" under Gnome in a terminal it's displayed something like "Ä#Ä#nimies". If on the other hand I use mkdir command to create the folder it's displayed fine under both Gnome and the terminal. What's this about and how can I fix it. I need a fully functional commandline!

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2005-09-12
I did additional testing: no other installed applications can correctly read file or directory names generated by Nautilus / Gnome when the name has umlauts in it.

How can I fix Gnome and Nautilus to generate filenames using the new default codepage?

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2005-09-12
Ok, I'll sum up what I've found out so far:

**UTF8 is the way to go - don't EVER change it for your local system!**

I've switched back to UTF8 (US English), this corrected all the problems I was having with filenames.

If the people you chat with or email with can't see UTF8 properly switch the client spesific settings to Western ISO-8859-1. Client spesific settings ONLY.

In X-Chat you can locate the setting under *X-Chat -> Server list -> My network -> Character set*

In Evolution the fix is to go to *Edit -> Preferences -> Composer Preferences -> Character set*

It's as simple as that.

---

### Post by Stramash on 2005-09-12
I have a similar problem mostly in IRC with XChat. And now that you mention it its Scandanavians that are causing it ;)

My system character set is UTF-8 (I'd like to know how to verify this) and my local is en_GB I think. In XChat the network is set to use system default. My font is Bitsream Vera of various kinds. A friend on Ubuntu using the same fonts CAN see these characters when I paste in the following, for example, but I cannot. Occasionally these characters appear on web pages as unicode boxes also. 

The following example contains six characters that appear to me as unicode boxes:

" Is Away &#149;&#151;[Reason|looking for my marbles...I lost em<&#149;>Gone At 20:07:03 <&#149;> Away Log Is Off]&#151;&#149; "

 ](*,)

---

### Post by Stramash on 2005-09-12
oh  :-? 

They appear on this page as a long dash "&#149;&#151;" and a bold decimal point - does that mean it is an XChat problem? They are still unicode boxes as I write the post after pasting them in.

*even more confuzled*

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2005-09-12
> I have a similar problem mostly in IRC with XChat. And now that you mention it its Scandanavians that are causing it

Well at least in my case, it was pretty obvious since the only things not displayed properly were ä ö and å. All the other symbols were fine even before.

> My system character set is UTF-8 (I'd like to know how to verify this) and my local is en_GB I think.

Type "set" in the terminal and hit enter. This will print a list of environment variables set by your configuration files. Look for the following:

LANG=en_US.UTF-8
LANGUAGE=en_US:en

This is what I have currently.

> Occasionally these characters appear on web pages as unicode boxes also.

This might actually be a problem on the part of the webmaster. Umlauts should rarely be used as such inside html or php. I prefer the use of acii characther codes to ensure they are properly displayed by all nationalities. For example this site maintains  a list of ascii codes: [http://www.web-source.net/symbols.htm](http://www.web-source.net/symbols.htm)

You should be able to change your encoding settings from both X-Chat and your browser. If you're currently using something other than UTF8 or Western ISO-8859-1 you might want to try one of the forementioned. Western ISO-8859-1 is very popular, but you shouldn't switch your local setting to this as it will cause problems with file management.

---

### Post by yrjo on 2005-09-12
[QUOTE=blueturtl]I originally installed Hoary like this:
I selected the English language version.
I set my Location Finland.
I selected the GMT+2h timezone.

After this all seems to be well except emails I send with characters such as Ä or Ö are displayed funny on the other end (also if replied to, I will get a garbled message back). When chatting online with XChat, others say typing Ä or Ö results in the same kind of garbled message on their end. I can view the umlauts just fine, ones I type, and ones they type.

Also sometimes in the console I would get a "locale en_FI not supported, try selecting another..."

I recently tried a sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales and set my default to en_US instead of en_US.UTF8. Now it seems my IRC and email are fixed but I've run into a new problem. When I create a file or a folder under Gnome their names are garbled in console mode!  ](*,) 

If I create a folder "äänimies" under Gnome in a terminal it's displayed something like "Ä#Ä#nimies". If on the other hand I use mkdir command to create the folder it's displayed fine under both Gnome and the terminal. What's this about and how can I fix it. I need a fully functional commandline![/QUOTE]
Hello!
You wrote I selected GMT +2 in timezone , you should have selected GMT +3 in Finland.
I have and scandis are working just fine. Now you can change it in Management(Ohjauskeskus).

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2005-09-14
> You wrote I selected GMT +2 in timezone , you should have selected GMT +3 in Finland.

Well the timezone is Europe/Helsinki anyway, so it should be correct. I just remembered this would equal GMT+2H... Anyway the timezone has nothing to do with some characters printing garbage.

Anyway I seem to have been able to fix all the localization related troubles except for this: XMMS does not display certain tags correctly. I think this might have to do with the applications support (or lack of) UTF8.

> And now that you mention it its Scandanavians that are causing it
  :grin:  Yeah those darn scandinavians.. they're behind this whole conspiracy!  :grin: 

p.s. No insult intended on the part of anyone's language skills. English isn't my native tongue either... Just thought this was funny.

---

### Post by Rounin on 2005-10-13
Unfortunately Scandinavia hasn't reached a consensus yet on what encoding to use... Since most Unicode users don't wish to revert to latin-1, that problem is probably going to persist until our two favorite apps, mIRC and Ex... You know, Microsoft's e-mail app.. Exchange? Switch to Unicode instead of using code pages.

Apps like X-Chat and Mozilla Thunderbird will actually let you select which encoding to use, though, and X-Chat will even try to convert incoming messages that are in the wrong encoding for you.

---

