---
title: ".xmodmap breaks unity?"
date: 2011-09-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by adambrault on 2011-09-04
After logging in, I would get the standard Unity interface and then 5 seconds later, it would pop the entire interface into a theme that looked like Windows 98, which I could not change in any preferences.

I messed around for about three hours trying to figure out why: I tried deleting all my .gnome (etc.) files, ran unity --reset and unity --reset-icons and so on, as various posts recommended.

Didn't matter: upon login, it would do the same thing, show the unity appearance and then, after a pause, BAM! Windows 98 look again.

I was about to give up, but I realized that I had made a custom .Xmodmap file to get "Lion scrolling" and to swap command and control keys.

When I removed that file, everything returned to normal.

Any idea as to why the following (which works to its aim) would nuke my theme?


**~/.Xmodmap contents:**

[FONT="Courier New"]pointer = 1 2 3 5 4 7 6 8 9 10 11 12

!
! xmodmap script to swap right control & right command key
!

! remove both keycodes (to which Control_L & Super_L is attached)
!     from previous modifier map
remove control   = Control_L
remove mod4      = Super_L Hyper_L

! swap keysyms
keysym Control_L = Super_L Hyper_L
keysym Super_L   = Control_L

! re-add both keycodes to respective modifier maps
add    control   = Control_L
add    mod4      = Super_L Hyper_L

! ***** end of source *****[/FONT]

---

### Post by aquaherd on 2011-09-05
Seems to be a known issue:
[#649809]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/649809")
In my Xmodmap, I had some accents redefined, so the content seems to be irrelevant.

---

