---
title: "10.04 missing panels"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by boost915 on 2010-05-02
I loaded 10.04 from the alternate cd. After booting there are no panels.

I CAN create the panels with the following commands.

    gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel
    rm -rf ~/.gconf/apps/panel
    pkill gnome-panel

However, after the next reboot, the panels are missing again.

Also, I get the following two error messages while booting:
    error: no suitable mode found.
    error: unknown command 'terminal'.

Any ideas?

Thanks.

---

### Post by ImmigrantUS on 2010-05-03
Make it 2 affected!

 I have the same problem on one of PC. Downloaded Ubuntu 10.4, checked md5sum and SHA256 hashes - OK, burned CD and first clean installed it on my main PC (AMD 1.8 GHz Burton, 3GB DDR, 120 GB HD) - all fine, now tweaking it. 
Chose New Wave theme and Cosmos background on both.
 On Compaq 5000 (Celeron 1.2 GHz, 512 MB SDRAM, 80 GB HD) - exactly the same problem, as OP has - same two error messages on boot, no panels after boot... Althou, reinstall gave me one(!) instance of panel appearance, then again they were gone. 
 If I right click on desktop and start changing themes, first bottom panel appears, and only on High Contrast Inverse top panel appears too. On reboot they are gone again...

 So, please help us fix this bug(?)!!! What to do? Who's fault is it? :confused:

---

### Post by brandonsexton on 2010-05-03
Getting same error on Dell X300

error: no suitable mode found.
    error: unknown command 'terminal'

9.04 worked w/ no problem

---

### Post by toolfan2k4 on 2010-06-15
Yet another with this issue....any fix coming...do we even have a clue as to the cause?

---

### Post by Johan_D on 2010-07-15
>Boost915 (May 2nd, 2010)
 >I loaded 10.04 from the alternate cd. After booting there are no panels.

 >ImmigrantUS (May 3rd, 2010 )
 >no panels after boot... Although, reinstall gave me one(!) instance of panel appearance, then again they were gone. 
>If I right click on desktop and start changing themes, first bottom panel appears, and only on High Contrast Inverse top panel appears too. On reboot they are gone again...
 
>brandonsexton (May 3rd, 2010)
 >error: no suitable mode found.
>error: unknown command 'terminal'
 
>toolfan2k4 (4 Weeks Ago)
 >Yet another with this issue....any fix coming...do we even have a clue as to the cause?
 

     [COLOR=#800000]*_**I have exactly the same problems as the above four users**_**:***[/COLOR]

(1)  Installed ubuntu-10.04-alternate-i386.iso from a verified CD (on Dell Optiplex GX150, 512 MB RAM, 20 GB PATA).       
  
(2)  At the beginning of boot, the following annoying two lines show (white text on black background):     
error: no suitable mode found.
error: unknown command 'terminal'     

(3)  Then GNOME desktop appears – but with no panels whatsoever.

(4)  If one changes desktop theme to anything *other than* the two “High Contrast” ones, the bottom panel appears *but not the top one*.  Reboot nixes even that.

(5)  However, changing the desktop theme to either of the two “Hight Contrast” ones makes *both* panels appear – top *and* bottom. But then changing this to any *non*-”High Contrast” theme kills the top panel. But again, in either case, reboot nixes everything.     


     Before anyone actually _solves_ this bug, here is a *_**temporary**_*“workaround” that worked for me:[B]

(a)[/B]  boot, thus getting into a panel-less GNOME screen (default is the Ambiance theme);[B]

(b)[/B]  change theme to “High Contrast”, so *both* panels now show, the top and the bottom ones;[B]

(c)[/B]  right-click on the top panel, select “Properties”, and change “Orientation” from “Top” to “Bottom”, thus causing *both* panels to be now at the     bottom, stacked one on top of the other;[B]

(d)[/B]  now change theme from “High Contrast” to anything, say to “Ambiance”:  you will see that *both panels remain, both at the bottom, one on top of the other*;[B]

(e)[/B] then right-click on the panel that is supposed to go to the top, select “Properties”, and change “Orientation” from “Bottom” to “Top”.

That gives a nice workable desktop.

The problem is: [B]reboot nixes all this! 

[/B]So, until someone cracks this bug, one is cursed to go through the above steps **(a)** through **(e)** after every boot...

---

### Post by doublewitt on 2010-07-20
You can try this option for the panels, download this nice little application that either restores your default panels (top and bottom) or restores saved panels that you personally customized. You might have to re-boot your computer to see the results.

The application is called **PanelRestore**
[http://www.starryhope.com/linux/ubuntu/2010/restore-the-default-panels-in-ubuntu/](http://www.starryhope.com/linux/ubuntu/2010/restore-the-default-panels-in-ubuntu/)

It's tiny (787 bytes). Simply follow the instructions on the webpage - it's easy to use...

---

### Post by tj_lynch@pacbell.net on 2010-07-24
Try this which worked for me:
Following the information here [http://www.techimo.com/forum/technical-support/249501-ubuntu-10-04-disappering-panels.html](http://www.techimo.com/forum/technical-support/249501-ubuntu-10-04-disappering-panels.html)

After reboot and restoring the panels using gnome-terminal with this command set:
gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel;rm -rf $HOME/.gconf/apps/panel;pkill gnome-pane
 

Saved running applications - System, Preferences, Startup  Applications, Options, check- Automatically remember my running  applications.
 After both warm and cold reboot, the panels now appear.


This does not impact error messages on bootup, but I can live with those since the desktop includes panels and I am functioning.
Good Luck.

---

### Post by stefanus2 on 2010-08-09
Thanks so much for the solution to my 'No panels' problem with a new Unbuntu 10.04 installation. It worked great!

---

### Post by Noisehag on 2010-08-19
@tj_lynch - That did it, thank you so much for the solution!

---

