---
title: "can't see whole screen"
date: 2011-04-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by eeedddggg on 2011-04-21
Ok, so I'm using ubuntu10.10 and playing with the appearance (compiz cube), everything was going good but then I went to customize my theme and change the font type and size ]](*,), when i changed the size the whole window got bigger and when i go to appearance I can only see the top left part of the window and on my desktop i dont have the application, system menu. I'm a newbbie (installed and used ubuntu for the first time last week), I really like linux so could anyone help me. Thanks.

---

### Post by poodoopealeoaph on 2011-04-21
changing the fonts shouldn't mess with anything but compiz may be giving you problems. You should try to run (in terminal)```
sudo apt-get install compiz-settings-manager
```. then go to system, preferences and select the compiz settings manager... that is after the manager has installed fully in terminal. After you open it though, you should go to preferences on the bottom left. After that, where it says profile, select import. Then pick default.

---

### Post by matstevens on 2011-04-21
So i think I may have the same or similar problem. I installed Ubuntu through windows on my work machine(Core2 1.9, intel gma965, 2gb rammies). I have a 20" LG LCD monitor with a native res of 1600x900 (win runs at this res). 

Now for the fail part. Ubuntu can't reach my native display resolution. Ubuntu didn't have built in drivers for my chipset so I start searching the interwebs. Turns out a few folks have this issue and they recommended I download some intel stuff though the terminal and also there was some editing of the xorg.conf file (which didn't exist... yet).Much ado about nothing and I give up (everything is effed up now btw display wise). So today I find an old 6200le in my parts box and install it in my work machine, thinking that the nvidia drivers will give me a little more control and I know they are available.

I re-install ubuntu (no biggie as the display issue slowed my set up plans), download nvidia drivers only to find the same resolution settings if a couple extra options in between. I used the advanced tab to specify a res of 1600x900 and it obliged. BUT it gives me an extended desktop thing. With that resolution I have to use my mouse to move my display area around to get from top to bottom and left to right. This is annoying as I would like the 1600 rendered pixels to match up with the 1600 monitor pixels.

Some more googling and I'm not sure more pointing to the xorg.conf now in /etc/x11/ as opposed to the one I first read  about in /var/log/ that i created the first time. I read on a few other posts that this could be caused by dpi settings. In the nvidia X server settings I see that under X Screen settings is set to 75 x 75 dpi. Surely this should be 96dpi and where in this unholy operating system do I find the settings to change that?

Xorg.conf in /etx/x11/:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Oct  4 16:01:38 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"   (i entered these details myself, no auto detect)
    VendorName     "LG"
    ModelName      "CW2043s"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6200 TurboCache(TM)"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select @1600x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

I really would like to  use ubuntu at work but this is kak. With drama like this linux is never going to catch on with end users. Please, please if anyone has experience with this issue please let us (guy above included) know;-)

Matt

---

### Post by eeedddggg on 2011-04-21
Well I dowloaded the  compiz settings manager last week, the problem is that I cant see the full screen, on the top I can only see the turnoff button, chat, volume and a really big button that takes all the other space from the top to open the calendar, I can't open system since i can't see it. It was working fine until I changed the font size to 15....Can I change the font size from the terminal? this is how it looks. [http://www.flickr.com/photos/edgarace/5640902231/](http://www.flickr.com/photos/edgarace/5640902231/)

---

