---
title: "8.10 Kde Menu Editor issues"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by at165db on 2008-11-07
Short q:
Where are the KDE menu settings stored, and can I edit them without the KDE Menu Editor (i.e. simple hex or a text file).

Long version:

So I was trying to create a new Menu item, and I've run into two issues.  Isuse one, if you copy an existing menu item, and paste it withou a subgroup selected, it "disappears" to the .hidden menu folder.  If you click on settings->Configure KDE Menu Editor->Misc->Show hidden entries, you can now see the missing pasted menu item.

Try to delete it.  It looks like it worked.  Now save and exit.  You'll notice that the KDE start button's search still finds it.  You'll notice that if you re-open KDE Menu Editor, you'll see the link in the .hidden folder again.

Is there a file I could tinker with (after creating a backup) that contains all these menu items?  I'd like to clean out the hidden folder as I've screwed myself up I think.

I wanted to launch Dolphin with some non-standard arguments.  I created a menu item that was a copy of Dolphin, renamed it, and change the arguments.  Saved and exit the menu editor.  Now, I have two menu items, both matching the Dolphin settings I want.  My favorites link still works too.

However, if I click the quick access folder pointed at ~ (which is created by default) then go all the way to the top and click open, THAT launches my non standard Dolphin.

I've tried everything I can think of, drastically different names and descriptoins, different menu folders.  Nothing seems to work...

---

