---
title: "7.10 issues"
date: 2007-10-31
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by hollowhead on 2007-10-31
I've upgraded to 7.10 and most things are improved and work well.  However, there are some annoyances.  I don't know whether anyone has any solutions.  I've posted then together since they are minor and to be more efficient.

The first is that gnumeric is very unhappy with desktop effects being on at all.  It occupies the entire screen losing its window borders and to switch desktops or get to the menu system you have to exit it.  It also flickers like made whenever you do almost anything within it.  This is pity since I like gnumeric and I like the desktop effects and all the other software seem happy with it.  More generally if you if click on preferences or help within it it crashes out (neither to do with effects).

Second, there are two batteries according the gnome panel charge indicators when I have one one in my laptop,  the second is at 0% permanently.

Third, and only users of qtiplot will understand this, since I have upgraded most of the windows have disappeared off screen in this app (mostly graph windows).  You need to cascade to get them on screen again stepping through them using F5/F6 doesn't work.  This must some change in the Qt lib? since feisty. 

Last, for information only (since I will switch to the xscreesavers), the gnome screensavers don't work all you get is blank screen and the timing is not correct the screen blanks after the time that is set!

---

### Post by vussvillem on 2008-03-31
If anyone else is looking solution for the problem of Gnumeric shutting down when choosingFile->Preferences, you should install gnumeric's gnome version (Use synaptic and install gnumeric package, it will deinstall gnumeric-gtk package) and not the gnumeric-gtk.

In terminal it's:

sudo apt-get install gnumeric
 
Additional information:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=601764&highlight=gnumeric+preferences&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=601764&highlight=gnumeric+preferences&page=3)

---

