---
title: "9.04 Login then blank screen - dead in the water."
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gkinney3203 on 2009-04-27
Guys I was trying to get video playback to not be jerky. So I turned off the advanced graphics and the ATI driver on my HP Pavillion dv7 laptop. I then reduced the screen graphics from the 1440X... to 1024X768 as a test. I lost video and rebooted.

Now I get the login as you expect, and after password, I get a pale brown screen and nothing else. I do have mouse movement but that is all. 

Since then, I have re-installed the desktop, and reconfigured xorg. Even rolled back to an earlier xorg to no avail.

Im on the verge of installing again, but really dont want to do that...

When I do a ALT F8, the last line reads;

"Starting TiMidity++ ALSA midi emulation...         [OK]

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by gkinney3203 on 2009-04-27
I hear allot of complaints on here of Jaunty, so I am backing up my files to a HDD and will be prepared to roll back to 8.10 :-(

---

### Post by alvanne on 2009-04-27
> **gkinney3203 said:**
> I hear allot of complaints on here of Jaunty, so I am backing up my files to a HDD and will be prepared to roll back to 8.10 :-(

just upgraded to 9.04 and poooof a blank screen... what could be the problem? can somebody help...

---

### Post by skwerl530 on 2009-04-27
> **alvanne said:**
> just upgraded to 9.04 and poooof a blank screen... what could be the problem? can somebody help...


Drop into a terminal with ctrl + alt + F2.  Kill gdm with "sudo killall gdm".  Restart gdm with "sudo gdm".  See if that gets you into X.  If it does then disable your desktop effects and reboot.

---

### Post by gkinney3203 on 2009-04-27
I finally re-installed Jaunty. It gave me the chance to partition my setup better, guess I learned my lesson not to play with the graphics.

Thanks for the suggestion though.

---

### Post by Phaldor on 2009-05-05
Ok, got the same problem, followed the killall and restart gdm, now instead of the fancy wallpaper, I'm getting the plain old tan colored screen with a mouse cursor and that's it.  Seems to me that this happened before when I upgraded to 8.10, but I can't remember what I did to fix it.....reinstall gdm?

I don't want to wipe and reload, this is a web server with lots of vital info, besides, I just did that because of a hard disk failure a couple of months ago and don't have the time now.  Any ideas?

1st Edit:  Found this thread:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1116636](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1116636)  when I followed what it said to do, I got an error on the remove step, turns out that the install hadn't completed and it suggested to run sudo dpkg --configure -a.  I watched as it continued to setup the update...will post when it finishes.

2nd Edit:  NOTE:  better to killall gdm before running the dpkg configure command, as if you run into this "stuck install", it's likely going to update the gdm and require a restart anyway.  Once the command ran to completion, I did the killall and restarted gdm, logged in, and viola, I had a desktop with icons.  One more restart and I was in business again.

Since I have no idea if the hardware had anything to do  with it, I'll post it here anyway to help keyword this fix.

HP X4000 dual 2.0GHz CPU
2.5GB RAM
NVidia Quadro graphics card
70GB SCSI boot drive
200GB IDE drive
250GB IDE drive
DVD/CD-RW IDE drive
DSL Broadband through QWest (Actiontec M1000 modem in bridged mode)

Server runs MySQL, Apache, Bind, SSH

and a partridge in a pear tree......

---

### Post by danielwsmithee on 2009-05-13
Hmm this happened to me too.  When I was performing the dist upgrade my screen went blank so I had no way of knowing when the install was complete.  I waited an hour until I could tell the hard drive stopped thrashing. I dropped into terminal checked that the processes were not running and forced a reboot.  My guess is it was stuck on a prompt to ask me to replace my configuration file and the install didn't complete.

I running the dpkg --configure -a now hopefully that will solve my problem.

Edit: That worked!

---

