---
title: "12.10 VirtualBox-related error Back from the dead NS_ERROR_FAILURE 0x80004005"
date: 2013-07-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Overboard on 2013-07-05
Some of you may be well aware that this issue was supposedly resolved some time ago in this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1198060](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1198060)

What is it? As you can see from the link above, my kernel headers are supposedly mis-labelled. I've tried almost everything on the thread.


1) I reinstalled virtualbox
2) I installed dkms 
3) I deleted 'Virtualbox.xml' and replaced it with what was Virtualbox.xml-prev
4) I've *tried* to run '/etc/init.d/vboxdrv setup' and that's where i run into problems

Here's the log


*@Unicorn-V5:~$ sudo apt-get install dkms
[sudo] password for *: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
dkms is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libasprintf0c2:i386 libcroco3:i386 libgettextpo0:i386 libgomp1:i386
  libunistring0:i386
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 405 not upgraded.
*@Unicorn-V5:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/vboxdrv setup
 * Stopping VirtualBox kernel modules                                    [ OK ] 
 * Uninstalling old VirtualBox DKMS kernel modules                       [ OK ] 
 * Trying to register the VirtualBox kernel modules using DKMS                  Error! Your kernel headers for kernel 3.5.0-17-generic cannot be found.
Please install the linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic package,
or use the --kernelsourcedir option to tell DKMS where it's located


 * Failed, trying without DKMS
 * Recompiling VirtualBox kernel modules                                        
 * Look at /var/log/vbox-install.log to find out what went wrong

what's going on here?


A couple of things to note:
The VM was exported from my windows 8 partition.
I installed the 12.04 version of Virtualbox, not having known that my significant other had updated our system to 12.10 without my knowledge. I am a total newb to unix/linux/ubuntu and instead of uninstalling (a huge adventure for a newb like me), I chose to just download the correct version install the "upgrades," as the ubuntu software center called them, then i clicked the same button again (now labelled "reinstall") just to be safe.

---

