---
title: "10.04 missing status bar; what to install to get it back."
date: 2011-03-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-03-08
I'm running 10.04 on a Acer Aspire One 110 (version with 8GB SSD). This was an upgrade from 9.04 via 9.10.

It kept popping up messages about low diskspace so I removed evolution and anything related. That was a bit too much as I'm now missing the top bar with the Ubuntu logo (left; to show the desktop) and the applet area (right) with the icons for wireless, date/time and the icon for shutdown/restart etc..

A bit of a mess because I can not see if if the wireless is connected or not.

What do I need to install to get it back. Problem is that I don't even know what that bar officially is called, so can't even search for it in the package manager.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-03-08
OK,

found it; it's called '*gnome-panel*'

Installed it (and it indeed has a dependency with some evolution stuff). 14MByte wasted on just a panel :(

Only a problem with the fastuserswitcher so still no easy access to shutdown; must get exact error message and see what I can find on the web.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-03-09
This was the error
> 
The panel encountered a problem while loading "OAFIIF:GNOME_FastUserSwitchApplet"
Do you want to delete the applet fromthe configuartion.

Options: "Don't delete" AND "Delete"

Tried to install it from package manager and it throws an error about unmet dependencies.

Some research on the web brought me to [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1365262) and I installed the *indicator-applet-session*, rebooted and the problem was solved.

Jippie

---

