---
title: "12.04 /w Cinnamon, errors after update"
date: 2013-04-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Slimmons on 2013-04-10
Hi, I'm having a confusing problem.  I'm fairly new to the *nix environment, so It might not be confusing at all, but it is to me.  I'm running Ubuntu 12.04 on my desktop.  I installed Cinnamon, and have been using that.  I ran some updates from Ubuntu, and now when I restart my computer, no x interface starts.  It just comes to a terminal screen.  When I type startx after logging in, it shows my background picture, and that's it.  No bar, no desktop icons, nothing.  I can hit ctrl+alt+t, and get a terminal, and I type cinnamon --replace (because I found that command to start cinnamon) and it starts my environment back up, but still with no desktop, it just starts the bar at the bottom.  I can make my desktop environment show up, by navigating to the desktop folder in nautilus.  If I run cinnamon --replace without an &, and close the terminal, the entire computer freezes, it's really odd.  Any ideas would be greatly appreciated.  The only thing i could think of is the possibility that a new kernel update is incompatable with cinnamon maybe?  That's a random guess since i'm kind of a noob here, but If that's the case, is there a way to change back to unity to see if it works (via the terminal, since if i logout now, it just goes to the terminal, I can't choose which DE i want to use).  Thanks,

---

### Post by Slimmons on 2013-04-12
Just as an update, I'm still having the same problem.  Every few times my system will come up normally, but I have found a small workaround.  After logging in, I startx, and then start unity (starting cinnamon doesn't work now).  Unity runs fine though after that.  Any ideas?

---

