---
title: "Nvidia resolution resets everytime I log off"
date: 2009-08-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by grandpa2390 on 2009-08-22
I have searched dilligently on this topic and I can't find a solution so here I am. I open the nvidia x server settings and change the resolution, when I log off and log back on or shutdown and reboot the resolution will not return to the 1028x768 that I had set it to. I have tried saving it to the xorg.conf, I have tried doing that as root. I have tried editing xorg.conf. nothing has worked. please help will try anything.

i am using ubuntu with kde on it but not kubuntu. I still have gnome installed if necessary to use.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL  M991"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 96.0
    VertRefresh     85.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9500 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1024x768_85_0 +0+0; 1024x768_85 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
Viewport 0 0
	Depth 24
	Modes "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" 	"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	Virtual 1440 900
EndSubSection

    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2009-08-22
Terminal- sudo nvidia-settings

That ought to fix it :D

Edit- change your resolution, etc, 'apply' then 'save to x'.

---

### Post by magicmax0 on 2009-08-22
I have a 1920x1200 res Samsung with a 98GTX Nvidia card(proprietary driver on), using the Gnome environment of Jaunty. It defaults to the max resolution, but if changed it sticks after a restart. You can try that on your setup, use Gnome with proprietary driver.

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2009-08-22
I've had the same problem too and using sudo nvidia-settings did NOT help. Can someone please help me ?

---

### Post by grandpa2390 on 2009-08-23
I've tried that already. everytime I log off whether it be logging off, or shutting down or restarting, the resolution resets to that default.

---

### Post by jtappin on 2009-08-24
I had a similar sort of issue when I switched to a new monitor. In that case it turned out that I had the preferred resolution set in my personal configurations as well as in xorg.conf.

On KDE what I had to do (after setting the resolution system-wide) was go to the system settings and change screen resolution as me rather than as root. I don't know how you do that in Gnome but I guess there is something similar.

---

### Post by grandpa2390 on 2009-08-24
i'm using kde, how do you do that, because my preferences are for 1024x768 but when i hit apply it screws my screen up again and that's the highest available resolution in preferences

---

### Post by grandpa2390 on 2009-08-24
i don't know what happened but, while trying to get sound working, i put myself in every group restarted and it began working.

---

### Post by [CS]LaBrute on 2010-05-27
Did anyone find a solution and can explain it in understandable terms? :D

I'm using Gnome and I installed Ubuntu for it's simplicity ... I'm tired of viruses and spyware and I also am tired of digging for days over the internet to get a solution for a common sense setting (e.g. slackware).

So ... here is the complete information:

- Ubuntu 9.10
- Gnome
- After the installation graphics worked OK
- Updated the "Ubuntu supplied" NVIDIA driver to version 185
- X stopped functioning, max accepted resolution was poor (800x600) while de display accepts 1680x1050
- reversed to NVIDIA driver 173 (currently installed)
- resolution problem was fixed -> new problem occurred: after every log out the resolution defaults to something la 1440x900
- I can set it back after log in to the native resolution
- YES ... after setting it to the native resolution I have tried to save the configuration to xorg.conf (naturally it was done while nvidia-settings was started with sudo - and attempted as root also - because the regular user does not have permissions in /etc/X11 folder)
- the nvidia generated xorg.conf contains the native resolution, but still after each re-login it default to a non-native resolution.

---

### Post by tuffstuff on 2010-06-02
Yes, this is a very common problem in 10.4. I've come across numerous posts about this issue. No, writing the xorg file from the proprietary x servers settings tool does not fix the issue.

Its weird because even though the xorg.conf file reads the proper settings, after login, it seems to default to some odd resolution. 

Does you login screen show a different resolution then your desktop after login? This is another common symptom. I wonder if there is some gnome setting that resets the resolution when after a user logs in.

I am new to gnome, I KDE3 user and have made the switch because I'm not impressed with KDE4 so if anyone knows how to change user preferences for resolution at startup thats where I want to take this problem next.

---

### Post by tuffstuff on 2010-06-02
OK [CS] I fixed the problem on my system by disabling the "nvidia x sever settings" in System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications.

I don't think this will disable the driver. Just the driver app at startup. I think that ubuntu will use the settings in xorg.conf, which you would have setup already by saving the correct settings in xorg via the app or manually. 

I hope this helps!

---

### Post by tuffstuff on 2010-06-02
Re: Nvidia resolution resets everytime I log off
OK [CS] I fixed the problem on my system by disabling the "nvidia x sever settings" in System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications.

I don't think this will disable the driver. Just the driver app at startup. I think that ubuntu will use the settings in xorg.conf, which you would have setup already by saving the correct settings in xorg via the app or manually.

I hope this helps!

---

### Post by Pedram Veisi on 2010-08-16
I had the same problem but setting correct resolution in gnome Monitors solved it.Open monitors in Preferences menu and answer no to the question.Now set your resolution and save changes.

Hope it will help.

---

### Post by andrewdegenhardt on 2010-10-14
sudo nvidia-settings worked for me.

but I had to first do: sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings

:KS

---

### Post by uhhman on 2010-12-26
I have the exact same problem..including the symptom of having the right resolution at password page but not once at the desktop!
I tried all prosed solution without success :(

any suggestion on how to fix this? cannot believe I have to set resolution every ubuntu startup!

i have an nvidia geforce4 440go 64m and ubuntu 10.10 64bit edition
nvidia driver version 96.43.19

help please..i am getting desperate!

THX
[IMG]file:///tmp/moz-screenshot.png[/IMG][IMG]file:///tmp/moz-screenshot-1.png[/IMG][IMG]file:///tmp/moz-screenshot-2.png[/IMG]

---

