---
title: "10.04 infinite disk check"
date: 2010-04-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kylegio on 2010-04-19
Started about a week ago and havnt had time to deal with it until now, disk check on startup... just keeps going and going and going... it finishes the first 50 times or so really quickly (seconds) then after that it slows down... every time it reaches 100% it restarts and goes a little slower. 

sometimes it doesnt reach 100% it flashes something for a fraction of a second which i cant read then starts again its been doing this for about 6 hours straight now. it says "Press C to cancel all checks currently in progress" which is a lie :P C doesnt do anything.


any thoughts i would really like to get my computer working again


edit: if i click escape i go to a terminal style screen and its just a list of text moving so fast its impossible to read, i can get a few words one line ends with "linked list found."
another with "check forced" and one that says "/dev/sda1 unexpected inconsistency run fsck manually"


looks like its stuck in a loop between telling me to run it manually and forcing it to run, is there a way to FORCE it to just ignore the filesystem check and i will do it manually

---

### Post by bloodriver on 2010-04-20
Had the same problem.  Was stuck in a loop @ 10%.  Had to hold the 'c' button down to get to the terminal prompt.  Then 'fsck' at prompt and answer 'y' or yes to fixes.  Also read in another form (can't find again) that one can use an Ubuntu Live CD or G Parted Live CD and use it/them to fix your file-system.

The cause is an unexpected or improper shut down.

---

### Post by mfnano on 2010-04-20
> **bloodriver said:**
> Had the same problem.  Was stuck in a loop @ 10%.  Had to hold the 'c' button down to get to the terminal prompt.  Then 'fsck' at prompt and answer 'y' or yes to fixes.  Also read in another form (can't find again) that one can use an Ubuntu Live CD or G Parted Live CD and use it/them to fix your file-system.

The cause is an unexpected or improper shut down.

Me too, I reinstalled it twice because of this error, and I have no intention to do it again if this continue!!

any solution pls

---

### Post by mfnano on 2010-04-20
I found it, just boot on the Ubuntu live cd, change to root

> sudo -s

then run

> fsck /dev/sdaX

---

### Post by Juvencio on 2011-02-06
this worked for me for my 10.04 disk check problem.
Ubuntu some how loses sum files this causes the loop disk check.

Note you internet connection must be on as you will be needing it.

Step 1:
To get the boot menu to show, you have to hold down the Shift key during boot-up.
(from when you hit the power button)

Step 2:
select the recovery mode.

Step 3:
do an automatic repair.

Step 4:
repair all broken packages.

Step 5:
log in with you user name and password
(note you will be in terminal mode)

step 6:
just type $ sudo reboot
(it will reboot the system)

just note that all your customised setting will reset  ( packages only)
AWN will reset
your panels will reset

but you system settings will be the same.

Hope this will help somebody sum day.

---

