---
title: "11.04 - quick route to Gnome 2?"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tpprynn on 2011-04-29
Next Wednesday is when I'll have my opportunity to install Ubuntu 11.04. I'll have a quick play with Unity from the live CD but until Gnome 2's dead and buried I'm sticking with it. So, as it seems many people are having their desktop and installation go awry I thought I'd like to be clued up from the start - what's the quick and safe way to having Ubuntu 11.04 with the old desktop style and preferably getting rid of any other options or any room for getting things messed up? Is Gnome 2 already available or does it need to be installed from Synaptic?

(There was a time when I hated Gnome, it was too 'plain' and 'dated', but I became bogged down in glassy borders and other tricksy stuff, and there was always something buggy or unfinished about more modern looks, somewhere in the theme, and I've now got adjusted to the plainness, like someone learning the taste of tea having gotten rid of sugar. I had a fiddle with Gnome 3 too but after a while it just wasn't of interest, the novelty of the appearance wore off and I wanted my panel and desktop icons back.)

So basically I'm saying, imagine I've installed and rebooted without the Cd in the drive - what should I do now to get back to Gnome 2 looks without botching the installation?

Thanks.

---

### Post by scooby359 on 2011-04-29
After installing, at the log in screen (log out first if needed), at the bottom, change the interface option to Ubuntu Classic then log back in.

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2011-04-29
After it's installed, you will have the ability to choose gnome as the desktop environmental. There is a menu option at the bottom of the login screen that will give you this option. You may have to hit enter before entering your password to see this menu.

---

