---
title: "LTS 10.04: HELP...how can I switch back to GNOME from KDE black screen?"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by project4 on 2010-05-04
Hi,

Please need your help..

I was running Ubuntu 10.04, everything normal, using the GNOME desktop... then I wanted to change my login screen... I went into the login screen settings and saw an option "login into KDE environment"... the other options were "login to GNOME environment" and two other safe mode options...

I chose the KDE option... restarted and then I get this:
- ubuntu login screen
- black screen
- nice blueish screen with at the centre the icon of a hard drive, settings... a globe and a desktop... and then..... black screen...

- then a pop up of a bug reporting assistant stating "knotify application closed unexpectedly", details: Executable: knotify4 PID: 2564 signal 11 (segmentation fault)...it gives me the option to report the bug... i tried to do this.. but i am not connected to the internet...or KDE is not connecting.... I closed the bug assistant pop up... and am left with a black screen with mouse pointer...

- all that works is alt-F2,,, but I do not know what to do there... I tried running "gnome-terminal" which does run... but again have no good knowledge of linux commands...

All I want to do now... is go back to my familiair Gnome desktop...

Please please help...

Thanks!

---

### Post by project4 on 2010-05-04
I got back into GNOME...

used the alt-F2... typed in log.. and it gave me the login screen settings application.... 

wont be trying KDE for now... because I do not know what the problem was... shame because I wanted to try it out...

---

### Post by Untitled_No4 on 2010-05-04
It seems like not all components of KDE are installed on your system. In terminal try to install kubuntu-desktop and see if it's already installed. If not, install it (if you still want to try KDE, that is) and if it's already installed try to reinstall it.

Best is to install it using aptitude since it means that removing it later (if find yourself wanting to do so) will remove all dependencies as well. The command is```
sudo aptitude install kubuntu-desktop
``` to install or ```
sudo aptitude reinstall kubuntu-desktop
``` to reinstall (obviously...)

---

### Post by Zorael on 2010-05-06
> **Untitled_No4 said:**
> It seems like not all components of KDE are installed on your system. In terminal try to install kubuntu-desktop and see if it's already installed. If not, install it (if you still want to try KDE, that is) and if it's already installed try to reinstall it.
Likely this is what happened. There have been several other threads where the solution has shown to be to install **plasma-desktop**. I'm not sure how you installed KDE onto your existing installation, but it's likely incomplete.

---

