---
title: ".gvfs error while accessing home directory"
date: 2012-01-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nethero on 2012-01-16
I installed Xubuntu 11.10 but I keep on getting this annoying bug.  Whenever I try to access the home folder I get a popup that says...
```

Failed to open directory "nethero"

Error starting file '/home/nethero/.gvfs
Transport endpoint is not connected
```

I can solve this by using umount to unmount .gvfs but the bug keeps coming back.  I access my home folder all the time.  Is there a permanent fix for this?

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-01-17
My .gvfs is empty.  What do you have in yours?  Try renaming .gvfs and see if the folder will regenerate.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2012-01-17
I do not know the answer to the original problem but I would not rename ".gvfs". It's where the system mounts remote shares ( Samba, ftp, ssh, etc ... )

---

### Post by dentaku65 on 2012-01-18
> **Morbius1 said:**
> I do not know the answer to the original problem but I would not rename ".gvfs". It's where the system mounts remote shares ( Samba, ftp, ssh, etc ... )

Can you show your fstab?
```
cat /etc/fstab
```
Just as consideration: it is probably wrong to have mount point under your home dir.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2012-01-18
> **dentaku65 said:**
> Can you show your fstab?
```
cat /etc/fstab
```Just as consideration: it is probably wrong to have mount point under your home dir.
If that question was directed to me the system does not place the mount instructions in fstab for remote shares.

When you use "Network" or "Connect to Server" the system creates the mount point in the user's home directory within the .gvfs subdirectory automatically.

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-01-18
> **Morbius1 said:**
> When you use "Network" or "Connect to Server" the system creates the mount point in the user's home directory within the .gvfs subdirectory automatically.

so it will regenerate

---

### Post by dentaku65 on 2012-01-18
> **Morbius1 said:**
> If that question was directed to me the system does not place the mount instructions in fstab for remote shares.

When you use "Network" or "Connect to Server" the system creates the mount point in the user's home directory within the .gvfs subdirectory automatically.

Ok. Can you post the output of:
```
ls -alirt ~/.gvfs
```
Or just recreate .gvfs 
```
mv ~/.gvfs ~/.gvfs.original
```
Then connect your remote resources

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2012-01-18
@nethero, 

It appears that you are the victim of an almost 4 year old bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/212789](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/212789)

You will note that there was an additional comment on that just 3 weeks ago. The workaround as noted in that bug report is to do exactly what you have been doing and that is to unmount the .gvfs folder. I have never experienced this myself and it's not even clear to me from your particular description that there is anything to unmount yet the unmount does resolve it - at least for the moment.

---

### Post by nethero on 2012-01-18
> **Morbius1 said:**
> @nethero, 

It appears that you are the victim of an almost 4 year old bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/212789](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/212789)

You will note that there was an additional comment on that just 3 weeks ago. The workaround as noted in that bug report is to do exactly what you have been doing and that is to unmount the .gvfs folder. I have never experienced this myself and it's not even clear to me from your particular description that there is anything to unmount yet the unmount does resolve it - at least for the moment.

Ah. Thank you.  I did umount it a couple of times but it kept coming back when I rebooted.  I read that it was related to encrypting the home folder so I reinstalled but I did not choose the option to encrypt the home folder.  So far no error message.  I will mark the thread solved even though this bug still exists.

---

### Post by Bluenoser81 on 2012-05-22
Bug still exists in Xubuntu 12.04. Using Thunar will result (sometimes) in not being able to see any of the files in your home directory due to the error in reading the hidden .gvfs folder. The workaround to quickly fix this temporarily (4+ years old bug), is to use: 

```
sudo umount ~/.gvfs 
```

Using this command from a terminal will enable you to browse your home directory again using Thunar.

---

### Post by 2d2f on 2012-11-12
> **Bluenoser81 said:**
> Bug still exists in Xubuntu 12.04. Using Thunar will result (sometimes) in not being able to see any of the files in your home directory due to the error in reading the hidden .gvfs folder. The workaround to quickly fix this temporarily (4+ years old bug), is to use: 

```
sudo umount ~/.gvfs 
```

Using this command from a terminal will enable you to browse your home directory again using Thunar.

I owe you a beer for this !

---

### Post by thaitang on 2013-01-18
> **2d2f said:**
> I owe you a beer for this !
maybe we need to buy the devs a case of beer to fix this problem that apparently is going into its 5th year!

---

### Post by alphaamanitin on 2013-03-07
There is a method that works for me for a long time, if you can get your fusermount to do it:```


fusermount -u ~/.gvfs
```

AlphaA

---

