---
title: "DNS settings clear on reboot!"
date: 2006-06-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pbaehr on 2006-06-15
My computer was refusing to resolve hostnames earlier today. After some help from the forum I found the problem was that something (probably me installing and then removing apache, PHP or MySQL) removed my router from my DNS settings.

I put it back in by running network-settings and adding it. All was well in the world of resolving hostnames! The villagers rejoiced!

And then I restarted my computer and the computer forgot what I'd put in.

Any thoughts on why the DNS settings would clear when I reset the computer? I'd rather not have to put them back in everytime the computer restarts.

I did some searching on the forums and found a few people with the same problem, but, discouragingly, none of them had solutions.

I'm using a static IP, by the way.

---

### Post by CameronCalver on 2006-06-16
It is to do with your resolv.conf

try this in terminal

sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf then  for example your ip is 192.168.1.1

nameserver 192.168.1.1

---

### Post by pbaehr on 2006-06-16
I am not able to edit /etc/resolv.conf directly. I tried that first. Something else overwrites any changes I make to the file immediately. Indeed, the file itself warns me that this will happen.

```

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.1

```

Notice, the nameserver's in there now, but that's because I've added it in the DNS settings and haven't reset the computer. After I reset, that line vanishes.

---

### Post by officeboy on 2006-06-16
This may seem a little simple, but if the message is;
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

```
Then maybe you should try removing resolvconf? 
It worked for me anyways.  (Static IP and this not remembering manual DNS entries, and not pulling the right info from the DHCP server either)

edit: btw that message is still there, but it stops overwriting the file.

---

### Post by ayoli on 2006-06-16
i ve added my dns thru the graphical way (menu system > adminstration > network, then picking the DNS tab and add DNS ip's), i use a static ip and my dns aren't cleared on reboot.

---

### Post by officeboy on 2006-06-16
[QUOTE=ayoli]i ve added my dns thru the graphical way (menu system > adminstration > network, then picking the DNS tab and add DNS ip's), i use a static ip and my dns aren't cleared on reboot.[/QUOTE]

But do you have resolvconf installed (and specifically that message in your resolv.conf)?  I kinda figured my problems were caused from a few broken dependencies from 5.04 and then just dist-upgrading to dapper, and then adding the desktop package.  Seems like this problem is fairly common (search for dns problems, or connection issues) so there must be something wrong with either the upgrading method, or with a package somewhere.

---

### Post by ayoli on 2006-06-16
after a verif that's exact that iven't resolvconf installed and so haven't got the advice ("do not edit manually") in resolv.conf.

---

### Post by pbaehr on 2006-06-16
Officeboy, I did a fresh install for Dapper, so it's not a result of the upgrade. I am going to try removing resolvconf and see what happens. I shouldn't need it since I'm not using DHCP. I'll report back. Thanks!

---

### Post by pbaehr on 2006-06-16
Officeboy:

It may have seemed "a bit simple" but I guess that's the beauty of it. I removed resolvconf and there's no more trouble!! Excellent suggestion.

My theory is that apache may have added resolvconf to my computer and I didn't have it before.

Thanks so much for all the help, guys.

---

