---
title: "11.04 and lmsensors with conky"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-10
Hi everyone, does anyone have cpu temp,gdu temp,fan information working in 11.04? if so you tell me how you did it. I have cpu temperature working just not the rest. Thanks to everyone in advance, I greatly appreciate any help.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-10
I have Conky up and running on 11.04 / Unity . ```
sudo apt-get install lm-sensors 
```
```
sudo apt-get install conky-all
```
There is more than one Conky package , conky-all should include what you need to run. My Conky does not include fan-speed in the display.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-10
Hi, thank you for your reply. I have already done that and I have a great looking conky just not able to get fan speed and such to work. When I run senors from a terminal all I see is the cpu temperature, so I am not sure that anyone has fan speed working that is what I wanted to know before I spend countless hours trying to get them to work when they just may not work in 11.04. Thank you very much for your reply.:)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-10
Did you run sudo sensors-detect and answer the questions ?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-10
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Did you run sudo sensors-detect and answer the questions ?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto)

Hi, yes I did do that but the temp is still the only one that works, I wander if I should run that setup again maybe something went wrong with it the first time. Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by Shane Fisher on 2011-09-26
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> I have Conky up and running on 11.04 / Unity . ```
sudo apt-get install lm-sensors 
```
```
sudo apt-get install conky-all
```
There is more than one Conky package , conky-all should include what you need to run. My Conky does not include fan-speed in the display.

[FONT="Comic Sans MS"][SIZE="3"]Thanks for this piece of intel it helped me tremendously! I am a newbie to Linux and even I got this right in terminal lol.:D[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by chrnovx on 2012-05-30
Thanks for the help!

sudo apt-get install conky-all did the trick.

I also installed
lm-sensors, sensors, and sensord

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-05-30
Old thread closed.

---

