---
title: "9.04 lost window decorations - ATI 780G"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DeltaZero on 2009-04-27
Hi guys,
I'm running ATI 780G system and I am having some problems with the new 9.04 (8.10 before it ran just fine). When Gnome starts, I do not have any window decorations. I need to go to "Appearance" and set visual effects to "Normal", then the window decorations appear. However on the next startup my visual effects are back to "None" and no window decorations again. It does not matter if I set it to "None" by myself before shutting down - doesn't help.

I am using ATI FGLRX driver. I do not use any visual effects really, so "None" is my normal setting, and I could potentially use the open source driver. However if I remove FGLRX, the problem does not disappear. I am using 24" wide monitor @1920x1200.

> 
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "Configured Video Device"
        Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
        DefaultDepth     24
EndSection


Any idea what could be the problem?
Thanks!

---

### Post by DeltaZero on 2009-04-28
Update:

I have checked, and *xorg.config* looks the same as I used in 8.10.
I have uninstalled all *compiz* packages, but the problem persists.
What does work is if I do "metacity --replace" in a terminal window, but when I close that terminal the window manager gets messed up again.

---

### Post by jacek2v on 2009-05-03
Hi,

I have these same problem (nvidia graphics card).

On new created on 9.04 user is ok. I think it's problem in user configuration files.

---

### Post by alexandreracine on 2009-05-03
I have the same problem with nvidia, but this seems user oriented since using a new user works properly.

So what would be the solution?

Did any of you used the janitor?

---

### Post by SilverLoz on 2009-05-04
I have the same problem (using an nVidia card). I have reported a bug in launchpad: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/371585](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/371585) quoting this thread

---

### Post by m_t on 2009-05-04
Hello,

I've got similar problem in 9.04 UNR on ASUS EEE 1000H:
if I switch from netbook desktop to classical Ubuntu desktop and reboot I lose window decoration and must start *gnome-wm *and *gnome-panel* manually. But after reboot I get blank screen with only a wallpaper  again.

It is possible, though, to get back working 'out-of-the-box' netbook desktop theme by removing gnome-related configs in the user home folder. 

Hope someone can help to solve the issue, since it is not very convenient to stay in netbook-style view with external monitor connected.

---

### Post by alexandreracine on 2009-05-04
The solution is here

[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/371585](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/371585)

---

### Post by jacek2v on 2009-05-06
> **alexandreracine said:**
> The solution is here

[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/371585](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/371585)

Thanks it's working for me.

---

### Post by Leighman on 2009-11-19
Deleting the gconf xml file seems to have worked for me   Karmic
That or reinstalling libdecoration

---

