---
title: "8.04 Taskbar / Toolbar gone"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by marianlibrarian on 2009-01-22
Hardy Heron 8.04

I have two computers using Hardy Heron 8.04 and three computers using Dapper Drake. I have the same problem with all computers:

Our computers are in a public library. Certain patrons just have to "fiddle" with the settings. One in particular, (can't catch him in the act, only see the effect when he leaves) - likes to make the tool bar / task bar disappear. I don't know what the actual term is but it is the little bar at the top that has the operating menu items. 

when we had windows 98 machines, I used an application called Deep Freeze that kept the user from doing things like this. 

In the mornings when I turn on all the machines, I login with the patron id which I have limited access to the floppy drive, cd rom drive, and external things like usb thumb drives. 

Is there a way to lock out the desk top from being changed by a lower level user and only available to change by the administrator??

Please help. He just left a few minutes ago and I am not letting anyone else use this machine until I can fix it back.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by marianlibrarian on 2009-01-22
I had a funny feeling that I should have gone to the Absolute (in my case Abysmal) Beginners part, but anyway, I sort of found the solution there.

I don't know what I will do if both task / tool bars get deleted, but as long as you have one, you can right click on the existing bar and select add panel. When I did it, it automatically added a blank bar at the top. Then right click on the blank bar and select add and then select main menu. I'm not exactly sure of my terminology. I only had a few minutes to sit down and solve this while patrons were waiting for the computer to become available again.

Now my final issue is: Is there a way to keep a user who is not administrator from messing up the desktop?

Thank you for your response.

---

