---
title: "15.04 HTPC tips"
date: 2015-10-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jwhitener on 2015-10-23
Goal:  make an Ubuntu 15.04 - HDMI - 50inch TV  visually nicer for use as a home theater pc.  Larger fonts, larger icons, better contrast, bigger mouse cursor, etc..  

While searching I haven't found any guides for 15.04.  Lots of random 14.04 articles though.  

Question:  Is this guide for 14.04 still the best way to do things in 15.04? (title of article says 14... link says 12... not sure). 
[http://www.libregeek.org/2013/12/23/how-to-making-a-media-center-using-ubuntu-12-04-lts/](http://www.libregeek.org/2013/12/23/how-to-making-a-media-center-using-ubuntu-12-04-lts/)

Is there a theme or 'all in one' way to more easily turn Ubuntu 15.04 into more of a HTPC feeling environment?  (Better suited to be viewed from 10-15 feet away on a large screen).    

I also found this from two years ago:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2120859](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2120859) .  Talks about using Gnome Shell for scaling the entire desktop.  Is this still good for 15.04?

Any thoughts appreciated.

edit1:  just installed 'sudo apt-get install gnome-tweak-tool'.  Then launched the gnome-tweak-tool and under fonts I increased all the fonts from 11 to 14, and the scaling from 1.00 to 1.10.  It is much better now.  If anyone has more tweaks that are helpful, I'd appreciate it.  But the gnome-tweak-tool seems to cover about 90% of the viewing issues on a large TV.

edit2:  This helps a bunch for firefox:  about:config layout.css.devPixelsPerPx .  Change the value from -1.0 to 1.1 (or to taste).

---

### Post by fortworthtechs on 2015-10-23
The basic key to build up a quite HTPC is to use low power parts which generate less heat and thus require less cooling. The more the PC will be passive cooled PC, more the quieter it will be.

These are the specified area which requires more cooling on heating:

Small Case: It will be difficult to get proper airflow if the case is smaller.

Processor: Low TDP CPU such as Intel Core i3 is to be chosen.

Power Supply: More heat is generated by inefficient PSU so as to get a 80 Plus certified PSU.

Hard drive: HDD or SSD disk is to be chosen.

Graphics: Integrated GPU is needed as the cards generate lot of heat.

Memory: use RAM memory modules with a heat spreader.

---

### Post by jwhitener on 2015-10-24
Thanks for the suggestions.  But I was referring mainly to making the desktop environment / font / sizes easier to read from 15 feet away.  I have already purchased the hardware (Intel NUC from System76, quiet, works nicely).

---

