---
title: "Libre office document (odt) not indexed by recoll ?"
date: 2012-10-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by xtrailrunner on 2012-10-23
I'm using recoll for some time now and noticed that a LibreOffice document (odt) was not indexed, i.e. I could not find it on the list although a specific keyword is used in the document. There are no missing helpers displayed in my recoll installation.

---

### Post by medoc92 on 2012-10-23
> **xtrailrunner said:**
> I'm using recoll for some time now and noticed that a LibreOffice document (odt) was not indexed, i.e. I could not find it on the list although a specific keyword is used in the document. There are no missing helpers displayed in my recoll installation.

Hello, I'm the recoll developer.

Just to eliminate any possibility of a missing helper, could you please confirm that some other odt documents are indeed indexed (searchable by content, not file name) ?

Otherwise, it's obviously a bug. Is the keyword located in "normal" text ? Is it surrounded or containing any special punctuation ? 

it's going to be difficult to work on this without at least some access to the data. You can reach me by email at jfd at recoll.org, this may be more convenient.

Oh and, forgot something: there was an update to the libreoffice filter quite recently, the previous one had a problem with documents generated by google docs. Maybe it would be worth it to try the updated filter anyway, it's here:
[http://www.recoll.org/filters/filters.html](http://www.recoll.org/filters/filters.html) . Look for "updated opendocument filter".

---

### Post by xtrailrunner on 2012-10-23
Hello,
I have replaced the filter for Open Document Format but I havn't used Google docs for these documents. The word I could not find is "Regensburg" in a document. There are no special characters or similar. 
It looks like I have a general problem with all *.odt files because I also cannot find expressions in other odt documents. Most of my text documents use Word formats (doc, docx) and for these it works.
Kind regards
Juergen

---

### Post by xtrailrunner on 2012-10-23
Hello,
I found the document indexed now. Don't know if replacement of filter caused it or if I have overlooked it first time. This could be possible because not the document title was displayed but the template name.
Thanks
Juergen

---

### Post by medoc92 on 2012-10-24
> **xtrailrunner said:**
> Hello,
I found the document indexed now. Don't know if replacement of filter caused it or if I have overlooked it first time. This could be possible because not the document title was displayed but the template name.
Thanks
Juergen

Great ! It could be the filter change anyway because the problem was not strictly limited to documents originating in google docs.

I'd be interested by a sample document where the wrong data is displayed as title, maybe I can improve the filter on this point: jfd at recoll.org.

Cheers,

jf

---

