---
title: "12.04 login sound"
date: 2012-08-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by netgooroo on 2012-08-25
I did a search a couple times for this so, sorry if there is a thread for this already. 

I am wanting to disable the login drum sound when I log in to Ubuntu. I have 12.04 distro and, I have looked online and found more than one "fix" for this but, nothing so far has worked for me. 

I have tried the following, installed and, used Ubuntu tweak, enabled login sound in startup applications, and, attempted to edit the gedit document. 

Again, as I said, nothing has worked thus far. Any help with this would be appreciated.  Also, I am using Gnome desktop environment. 

Thanks, 
netgooroo

---

### Post by irv on 2012-08-25
In Ubuntu Tweak under Login Settings there is a switch to "Play Login sound:" you can switch it on or off. You need to unlock to make the change.
[ATTACH]223159[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by netgooroo on 2012-08-25
> **irv said:**
> In Ubuntu Tweak under Login Settings there is a switch to "Play Login sound:" you can switch it on or off. You need to unlock to make the change.
[ATTACH]223159[/ATTACH]

I appreciate your reply irv but, as I stated in my original post, I already tried this without any success. Also, when I did make the switch, it was unlocked.

Any other insight? 

Thanks, 
netgooroo

---

### Post by irv on 2012-08-25
> **netgooroo said:**
> I appreciate your reply irv but, as I stated in my original post, I already tried this without any success. Also, when I did make the switch, it was unlocked.

Any other insight? 

Thanks, 
netgooroo

Someone ask a question something like yours at askubuntu. Here is the link:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/138760/changing-start-up-sound-in-ubuntu]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/138760/changing-start-up-sound-in-ubuntu")

---

### Post by irv on 2012-08-25
I think it is the system-ready.ogg file you are looking at.
Edit: here is the one I use:
[http://wabasha-server.net/system-ready.ogg]("http://wabasha-server.net/system-ready.ogg")

---

### Post by netgooroo on 2012-08-25
Thanks, but that thread didn't help other than pointing me to other stuff. 

Once I found out how to utilize root in 12.04, I got to the dir and deleted the file as follows.. 

on the command line, CD to /usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo once there, you can use the cammond rm filename.ogg to delete the sound file for the drum sound. In my case, this was rm system-ready.ogg. 

Once the file is deleted, BAM no drums when login screen comes up. There is still a small sound but, not as anoying or, disturbing as the drums. 

Hope this helps. 

netgooroo

---

### Post by irv on 2012-08-26
Why don't you mark this thread solved if you are satisfied. 
[ATTACH]223190[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by netgooroo on 2012-08-26
Thanks IRV, done. :-D

---

