---
title: "10.10: System in reset loop on startup, unless..."
date: 2010-12-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-12-27
This is a very strange situation in my experience: I have a dual boot (Win/XP + Ubuntu 10.10 amd64) system, which, when last running correctly, was running XP. I needed to boot back into Ubuntu but the system entered a continual hardware reset loop, running POST, accessing BIOS, starting to boot then a complete system reset. The Grub menu is not displayed.

At first I suspected a hardware fault but was slightly confused by the fact that I was able to enter BIOS setup without problem, suggesting that the motherboard and processor are OK, but maybe not the power supply. By a process of elimination (removing every optional hardware component and replacing it with something vaguely similar), I stumbled upon the realisation that the system will boot successfully from CD. In this mode, running a sort of 'Live CD', I am able to see both drives (first drive containing the boot sector, WinXP and Windows app. data; second drive containing Ubuntu system and data). So I am able to 'rescue' all Windows-based data, but not my Ubuntu data because I chose to encrypt my home folder during installation. However it seems that both hard disks are OK. But as soon as I revert to the usual boot sequence (e.g. leaving the CD tray empty), the system enters the reset loop again.

My current thinking is that I possibly have a boot sector virus. I ran boot_info_script055.sh, but didn't see anything anomalous there (but what do I know?); I can append RESULTS.txt here if that would be helpful. 

In the meantime I don't want to start trying to do anything, at my level of ignorance, that might put my Ubuntu-based data at risk, by trying to 'correct' the boot sector (if indeed that is what is required) until I have had some comments and suggestions from far more knowledgeable readers....

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-12-30
Solved: MBR on first bootable hard-drive 'copulated' by installation of AutoCAD. Thanks FlexNet for the 'maturity' of your design....

Resolved by re-installing GRUB and making both hard drives bootable - using BIOS to select which drive to boot.

---

