---
title: "13.04 Gnome-terminal profiles are schizo"
date: 2013-09-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by wamorita2 on 2013-09-28
I use [FONT=courier new]ssh <host> -Y /usr/bin/gnome-terminal [/FONT]to remote into my Ubuntu 13.04 box.
I initially setup two profiles, the default and a root profile.
I later decided to import profiles from a previous Linux install.
Renaming the original [FONT=courier new].gconf/apps/gnome-terminal[/FONT], I put in place the dir tree from the older Linux.
I went to the renamed dir [FONT=courier new]gnome-terminal.orig[/FONT] only to find that I could not locate my original two profiles.


Now if after opening a gnome-terminal remotely I get two outcomes.

[LIST=1]
[*]If I immediately open a new tab or terminal, I only see the original two profiles.
[*]If I go to edit/profile I see my imported profiles.  Now the selection for a new tab or window shows the *imported *profiles.
[/LIST]

**That's the schizo thing. Two different behaviors**



[LIST]
[*]Why can't I find the original profiles where they should have been???
[*]Is this an Ubuntu-izm ?
[*]Where are they kept ?
[/LIST]

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-09-28
Hi wamorita2. Welcome to the forum ):P

A few thoughts.

The common practice to ssh remotely into a machine is to use the local terminal and run something like:
```
ssh user@remotemachine
```
That way your connection will be as fast as possible, since you'll be transferring only text.

When you use X forwarding to open a remote window, there's a lot more that is being transfer, which in case of another GUI application may make sense, but IMHO, I don't see the benefit of doing it for a gnome-terminal.

Besides, profiles can be set locally and will also be valid for a remote connection.

Does that help? Let us know if we can offer more help.
Regards.

---

### Post by wamorita2 on 2013-09-28
I asked 3 specific questions.
** *  Why can't I find the original profiles where they should have been???**
** *  Is this an Ubuntu-izm ?**
**  * Where are they kept ?**

Even though I can get around this issue using your suggestion, I still want these questions answered.
Please forward this query to the appropriate person.

Thanks

---

### Post by PJs Ronin on 2013-09-28
> **wamorita2 said:**
> 
Even though I can get around this issue using your suggestion, I still want these questions answered.
Please forward this query to the appropriate person.

Thanks

There is no 'specific person' on this forum.   Everyone helps out anyone when/where they can.

---

