---
title: "NTFS Question"
date: 2006-09-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Brooze on 2006-09-24
I have an 80GB hard disk that was formatted with NTFS and currently holds around 60GB of actual data.  I am wondering if there is any program already created that can partion the entire disk into Extended 3 without losing any of the data [exception to some meta things from NTFS].

Side question [Haven't searched for it yet]: Is it possible to get linux to run dual monitors (7800GTX PCi-E)?

Any help would be appreciated, thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Desabrir on 2006-09-24
The cold hard truth is what I had to find out on my own with 150+gb of music/tv shows/movies.

There isn't a reliable way for Linux to read/write to NTFS without corrupting the DATA. 

Luckily I realized this and forced ubuntu to read my SATA drive as an NTFS drive. Previously I had it mounted as a removeable device b/c I was having trouble mounting it correctly and was making changes to it.

My data is safe, but i'm in the process of moving all of it over to an ext2 partition.



to your note.

I just recently configured my system to use Twinview for my ti4600. I used this guide and it helped a lot:
[http://www.ublug.org/ubuntu/twinview/twinview-howto-breezy.html](http://www.ublug.org/ubuntu/twinview/twinview-howto-breezy.html)

Also, do yourself a favour. If you make ANY changes to your xconf, make a backup. (as in xconf_old.conf) Luckily I had a back up. I made the wrong change and was forced to revert to my backup via terminal since my GUI failed to load.

You have to d/l the nvidia drivers and manually edit the xconf.conf file. Mine looks like this, but don't use mine as it's made for my system.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
#	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
#	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
#	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
#EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option 		"Buttons" 		"7"
	Option		"ButtonMapping"		"1 2 3 6 7"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"false"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV25 [GeForce4 Ti 4600]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"

Option "TwinView" "on"
Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024"
# Option "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1024x768"
# Option "MetaModes" "1152x870,1024x768"
# Option "MetaModes" "1152x870,1152x870"
Option "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"

Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "31.4-68.6"
Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "59-85"

# The following options are for XGL
# If you want to remove it, sudo rm /etc/gdm/gdm.conf-custom

#Option "RenderAccel" "true"
#Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"

# New additions

Option "NoLogo" "True"
Option "ConnectedMonitor" "CRT,CRT"

EndSection


Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL 1900FP"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option "HorizSync" "30-5"
	Option "VertRefresh" "50-160"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV25 [GeForce4 Ti 4600]"
	Monitor		"DELL 1900FP"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	Option "Xinerama" "off"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-09-25
> **Brooze said:**
> I have an 80GB hard disk that was formatted with NTFS and currently holds around 60GB of actual data.  I am wondering if there is any program already created that can partion the entire disk into Extended 3 without losing any of the data [exception to some meta things from NTFS].

I don't think so. The best bet is probably to borrow a drive from a friend, copy the data onto it, make the new partition, and then copy it back.

---

