---
title: "11.10 Unity - where are my running apps?"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by robertu on 2011-10-17
I am struggling with the new Unity interface ...

I start Truecrypt, open a decrypted folder and close Truecrypt.
Everything OK.

But if I want to use Truecrypt again, it is impossible.
- I can not re-start the app (Truecrypt is already running)
- I can not switch to the running app.

How to solve this?
Thanks

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-10-17
Is it in the Launcher on left side, all running apps stay there until closed and with right click can keep it
in launcher as a favorite.

---

### Post by robertu on 2011-10-17
> **garvinrick4 said:**
> Is it in the Launcher on left side, all running apps stay there until closed and with right click can keep it
in launcher as a favorite.

Truecrypt is in the launcher (I placed it there), but if i click on it is says 'Truecrypt is already running', that's all.

Thanks anyway.

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-10-17
You may have to add it to the indicator whitelist.
Install the dconf-tools package.
Run dconf-editor
Navigate to desktop > unity > panel
and change the value in systray-whitelist to **"all"** or add in your app
using the same format as the other entries.
Changing to "all" used to cause some old applets not to work on clicking
but would still open if you clicked on the far right of the panel and slid your mouse across
to the applet.

---

### Post by robertu on 2011-10-17
It works! Thank you!

(the Truecrypt icon is now visible in the top bar, like it always was)

Thanks again!

----
From what perspective do you think you are down under? You are right on top of it....

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-10-17
If you grab your mouse and highlight the empty line under my sig you'll
have the answer.

---

