---
title: ".nano_history permission denied?"
date: 2006-06-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by simon0t7 on 2006-06-26
I'm new to Ubuntu, well sort of.  I don't know what I did, I've only had it installed for two days but now after I execute nano, I get the message below:

simon@C19A:~$ nano

Error reading /home/simon/.nano_history: Permission denied

Press Enter to continue starting nano


All I've done really is setup Thunderbird and install the updates.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Winblowz on 2006-06-26
You must be root to do that. Use the sudo command before it like this...
```
sudo nano /home/simon/.nano_history 
```

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-06-26
Try ```
sudo chown simon:simon ~/.nano_history
``` By the way, that's weird. I use *nano* all the time, and I don't have a configuration file called ~/.nano_history...

---

### Post by golfbuf on 2006-06-26
[QUOTE=simon0t7]simon@C19A:~$ nano

Error reading /home/simon/.nano_history: Permission denied

Press Enter to continue starting nano
[/QUOTE]

Yes, it's a nuisance if you like to use nano as root (sudo nano ..) and also as a user.  If you do 'man nano', you'll see there's a /etc/nanorc config file.  Edit this to comment out:

#set historylog

This will prevent 'sudo nano' commands from creating the root users .nano_history in your home directory, which nano can't read when called by your user account.  After commenting it out, then delete it with 'sudo rm .nano_history'.

regards,

---

### Post by simon0t7 on 2006-06-26
thanks for the quick replies.
did the changes mentioned above and all is good :)

---

### Post by s26c.sayan on 2007-01-26
I was having the same problem too....now it is sorted!! :)
Thanks guys!!!

---

### Post by hebetude on 2007-10-01
> **golfbuf said:**
> Yes, it's a nuisance if you like to use nano as root (sudo nano ..) and also as a user.  If you do 'man nano', you'll see there's a /etc/nanorc config file.  Edit this to comment out:

#set historylog

This will prevent 'sudo nano' commands from creating the root users .nano_history in your home directory, which nano can't read when called by your user account.  After commenting it out, then delete it with 'sudo rm .nano_history'.

regards,

LOL, thanks.  I'm not sure why I would want a historylog for nano anyways ><

---

### Post by zela on 2008-01-09
Thanks,
I was wondering why i was getting those strange error messages.

---

### Post by JohnLeoZ on 2008-04-19
Shouldn't there be some way to simply change the .nano_history file's permission to rw all?

---

