---
title: "9.10 blank screen with mouse cursor using old home dir"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Fungyo on 2009-11-15
hi,
About a second after I log in to Kubuntu 9.10 desktop, I get a blank screen with just a mouse cursor. I can move the mouse and access other tty screens. Pressing ctrl+alt+del shows the logout, restart, shutdown box.

Had ubuntu 9.04 installed, then installed kubuntu-desktop package and continued using KDE for the remainder of my 9.04 install life.
Downloaded Kubuntu 9.10 and installed a fresh install. 
Formatted my / (root) partition, using ext4. did NOT format /home partition and left it at ext3. Created the same user and got the blank screen as described above.
Creating a new user, and everything works as expected.

It looks like maybe a configuration file in my /home directory from the previous 9.04 install is causing the problem.
Does anyone have an idea which file this might be?

thanks

---

### Post by Zorael on 2009-11-15
Perhaps plasma isn't starting for some reason? If you can hop to a tty, login and enter '**DESKTOP=:0 plasma-desktop**', then hop back and see if it starts drawing your desktop. Or if it spouts errors. (You can do 'DESKTOP=:0 konsole' or whatnot if you want to use Konsole in your X session instead of using the tty terminal.)

If the above worked, try renaming your **~/.local/share/applications** directory incase there's an override for plasma in there that's stopping it from autostarting.

---

### Post by Fungyo on 2009-11-19
thanks for the reply.
I removed ~/.kde/share/config and all went back to normal. Just needed to re-configure settings after.

---

