---
title: "9.10 upgrade now no desktop"
date: 2010-06-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jeflars on 2010-06-15
Ubuntu 9.10
HELP!!!
Just got last updates and now I have no desktop.
Got background which is a solid color, but nothing else.
Gnome safe mode does not even get to the desktop.

Is there a way to reload the operating system without destroying my data?
I have a lot of work on this PC.

HELP!!
Thanks
jef

---

### Post by TheStroj on 2010-06-15
My guess would be this is a drivers problem. In that case do this (it can't hurt much, just backup xorg.conf so you can replace if needed):

In GRUB select the Recovery Mode (I think it's called that way, but you know what I mean), when in the menu go to terminal (it doesn't have to be connected to the internet). Now edit your xorg.conf file, telling it to use 'vesa' drivers (make sure to backup the xorg.conf before doing this: just copy it to some other place).

Editing time:
```
nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` 

At 'Section: Device' change Driver from whatever it is to vesa, so it looks like:
```
Driver "vesa"
```

Now save the file and try to get into the desktop by running
```
startx
```

This is what I did when I had almost same problem like you :)
Hope it works.

---

### Post by jeflars on 2010-06-15
Recovery mode?
Exactly when and where is that an option?

thank you
jef

---

### Post by TheStroj on 2010-06-15
> **jeflars said:**
> Recovery mode?
Exactly when and where is that an option?

thank you
jef

GRUB - That's when you turn on your computer and select which OS you want to use.

---

### Post by jeflars on 2010-06-15
> **TheStroj said:**
> GRUB - That's when you turn on your computer and select which OS you want to use.

Single OS, no option.

---

### Post by TheStroj on 2010-06-15
> **jeflars said:**
> Single OS, no option.

When installing Ubuntu, you still get more options in GRUB menu, as far as I know, there's usualy Recovery Mode and MemTest. If you modified GRUB files, this might have changed. 

Using Live CD, mounting your partition and changing the xorg.conf would be same (there are many ways to get to files, they way you do it doesn't really matter).

Besides that, you could also try pressing Ctr+Alt+F2 at the time when you get to your frozen screen, which would take you to 'terminal'. Then login, set what has to be set and start x again.

---

