---
title: "18.10 Wayland, screen saver cannot be turned off"
date: 2018-10-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by linwood2 on 2018-10-22
I want to use idle timeout to blank the screen but NOT have the screen saver come up. 

Under X11 if I set 

[B]gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.screensaver idle-activation-enabled false
[/B]
it works, but if I switch to wayland it appears to be ignored entirely.  Is there a different setting under wayland?  Bug?  Feature of some sort? 

Note that I have to use wayland as touchscreen gets removed and will not restore under X11 (see [https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/476576/disable-device-removed-from-touchscreen-hid-on-ubuntu-18-10](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/476576/disable-device-removed-from-touchscreen-hid-on-ubuntu-18-10))

Note I also have screen lock disabled (which works in both), with these settings which I think are irrelevant but included here just in case: 

[B]gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.screensaver lock-enabled false
gsettings set org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power sleep-inactive-ac-type 'nothing'

[/B]In searching I found [https://askubuntu.com/questions/971404/gnome-screen-lock-setting-not-respected-in-ubuntu-17-10-when-using-gnome-session](https://askubuntu.com/questions/971404/gnome-screen-lock-setting-not-respected-in-ubuntu-17-10-when-using-gnome-session) reference but it was attributed to kodi - I am not using Kodi (this is a dedicated QT application but it fails even if that is not running).  This is in vanilla Ubuntu 18.10 (released), on a Z83 board with HDMI touchscreen monitor (only, no keyboard). 

Thanks in advance,  Linwood

---

### Post by dino99 on 2018-10-22
Wayland session now works in most cases, but not yet everywhere. can be a corner case.

---

### Post by linwood2 on 2018-10-22
@dino99 are you saying that the screen saver option quoted above works for you in wayland in 18.10? 

Or are you making a general statement that wayland is mostly stable?  

Apologies, I am just trying to figure out how your reply is actionable for me?

---

