---
title: "800 x 640 to 1280 x 1024 ??"
date: 2009-12-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-03
anyone here know how to make the display always go to 1280 x 1024 ??
need to make change on xorg.conf eh?? but how?
becoz right now,my computer always start with 800 x 640 .

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-04
> **donjo said:**
> anyone here know how to make the display always go to 1280 x 1024 ??
need to make change on xorg.conf eh?? but how?
becoz right now,my computer always start with 800 x 640 .

[quote=sc4bbk,Dec 4 2009, 01:19 PM]```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

Then go to X Server Display Configuration > Resolution set to 1280x1024 > click "Save to X Configuration file"
[right][snapback]30345464[/snapback][/right]
[/quote]
it's said it can't wrote on the xorg.conf file loll
> 
Failed to parse existing X config file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'!

> scorps@scorps-desktop:~$ sudo nvidia-settings
[sudo] password for scorps: 

VALIDATION ERROR:  Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
Undefined Device "(null)" referenced by Screen "Default Screen".

Segmentation fault
scorps@scorps-desktop:~$ sudo nvidia-settings

VALIDATION ERROR:  Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
Undefined Device "(null)" referenced by Screen "Default Screen".

Segmentation fault
scorps@scorps-desktop:~$ 

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-12-04
in terminal type

```
lspci
```

paste back the output

---

### Post by hkkea on 2009-12-04
is your 'xorg.conf' exist? try to run '[COLOR=#B45F06]sudo nvidia-xconfig[COLOR=Black]' before '[/COLOR][/COLOR][COLOR=#B45F06]sudo nvidia-settings[/COLOR][COLOR=#B45F06][COLOR=Black]'. 

[/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by hardfire_avk on 2009-12-04
ok! maybe your graphics card driver has not been installed yet. go to restricted hardware and select the recommended one and install it. then do the nvidia-config thing. This should work, happens the same to me.

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-04
> **inobe said:**
> in terminal type

```
lspci
```

paste back the output

here u go
> 
scorps@scorps-desktop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. PT890 Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN700/VN800/P4M800CE/Pro Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237/VX700 PCI Bridge
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VIA VT6420 SATA RAID Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 86)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 ISA bridge [KT600/K8T800/K8T890 South]
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 60)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 78)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x] (rev c1)

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-04
> **hkkea said:**
> is your 'xorg.conf' exist? try to run '[COLOR=#B45F06]sudo nvidia-xconfig[COLOR=Black]' before '[/COLOR][/COLOR][COLOR=#B45F06]sudo nvidia-settings[/COLOR][COLOR=#B45F06][COLOR=Black]'. 

[/COLOR][/COLOR]
here my sudo nvidia-xconfig

> 

scorps@scorps-desktop:~$ sudo nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Undefined Device "(null)" referenced by Screen "Default
                  Screen".

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-12-04
What is your monitor model and make?

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-04
> **Grenage said:**
> What is your monitor model and make?

compaq 7500 crt

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-12-04
Backup your old xorg.conf, and replace it with this:

```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Compaq"
ModelName "7500"
HorizSync 30 - 70
VertRefresh 50 - 140
Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  108.88  1280 1360 1496 1712  1024 1025 1028 1060  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NV18"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-04
> **Grenage said:**
> Backup your old xorg.conf, and replace it with this:

```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Compaq"
ModelName "7500"
HorizSync 30 - 70
VertRefresh 50 - 140
Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  108.88  1280 1360 1496 1712  1024 1025 1028 1060  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NV18"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 16
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

i just did it,
not work,and become worst than before

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-12-04
In what way?

Try changing *Depth 24* to *Depth 16*.

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-04
> **Grenage said:**
> In what way?

Try changing *Depth 24* to *Depth 16*.

changing depth on your coding or which one?

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-12-04
4th line from the bottom.

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-04
> **Grenage said:**
> 4th line from the bottom.
but still not working for me 
anybody know to solve this?

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-05
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1135367.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1135367.html)

i have follow that link, but still not working for me..

---

### Post by hkkea on 2009-12-05
> **donjo said:**
> here my sudo nvidia-xconfig

that message was normal, the new /etc/X11/xorg.conf was created. i got the same message when i first time run 'sudo nvidia-xconfig'. if you run that same command again supposed you will see a different message.

---

### Post by peepingtom on 2009-12-05
Try this:

sudo nvidia-xconfig
this will give you a somewhat working screen.

then press alt+printscreen+k
That will restart your xserver, all the graphical stuff. 
Alt+printscreen+k is a good way to test the changes you make to xorg.conf, so you won't have to restart your computer.

Did you install the "restricted drivers"?
To check,
sudo jockey-gtk

nvidia driver 173 should be active, activate it if it isnt.

You'll probably have to restart your computer.
When it loads up again,

sudo nvidia-settings
make the changes, and save your xorg.conf.


Post back if it works or you need more help.

---

### Post by donjo on 2009-12-05
i'm using this one : NVIDIA Driver Version: 96.43.13

do i need to update to newest one?

---

### Post by peepingtom on 2009-12-06
Actually it was my mistake, you geforce 4 is meant to use the 96 series driver. They'll release later versions of the 96 series, like 96.47.something, but you'll use 96 series forever.

Anyway, let's get you up and running.

Run the following commands.
```
sudo rm -rf /etc/X11/xorg.conf*
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo nvidia-settings
```

Then set your resulution using nvidia-settings and save to xorg.conf.
Good luck, I'll check back!

---

