---
title: "11.10  &gt; How to set up  Dual Monitor with ATI Rage 128 graphic card"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by OfUni on 2011-10-18
I've following 

_Ubuntu _: 11.10

_Monitor:_
Acer 18.5" LCD Monitor G195HQV
AOC 931SN 18.5 inch LCD Monitor
[U]
Graphic Card :[/U] 
ATI Rage 128


**I want to set up Dual Monitor (split screen) on my desktop system (not laptop).**

I've tried lots of things (crashing my Ubuntu 3 times already), hence finally **I'm asking for help **through this forum.

I've just started using Ubuntu but I can follow instructions well.

Your time will be appreciated.

Thank you

---

### Post by OfUni on 2011-10-18
Found this


> **Motorhead Kaze said:**
> Wow, what a bunch of crap that was!   Somehow, messing with all of this xorg.conf stuff woke up Compiz?! How  in the heck THAT can happen, I have no idea. I do remember a large  compiz update coming up yesterday, but I have all visual effects turned  off...at all times. Compiz somehow got switched on and gave me a blank  white screen...which took my friend and I an hour to fix before I could  get back to this dual monitor situation.

(BTW, to fix that, I went through Gnome failsafe mode, ran ```
sudo  apt-get remove compiz
``` then restarted Gnome, and if you can  believe this, had to go into SYNAPTIC to kill off about 6 or so Compiz  related programs that somehow got turned on!  &#12467;&#12531;&#12500;&#12474;&#12398;&#12496;&#12459;&#12516;&#12525;&#12540;&#65281;)

On the dual monitor problem, I tried a couple different dual monitor  tutorials (with all sorts of unnecessary added code in them) and though  none of them worked for me, a friend found the following: first,  ```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```and add the red text.
```

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        DefaultDepth    24
       [COLOR=Red][B] SubSection "Display"
            Depth           24
            Virtual         2560 1024
        EndSubSection[/B][/COLOR]
EndSection
``` then I restarted X, went into  system/preferences/screen resolution and unchecked the clone screens,  pulled the monitor (white square) marked "Electronics" off to the left,  selected the resolution, 1280x1024 at a refresh rate of 60hz and on the  monitor to the right (another white square) marked "BenQ 19in" I  selected the same resolution and refresh rate.  Apply, close.

Now I have dual monitors on Ubuntu Hardy.

The dumbass thing is, I restarted X and my right monitor was dead again,  and I had to go back into system/preferences/screen resolution and redo  my changes.  Apparently, this is another issue, and a friend has this  to add, *"It sounds like the unchecked box getting rechecked is a bug  that involves a file in your home directory called  ~/.gnome2/monitors.xml,  which sometimes doesn't get overwitten  properly. That's one reason deleting all the .g stuff worked. If the  problem comes back, try deleting that file, resetting the stuff in that  dialog, and restarting"*. So, with that in mind, I am off to enjoy my dual monitors.

Note: If you are just trying to get the dual monitors going, my white screen/compiz b.s. can just be ignored.  

Note 2: Anyone who has trouble with finding what the Virtual numbers  should be &#8594; add the widths of your 2 monitors (for me, 1280+1280=2560)  to get the first number, and the 2nd number is the greater height of the  2 monitors (for me, both are the same, so the number remains 1024)  hence my virtual number was 2560 1024


Still seeking help because the post have not mentioned any support for **ATI Rage 128 Graphic Adapter **

need help

---

### Post by rohanin8 on 2011-11-19
thanks alot this worked for me, all i had to do set the virtual to 3840 1080 and reboot it viola...tried to restart X without rebooting (with Ctrl+Alt+Backspace and a command line too) didnt work but manually doing it worked for me
Thanks again for great help

---

