---
title: "LCD monitor &quot;input not supported&quot; during startup"
date: 2006-06-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by knakkerbakker on 2006-06-24
Between the disappearance of the Kubuntu 6.0.6 graphical boot splash, and the appearance of the KDE login screen, my LCD monitor goes blank for 5 seconds, and displays the message "input not supported". During the rest of the boot process, and after startup, screen display is fine, so it only lasts for a few seconds.

I have this problem since the beginning of my fresh Kubuntu 6.0.6 installation, before changing any settings.

Trying to solve this problem I manually reconfigured the x-server using "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg". I discovered the sync rates were correctly detected during installation, but the xserver modes didn't include the maximum resolution of 1440x900. I removed all the modes, and added the maximum resolution of 1440x900 to be able to use it. Now I'm able to set all supported resolutions within KDE, but it didn't solve the "input not supported" problem.

I don't really know that much about sync-rates, and what they do. I've heard wrong settings could damage your monitor. Is this true, and does it apply to LCD monitors?

I hope someone can help me out.
Thanks in advance.

Below is my xorg.conf file:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 AR [Radeon 9600 XT]"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Acer AL1916W"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-82
        VertRefresh     56-76
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies, Inc. RV350 AR [Radeon 9600 XT]"
        Monitor         "Acer AL1916W"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by Village Idiot on 2006-06-24
You need to check any paperwork that came with the monitor. Look for "horiz sync" and "vert refresh" and enter those values exactly, this might be the cause. I had similer monitor problems with older and diffrent distros and this seemed to fix the problem. Make sure the res setting is correct also.
                 I hope this helps.

---

### Post by Sye d'Burns on 2006-06-24
I've got a Samsung 913T LCD monitor and don't have to have horiz or vert entries at all. It displays exactly as it should. I wasn't aware that LCDs require these.

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "SAMSUNG"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by wh0rd on 2006-09-22
The Samsung 913T LCD monitor has the following refresh rates:
[B]30-81  horizontal 
56-75  vertical[/B]

So the Section "Monitor" should look like this:
> 
Section "Monitor"
     Identifier "SAMSUNG"
     Option "DPMS"
     HorizSync 30-81
     VertRefresh 56-75
EndSection

Make sure your Monitor value is also "SAMSUNG" in the Section "Screen" in xorg, otherwise it'll give you errors.

---

### Post by hotrodg on 2006-11-02
I had a similar problem after updating from dapper to edgy.  This worked for me:

Find the line in /boot/grub/menu.lst that reads as follows:

kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.17-10-generic root=UUID=065413b2-3c13-4037-9e7f-c47e33061c66 ro quiet splash.  As root (sudo) delete "splash".  Save and close the file and reboot.  You should now get the rapid screen output characteristic of an old-fashioned linux boot.  Eventually you should get a login screen.  No eye candy (the splash screen), but no complaints from your monitor either -- assuming that you have /etc/X11/xorg.conf set up properly.

Regards,
  hotrodg

---

### Post by tom_j on 2006-11-12
OK, I've got the same problem with my Acer LCD monitor. The simplest solution of those given so far is to edit my menu.lst file to remove the splash screen. 
OK, so the only thing I can do to get any sort of display is to boot from the install CD into a shell environment on my root partition. I can find the menu.lst file in \boot\grub, but now what? Is there an editor that I can call from the shell prompt, or a line editor? 
Forgive my ignorance, but I'm brand new to Linux and my days of working at command prompts are way behind me. Thanks.

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2006-11-12
> **tom_j said:**
> OK, I've got the same problem with my Acer LCD monitor. The simplest solution of those given so far is to edit my menu.lst file to remove the splash screen. 
OK, so the only thing I can do to get any sort of display is to boot from the install CD into a shell environment on my root partition. I can find the menu.lst file in \boot\grub, but now what? Is there an editor that I can call from the shell prompt, or a line editor? 
Forgive my ignorance, but I'm brand new to Linux and my days of working at command prompts are way behind me. Thanks.

For a commandline text editor, use nano: 
```
nano <nameoffile>
```

Of course, if you never get to a GUI, you aren't having the same problem as the other people in this thread.  What kind of video card do you have?  Also, you should be able to get to the root shell environment without the CD, once you've installed, by selecting "Recovery Mode" from the GRUB menu.  If you can do that, you might try running: 
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
and when done, typing
```
startx
```

---

### Post by 1664kroney on 2007-11-13
OK,probably not the done thing to resurrect old threads but... I'm an Ubuntu newbie too (Gutsy) and was having this problem, took a long time to find something other than this thread that cured my problem, so I thought I'd share. 

[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Gutsy#Fix_Slow_boot.2Ffaulty_splash_screen](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Gutsy#Fix_Slow_boot.2Ffaulty_splash_screen)

Hope that's of help.

---

### Post by PeterDrinnan on 2007-11-24
Start ubuntu in recovery mode, then use the following command:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

This will let you reconfigure your hardware. Use the detected settings.

When you start ubuntu, you may get a message saying "input not supported". Wait for this to go away (it will). Finally, go into your desktop menu and select System->Administration->Screens and Graphics. From here you can select the AL1916W monitor and select the correct resolution (1440 x 900) so your fonts don't look blurry.

Good luck.

---

