---
title: "11.10 How to make Unity only switch between windows on current Workspace?"
date: 2012-03-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-03-26
So, I'm not really a fan of Unity, but I'll go with it for now.

However the thing I find SOOOO IRRITATING is that if I ALT-TAB to switch between windows, and I've just moved from workspace to another instead of allowing me to switch between only the windows on the current workspace it will flip me back to the last window on the other workspace I last used. I'd like to only see the windows from the current workspace.

I found this, and it seems to fix that workspace-centric aspect of switching windows. (Which should be defualt IMO BTW)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/62009/how-to-show-windows-only-from-the-current-workspace-in-switcher](http://askubuntu.com/questions/62009/how-to-show-windows-only-from-the-current-workspace-in-switcher)


But, if I have text editor open in workspace 1 and then I switch to workspace 4 and then click on the text editor icon in my launcher it takes me back to the text editor on workspace 1 instead of openening a new text editor window in the current workspace. How do I make it launch a new one instead of moving workspaces to the one already open?

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2012-03-26
Middle click on the launcher icon to open 
a new instance.

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-03-27
Excellent! Thanks.

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-03-27
But it still sometimes moves workspaces when I do ALT-TAB even after the above setting change. Also, something that is really dumb that it does is that I can have 3 terminal windows and 1 firefox window open. If I ALT-TAB it makes all of the terminal windows look like one option for ALT-TAB vs being able to ALT-TAB between them. You can of course hold it at that selection for the switcher, and then it expands to let you select one of the terminals....

How do I revert ALL ALT-TAB behavoir to the previous way it was done?

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-03-27
Install CCSM, go into the unity plugin, check the bias alt-tab behavior, I'm pretty sure this is close to what you want.

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-03-27
> **jerome1232 said:**
> Install CCSM, go into the unity plugin, check the bias alt-tab behavior, I'm pretty sure this is close to what you want.

Already did that, it is closer... But I'd like to revert the behavior to the old way. I do a lot of terminals for work, and like to have the old behavior since I switch back and forth a lot.

---

### Post by markbl on 2012-03-27
> **SupaRice said:**
> Already did that, it is closer... But I'd like to revert the behavior to the old way. I do a lot of terminals for work, and like to have the old behavior since I switch back and forth a lot.
Use ATL+<key above tab> (usually backtick) to switch between windows of same app. This ALT+tab, ALT+` scheme is how it works in unity, gnome-shell, and Mac OSX so you may as well get used to it. It is better than the old all window ATT+tab scheme.

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-04-04
NICE! That's what I needed...

Is there a way to change the behavior back though? I mean I'm not the only one that dislikes this new interface. Seems like it wouldn't be a difficult thing to support both.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-04-04
> **markbl said:**
> Use ATL+<key above tab> (usually backtick) to switch between windows of same app. This ALT+tab, ALT+` scheme is how it works in unity, gnome-shell, and Mac OSX so you may as well get used to it. It is better than the old all window ATT+tab scheme.

Very nice, I learn new keyboard shortcuts everyday it seems.

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-04-06
Anyone know how to easily switch between the tabs of a terminal window?

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-04-06
> **SupaRice said:**
> Anyone know how to easily switch between the tabs of a terminal window?

ctrl+pgup/ctrl+pgdwn

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2012-04-06
> **SupaRice said:**
> Anyone know how to easily switch between the tabs of a terminal window?

alt+1 alt+2 etc

---

### Post by SupaRice on 2012-04-09
Nice! Thanks

---

