---
title: "X resolution on boot problem"
date: 2007-12-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Milambar on 2007-12-22
This is a post-install problem.

I have to interrupt the boot sequence and edit the grub command line, to remove the "splash quiet", and add acpi=off.

If I don't, the machine fails to boot. 

However when it boots with those changes, it seems to boot into a 1600x1024 resolution screen. Well, not seems to, it does do. The problem is, I only have a 19" monitor. While it handles it, the text is impossibly small to read.

Going to System/Preferences/Screen Resolution and changing it to 1024x768 **does nothing**.

The only way I can get a readable X resolution, is to drop to a terminal, edit xorg.conf, then restart X.

However, thats even being a problem now. Its still booting up into 1600x1024 mode, a mode thats no longer listed in xorg.conf. Killing and restarting X fixes it, but I don't really want to be killing and restarting X each boot.

My xorg.conf file (as I know someone will ask to see it).
> 
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "Buttons"               "7"
        Option          "ButtonMapping"         "1 2 3 6 7"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
        Driver          "intel"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "GATEWAY EV90"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
        Monitor         "GATEWAY EV90"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Any suggestions how I can permanently resolve this problem? 

Thanks. Allan.

---

### Post by Nano Geek on 2007-12-22
Try running this:```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```Answer the questions, and see if it works after that.

---

### Post by inertz on 2007-12-22
Have you try to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst  instead of interrupting the boot sequence?
After that try to reconfigure your X.

---

