---
title: "Grub : What is my windows drive set as?"
date: 2006-07-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
Alright, my computer, it is set up with ubuntu as the primary (master drive), said drive is 80 gigs.  My windows drive is the secondary (slave drive) and said drive is 160 gigs.  
     
    Now if i am correct...which im probably not...i dunno...but i believe that my ubuntu drive is at hd0,0 and i have no idea what my windows drive is.  I can not even see the drive by going Places -> Computer -> and it should be there but its not.  
     
     Any help?

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-07-02
Try this on terminal

```

sudo fdisk -l

```

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
well...
Code:
Disk /dev/hda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1   *           1        5133    41230791   83  Linux
/dev/hda2            9542        9729     1510110    5  Extended
/dev/hda5            9542        9729     1510078+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
justin@justin-desktop:~$



um...i think that only reported on my ubuntu disk...i guess i need to know what my windows drive is considered like if it is hd1,0 or something like that...cause i would really love to dual boot...i am getting tired of pluggin and unplugging drives

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=Justin Holt]
um...i think that only reported on my ubuntu disk...i guess i need to know what my windows drive is considered like if it is hd1,0 or something like that...cause i would really love to dual boot...i am getting tired of pluggin and unplugging drives[/QUOTE]

Fdisk should show you all the physical harddrives .. Is the other one attached on your system too?

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=mlind]Fdisk should show you all the physical harddrives .. Is the other one attached on your system too?[/QUOTE]

yes currently at this time both hds are hooked up...

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=Justin Holt]yes currently at this time both hds are hooked up...[/QUOTE]

You did use **sudo** with that fdisk command?

Does *System > Administration > Disks* show your volumes?

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=mlind]You did use **sudo** with that fdisk command?

Does *System > Administration > Disks* show your volumes?[/QUOTE]

i did use sudo in the fdisk command and it does not show my 160 gig windows drive in the disks window

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=Justin Holt]i did use sudo in the fdisk command and it does not show my 160 gig windows drive in the disks window[/QUOTE]

hmm.. that's very strange. You could try running
```

sudo lshw | less

```
and see if it's listed. If not, then there's something wrong in drive detection..
You should view kernel messages using *dmesg* or looking /var/log/messages

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=mlind]hmm.. that's very strange. You could try running
```

sudo lshw | less

```
and see if it's listed. If not, then there's something wrong in drive detection..
You should view kernel messages using *dmesg* or looking /var/log/messages[/QUOTE]
well...im guessing there is something wrong with drive detection...cause its not listed... :-( and i thought i would be able to dual boot by the end of the night

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
Well...i can now get my drive to show up as /dev/hdb...but i have no idea where to go to adjust my grub loader or how to actually view it

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-07-02
This was automatically generated by Ubuntu installer to /boot/grub/menu.lst.

```

# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title           Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root            (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map             (hd0) (hd1)
map             (hd1) (hd0)
chainloader     +1

```

It won't probably work for you without modification, but you can use it as reference.
Your should search the forums about similar threads where other members have
setup their windows partition for grub.

---

### Post by karlsson88 on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=Justin Holt]Well...i can now get my drive to show up as /dev/hdb...but i have no idea where to go to adjust my grub loader or how to actually view it[/QUOTE]



i think you must mount the drive before you can view it..? it's lots of threads here were it stands how you do that.

---

### Post by rejser on 2006-07-02
If it is hdb you should have
title           Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root            (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader     +1

(after where the hd1 is, replace the 0 with partition number of your win drive att the harddrive, you can check in cfdisk (sudo cfdisk /dev/hdb (just exit the program withouth making changes after), starting att 0, hdb1 is hd1,0 hdb2 is hd1,1  (hd0 is hda, hd2 is hdc))....
at least I think so...??

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=mlind]This was automatically generated by Ubuntu installer to /boot/grub/menu.lst.

```

# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title           Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root            (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
map             (hd0) (hd1)
map             (hd1) (hd0)
chainloader     +1

```
[/quote]

ok...so i editied the loader...only problem is that i get 
```

ERROR 21 : Disk not found

```
i am sure that is what it said atleast...in that general meaning...could it just be the cable there is bad?  If it is i have another cable i could use to test it

It won't probably work for you without modification, but you can use it as reference.
Your should search the forums about similar threads where other members have
setup their windows partition for grub.[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
ok...so i changed the cable and i still get error 21 when i try to boot to windows but...now i get this, included is a screen cap...my harddrive exists in ubuntu!  thats a start but it can not be mounted

[http://justin.ragerobotics.com](http://justin.ragerobotics.com)
thats the screen cap

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-07-02
[QUOTE=Justin Holt]ok...so i changed the cable and i still get error 21 when i try to boot to windows but...now i get this, included is a screen cap...my harddrive exists in ubuntu!  thats a start but it can not be mounted

[http://justin.ragerobotics.com](http://justin.ragerobotics.com)
thats the screen cap[/QUOTE]

I don't think it's a cable error. Did you try what rejser suggested?

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
i tried doing the cfdisk but i was only able to see my linux drive...it could not see my windows drive...and there is only one partition on the windows drive...as you can see above it wont even mount the 160gig windows drive so i didn't think it would see it in cfdisk anyways...but i did try

---

### Post by rejser on 2006-07-02
you should be able to se win partitions in cfdisk. At least I can, both ntfs and fat32.
 but if it is only 1 partition it should be

title Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader +1

by the way, the disk must be toggled as bootable, but it should be unless you turned it off. (you will se in cfdisk if it is bootable.)
sudo cfdisk /dev/hdb <-- can you copy output.

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
Lemme put this out there...
I can not boot to the drive.
I can not see the drive in the computer section (Places -> Computer)
I CAN see it in System-> Administration -> Disks but can not browse it from there and get this error 
```

You do not have the permissions necessary to view the contents of "disks-conf-hdb1".

```

So what are my options really...this is the situation as of now.

---

### Post by rejser on 2006-07-02
have you tried just putting the info above in /boot/grub/menu.lst at the bottom?
do so by sudo gedit (or kedit if kubuntu) /boot/grub/menu.lst and add.
but if you know that the drive is hdb, and that there is a partition on it. why not try to mount it. 
copy the line below into xterm or the console you use (assume that it is a ntfs drive and not fat32 since it is 160gb
```
mkdir win && sudo mount /dev/hdb1 win/ -t ntfs -o nls=utf8,umask=0222
```

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-02
ok...well..going thru temp-> disks-conf-hdb1 there is my win hard drive
so...now i know that it is hdb1, how do i assign that at grub if it does not realieze it is at hd(1,0)?
this is just the last bit to put me over the top

---

### Post by mlind on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=Justin Holt]ok...well..going thru temp-> disks-conf-hdb1 there is my win hard drive
so...now i know that it is hdb1, how do i assign that at grub if it does not realieze it is at hd(1,0)?
this is just the last bit to put me over the top[/QUOTE]

Okay there's two different things here. GRUB menu is only for booting to different
OS', /etc/fstab entry for mounting parititons on linux.

To mount the drive to your own mount point, edit /ect/fstab and add
```

/dev/hdb1       /media/windows     ntfs    ro,nls=utf8,umask=0222   0       0

```

You have to umount /dev/hdb1 from temporary mount point, you can see this
looking in /etc/mtab.
```

cat /etc/mtab

```

Create mount point in /media and mount the drive. I'll assume temporary mount point on /etc/mtab was /tmp/disks-conf-hdb1
```

sudo mkdir /media/windows
sudo umount /tmp/disks-conf-hdb1
sudo mount /media/windows

```


To get option to boot on windows instead of linux, edit menu.lst and add new entry
Use any editor, I'll use gedit.
```

sudo gedit /boot/grub.menu.lst

```

Put this at the end of the file and save
```

title Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root (hd1,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader +1

```

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-03
So i have learned something out of this whole thing.  BIOS BIOS BIOS.  I forgot a while ago that i disabled the secondary drive. :oops:   And after screwing up grub...i am reinstalling ubuntu as i speek so i will have a fresh grub and a fresh shot at this...so it will hopefullly work...i will post again when im done...hopefully it works :rolleyes:

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-04
Well...i am the master of screw ups...I reinstalled ubuntu cause i royally screwed everything up...and...well...a: it still hangs at grub...i think and b: the windows drive is still my secondary drive...and it boots windows...compleetely ignores grub and linux...i am about ready to give up on grub personnally...:cry:

---

### Post by flarkit on 2006-07-04
[QUOTE=Justin Holt]Well...i am the master of screw ups...I reinstalled ubuntu cause i royally screwed everything up...and...well...a: it still hangs at grub...i think and b: the windows drive is still my secondary drive...and it boots windows...compleetely ignores grub and linux...i am about ready to give up on grub personnally...:cry:[/QUOTE]

Don't give up yet man...

If you're using 2 drives, with XP on the first and Linux on the 2nd, then it **may** be something simple. Just be sure that you have the correct combination between your boot-sequence in the BIOS and the physically connected drives.

I went through a similar exercise over the past weekend, installing Ubuntu on a 2nd drive and then being unable to boot into Ubuntu. 2 reinstalls later (thankfully only 10min each!) and I did the following:

1) Install Ubuntu (on the 2nd drive), ensuring that the WinXP drive is still connected and also that XP does boot.
2) Restart the PC and go into the BIOS
3) If your BIOS has the option, set the boot sequence to boot from the Ubuntu drive. Now GRUB should load from there and you should even see an XP entry in the GRUB menu.

If your BIOS doesn't provide that feature, then simply swap the physical drive connections (and jumpers) so that the Ubuntu drive is the master drive.

HTH
:D

---

### Post by Justin Holt on 2006-07-04
See...thats just it...ubuntu is the master drive and windows is the secondary drive.  They are both properly connected and jumpered to be like that....i have no idea why the heck it doesn't work...is there any way to install just grub with out having to install all of ubuntu because i remember in the breazy install disk when it was in text you could go out to the menu and do the different things. 

My other friend is kinda good with gentoo and said it is possible to do it through that but i don't want to take the chance

---

### Post by flarkit on 2006-07-04
It is possible to install Grub alone. You'd need to properly identify your Windows and Linux partitions though.

You could start off reading [this page](http://josephhall.org/grub_install_hda1.html), looking at the sections called 
**"What if you have two drives?"**
and
**"How do I reinstall GRUB?"**

---

