---
title: "11.04 Unity/Compiz/OpenGL...something...is broken."
date: 2011-06-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nivu885 on 2011-06-12
Alright, so I know there are a few other threads out there dealing with similar problems, but after reading and executing a few commands/steps... nothings working for me.

Heres my problem.

After installing Compiz-Fusion, and activating the Desktop Cube, I lost a number of Unity features that simply will NOT come back. My launcher is gone, Docky (which is now removed because I thought it may be interfering with some part of Unity) was failing to render correctly, I have no notification bar at all. 

So here is what I've managed to do to attempt to solve it.

I've booted in U-Classic, and ran a few shell commands from tty1.
I've  restored Unity back to its default values, I've done a few other things as well, 
including restoring Compiz back to its apparent default values, cube off, unity on, decoration on, Gnome compatibility on....

etc.

And Im still stuck.

No launcher, no notification bar, and before removing it entirely, Docky was just flashing, unstable, and unresponsive. It was also failing to show any icons other than the Docky logo.

If anyone could please give me anything else to try...im just short of doing a clean install...

Thanks.):P

---

### Post by nivu885 on 2011-06-12
Just did a clean 11.04 install. Obviously fixed.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-06-12
I am fairly certain that you can not have the compiz cube with unity as it needs the wall plugin, and you can't have both together.

I have not been able to run unity on my desktop (too old!), so I say this with little to no experience of using unity myself, but I suggest you are extremely careful about making changes to the compiz plugins, other than the unity plugin ior you may end up in the same place again.

---

### Post by nush on 2011-06-12
i have the cube running with unity,

check out youtube for how to
nush

---

### Post by nush on 2011-06-12
this how to
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lVR1y9cJHWA&feature=related](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lVR1y9cJHWA&feature=related)
nush

---

