---
title: "18.10 when i let my pc go to stand by, i cant log in with right password"
date: 2018-12-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by buzzcola on 2018-12-10
after updating my PC from 18.04 to 18.5, when i let my pc go to stand by, i cant log in with right password. when i type the password, press enter it goes to stand by again right away so it asks for password again so im unable to login. Any idea?

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-12-10
I am assuming that you upgraded and did not do a clean install.  I see (and have experienced) too many problems when upgrading.  

  	 	 	 	   Every 2 years, a long term service release is made.  18.04 was the last one: released during the 4th month of 2018, hence the name 18.04.  The next LTS release will be in 2020 during the 4th month.  In the meantime, a new, short term release will be issued every 6 months.  These short term releases are only supported until the next short term release. However, the LTS releases are supported for 5 years.  It is always best to stick with the LTS releases. When it comes time to upgrade one of those, I have always found it easier and quicker to just backup what I need to keep, wipe out what is there, and do a clean install.

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-12-10
Does this machine have only one user created so that there is only one password?  There have been some problems with "login loops" in different versions of Ubuntu.  The link below has some suggestions/solutions for an earlier version of Ubuntu with this problem.  You might review the link and do an online search for login loop with ubuntu 18.10.

 [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2374885&page=3](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2374885&page=3)

I'd agree with the above post that users are better off with an LTS release unless something is not working with it or a user like testing software.

---

### Post by buzzcola on 2018-12-11
thanks for info, very cool. I think i will do a fresh install

---

