---
title: "12.04 how to (really) disable screensaver / screen blanker?"
date: 2012-09-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bonuswhore on 2012-09-25
I'm on Ubuntu 12.04 and I can't seem to be able to disble the screen blanker.  After maybe 5 minutes of inactivity, the screen blanks out and goes to power saving mode.  I run awesome window manager and it happens there but also in Gnome Classic mode. (haven't tried unity but I imagine its there too)

Things I've tried:

disabling in gnome-control-center: 'Don't Suspend', Turn off screen Never
gconftool-2 -s /apps/gnome-screensaver/idle_activation_enabled --type=bool false
gconftool-2 -s /apps/gnome-power-manager/ac_sleep_display --type=int 0
gconftool-2 -s /apps/gnome-power-manager/timeout/sleep_display_ac --type=int 0
gnome-screensaver-command -d
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.screensaver idle-activation-enabled false
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.screensaver lock-enabled false
xset s off
xset s noblank 
setterm -blank 0 -powerdown 0

I believe a work-around would be to install caffeine, but I'd rather find a solution without having to add third-party apt repos and install a daemon or whatever just to stop a screen blanker

---

### Post by bonuswhore on 2012-09-25
Option          "BlankTime"     "0"
    Option          "StandbyTime"   "0"
    Option          "SuspendTime"   "0"
    Option          "OffTime"       "0"

added ^ to xorg.conf in ServerLayout and now I get no more screen blanking

---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2012-12-26
Perfect, this appeared to resolve my issue.  Thanks!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2098422](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2098422)

---

### Post by blumcr on 2013-01-19
Will this work in Ubuntu 12.10 also.  Am I correct that I should create a file /etc/X11/xorg.conf and populate the file with the following code:

Section "ServerFlags" Option "blanktime" "0" Option "standbytime" "0" Option "suspendtime" "0" Option "offtime" "0" EndSection
Just want to make sure I'm doing this correctly.

Many thanks.

---

### Post by solarbird on 2013-04-15
> **blumcr said:**
> Will this work in Ubuntu 12.10 also.  Am I correct that I should create a file /etc/X11/xorg.conf and populate the file with the following code:

Section "ServerFlags" Option "blanktime" "0" Option "standbytime" "0" Option "suspendtime" "0" Option "offtime" "0" EndSection
Just want to make sure I'm doing this correctly.

Many thanks.

There's a lot more on xorg.conf here, particularly in specific reference to doing exactly this:

[http://shallowsky.com/linux/x-screen-blanking.html](http://shallowsky.com/linux/x-screen-blanking.html)

Basically all these interfaces (unity, gnome, w/e) run atop basic xwindows. Sooner or later, you get down to x, and a lot of things can be set in xorg.conf as kind of a last resort. (This is how I got my multimonitor xinema setup working. Yes, it took that. But it works and is awesome.)

---

### Post by Tim036 on 2013-04-27
I think the fix is to go to 'Brightness and Lock' in the 'system settings' and put 'Turn screen off' to 'never' and then turn 'Lock'  to 'OFF'.

This screen blanking Unix legacy has plagued me a lot over the years, so very happy to share it !

No need to go into BASH and do things to the OS.

Occam was right !  *LOL*

:  )))

Tim

---

### Post by arvevans on 2013-06-14
My 12.04 with Gnome has no "System Settings" "Brightness and Lock" menu.
Also, there is no "etc/X11/xorg.conf".

    arv@Workstation:/etc/X11$ ls
[B]    app-defaults            
    ja_JP.UTF-8  Xreset      
   Xsession.options
   cursors                    
   rgb.txt        
   Xreset.d    
   Xwrapper.config
   default-display-manager  
   X          
   Xresources
   fonts                       
   xinit           
   Xsession
   ja_JP.eucJP              
   xkb            
   Xsession.d[/B]
   arv@Workstation:/etc/X11$ 

This seems to be a recurring problem for many users.  
There are several threads with this topic/question.
Many of the replies look like good information, but apparently do not apply to the 12.04 release.
We need a definitive answer that is specific to this release of Ubuntu, and maybe specific to each window manager.
Thanks,

---

### Post by arvevans on 2013-08-05
Gave up and upgraded to Ubuntu 13.04 release.  
Still the same problem.  It seems that the old tool to prevent CRT screen-burn is still with us 
and apparently cannot be disabled, even thought we now use LCD screens which do hot
have the screen-burn phenomena.

---

### Post by anonymous_user2 on 2013-08-07
Hacking X11 will work but, will require restarting the XSession for all. If you want to restart the machine? Just goto the BIOS and disable screen blanking under acpi settings.

If you don't want to restart the machine you can accomplish the same thing by::D

```
sudo chmod -x /etc/acpi/screenblank.sh
sudo service acpid restart
```

---

