---
title: "[10.10] Network manager capacities: force one dns for all, no more interaction"
date: 2011-03-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by juju43 on 2011-03-02
I'm using a netbook with ubuntu while traveling and in a lot of places, the network seems quite unstable.

As when you travel, you change a lot of accomodation (ok, it depends ...), for most/all wifi connections, I want to force some settings. One of them is dns servers (eg google or opendns) and not using local dns.
It does not seem possible currently. only per connection setting, no global one.

Another thing, wifi signal is unstable and after some time, NM bugs you with a dialog. I want to have an option to say unlimited try, eventually with a notification, but don't depend on an interaction as I know signal is cut regularly and it's not the password.

Any hints ?

Thanks
Cheers

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-02
To manually set the DNS servers you can use this package:
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/maverick/resolvconf](http://packages.ubuntu.com/maverick/resolvconf)

I have set it up with a "/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base" like this:
```
nameserver 145.253.2.75
nameserver 145.253.2.81
```

Unfortunately I can check at my system about your other question, since I have a cable connection. But I remember (from my mom's system) that there is an option in the connection settings about (re-)connecting automatically, check it.

---

### Post by juju43 on 2011-03-03
ok. thanks for resolvconf.

As for reconnecting automatically, network preferences has for each connexion this checkbox (and it's checked) but after some network failure/router reboot or else, when network is too long to reconnect, nm-applet asks you again for the password. 
That's this behavior I want to stop and would prefer to have a simple, non-blocking notification while nm continues to try to reconnect.

---

### Post by mwray on 2011-03-03
Network Manager is itself part of the issue. As it will also wipeout resolvconf base settings. I would search for alternate wifi managers for your environment, they tend to work better than Network Manager, which seems to forget networks altogether and sometimes change who it runs as, and change permissions on its own files so it can't access them later.

(i.e if NM is running and I am in a terminal and sudo, it seems to change to whomever I sudo to.. which is poor behaviour.)

I have yet to be able to use wifi without tinkering at any of the sites I use wifi, unless the network was insecure, and happened to match the previous networks subnet.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-03
> **juju43 said:**
> 
As for reconnecting automatically, network preferences has for each connexion this checkbox
You are right, I overlooked those in my connection settings, looking below, not above. ;-)
But there is also a text config file of those settings, you should have a look into those, and those is not the same as for cable connections, that's what I basically meant.

And no, the NM doesn't change the "base" settings, that's exactly what the package is meant to handle.

---

### Post by mwray on 2011-03-03
:confused:(Apologies if I sound rude..don't mean too...I'm working hard to concentrate as I have been working too hard at work...too many 12+ hour days)

No, it doesn't overwrite the "base" files. It OVERRIDES the settings set by resolv.conf (the package not the /etc file). And resolv.conf doesn't change it back until reboot, or manually restarting networking. 

Network manager always overwrites /etc/resolv.conf which is what the system uses to determine which dns to use.

resolvconf  only modifies /etc/resolv.conf at boot time. Network manager OTOH modifies everytime it loses signal to wifi and reconnects. Network Manager also frequently loses saved settings for networks that I always connect to, or mixes settings from different saved sessions. 
(Ubuntu 10.10, all updates up to date as of this afternoon.)



Since I'm not using GNome or KDE, the alternate wifi managers don't work for me. (XFCE's wifi manager relies on Network Manager). 

So I Use network manager, then drop to the command prompt and manually run the script that causes resolvconf to overwrite resolv.conf w/ the correct settings. It'd be nice if the function to tell Network Manger to not touch resolv.conf worked.

I thought I had corrupt user data in my home directory, so I created a new user, and experienced the same issues.

The point is, DNS should not be dependent upon my connection unless I am participating in some form of Directory based Auth. If I need custom "DNS" entries for networks I participate in, then I wouldn't mind a checkbox to enable that for THAT network, but it is ridiculous to have to override resolv.conf constantly since most of the networks I use give out brain dead DNS servers (i.e they don't respond.)

I don't have any issues on machines that are permanently hardwired as there are no connections to be managed by NM.

Since I see others don't seem to have this issue, are their possible files in my home directory that affect network manager's behaviour in this area? (i.e. it's ignoring check marks, and losing settings for networks. and basically is the only unstable app on my system.)
[COLOR="Magenta"]Ok...so it seems that there is some package updates that are being applied on my systems that remove the package resolvconf but leave all the configs. Now if I can just figure out what the fudge is removing resolvconf...no wonder it never seems to work for me.[/COLOR]:confused:

---

### Post by locketine on 2013-04-16
> **mwray said:**
> 
The point is, DNS should not be dependent upon my connection unless I am participating in some form of Directory based Auth. If I need custom "DNS" entries for networks I participate in, then I wouldn't mind a checkbox to enable that for THAT network, but it is ridiculous to have to override resolv.conf constantly since most of the networks I use give out brain dead DNS servers (i.e they don't respond.)


I know this is an old thread but it seems that if I give network manager DNS settings for one of my network connections those settings are used by all network connections.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2013-04-16
From the _[Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/misc.php?do=showrules")_.
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.
Thread closed.

---

