---
title: "[SOLVED] ntfs biig problem plez help"
date: 2008-01-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tropcky on 2008-01-29
hi all i am back to ubuntu 7.04 after 2 weeks maby 4   from using the badest system in the world  ( windows )  and i have a problem now   my ntfs partations dosnt want to work in write and read 
its work read only and that is a big problem i tryed 3g-ntfs 1 tryed ntfsconfig    and no hop   plez help

---

### Post by Kingfield on 2008-01-29
Could you be a bit more specific? you mean your nfts partition for windows?

---

### Post by tropcky on 2008-01-29
no i am now using only ubuntu and all my ntfs  is all working read only

---

### Post by tropcky on 2008-01-29
any one ?

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-29
post the output of
```

cat /etc/fstab

```

---

### Post by tropcky on 2008-01-29
thank u   

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=57e36b6f-f025-4c44-8e56-626dcd5f3696 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=D4AC4B0DAC4AEA16 /media/sda2 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=10FEE24AFEE227A4 /media/sda5 ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=18cc8ec9-a70e-49df-8b6c-c008adbac28d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/New\040Volume ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0
tropcky@tropcky-Linux:~$

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-29
ok, also do this just so I can be sure to give you the correct entry

in the terminal enter:
```

cat /etc/groups

```
-- no need to post it. Just scroll down and see if you see a line like this (with your username in it):
```

plugdev:x:46:haldaemon,erfahren,root

```

---

### Post by tropcky on 2008-01-29
no i just got thes 

cat: /etc/groups: No such file or directory

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-29
I'm going to go offline so I'll just post an example entry for your /etc/fstab with the permissions set for you to read and write to the partition.

**note: I just noticed that you are using Feisty. -- read/write support for NTFS is supplied in Gutsy by default, but in Feisty it may not be. You may still need to install 3g-ntfs. The main problem you were having is the permissions just weren't set correctly.**  

first - back up your current file (always a good idea) - name it whatever you want
```

sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab_backup

```
then - unmount the partition you want to change (your /dev/sda2 for example):
```

sudo umount /dev/sda2

```
open it in the text editor to edit it
```

gksudo gedit /etc/fstab

```
replace the line for your /dev/sda2 with this:
```

# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=D4AC4B0DAC4AEA16     /media/sda2     ntfs    nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46     0     1

```
save the file and when done editing it "mount all" with:
```

sudo mount -a

```

for further information see:
[Setting permissions for FAT (and NTFS) filesystems - Fedora Forum](http://forums.fedoraforum.org/archive/index.php/t-32096.html)
[Mounting Windows Partitions in Ubuntu](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)
[How to edit and understand /etc/fstab](http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html)
[NTFS FAQ](http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php?id=ntfs-en)

--- hope that does it

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-29
> **tropcky said:**
> no i just got thes 

cat: /etc/groups: No such file or directory
oops - sorry - its
```

cat /etc/group

```
(no "s")

---

### Post by tropcky on 2008-01-29
> **erfahren said:**
> oops - sorry - its
```

cat /etc/group

```
(no "s")

ya i can see my user name 
tropcky:x:1000:

---

