---
title: "12.10, no Anyconnect or Davmail icons in sys tray"
date: 2013-01-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2013-01-21
Fresh 12.10.. installed AnyConnect and Davmail to test using Thunderbird with Exchange.. How does one change the sys tray or panel function in Gnome 3 to display the icons for these two applications?

---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2013-01-21
I should change this to mention that no icons for any other applications that I have installed or are running display in the sys tray area. Have I missed something using Gnome 3?  Is this a stupid question that stops the gurus here's from attempting to help on?

---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2013-01-23
Wow so what sounds like such a simple thing must be very hard or tricky since there's not a single response.  C'mon people someone must know what I can do.. I cant be the only person who wants Gnome 3 AND sys tray icons.

---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2013-01-30
No wonder I never keep Ubuntu for long.  I always try to make a circle back around after every other release.. mainly to see how things are going but I always have issues getting help.  If something as simple as a friggin icon can stump the linux experts around here then I shudder to think of having a REAL problem.  FFS at least somebody saying they don't have a clue is better than nothing.  Not sure what I've done to **** people off but damn.. please forgive me.
Maybe I should create another account that shows I've never touched Linux even once to get some sort of assistance.  Not crossing my fingers..

---

### Post by galfly on 2013-03-12
Hey, did you try topicon extension for GNOME3? Alternatively you can try 

gsettings set com.canonical.Unity.Panel systray-whitelist  "['AnyConnect', 'Thunderbird']"

and end you session and log back in. I hope this helps.

---

