---
title: "How do you stop Gnome from automounting fixed volumes, e.g fat32 or ntfs partitions?"
date: 2007-10-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tturrisi on 2007-10-12
How to stop Gnome from automounting fixed volumes, e.g fat32 or ntfs partitions?
gnome-volume-manager (System | Preferences | Removable Drives and Media) is for removable or hotplugged devices and drives, and I DO want my usb drives, card reader & dvd/cd to automount.  I have a fixed drive with 4 partitions, and I don't want the ntfs & fat32 partitions to be automounted.  I want to manually mount them when needed.

---

### Post by zach014 on 2007-10-12
edit your /etc/fstab file
it should look something like this:
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=81d2903b-17e7-4eca-9f52-2b509dfdecec / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=a73c99b8-77a6-45db-a18b-8f98c3095aba none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0


```

look for the FAT32 or NTFS device, and change the part that says "auto" to "noauto"
leave everything else as is
that should do the trick

~zach
EDIT: you will need to open /etc/fstab as root (type "gksu gedit /etc/fstab" and enter your root password
be careful what you edit in /etc/fstab!

---

### Post by tturrisi on 2007-10-12
My fstab has no entries for those partitions.

---

### Post by mexlinux on 2007-10-12
In KDE, open systemsettings and there is a graphical interface to enable/disable the mount of the partitions.

---

### Post by eurgain on 2007-10-13
> **tturrisi said:**
> My fstab has no entries for those partitions.
Strange... can you post a copy of /etc/fstab here?

A

---

### Post by vanadium on 2007-10-13
fat and ntfs partitions are detected during installation of Ubuntu and mounted in a folder under /media by default. However. all that exists in /media will be represented by an icon on the desktop. While that is fine for removable devices such as USB drives, it might be an annoyance for permanent partitions.

To avoid this behaviour, just move the mount point of these fixed volumes. This will mount the volumes, but will not display an icon. If you really do not want to mount these volumes, you can use the option "noauto" in fstab or remove the fstab entry all together.

If you want to mount them, but not have them as an icon on the desktop, then I advise to mount them under the "classical" /mnt directory. (1) Make sure the partitions involved are not mounted. (2) Then move the mount point of the partitions from /media to /mnt (3) change /media in the relevant lines in /etc/fstab to /mnt (4) remount using "sudo mount -a". No output should appear from that command if all is all right.

---

### Post by tturrisi on 2007-10-13
> **vanadium said:**
> fat and ntfs partitions are detected during installation of Ubuntu and mounted in a folder under /media by default. However. all that exists in /media will be represented by an icon on the desktop. While that is fine for removable devices such as USB drives, it might be an annoyance for permanent partitions.

To avoid this behaviour, just move the mount point of these fixed volumes. This will mount the volumes, but will not display an icon. If you really do not want to mount these volumes, you can use the option "noauto" in fstab or remove the fstab entry all together.

If you want to mount them, but not have them as an icon on the desktop, then I advise to mount them under the "classical" /mnt directory. (1) Make sure the partitions involved are not mounted. (2) Then move the mount point of the partitions from /media to /mnt (3) change /media in the relevant lines in /etc/fstab to /mnt (4) remount using "sudo mount -a". No output should appear from that command if all is all right.

Thanks, that's what I thought I had to do.  The no-auto was what I was missing. This gives me the fat32 FILES desktop icon but no ntfs XPPRO icon.    This now does what I want, thanks. 

current fstab:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/dev/sda3       /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/sda4       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hda        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/sda2	/mnt/FILES	vfat	iocharset=utf8,umask=000	0	0
/dev/sda1	/mnt/XPPRO	ntfs-3g	defaults,noauto	0	0
```

---

### Post by dustman on 2008-01-15
well...my problem is the exact opposite. I don't know what i did, but my NTFS partitions don't appear any more on my desktop, nor in "Places" under Nautilus. The thing is that they are mounted. Any idea how to get them back on my desktop? :confused: . Another problem would be that along with losing my icons on the desktop for the NTFS partitions, i also lost the icons for all the devices plugged in the computer: now if i plug in a USB stick, it gets recognized, a Nautilus window pops up with the contents of the USB stick, but again, no icon on the desktop....What could have i messed up so bad? :|




[EDIT]: I was a bit hasty tonight with this post. All i had to do was a system restart and everything went back to normal :). My bad !

---

