---
title: "12.04 LTS  and deleting fire fox"
date: 2012-08-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ABRIII on 2012-08-10
I have Ubuntu 12.04 LTS with all the updates.   I have Fire Fox for linux installed and am having problems loading it.   It always loads Google and I cannot get to a fire fox menu to select that it not load google.   I would like to delete fire fox and would like to know how to do it, then I can reload it again from the application downloads at Ubuntu. 

Thanks for your help,

Aaron

---

### Post by pierceTN on 2012-08-10
> **ABRIII said:**
> I have Ubuntu 12.04 LTS with all the updates.   I have Fire Fox for linux installed and am having problems loading it.   It always loads Google and I cannot get to a fire fox menu to select that it not load google.   I would like to delete fire fox and would like to know how to do it, then I can reload it again from the application downloads at Ubuntu. 

Thanks for your help,

Aaron

in terminal:

yum remove firefox

then to reinstall just do "yum install firefox"

(also if you do not have yum installed: "sudo apt-get install yum")

-Pierce

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-08-10
yum is not an Ubuntu package.  I believe that's Fedora.

Before you completely purge it, you can try to move the profile folder that holds all of those settings.  Look for a file in your home directory called .mozilla, and rename it as a backup:

```
sudo mv ~/.mozilla .mozilla.bak
```

Then when you relaunch Firefox, it will make a new profile that should be blank.


If still want to completely purge Firefox, then you can run:

```
sudo apt-get purge firefox
```

---

