---
title: "5.10 Many problems"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tobylane on 2008-05-10
I'm new to Ubuntu, I've had the 5.10 Live cd for a while and I installed it last night. My cd-writer is broken (or at least it is from windows).

1. Some things in the menu don't open, like Update Manager
2. I got to Update Manager from xterm, and it said I'm up to date, but also said it was using the 5.10 disc.
3. I'm stuck on 800x600, which I can't stand. I've never used drivers for this moniter.
4. How do I make Windows first in Grub (Yes, I'm that stupid)
5. How to I update to Heron?
6. I downloaded Opera and XCFE, but neither would install right, I don't know what went wrong.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-05-10
You can download a cd for heron and install it that way, which is the recommended way.

After that install, if you have any issues, post them back here.

Heron has better hardware support and should run out of the box better than 5.10.

Also, please post any hardware specs of details that you know, like pc type, memory, hard drive size, what version of Windows are you using?

---

### Post by tobylane on 2008-05-10
If I did download it, how would I write, whats the cd writer program.

Its xp, which I'm on now. Amd athlon 2600+, 1.91ghz, 384mb ram.

---

### Post by ladr0n on 2008-05-10
Are you asking how you would burn the Hardy CD in Windows, or how you would burn CD's in general in Ubuntu?

In Windows - A decent utility for this is [ISO Recorder]("http://isorecorder.alexfeinman.com/isorecorder.htm") 

In Ubuntu - Brasero is the default cd burning program in Hardy Heron.  It has a very intuitive interface and can handle basically any type of CD project (Data, Audio, ISO's, etc.)

---

### Post by tobylane on 2008-05-10
I'm unable to burn cds from Windows, I don't know if its windows, or the otherwise working cd drive. Is Brasero in 5.10?

---

### Post by camurgo on 2008-05-10
I never used Ubuntu 5.10, so can't help with those other config problems. But I think it's all gonna vanish after you upgrade your distro anyways.

About grub, you just want windows to be first on the initial menu, did I follow correctly?

All you need to do is to edit(sudo) the file "menu.lst" on grub directory.  Normally this is at /boot/grub/menu.lst 
Notice that all lines starting with "#" are just comments, the ones without "#" are the ones that you wanna move around. I'll skip further details, I believe the rest is pretty straightforward.

About upgrading to Hardy Heron, I have a suggestion. What about a "live pendrive" ubuntu instead of a live CD ?  I tell ya, since I've learned that, I don't do installs any other way. 
If you decide to go this way, what you have to do to create it is to download the live .iso, and then copy its files to a formatted usb stick, doing little configuration in between.

There's some different ways of doing it..
Here's how I do it: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4816524](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4816524)

ps: your motherboard must support usb booting, nowadays they all do.

---

### Post by jongkind on 2008-05-10
Brasero is not in 5.10. If you want to burn an iso image via Ubuntu you can try install Gnomebaker. This is in the repositories. Alternatively you need a Windows burning program capable of burning iso images (assuming that you have a working CDROM drive).

---

### Post by camurgo on 2008-05-10
Oh, you're new to ubuntu, I've only read the first line of your post now... :)

Sorry, maybe I pushed too much information. 
But if your cd writer is really broken, then it comes down to the 2 options: a) buy a new drive(and/or other hardware); b) Do the install-from-pendrive thingy.

---

### Post by tobylane on 2008-05-10
I'm pretty sure this computer is too old for usb, I remember seeing the boot order once (floppy, cd, hdd0, hdd1). I will try Gnomebaker, then Shipit. Thanks.

---

### Post by tobylane on 2008-05-20
I found some things mentioning sudo mount, can I do that for an 8.04 iso?

---

