---
title: "10.04 - I can't change my file associations"
date: 2012-02-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by lanzd on 2012-02-27
I currently have netbeans 7.0.1 installed on my machine and installation goes through without a hitch.  I can open up the program and create new projects and files.  The issue I'm having is when I double click a file (.php in this case) I can't get it to automatically open in netbeans.  

When I try:
Right click the file->properties->open with tab->add->and select netbeans 

I get an error "Could not find '/usr/bin/netbeans'".  I follow all the the instructions (which are everywhere) for installing netbeans but it seems to want to install into

/home/username/netbeans-7.0.1

which is probably why it can't find netbeans in the other directory.  I can change the directory netbeans installs in but I get permissions errors when trying to install it to /usr/bin/netbeans.  I can change permissions but I don't think this is the correct way to go about this.

Any help is appreciated, Thanks

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-02-28
Two answers.

Either:

[LIST]
[*]Use the directory where netbeans is installed.
[/LIST]
Or:


[LIST]
[*]Install netbeans as root (using sudo or gksudo as appropriate) to /usr/bin. You'll want to first deinstall your current installation.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by lanzd on 2012-02-29
How would I specify my modified path for the file association?  The only way I know how is by right clicking and going to properties.  When I do it that way, it gives me an error when I select netbeans.

```

Could not find application
Could not find '/usr/bin/netbeans'

```It may be worth noting that in this same window, netbeans does not have an icon whereas the rest of the items in the list do.  

----------------------
While typing this I was looking around and it seems the only executable I have to run netbeans is a DOS/Windows .exe and the icon for it is a "Wine" icon.  I may be having this issue because the version I downloaded was a windows version.  But the name of the file I got off of netbeans site was "netbeans-7.0.1-ml-php-linux.sh".  

----------------------

I'm going to look into that later, but regardless can anyone explain how to customize file associations in ubuntu? (10.04 if it matters).  Other then the "right click->properties->open with...." method.

Thanks, Dan

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-02-29
> **lanzd said:**
> ... can anyone explain how to customize file associations in ubuntu? (10.04 if it matters).  Other then the "right click->properties->open with...." method.
I think that is the only method, as it is Nautilus that holds the associations.

Right-click > Properties > Open With > Add > Use a custom command > Browse > (navigate to your executable)

---

### Post by lanzd on 2012-02-29
I'm at work at the moment so I can't see if I have the " Use a custom command > Browse > (navigate to your executable) 	" part of that. 

When i get home I'll double check, if it was there this whole time I'll feel stupid lol.

Thanks Dan

---

### Post by lanzd on 2012-02-29
Allright, so I just got home from work and started looking at this.  I am in fact downloading and installing the linux version, so I find it weird that my executable is a DOS/Windows .exe.  Besides that I looked for and found the "Use a custom command" option and navigated to my netbeans executable at 

"home/~username~/netbeans-7.0.1/bin/netbeans.exe" 

and tryed adding it, but no bueno.  But reading the wording of "Use a custom command" stuck me with a great idea.  I can just type in the prompt command right there to make it work.  That ended up working.

After all this though, I was looking in my netbeans folder where the .exe is and realized, staring me right in the face was the shell script to execute netbeans.  I wanted to see if it would work if I navigated to that shell script in the "open with" tab and it did.  

I feel so dumb, I was looking for a similar "type" and icon to what I mostly have in my /bin directory.  

Well, thank you for all of your help.  Now I know lol.

Dan

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2012-03-01
Fantastic, I'm glad you managed to figure it out. That's a great learning experience!

Please [mark the thread as solved]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads").

---

