---
title: "12.04 gnome classic and compiz 0.8.8"
date: 2012-06-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Nit3H8wk on 2012-06-13
I have downgraded to ubuntu 11.04 so I can downgrade to compiz 0.8.8 which works flawless with no bugs and very smooth on my 8600M GT. Is it possible to downgrade compiz to 0.8.8 in ubuntu 12.04. I only use gnome classic as I can't stand unity/gnome3. Does anyone know all the dependencies I would need to resolve and how to go about it. I can compile compiz from source if I need to. Using compiz 9x is not an option for me as it is rubbish like the unity interface.

---

### Post by Simian Man on 2012-06-13
Have you tried KDE?  Kwin, the window manager for KDE provides a similar feature set as compiz and is far less buggy and volatile.  KDE also provides a sane desktop system unlike Unity.  In addition, you'll be able to stay up to date with current code.  Even if you manage to keep using old versions of compiz and gnome, you'll have to struggle with this each time you upgrade.

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-06-13
The recent Compiz is pretty stable. But if you still want 0.8.x, then there's no (easy) way to do it other than recompiling from source. And then there's the dependency problems...

---

### Post by Nit3H8wk on 2012-06-18
> **zombifier25 said:**
> The recent Compiz is pretty stable. But if you still want 0.8.x, then there's no (easy) way to do it other than recompiling from source. And then there's the dependency problems...

In the most recent compiz can u drag windows around the cube without any flicker? Also the performance is better in compiz 0.8.8.

---

### Post by Nit3H8wk on 2012-06-18
> **Simian Man said:**
> Have you tried KDE?  Kwin, the window manager for KDE provides a similar feature set as compiz and is far less buggy and volatile.  KDE also provides a sane desktop system unlike Unity.  In addition, you'll be able to stay up to date with current code.  Even if you manage to keep using old versions of compiz and gnome, you'll have to struggle with this each time you upgrade.

yeah i haven't used KDE in a long time i guess i could give it another go since xubuntu has the same problems and 11.04 is too unstable

---

### Post by jmouse888 on 2013-05-06
No it's not stable! Only kind of stable if you only use the features that are turned on by default.  Just installed 12.04 fresh on a 4 month old hardware.  Compiz will crash/freeze when some additional plugin is turned on.  For example, it will freeze when "Unfold" (Ctrl-Alt-Down) is used in "Desktop Cube"; Windows will flash when rotating cube; dragging windows to another desktop while rotating is does not work.

---

