---
title: "10.4 Vncserver showing shortcut error, seems like a bug"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Pritamsng on 2010-05-10
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]In normal desktop GUI is working fine.[/FONT][/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]But when in install VNCserver and tried to connect form my window machine through Ultra vnc it is not working properly. The issue I am facing is: when I am opening a terminal and enter later "m" from keyboard its work as a short for mail, and in case of later "s" the shortcut is "shutdown tab" those are present in panel.[/FONT][/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]Then I remove those from panel and now I can enter the word m and s in terminal.[/FONT][/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=black][FONT=Verdana]The behavior is seems like a bug. [/FONT][/COLOR]
:guitar:

---

### Post by marfie on 2010-05-11
Mine is an upgrade from 9.10 ubuntu with GB keyboard. On the connected keyboard it works as it should but using RealVNC VncViewer 4.1.3 on a Windows XP PC I get the same s & m shortcut issue. All other keys work normally. I have tried disabling some of the keyboard shortcuts that are configured but it has no effect. For me this makes it a bit difficult since this is the way that I work on the m/c.

---

### Post by beckj on 2010-05-14
I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 and found this same problem. Only because my ubuntu is running in vmware I could step back to the 9.10 system.
The problem occurs with an encrypred vnc connection via internet. If I'm working locally via vnc or direct keyboard everything is OK. I was using thightvnc on WinXP, my vncserver on ubuntu is xvnc 4.1.1

---

### Post by canabal on 2010-05-14
I also am having this error.  Only with "s" and "m".  Strange.  I am using vnc4server.  When I use x11vnc I do not get the problem.

---

### Post by Pritamsng on 2010-05-28
ok... the bug has been solved now...

just try to update 10.4. now....

---

