---
title: "10.10 can't be installed with video 640x480!"
date: 2010-10-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by alin_gherghescu on 2010-10-21
Hi,
I had the following problem when I installed ubuntu 10.10:
- my video was only able to show 640x480 and the installation was a nightmare (I started more than 10 times until I was able to finish - because right-down buttons are not visible ...)
If you need more details about my hardware let me know and I can run some software to collect data about my hardware if is necessary.
Basically I have a dual monitor system (one lower resolution and one with higher resolution).
A nice fix will be (if possible) to not clone automatically the screen on both screens -> and to give me the option to choose the video settings (before starting the installation - and this screen to have always 640x480 ...)
Thank you for your time.

Alin

---

### Post by 31632531 on 2010-10-21
Why don't you disconnect your second (lower resolution) monitor for the install and once your system is up and running plug it back in and configure it then?

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-10-22
Hi,
I haven't tried this with the Ubuntu installer, but I think you should be able to hold down the left alt key and use your mouse to drag the entire window upwards so you can get to the buttons. 
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-10-22
You may also try at the options window where it let's you choose to install or try. Press F6 and select "nomodeset".

---

### Post by alin_gherghescu on 2010-10-22
first of all thank you for your answers ...

31632531,
second monitor was not connected ... but is like the laptop screen (I can't disconnect it).

ankspo71,
I tried to move the window outside of the screen -> I was unable to move the window outside of the screen (I didn't tried with LEFT-ALT key pressed -> the LEFT-ALF pressed is changing some how the behavior?).

wojox,
I don't have experience with ubuntu and I tried to use the default path (K.I.S.S. way ...). 

Next time - when I will have this problem - I will apply all your suggestions. Thank you for your time.

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-10-22
> **alin_gherghescu said:**
> .

ankspo71,
I tried to move the window outside of the screen -> I was unable to move the window outside of the screen (I didn't tried with LEFT-ALT key pressed -> the LEFT-ALF pressed is changing some how the behavior?).


Hi,
Yes, holding down the left Alt key changes the behaviour of how we can move windows. Normally we can only move widows by dragging the title bar, but when we hold down the left Alt key, we can drag the window from any part of the window which will allow us to move a window all the way up off the screen if we want to. I am inside my Ubuntu 10.10 live cd now and I can confirm that this works for the installer too. By the way, this also works in the installed Ubuntu, not just the live cd. 
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by 31632531 on 2010-10-23
You can try installing with the "[Alternate Install CD]("http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/alternative-download")"

This will let you do an install in text mode (see link) it should work with your low resolution and allow you to complete all the steps necessary to install your new system.

---

### Post by alin_gherghescu on 2010-10-25
ankspo71,
I didn't knew about this behavior. under desktop it works very nice ... I like it.

31632531,
For sure that can be used for low display devices ... 

Thank you for your time.

---

### Post by 31632531 on 2010-11-12
> **alin_gherghescu said:**
> ankspo71,
I didn't knew about this behavior. under desktop it works very nice ... I like it.

31632531,
For sure that can be used for low display devices ... 

Thank you for your time.


alin_gherghescu;

did it work?

---

### Post by alin_gherghescu on 2010-11-15
31632531,
I didn't tried ... (I will try it when I will have the opportunity)

---

