---
title: "10.04 amd64 gnome panel very slow"
date: 2010-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DrTomFlint on 2010-11-01
Hi all, 

Login and gnome panel are suffering huge (30 seconds) delay in operation.

After entering the username/password it takes almost 30 seconds for the desktop to load.  The background shows up first then after a long pause the gnome panel.  Similar delay on log out.

This is on an Asus P5Q-EM motherboard, Ubuntu 10.04 amd64 install.  Happens with clean install and also after applying full update.

Doesn't matter if desktop effects are turned on or not.

  daemon.log shows some warnings:

gdm-simple-greeter[2025]: devkit-power-gobject-WARNING; Couldn't enumerate devices:  Did not receive a reply....

<later and repeated 3 times>

gnome-session[1999]: devkit-power-gobject-WARNING: Error invoking GetAll() to get properties:  Did not receive a reply.  Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.

Seems like there is a problem when the gnome session tries to authenticate using the message bus.  

Any suggestions most welcome.

---

### Post by DrTomFlint on 2010-11-02
Found some more info in the ~./xsessions-errors log:

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1638): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: cannot register existing type `_PolkitError'

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1638): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_once_init_leave: assertion `initialization_value != 0' failed

After that there are some more errors or warnings from gnome panel and power manager to indicate that the message bus is not working.

---

### Post by DrTomFlint on 2010-11-04
Simple resolution:

Install 10.10 alternate amd64 instead of 10.04.

Wanted to have the LTS release but couldn't get it woking.

10.10 install clean with no issues.

---

