---
title: "19.04 Intermittent freezing of keyboard"
date: 2019-06-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gdesilva on 2019-06-18
Hi, I am having intermittent freezing of the keyboard and would like to know if anyone has come across this issue. The problem has happened when using various applications and even when I tried a different keyboard suggesting that it may be a system issue. The problem occurs only for a short duration - about 10-15 seconds and comes back to normal operation. The mouse does not freeze during this period and I have not observed similar problems with the mouse.

Any pointers to resolve this issue will be appreciated.

---

### Post by &amp;wP*!) on 2019-06-18
Can you copy-paste /var/log/syslog which covers 20-30 seconds of duration? Maybe there is some information regarding this freeze.
Also, /var/log/boot.log might be helpful.
You can use [https://pastebin.com/](https://pastebin.com/) to copy-paste the content, which might be easier for you.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2019-06-18
Some info on your machine would probably be helpful.

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2019-06-18
@pencuse and @Autodave, thanks for the suggestions.

I checked the boot.log and syslog but could not find any records of problems when the freeze happens. In fact, while I was typing the first line of this post the keyboard froze for a few seconds but there were no new entries in syslog or dmesg. The boot.log is here [https://pastebin.com/qEQCDz3Y](https://pastebin.com/qEQCDz3Y) and the syslog is here [https://pastebin.com/zky4wB4x](https://pastebin.com/zky4wB4x)  - just thought of including them in case you come across anything unusual.

I am using a HP Compaq 8200E SFF running Intel i7 2600 with AMD Cedar graphics.

Has been running Ubuntu Studio previous versions for some years now without any issues.

The only other issue I have noticed is that, Emerald Window Decorator seems to crash time to time which I can restore by simply restarting Compiz. Already four times the keyboard froze while I typed this post!

Thanks for your time.


EDIT: disabled Compiz and booted the system but keyboard freezing is still present which indicates that the issue is not directly related to Compiz.

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2019-06-22
Looks like it was a pretty simple problem after all...I had the wireless keyboard dongle as well as a wireless mouse dongle plugged in to the same USB panel on my PC and it appears the the mouse dongle was interfering with the operation of the keyboard dongle. Removed the wireless mouse dongle and the problem appears to have gone away.

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2019-06-24
I thought the problem was resolved by removing the second bluetooth dongle but unfortunately it still occurs, albeit at a lesser frequency suggesting it may be something to do with the blueman process??

---

