---
title: "7.10 version of gnumeric doesn't come with any function!"
date: 2007-11-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by boyfarrell on 2007-11-08
Hello

For some reason the when I upgraded to 7.10 gnumeric broke. 

gnumeric still opens but doesn't recognise any of the built in functions. My spreadsheets are now full of #NAME errors.

I have tried to install from source, but there are lots of dependancies, and even after I have installed them using synaptic, gnumeric still can't find them.

Any ideas how to get a working version of gnumeric!

Cheers,

Dan.

---

### Post by Captain Rotundo on 2007-11-21
Does no one have an exlaination for this? Gnumeric is supposed to be a supported package and this is ridiculous.

---

### Post by boyfarrell on 2007-11-23
I couldn't solve this problem!

I have now down-graded to 6.06 LTS were everything works fine.

Could the Linux kernel cause this problem? In 6.06 LTS the kernel is 386 and in 7.10 it is 686. 

Dan

---

### Post by jongkind on 2007-11-24
Mine is working. I did a clean install though.

---

### Post by boyfarrell on 2007-11-24
Hi,

I have done two clean installs and got the same result both times. This is very strange!

---

### Post by Surkow on 2007-11-24
Could you upload an example document for others to test?

---

### Post by jongkind on 2007-11-25
> **boyfarrell said:**
> Hi,

I have done two clean installs and got the same result both times. This is very strange!

Another suggestion is that you do  the following steps (also in this order):
[LIST=1]
[*]remove gnumeric
[*]remove the directory "/home/yourname/apps/gnumeric
[*]reinstall gnumeric
[/LIST]

---

### Post by boyfarrell on 2007-11-26
Hello,

I don't have an applications directory in my home directory? I thought that all apps are installed in /usr/local/bin or /usr/bin?

I did uninstall gnumeric, and reinstalled. That didn't work. I then tried to build from source but ran into dependancy hell!

Cheers,

Dan

---

### Post by jongkind on 2007-11-27
The directory that I mentioned should be there. In that directory your personal settings of gnumeric are stored.

---

### Post by jbrefort on 2007-11-29
This happens most probably because you have libgoffice-gtk instead of libgoffice and gnumeric-gtk instead of gnumeric. 1.7.10 is a development version, so you can't hope it's fully stable. The bug has been fixed upstream for a while.
Note that the without-gnome build was intended for win32. Using such a build on unices removes some useful features. Not even certain it prints (1.7.90 does).

---

### Post by mw44118 on 2007-11-29
I had to install the package gnumeric-plugins-extra and then I got some more equations.  Gnumeric works fine for me.  Here are all the packages I have installed:

$ dpkg -l | grep gnumeric
ii  gnumeric                              1.7.11-1ubuntu3                           GNOME spreadsheet application
ii  gnumeric-common                       1.7.11-1ubuntu3                           common files for Gnumeric, the GNOME spreads
ii  gnumeric-plugins-extra                1.7.11-1ubuntu3                           additional plugins for the GNOME spreadsheet

Maybe you are missing gnumeric-plugins-extra.

Matt

---

### Post by digitalhillbilly on 2007-12-06
This very same problem just came up with me - at the worst time of course. I installed gnumeric just the other day and didn't use it until today. Everything was working fine until I tried to connect to my Mac to print a rough draft, both the network hung and gnumeric froze. Very odd mix of events. Had to force quit and restart. After Ubuntu was up again, I launched gnumeric and had a screen full of #name?'s. ug! I've removed and reinstalled all the gnumeric parts (gnumeric, common and plugins v.1.7.11-U3) and have had no luck. 

I'm in the middle of a document that I need to finish for tomorrow and am out of ideas. Damm you Murphey! ;)

I appreciate any help that can be offered.

Thanks
dh

---

### Post by digitalhillbilly on 2007-12-06
I am a noob! From the Tools (like me) menu select "Plug-ins" and enable the plug-ins you want from the list. It's odd they were disabled from the crash but seemingly, thats all that happened. Everything is there and works great!

Thanks for the help!
dh

no problem!
dh

---

