---
title: "Xbox 360?"
date: 2018-06-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by idkwhatimdoing1.0 on 2018-06-22
Hey, weird question but I have an Xbox 360 that I don't really use anymore and I was wondering if it was possible if I converted it to a computer kind of thing running ubuntu on it... Does anyone know how to achieve that? If not is there anything to harness it's computing power to make my computer go faster?? Thanks

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-06-22
Based on the following I see no storage except the cd/dvd drive and not much memory.     Edit: There is a removable USB hard-drive and size varies . So a USB installation _could be_ possible.
 > Xbox 360 System Performance Specifications:

Custom IBM PowerPC-based CPU: Three symmetrical cores running at 3.2 GHz each - Two hardware threads per core; six hardware threads total - VMX-128 vector unit per core; three total - 128 VMX-128 registers per hardware thread - 1 MB L2 cache

CPU Game Math Performance: 9 billion dot product operations per second

Custom ATI Graphics Processor: 10 MB of embedded DRAM - 48-way parallel floating-point dynamically scheduled shader pipelines - Unified shader architecture

Polygon Performance: 500 million triangles per second

Pixel Fill Rate: 16gigasamples per second fill rate using 4x MSAA

Shader Performance: 48 billion shader operations per second

Memory: 512 MB of 700 MHz GDDR3 RAM - Unified memory architecture

Memory Bandwidth: 22.4 GB/s memory interface bus bandwidth - 256 GB/s memory bandwidth to EDRAM - 21.6 GB/s front-side bus

Overall System Floating-Point Performance: 1 teraflop

Storage: 12x dual-layer DVD-ROM - Memory Unit support starting at 64 MB

I/O: Support for up to four wireless game controllers - Three USB 2.0 ports - Two memory unit slots

Optimized for Online: - Instant, out-of-the-box access to Xbox Live features with broadband service, including Xbox Live Marketplace for downloadable content, gamer profile for digital identity, and voice chat to talk to friends while playing games, watching movies, or listening to music - Built-in Ethernet port - Wi-Fi ready*: 802.11a, 802.11b, and 802.11g (*Wireless network adapter is require for wireless connectivity.) - Video camera ready


Digital Media Support: Support for DVD-Video, DVD-ROM, DVD-R/RW, DVD+R/RW, CD-DA, CD-ROM, CD-R, CD-RW, WMA CD, MP3 CD, JPEG Photo CD - Ability to stream media from portable music devices, digital cameras and Windows XP-based PCs - Ability to rip music to the Xbox 360 hard drive - Custom playlists in every game - Built-in Media Center Extender for Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005 - Interactive, full-screen 3-D visualizers


High-Definition Game Support: All games supported at 16:9, 720p, and 1080i, anti-aliasing - Standard-definition and high-definition video output supported


Audio: Multi-channel surround sound output - Supports 48KHz 16-bit audio - 320 independent decompression channels - 32-bit audio processing - Over 256 audio channels




---

### Post by idkwhatimdoing1.0 on 2018-06-22
so theres a 1Tb HDD and ram wont really be an issue ill see what I can do with it, I feel it would be easier to get if I actually makew it a computer

---

### Post by idkwhatimdoing1.0 on 2018-06-22
but how does one do it?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-06-22
> **idkwhatimdoing1.0 said:**
> so theres a 1Tb HDD and ram wont really be an issue ill see what I can do with it, I feel it would be easier to get if I actually makew it a computer

> 1Tb HDD


Depends on model/age.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-06-22
> **idkwhatimdoing1.0 said:**
> but how does one do it?

There are instructions for persistent storage USB installations though I don't how to go about it in that type of drive. As I wrote could be possible. Though you can reset an Xbox, I don't think reboot as you would a usb on a computer.

---

### Post by idkwhatimdoing1.0 on 2018-06-23
yea I'll try to see some videos and bring up any thing if I see, I just want to have some kind of computer always on the side doing something

---

### Post by idkwhatimdoing1.0 on 2018-06-24
Ok so update time, I completely took the Xbox 360 apart, gigantic hassle by the way as like the plastic is semi rigid and the screws aren't the easiest to work with if you don't have the right tools. Anyway took it all apart and I put my hard drive from my laptop instead of the xbox. In my mind if i take away the hard drive from any computer and put in a right one with linux on it it should load linux right? However instead smart Microsoft decided to put there BIOS in the motherboard, this makes it a completely harder task to actually be able to run linux. And it wont let you boot on a difference device.... So im trying to figure out a way to erase it and get a new one on it. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-06-24
Not likely you can replace a bios specific to that device/board just as with a computer you can only download or update for the mobo installed . I wonder if has a bios or something like secure boot or UEFI .

---

### Post by idkwhatimdoing1.0 on 2018-06-24
Ive called Microsoft 3 times so far and I got two responses that it is possible however they can't say how to do anything but I was told to bring it to a small tech place and theyd probably do it without a problem since they don't endorse microsoft or it isnt a big company with a bunch of regulations. And another person told me that if I opened my Xbox it would blow up... so I think 2 out 3 of them knew what they were talking about.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-06-24
> that it is possible Possible to what ? Change the bios or boot Linux on an Xbox ? The bios would be specific to the board manufacturer.

They don't have a CPU like a standard  computer mother board either. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vxs2o3u22K4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vxs2o3u22K4)

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2018-06-25
Back in 2007 a project called [free60]("https://github.com/Free60Project/wiki") (mirror of their wiki on github) managed to do what you're trying to do and ran Ubuntu 7.10 on a XBox 360 (They later upgraded to 11.10; the project seems to be dead now). **BUT**: You need a Linux compiled for the PowerPC processor of the 360, for the Hack to work you need a hacked version of a specific game, the console needs to have a specific DVD-Drive and it must **never** have been upgraded past a specific version of the firmware.

Just putting a HD with Ubuntu for a PC into a 360 will not work; the 360 has it's complete 'OS' in flash, it does not boot of a HD and as far as the processor is concerned X86-code is pure non-sense.

Holger

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-06-25
More info. Lubutu 14.04 was the last listed release for PowerPC and is out of support. 


[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCDownloads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCDownloads)


[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xbox_360_technical_specifications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xbox_360_technical_specifications)

---

### Post by noah31 on 2018-06-25
It won't work unless some very interesting hacking is done. The CPU is designed to disallow unsigned code from running, and the only way to get around this as of current is by using modchips soldered to the motherboard. In other words, any custom software requires modifying the hardware to bypass security features built in to the CPU. The only other way is to get the private signing keys from Micro$oft, which I'm sure they would rather die than give those away. If you're still interested, look up JTAG (for older 360s) or the Reset Glitch Hack (RGH)(for older and newer 360s). One question though, Why would you do this? This is a massive undertaking considering the hardware only has 512MB of RAM, You would have to build a distro from the ground up to have anything even remotely useful. If you want a cheap and cheerful computer go buy a library thin client and shove a SSD in it. Completely silent, and is strong enough to play videos, browse the web, etc. I suggest a HP T610 Thin Client, you can find those for under $100 used when the liquidation lots auction them off. You will need to make a bracket, but a 2.5" SSD or HDD will fit just fine. Just food for thought.

---

