---
title: "14.10 Unity Desktop fails to load fully?"
date: 2014-12-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by crayman122 on 2014-12-09
Ok so i updated my dist with sudo apt-get dist-upgrade yesterday and upon booting i get a low resolution screen with no launcher, no menu bar. just the cursor and desktop background. After playing around and clearing the cache, i did manage to get cairo dock to load so i can launch applications however i have a big black bar at the bottom of the screen (Presumably from Cairo dock running in openGL mode) 

Heres a screenshot of whats happening

[ATTACH=CONFIG]258478[/ATTACH]

Ive tried everything from clearing the cache to reinstalling unity and i dont know what to do

yes i can get into the command line.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-12-09
Have you tried activating another video driver? 

apt-get dist-upgrade will sometimes remove existing packages that will cause conflicts with the packages that are to be installed. And it is called "smart upgrade." But it is not so smart when it breaks the desktop. As it did in your case. I will avoid using dist-upgrade unless absolutely necessary and then I keep all my fingers crossed.

Regards.

---

### Post by crayman122 on 2014-12-09
Yes ive tried using the proprietary nvidia driver and that fixed the low resolution problem but not any other problems. I also tried the rest of the drivers. Still nothing. After rebooting after a gui update ive lost wifi conectivity but i think that the proprietary broadcom driver has been disabled by update-manager.

---

