---
title: "9.04 Desktop completely freezes."
date: 2009-05-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by lgbowden on 2009-05-25
I have installed dual-boot Ubuntu 9.04 on several machines including a nv1005 Compaq laptop.

It's a pretty much clean install but the computer freezes fairly frequently using Firefox. I can pretty much reproduce it on my Belkin router everytime but has happened using other websites like news.bbc.co.uk as well. I installed it about a week ago.

When I say freeze I don't mean Firefox I mean the entire computer. No response from the keyboard, mouse and the CPU activity icon I keep on the task bar also stops as well. I have no option to force a power-off and restart - this has probably happened on a daily basis.

When this same machine is under MS XPP it has never frozen in any shape or form. I do find it annoying but I'm surprised that a website/browser can bring down an entire machine. Are there any log files that are kept that might help find out what is going wrong?

---

### Post by maxislinux on 2009-05-25
Well, Jaunty as i guess is not a fairly stable thing to use right now. As for the browser causing a problem, i think it has something to do with the graphics card ... i had a jaunty installed on ny Lenovo Y510, intel 945gm. The thing would boot, and simply freeze. I would suggets, that you either apply the latest patches or settle for a Ubuntu 8.10 install.Thats much safe and free flowing. Wel thats what i did.

---

### Post by maxislinux on 2009-05-25
well, i dont know if u have faced any problems with compiz so far, or the display drivers. For cards like NVIDIA or ATi the support i guess is still experimental. 9.04 introduces alot of xperimntal stuff, which mite explain ur crash

---

### Post by bstanley on 2009-05-25
Hi!

If you have compiz enabled, try turning it off.  If this solves the
problem it may be an xorg problem instead of a driver problem.


From a prior post I made on another thread:

I have been having freeze problems with Jaunty also but now it seems I have resolved the problem on my system.

I am using an ABIT KT7A Mother board with an ATI Radeon 7000/VE Rv100qy Video card. The driver being used is the open source radeonfb driver.

I solve the problem by changing the xorg options in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.
I replaced the following entry for by video card:

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

with:
Section "Device"
Identifier "Radeon 7000"
Driver "ati"
Option "BusType" "PCI"
Option "AGPMode" "1"
EndSection

Notice that I no longer allow Xorg to auto configure the driver and
the two option values were suggested as a freeze fix on the Xorg website for systems having opengl freeze (an other freeze probems).


This may not help anyone here, but it's worth a try.


Hope this helps!

---

