---
title: "[SOLVED] Ubuntu Document Storage Facility"
date: 2006-05-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by manicka on 2006-05-26
The [Ubuntu Document Storage Facility]("http://doc.gwos.org/") maintained by the [UDSF Team]("https://launchpad.net/people/udsf"), is a fully indexed archive of some of the best HOW-TOs, Tricks and Tips, generated by our Forum Community.

:KS :KS :KS :KS :KS

If you are willing to help us go to our [sub-forum]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=124")

---

### Post by jan on 2006-07-31
Nice project guys! ;)

---

### Post by ardchoille on 2006-08-04
I stumbled upon UDSF by accident recently. Lately I have been wondering if there was a project like this. I am very glad to see that there is. Good work!

---

### Post by skinnygmg on 2006-08-24
jjj

---

### Post by user1397 on 2006-08-25
yep, a wonderful project.  thank you for including 2 of my guides in there! :p

---

### Post by abhisheknegi on 2006-11-21
damn gud job guys....\m/

---

### Post by kalikiana on 2006-12-15
It's a good idea to keep those documents together. :)

---

### Post by Schalken on 2007-01-10
Isn't that the point of the wiki - HOW-TOs, Tricks and Tips? :-k

---

### Post by Zyphrexi on 2007-04-16
I'd like to see these included in the main distrobution for offline perusing.

---

### Post by kumar01 on 2007-04-19
Hi All,
This is an excellent forum and site i ever visited and response seems to be pretty quick. I really enjoying this site and forum.

I am new to linux, last few days I am trying to install Ubundu different ways with XP dual boot. I am getting the help from this forum posted by different users.

Thanx to all participants
Kumar[SIZE="3"][/SIZE]

---

### Post by gg234 on 2007-05-30
I would suggest this great ubuntu articles,Howto's and tips for all users check [here]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com") 

Very clear articles with screenshots

---

### Post by drama1981 on 2007-06-29
great resource indeed. however i noticed i cant click on some articles. does that just simply mean they havent be created yet?

---

### Post by karem morad on 2007-08-06
good job man

---

### Post by sholsinger on 2007-08-23
I can't seem to connect. 404 Page not found.

---

### Post by djchandler on 2007-08-24
Why am I getting this?

**Not Found**

 The requested URL /index.php/Main_Page was not found on this server.
  Apache/2.2.3 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.2.1 Server at doc.gwos.org Port 80

Tried this 8/24/07 at 22:00 GMT. (8/24/07 17:00 CDT)

DJ

---

### Post by omns on 2007-08-24
I get this at doc.gwos.org

> 
Work in progress.

Attacks from the outside have made necessary the replacement of equipment.

Those responsible for the attacks will just be sacked.

Those responsible or ordering the attackers to attack will be sacked.

Those responsible for ordering the order of the attacks will also be sacked.

from here on out your experience will be fresh and new, and in a new experience entirely.

Thank you,

The Management.


---

### Post by djchandler on 2007-08-25
> 
                                                 Work in progress.

Attacks from the outside have made necessary the replacement of equipment.

Those responsible for the attacks will just be sacked.

Those responsible or ordering the attackers to attack will be sacked.

Those responsible for ordering the order of the attacks will also be sacked.

from here on out your experience will be fresh and new, and in a new experience entirely.

Thank you,

The Management.                                 

                                                                                 __________________
                [CENTER][B][COLOR=Purple]Think of your abuser as a horse who is stepping on your foot. You stand there screaming in pain and ranting at the horse.  
Why not lift the horse’s leg up and take it off your foot?
[/COLOR][/B][LEFT]
[/LEFT]
[/CENTER]
[LEFT]            Get 'em guys! This can't stand.  Did you read the article on *Wired* about the coordinated attack on [Estonia]("http://www.wired.com/politics/security/magazine/15-09/ff_estonia")? Nearly the entire country's data infrastructure was compromised apparently by Russian hackers. It was assumed to be retaliation for Estonia removing a Soviet monument. It's possible this goes all the way up to Putin. Everybody beware of URLs with a .ru extension. Most of the zombies/bots used in this attack were in the USA. If stuff like this doesn't ruin MS, I don't know what will. Everybody with a zombie computer ought to have it seized by Homeland Security!

DJ

[/LEFT]

---

### Post by toasterofirony on 2007-08-27
The message is in such broken English, I wonder if it was written by hackers.

Weird.

---

### Post by bonzodog on 2007-09-16
You know, I never knew this thread existed.

oh well.

You will be glad to know that the UDSF is coming back, and soon. We are currently preparing a new doc, and have preserved the most popular how-to's from the original one. However, we did lose quite a bit of data, and pulling old docs out of the server backup's proved hard. So, only the most read docs made it into the new one.

We have changed the wiki software to Dokuwiki as well, which we find is easier to maintain and has some built in levels of protection that we can employ to prevent massive spam attacks.

---

### Post by gibbsnich on 2007-10-11
Is gwos.org really gone or is this only temporarly?

---

### Post by Chonnawonga on 2007-10-20
It seems to have moved. It is now here:
[http://doc.gwos.org/doku.php]("http://doc.gwos.org/doku.php")

---

### Post by machoo02 on 2007-10-21
That link now brings up a page for some sort of IT consulting firm.  Did UDSF get their domain name scooped?

---

### Post by Chonnawonga on 2007-10-22
How odd! It didn't look like that yesterday. The link on [Launchpad]("https://launchpad.net/~udsf") still points to that, too.

---

### Post by omns on 2007-10-24
The doc seems to be dead again with 'server not found' errors. This project seems to have had its day.

---

### Post by bonzodog on 2007-10-26
No, we are still around.

We got attacked AGAIN, and have had a few problems with the hardware since.

We know who has done this, and are going to make the UDSF bulletproof in future, so hopefully it won't go down again. I know it has spent a lot of time off-line lately. Suffice to say, the infrastructure put in place for this is huge and has taken a few weeks to get going.

The doc should hopefully be back up in the next 72 hours, it kept on going down due to repeated attacks from one source. There has been a lot going on in the background in the last week or so.

---

### Post by omns on 2007-10-26
It's sad that all the previous hard work was lost in these attacks. How does the doc go about gathering its information now that the owner is no longer associated with these forums? It seems strange that he would mainatin that link.

---

### Post by Saphira on 2007-10-26
The project is very much alive and kicking and as bonzodog just said, the UDSF has been the target of almost constant attacks recently. He is correct about the time frame for the site being back up is within the next 72 hours. 

I found this dead project by manicka and since he's no longer a member of this community i think it would be a cool idea to restart it and possibly create another source of data to be migrated back to the Official wiki.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/forum/import]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/forum/import")

---

### Post by crane on 2007-10-26
> **GrantG said:**
> The doc seems to be dead again with 'server not found' errors. This project seems to have had its day.

You seem to be obsessed with it's demise. The project is fine from what I gather. Let give them a chance to recover from some childish attach. I'm sure it will come back stronger than ever. 

> **GrantG said:**
> It's sad that all the previous hard work was lost in these attacks. How does the doc go about gathering its information now that the owner is no longer associated with these forums? It seems strange that he would mainatin that link.

 Why is it hard to believe someone could support Ubuntu without being a full time active forum member? Ubuntu is strong because of it community. Not because of it forums.
 Yes I think the forums are great, but there are a lot of good people, putting in a lot of personal time and effort to help out with spreading the word about Ubuntu. Don't right them off or look down on them just because you don;t see them in the forums all the time.

---

### Post by omns on 2007-10-29
> **Saphira said:**
>  I found this dead project by manicka and since he's no longer a member of this community i think it would be a cool idea to restart it and possibly create another source of data to be migrated back to the Official wiki.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/forum/import](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/forum/import)

I think the operative word is 'dead' here. There were only ever a couple of people interested in this project and after an enthusiastic start, it died away due to lack of interest. Matthew East would be the person to contact about re-igniting it. I wish you well.

> **crane said:**
> You seem to be obsessed with it's demise. The project is fine from what I gather. Let give them a chance to recover from some childish attach. I'm sure it will come back stronger than ever. 

No obsession, just a simple comment. The doc has been in a perpetual state of attack and rejuvenation since its inception. It all gets rather tiresome and I admire their tenacity but I believe it will not be what it once was, which is a real shame.

That said, good luck to them. I hope it succeeds :)

> **crane said:**
> Don't right them off or look down on them just because you don;t see them in the forums all the time.

I've known KB for a long time as we founded the UDSF together and I think he knows I would never look down on him or write him off. I think you've taken my question out of context but it was also most likely poorly worded on my part. My apologies for that.
__________________

---

### Post by omns on 2007-10-30
> **Saphira said:**
> 
I found this dead project by manicka and since he's no longer a member of this community...

I probably should clarify something here. I am (or was as the case may be) manicka. Ex-staff member and resident crazy. Perhaps one day I can change that perception. Time will tell.

How my previous member name got cancelled and transferred to this one is a long story and not worth re-hashing :)

---

### Post by dukejib on 2008-01-21
Is there a way to download these documents in compiled form?

---

### Post by hulio40 on 2008-04-11
awesome very helpfull project

---

### Post by gunashekar on 2008-04-11
The link [http://doc.gwos.org/](http://doc.gwos.org/) is not accesible.

---

### Post by quasar277 on 2008-04-18
> The link [http://doc.gwos.org/](http://doc.gwos.org/) is not accesible

Same here

---

### Post by omns on 2008-04-18
> **gunashekar said:**
> The link [http://doc.gwos.org/](http://doc.gwos.org/) is not accesible.

[http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/udsf:start](http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/udsf:start)

---

### Post by Trollslayer on 2008-07-12
> **omns said:**
> [http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/udsf:start](http://gaming.gwos.org/doku.php/udsf:start)

¨Not found¨.

---

