---
title: "KDM or Xorg startup failure"
date: 2005-05-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by wande on 2005-05-23
Hi,

I am experiencing startup problems with my fresh Kubuntu installation. Shortly after KDM start I get mostly gray screen and computer stops to response to any keyboard activity. However I can access the computer with SSH.

Problem must be with ATI driver because I can boot to KDE succesfully with vesa driver. No logs or error messages are generated. How could I fix this? I'm gonna try installing fglrx driver next, hope it helps.

My video card is ATI 9200 SE (RV280) and Kubuntu is 5.04 i386. xorg.conf was generated by installation process, I tried adding correct values to Monitor section but it didn't help. Also tried various ati driver options without success.

---

### Post by nemin on 2005-05-23
[QUOTE=wande]
I am experiencing startup problems with my fresh Kubuntu installation. Shortly after KDM start I get mostly gray screen and computer stops to response to any keyboard activity. However I can access the computer with SSH.[/QUOTE]Can't you access the console with Ctrl+Alt+F1 either? And what does happen when you swich to the console first and run `startx` from there?

---

### Post by wande on 2005-05-23
Can't access the console with Ctrl+Alt+F1. And can stop or restart kdm with /etc/init.d/kdm stop/restart.

---

### Post by wande on 2005-05-23
I got VGA output working with fglrx driver which was easily installable with apt-get. Still working with DVI output.

---

