---
title: "*Sigh* Direct rendering broken ONCE AGAIN w/ fglrx update"
date: 2006-09-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by skyshock21 on 2006-09-19
I've gone through this a few times now, I've replaced that libGL.so.1.2 file in /usr/lib with the known-good file that I have saved on my hard drive, restarted the x-server, but Direct rendering still isn't available.  What am I missing?

Would it be a better bet to just use the ATI driver instead of fglrx?  This is getting extremely frustrating.  This friday I'll be buying an Nvidia as a replacement and probably incinerating the ATI card so no one else has to deal with this garbage.  :cool:

---

### Post by calx on 2006-09-20
Same here, made any progress?

---

### Post by icarus.lnx on 2006-09-20
Just did the upgrade also and same thing, it's not even using fglrx anymore...even reinstalled fglrx just to make sure```
fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: www.mesa3d.org
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.4.1)
```
and I thought the libGL.so.1.2 problem was bad enough

In fact, the fglrx module isn't found anymore when trying to load it.```
$ sudo modprobe fglrx
FATAL: Module fglrx not found.
```

---

### Post by Xavier_Geneva on 2006-09-20
Same problem here :(

---

### Post by celeste on 2006-09-20
Odd, I just got mine working...  and with one of the hardest ATI cards to use (Radeon 9200SE)...  ATI drivers tend not to accelerate it.  (yes, fgl_glxgears works fine!)

my xorg.conf:

[QUOTE=xorg.conf]
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
#Section "Device"
#	Identifier	"DVIport"
#	BoardName	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9200 SE (RV280)"
#	Driver		"radeon"
#	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
#	Screen		1
#EndSection
##   Duplicate the above section with the appropriate changes to enable the DVI port, and uncomment the appropriate areas.
#Section "Device"
#	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
#	Driver      "fglrx"
#EndSection
#Section "Screen"
#	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
#	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
#	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
#	DefaultDepth     24
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Viewport   0 0
#		Depth     24
#	EndSubSection
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"

#	Screen		"DVIScreen" LeftOf "VGAScreen"
#	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
#	Option		"Xinerama" "on"	# Enables the middle-edge snapping
#	Option		"Clone" "on"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "Radeon 9200 VGA Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "GLcore"	#exploratory-disabled due to scripting errors?  module fails...  but eventually succeeds from module glx loading it.  (inter-dependencies?)
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
	SubSection "extmod"
		Option	    "omit xfree86-dga"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "false"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

#	Option	    "DPMS"
	Identifier   "1772ED"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
#	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"

#	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Identifier  "Radeon 9200"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BoardName   "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9200 SE (RV280)"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"  #Video Overlay for the Xv extension
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"  #note: when OGL overlay is on, Video Overlay will be disabled automatically.
	Option	    "UseInternalAGPGART" "yes"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "single"
	Option	    "FSAAEnable" "on"
	Option	    "FSAAScale" "6"
	Option	    "Capabilities" "0x00000000"
	Option	    "PseudoColorVisuals" "off"
	Option	    "Stereo" "off"
	Option	    "StereoSyncEnable" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Radeon 9200 VGA Screen"
	Device     "Radeon 9200"
	Monitor    "1772ED"
	DefaultDepth     24
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth     1
#		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth     4
#		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth     8
#		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth     15
#		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth     16
#		Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
#	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x768" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection[/QUOTE]

I followed the instructions in the Ubuntu ATI thread which Google frequently brings up.

If I remember right, what I did was reinstall the kernel-level drivers (with the X server turned off), run some ATI configuration scripts, and it worked.

I don't know what's wrong with the new installation, I believe I'm using it, and I didn't have a working fglrx-accelerated installation before the version update.

---

### Post by skyshock21 on 2006-09-20
Celeste, would you mind posting a link to the tutorial you followed?  This is getting really annoying.

---

### Post by celeste on 2006-09-20
[the HOW-TO wiki which I followed (read the whole thread, read linked websites, etc).]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557")

[some new finds which you might be interested in.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185006")

---

### Post by icarus.lnx on 2006-09-21
Ya, ran that install line as is from the howto and it's good again (after replacing the broken libGL.so.1.2)```
$ sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-<your-kernel-version> xorg-driver-fglrx
```and replace the <your-kernel-version> with the kernel number fron the output of "uname -a"

---

### Post by skyshock21 on 2006-09-21
Okay, I'm back.  Thanks guys.  This ATI card is still getting trashed.  :-x 

compiz/xgl still flakey w/ fglrx driver.  Ugh.

---

### Post by celeste on 2006-09-21
Try double-checking your symlinks pointing to the file in question.  You might find they point to old/bad places, and they seem to reset themselves upon reboot.

In that case, delete or move (to a new directory) the new (bad) libGL.so.1.2 file, re-install the old (good) one, update your symlink (delete the symlink first) to the file (ln with the -s), and you're good to go. I've rebooted several times just to make sure, and everythign seems to work fine.

For the record, a renamed libGL.so.1.2 file doesn't change the symlinks' pointing to the renamed file (since that's how linux filesystems work to keep things working between updates, a good thing making a bad situation hairy).  You have to point the symlink away from the old file.

Edit:  the symlink in question is the libGL.so.1 file.

---

### Post by WalmartSniperLX on 2006-09-22
Man you guys wouldnt believe how much trash ati drivers are.... well maybe you do now :D  Im running fglrx-ati drivers (8.28.8) and im having a lot of probs but theres nothing i can do :D

---

### Post by calx on 2006-09-22
**Radeon 9250**
This worked for me in the end; [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=204910]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=204910")

Using the 8.28.8 version of the ATI drivers.

---

