---
title: "12.04  &quot;Mouse stops&quot; in between dual monitors"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by psychobyte on 2012-04-26
Hi,

I didn't have this issue w/ 11.10 but, when I'm gliding my mouse between dual monitors the mouse "stops" until I really force it to move into the second monitor.  How do I get rid of that? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by psychobyte on 2012-04-26
Ok, 

think I found it.

In compizconfig settings manager > Ubuntu Unity Plugin >> Experimental Tab,
Setting the "Edge Stop Velocity" to 1, seems to fix it.

---

### Post by lilmagnus on 2012-04-27
The other way is under **Settings|Displays**, then turn **Off** the **Sticky edges** option.

---

### Post by mrinterweb on 2012-04-27
Good call on In compizconfig settings manager > Ubuntu Unity Plugin >> Experimental Tab. I set it from 65 to 10, and it works great for me now. Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by kford on 2012-04-27
"compizconfig settings manager > Ubuntu Unity Plugin >> Experimental Tab"

That did it for me too.  Thanks.  

It will doubtless extend the life of my mouse, since I'll stop beating it to death now.

---

### Post by davester65 on 2012-04-28
> **lilmagnus said:**
> The other way is under **Settings|Displays**, then turn **Off** the **Sticky edges** option.

+1  This worked for me :-)

---

### Post by guyfromfl on 2012-06-19
+1 +1 THANK YOU! 


I do alot of back and forth work from Monitor to Monitor, my wrist has been hurting since the upgrade!

---

### Post by sbrinkmeyer on 2012-06-20
ok, so using the compizconfig settings under experimental, i found a new setting "Launcher Monitors", because my pausing between monitors was because the Launcher was trying to be shown.  i set this to "Primary Desktop" and now there is no pausing/stopping between monitors.

---

### Post by richempire on 2012-08-27
I tried "Launcher Capture Mouse" which is at the bottom of that same experimental tab in CompizConfig Settings manager, and that worked as well. apparently Ubuntu still behaves as if a launcher was present in that monitor, which it isn't, at least in my case.

---

### Post by la1234uk on 2013-05-23
Same problem here, I solved going to the compiz setting manager (ccsm), unity plugin, and experimental tab.

At the bottom I set the "Launcher Monitors" to "Primary Desktop" and one line below I unchecked the "Launcher Capture Mouse" option.

That was it, now it works great. 

;)

---

