---
title: "ipw2200 v1.08 driver + wpa, wireless device gone after reboot"
date: 2005-11-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by astyanax on 2005-11-16
I have a Dell Inspiron 8600 which I just installed Ubuntu 5.10 on.  I'm trying to get the wireless card to work which is the Intel 2200.  I installed the latest ipw2200 v1.08 drivers along with the firmware and all the other necessities.  The wireless connection does not work with encryption.  So I reboot the laptop and attempt to try again.  However, after I reboot the eth1 device (my wireless card) is gone.  Ubuntu doesn't recognize it anymore.  Can anyone give me some help with this?  I've been busting my head off the wall trying to find information in the forums, but nobody seems to have had this issue.  I even tried reinstalling Ubuntu Badger again to see if I could get it to work, and came across the same problem again.

Thanks all.

---

### Post by just1m on 2005-11-16
Oddly enough my wireless card just went too. The system sees it in device manager but not in networking, if anyone has any ideas I'd be more than interested.

---

### Post by bryan986 on 2005-11-17
With my inspiron 9300, the stock drivers for the ipw2200 worked just fine for me

Post the results of "iwconfig" and "ifconfig"

Also try "iwlist eth1 scan" to see if your card is doing anything

---

### Post by astyanax on 2005-11-18
I fixed it.  Here's what I did.  Uninstall the v1.08 drivers and ieee80211 packages that you are using.  Reboot the machine.  The wireless device should show up again in Networking.  Then follow the directions in the How-To: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=26623](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=26623)

Use only the drivers, packages and firmware that are listed in the How-To.  For instance, the How-To uses v1.06 drivers.  After that, it worked flawlessly.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by charlesbrooking on 2005-11-18
[QUOTE=astyanax]Use only the drivers, packages and firmware that are listed in the How-To.  For instance, the How-To uses v1.06 drivers.  After that, it worked flawlessly.[/QUOTE]

I had success installing the latest versions, but had to move some files after the "make install".

The ipw2200 module file should be moved to /lib/modules/2.6.12-9-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2200/.
```
sudo mv /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2200.ko /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2200/
```

The ieee80211 module files should be moved to /lib/modules/2.6.12-9-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211/.
```
sudo mv /lib/modules/`uname -r`/net/ieee80211/ /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211/ 
```

You also need to follow instructions in the INSTALL files that describe how to remove old module files that might be hanging around. From what I could gather, I had different versions of the modules in different directories, and they were conflicting.

This may not be technically correct (someone might correct me), but it seems to work.

---

