---
title: "11.04 Viewport Switcher"
date: 2012-01-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by hodad on 2012-01-10
Upgraded to 11.04 this past summer.  I've been trying to get the workspace switcher working like it does on my other box, which is running 10.10.

On my 10.10 box, I can run separate instances of apps on each screen. For example, I can open four different instances of firefox, each pointing to a different website.

No can do on 11.04.  I can switch to all four workspaces, but when I bring up an app in one, then go to another workspace, the same instance comes up, and it kicks it back to workspace #1. In effect, the workspace switcher is worthless as it's set up now.

I'm convinced at this point that it's a compiz manager setting, but they all look OK to me (workspace switcher enabled, etc).

Anyone have any suggestions on what I could try?  

Thanks!

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-01-10
In short, this has nothing to do with the Workspace Switcher at all, but the ability to open multiple instances of a given app. For this, you can either use the middle-click of your mouse, if you have one, or the app's menu. Then, eventually the multiple instances will behave like you are used to, stick to the Workspaces on which you opened/located them, that is.

Regards.

---

### Post by hfs99 on 2012-01-15
[edit] My concern is with 11.10 (Unity Desktop), not 11.04. Probably not applicable.
---
I suspect Krytarik was correct that the question has nothing to do with the Workspace switcher. I think hodad was talking about the behavior of the *Window Switcher (Alt-tab)*. Obvious to me since I have the same complaint.

What I want, on my (hypothetical) Window Switcher Configuration Dialog, is a checkbox labelled "show instances from all workspaces". I would leave this box un-checked, because I only want to see instances from my current workspace.

Is that already possible?

Now, suppose I have two instances of Evince/ Document Viewer open on my current workspace, and a third on the workspace below. I would like the window switcher to ignore the instance on the other workspace, and display both of the instances on my current workspace.

Thanks,
-Hugh

---

