---
title: "[12.04] Home lens Not Working"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by furlopunk on 2012-04-28
I updated my laptop to Ubuntu 12.04. while playing around with the new unity, i have come to realize my lens's aren't working. when i search, nothing happens and there are no recent files or applications that are being show. i do not want to have to downgrade to 11.04. thanks for your help.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-04-28
To get recent files showing we first have to use some files. Likewise with recent applications.

You should be able to see all your applications by clicking on the application lens icon. The second one in from the left on the bottom row.

There is a kind of database running behind the Dash. It may need a bit of time to update its records.

Regards.

---

### Post by furlopunk on 2012-04-28
> **grahammechanical said:**
> To get recent files showing we first have to use some files. Likewise with recent applications.

You should be able to see all your applications by clicking on the application lens icon. The second one in from the left on the bottom row.

There is a kind of database running behind the Dash. It may need a bit of time to update its records.

Regards.

i have been using 12.04 since the day it came, which was 2 days ago. it wouldn't take that long to record the use of a file and update the database would it?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-04-28
Please see this earlier thread - specifically, try clearing both Zeitgeist's database and Software Center's cache; I'd start with the latter:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1911109](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1911109)

Regards.

---

### Post by furlopunk on 2012-05-08
Fixed the issue. there was a problem when i updated from 11.04 to 12.04. there was a change in the user files but the files were not converted when i updated. just created a new user, copied the files over, deleted the old user, and all is well. thanks for your help.

---

