---
title: "10.10: Menu Pixels Freeze on Screen"
date: 2010-12-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by awfeucht on 2010-12-07
Eee PC 1005HA : Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Remix, using Desktop Edition at login screen, using Awn in place of Unity:

No clue what's causing this. Menu pixels freeze, remain on top of windows. Cursor floats over, but interacts with the actual active window. Can't move it. This has happened several times now, but usually only lasts a few minutes. At the time of this post, these pixels have been frozen for at least 20 minutes. Relogging fixes the problem, but logging out and in again every time this happens isn't really an option.

Any suggestions? I'm lost. Not too new to Ubuntu, not too experienced with it, either. Searched Google, forums, didn't find anything similar. Thank you in advance for any help or suggestions.

[Screenshot of my desktop with the problem occuring]("http://tinypic.com/r/4t258p/7")

---

### Post by SteveTheRed on 2010-12-14
I have this problem, too. I haven't found the cause, but I did find a clunky workaround.

To clear the ghost menu image, you'll need to kill gnome-panel and nautilus (they will automatically restart):

```
killall gnome-panel nautilus
```

(I would give credit to whoever posted that on the Internet, but I can't remember where I found it.)

If the problem persists and you can't find a proper solution, you can create a panel launcher to automate the process. [[COLOR="Red"]This article shows how.[/COLOR]]("http://linuxfud.wordpress.com/2007/02/15/add-a-refreshreload-gui-button-to-your-gnome-panel/")

Since this is driving me nuts, even with the workaround, I'm still looking for a solution. If I find one, I'll post back here.

---

### Post by preator on 2011-01-26
Hello,


I've tried with this command... but it didn't help me. I do believe, that I have similar problem. Parts of window or... menu... become ghost. You can't close them, you can't select them... really strange  and annoying. 
Just an idea.... would it be possible that this is related with linux Chrome installation. I did played with Compiz... :(

Would appreciate some suggestions.

Kind regards,
Tomaz

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-01-26
@preator: How is it if you disable Compiz and run Metacity instead:
```
metacity --replace
```
How is the exact behaviour, like in the posted screenshot or another way?

---

### Post by markoper on 2011-03-16
Code:
 	metacity --replace 


this worked for me . ubuntu 10.10

---

### Post by jcj187 on 2011-05-10
I also have the pixels freezing on screen. I tried the killall routine and it didn't help. What else can I try?
jcj187

---

