---
title: "11.1 , pixelated screen / font issue"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nylchan on 2011-10-20
Hi there,

i'm entirely new to ubuntu and to this forum. my hardware is an old IBM thinkcentre 8425. I have installed ubuntu 11.1 through USB with windows wiped out. 

the problem i face now is after i open a few apps here and there. the screen become pixelated, and the font will go unreadable. 

you can see here for photos....

[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2760839/error1.JPG](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2760839/error1.JPG)
[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2760839/Error2.JPG](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2760839/Error2.JPG)



I have tried searching through the web and it seems that there're not obvious solutions out there. i hope i will get some luck in this forum.
thanks

---

### Post by t_ras on 2011-10-20
It seems every one trying to work with gnome is getting this same thing...

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-20
Its most likely a graphics card and driver issue  ..... mine works fine using Nvidia ...

People with ATI cards are reporting problems with graphics ....

_***[IBM thinkcentre 8425]("http://www.google.com/search?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&q=IBM+thinkcentre+8425&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8#sclient=psy-ab&hl=en&client=ubuntu&hs=IYq&channel=fs&source=hp&q=IBM+thinkcentre+8425+graphics&pbx=1&oq=IBM+thinkcentre+8425+graphics&aq=f&aqi=&aql=1&gs_sm=e&gs_upl=17258l20596l0l20792l9l9l0l0l0l0l250l1843l0.1.7l8l0&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.,cf.osb&fp=dc20b2672385f007&biw=1020&bih=488")***_

if you type in LSPCI in lowercase in a terminal .... it will tell you your hardware ....

Ctrl+Alt+T ............ to get a terminal up ...... then

lspci

Post the results back

Also check link below ..... in red ..... there may be solutions .... check for SOLVED
some of the older threads have suggestions in them too .....

---

### Post by Theasa92 on 2012-01-18
[CENTER][FONT=Comic Sans MS][SIZE=3][COLOR=Magenta][B][COLOR=Sienna] Hey, I just had this problem, just do this :
alt + ctrl + t << that should open up your terminal
then type this "xkill" without the qoutes, Hit the enter ( let make a sound LOL! ), now you will have your mouse hovering as an X, 
go over the side bar ( the one that has your icons on it ) and close it, let it flash a while and BAM ! :D
 you've got ur self a new side bar with font on it :)
as for the desktop, if it didn't go, just re-change the damn thing and your good to go :popcorn:[/COLOR]
[/B][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][/CENTER]

---

