---
title: "i810 acting weird"
date: 2008-06-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rgrwtrs on 2008-06-12
Hello, I am new to Ubuntu, although I have been working a few months with Fedora.  I installed Ubuntu and everything seems to be working well except the video card (i810).  

It has something to do with 3D as it happens when I try to play a 3d game or use compiz-fusion.

Basically, the game or compiz fusion gets really big, so big that it overlaps itself several times (or atleast that is what it looks like)  then the screen goes crazy and i cant do anything but restart.

Direct Rendering is on.

Here is my xorg.conf

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

Any suggestions.  If you need any further info let me know.

---

### Post by jumponskis on 2008-07-06
bump

---

### Post by jumponskis on 2008-07-06
I have the exact same issues.  My mobo also runs the i810 driver and I do not get the proper resolutions (though becuase of the quality of my monitor I am offered all the way up to 1280x800, but my monitor is not widescreen so that isn't really helpful)  if I go to usr/share/applications/screen and graphics, I find that my monitor is not detected and it says defualt, but I can find the exac monitor in the list.  When I select it and run the test it fails.  PLEASE HELP!  (20" ViewSonic P220f Pro Series)

---

