---
title: "Video will not display properly."
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by celsdogg on 2007-11-03
I have an nVidia GeForce 6600 which i have been using in twinview with no problems. the analog is connected to a 1280x1024 lcd, and the dvi is connected to a widescreen 1440x900 lcd.

i had this working fine and i went on to install vmware per the instructions at:
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-install-vmware-server-in-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-install-vmware-server-in-ubuntu-710-gutsy-gibbon.html)

that seemed to go fine. i had to reboot shortly after i installed vmware and now my video will not display properly. when i boot it flashes a black screen and then drops back to the CLI, as if it keeps trying to start X then it fails. it does this three times before it brings up a prompt that says:

> Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode

Your screen and graphics card could not be detected correctly. To use higher resolutions, visual effects, or multiple screens, you have to configure the display yourself.

then it as a check box for "Always run in low-graphics mode" and three buttons, configure, Shut Down, and Continue. When i click on configure, it brings up the "Screens and Graphics" options. but i can only select 640x480 and 800x600.

my xorg.conf is correct, and it looks like this:

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Apr 16 20:38:05 PDT 2007

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Buttons" "7"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "AOP F95GS"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6600"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Nologo" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: 1440x900 +1280+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


it does not seem to be using my xorg.conf, even in low graphics mode, because even my mouse bindings dont work.

i tried dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg to rewrite my xorg.conf, but that did not do anything. again, it seems to ignore the xorg.conf file.

is there something else i can check for? like something to do with kernal modules or X's use of resources? im totally stumped. any suggestions would be greatly appreciated.

i am using Ubuntu Gutsy with the 2.6.22-14-generic kernel.

---

### Post by celsdogg on 2007-11-03
i fixed it.

i had to apt the new glx drivers

> sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new

just wondering why all of sudden it stopped working. . . particularly after i installed vmware.

---

