---
title: "11.10 Unity Sidebar not working properly"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by azLinux on 2011-10-20
Hi All,

I hope you gurus can help me. I just upgraded to 11.10 and I noticed that the sidebar doesn't work properly. Right after logging in if I launch Chrome or Eclipse, the sidebar hides and if the applications are maximized the sidebar doesn't pop up when I hover on the left.
If I startup Firefox however, it does work normally: sidebar shows itself if I hover at the left edge of the sreen, hides when moving away.
Also sometimes when I click on the home folder button, my desktop is cleaned out (i.e. none of my desktop icons are visible) and nautilus doesn't start up.
This is very annoying behavior. I usually have to click around on the sidebar on either the unity search thingie (don't know what it's called, top left ubuntu logo on the sidebar) or something else and then it works fine.

I also noticed that none of this is happening when running unity 2D.

I have ATI drivers, not sure if this matters.

Anybody have any clues as to what is wrong? Should I just stick with Unity 2D? Could it be my compiz settings left over from the previous 11.04 install?

Any help is highly appreciated. 

Thank you.

---

### Post by georgetwoone on 2011-10-24
This thing happens to me too! 
To be more exact, if Chrome is maximized the sidebar pops up, but at the background, behind Chrome (and behind any maximized window). It's not on top of all applications any more.

---

### Post by dave0109 on 2011-10-24
Yeah, you're not the only ones [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865149)

I've not found a solution yet.

---

### Post by bikewrecker on 2011-10-27
Yea I'm not a big fan of the unity sidebar myself. It's not customizable and its glitchy like you guys are saying. The solution I've found is you need to hold down the "Super" key (the key with the windows logo). That will almost always pop out the sidebar for me. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by f3nol on 2011-10-31
Hi there, 
I've got the same problem. If running for example Chrome in maximised window the sidebar pops up behind it instead of on top of it.
I accidently found half solution to that. I run 'ccsm' and disable and enable again Ubuntu Unity Plugin. Sometimes it tells me there are some conflicts with other plugins and I let it resolve them. After that all is working properly until reboot. Then the problem comes back. I'm not a linux expert but maybe this is gonna be some hint for somebody to come up with better solution.
Hope that helps a bit.

---

### Post by TheKojuEffect on 2012-01-13
Same Problem in my Ubuntu 11.10 x64.
But the sidebar sometime appears when I hover to the left.
Also, When I press Super(Ubuntu) key, the unity display doesn't show up if there is any application running in that workspace whereas it is fine when in empty workspace.
But, I did 'unity --reset' once.

---

