---
title: "10.04: F2 for renaming file is lost!"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-05-02
Now if I press F2 when a file is selected in Nautilus, there will be no response.

Does anybody have the same problem?

---

### Post by SnickerSnack on 2010-05-03
I'm not using 10.04 yet, but I did google around and read a few articles to see if I could help.  No dice, but you do get a free bump. :)

---

### Post by mprokolo on 2010-05-13
Same problem here

edit:fixed after restart

---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-05-27
Bump.

Anyone else??

---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-06-04
bump..


got a few auto-updates, still unresolved!!

---

### Post by ChadMMc on 2010-06-04
Had same problem myself at first.  (did a clean install of 10.04 (leaving my home partition alone of course)).

After a reboot, came back and works.

Don't know what the problem could have been.

---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-07-01
Still no fix yet????

---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-07-22
COME ON...
PLEASE, this is very basic. Could anyone help???

---

### Post by mohit20 on 2010-07-22
hi....
same problem is here....help????

---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-07-23
i'm gonna bump this one till the solution comes up.

---

### Post by mprokolo on 2010-07-29
hmmm do the other F keys work as they should?
What kind of keyboard do you have?

---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-07-29
no, none of them!

---

### Post by mprokolo on 2010-07-30
so probably there is something to turn them on or off on your keyboard
for example i have an logitech keyboard and there is a key named F-lock. If its on then F keys work normally (F1-F12) if not the F keys have other actions assigned to them probably by their windows driver but these are assigned to nothing in Ubuntu
So look for a similar key to F-lock or post your keyboard model so I can have a look

---

### Post by kakyoism on 2010-07-30
OMG, you are so right! Got the F lock now!
I've never noticed such a functionality. Yes this is a new keyboard!
Thanks a million!

---

