---
title: "Missing Titlebar On Ubuntu 10.04 LTS"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by amirpun on 2010-05-08
Hello

I'm new to Ubuntu and recently just upgraded from Karmic to Lucid (10.04). However after upgrade, Gnome seems misbehave every time I boot-up my machine. 

On every boot, the following problem occur:-

1- Missing Title bar on all window.
2- Mouse pointer display as 'X'.

My current workaround was to set [Appearance Preference] > [Visual Effect] to 'EXTRA' on each boot.

I tried to set Visual Effect to 'NONE' before reboot but no luck. Reseting Gnome to default ```
rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity
``` also not helpful.

Is there a way to fix it, say: reinstalling Compiz, Flushing FastBoot or the like.

This is so annoying and I need help so badly right now.

Thanks!

---

### Post by The Doctor 155 on 2010-05-08
I am glad to see another person experiencing this problem as I too have the same issue. I have tried a number of changes to the xorg.conf however without any success. I'm suspecting a fix will come down the pipe.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    FontPath        "unix/:7100"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GS"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "true"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "on"
EndSection

---

### Post by The Doctor 155 on 2010-05-08
Oh yes... regarding

reinstalling Compiz, Flushing FastBoot or the like.

I went down this path as well. No luck! Does not work. If you find a solution I'll be happy to use it. If I find one, I will be sure to post.

---

### Post by uboops on 2010-05-09
Hello,
FYI: There is a workaround here for this same bug - Missing Titlebar On Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466393&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466393&page=2)

---

### Post by The Doctor 155 on 2010-05-09
Thanks for this. I discovered this late last night and was able to test it. And yes it does work. I placed a comment in the startup section as this is a short term fix. I am hopeful that this will be corrected on future patches.

Originally Posted by **darkmakozu** 					[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9226362#post9226362") 				
 				[I]I fixed the issue by adding 
/usr/bin/compiz
To the list of start up applications...[/I]

---

### Post by peterVG on 2010-08-10
I experienced this problem for each login after upgrading to 10.04. I expect it is because I did at one time prior to the upgrade have System -> Preferences -> Appearance -> Visual Effects -> Extra option enabled. I believe this installed one or more Compiz packages which then caused issues when I upgraded. Switching between the 'Extr'a and then back to the 'None' option does temporarily fix the problem, only to return on the next login. 

I used the Ubuntu Software Center to install all Compiz packages (I assumed that maybe I was missing some drivers) and also added */usr/bin/compiz *to System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications -> Startup Programs -> Add -> Command. This has fixed the problem on subsequent logins for me.

---

### Post by lfp037 on 2010-09-12
I got the same problem in ubuntu 10.04LTS...Later i installed the proprietary driver for my ATI radeon 3400hd, this resolved my problem, but the screen started to flicker...
so had to remove the driver n i was left with this missing title bar.
I now found the solution, just disable the 'Reflection'  in 'Effects' in the 'Compiz Manager'.
Try this it may work....):P

---

### Post by clayton.a.smith on 2010-10-23
> **peterVG said:**
> I experienced this problem for each login after upgrading to 10.04. I expect it is because I did at one time prior to the upgrade have System -> Preferences -> Appearance -> Visual Effects -> Extra option enabled. I believe this installed one or more Compiz packages which then caused issues when I upgraded. Switching between the 'Extr'a and then back to the 'None' option does temporarily fix the problem, only to return on the next login. 

I used the Ubuntu Software Center to install all Compiz packages (I assumed that maybe I was missing some drivers) and also added */usr/bin/compiz *to System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications -> Startup Programs -> Add -> Command. This has fixed the problem on subsequent logins for me.

Add /usr/bin/compiz to startup applications worked for me.

---

### Post by jinbatsu on 2011-10-13
> **peterVG said:**
> I experienced this problem for each login after upgrading to 10.04. I expect it is because I did at one time prior to the upgrade have System -> Preferences -> Appearance -> Visual Effects -> Extra option enabled. I believe this installed one or more Compiz packages which then caused issues when I upgraded. Switching between the 'Extr'a and then back to the 'None' option does temporarily fix the problem, only to return on the next login. 

I used the Ubuntu Software Center to install all Compiz packages (I assumed that maybe I was missing some drivers) and also added */usr/bin/compiz *to System -> Preferences -> Startup Applications -> Startup Programs -> Add -> Command. This has fixed the problem on subsequent logins for me.

Add ```
/usr/bin/compiz
``` to startup applications worked for me too.

---

