---
title: "[8.04 RC] Cannot change GNOME theme - reverted to defaults"
date: 2008-04-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by blackheart-uk on 2008-04-21
I'm using Hardy Heron. Yesterday I had the same theme working from the Feisty install I was using. This worked fine, however since turning off and back on the computer during the course of today (after installing updates - if that helps) my GNOME desktop has reverted to an old gnome style (I've attached a screenshot to show you what I mean). I've tried to use the System->Preferences->Appearance application to change the theme, then logged out and back in to see that the same theme is still there. I've renamed my .gnome2 folder, I've tried running gnome-settings-daemon, because I used to get this style when that program failed to start. Having done that I got the following error:
** (gnome-settings-daemon:10331): WARNING **: Failed to acquire org.gnome.SettingsDaemon
** (gnome-settings-daemon:10331): WARNING **: Could not acquire name

 All users are seeing the same windows, both old and newly created, so it's not just on my signon. Does anyone have any suggestions? I'm pretty certain that either GNOME or GTK is borked but I don't know how to fix it. I have compiz working fine and I think I'm using metacity for my window manager if that helps.

Cheers.

---

### Post by mikematsuri on 2008-05-08
Same issue here, exactly as described. I'd attach a screenshot but it'd be the same thing. Desperately trying to shake this ugly old theme (that I never even had in the first place).

---

