---
title: "No &quot;modes&quot; listed in xorg.conf (can't get  widescreen)"
date: 2008-02-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Protek on 2008-02-20
Hi Everyone,

Great forums!  I hope somebody can help. 

Here's my story.  I'm on my second install of Ubuntu.  The first was an experiment, where I basically jumped in two footed and messed about a bit learning how things hung together. The second time round, I installed ubuntu and had a clue how get started. 

So... the first thing i wanted to do was enable compiz.  I had learned that in order to do this, I needed to install xgl.  I have an ATI X800 card, and so also needed to install the restricted drivers.

I should mention at this point, that I am not using a monitor as a screen, but my HDTV using a DVI to HDMI converter cable (my tv is capable of 1080p resolution - but has to be connected using HDMI to utilise it.  My TVs VGA connector tops out at 1380x800 or there abouts).

So, with a totally fresh copy of ubuntu installed (and a fairly decent resolution out the box) I enable the restricted drivers for my ATI. This gave me the customary message that I required a reboot for the changes to take effect - so i reboot.

The next time ubuntu starts, the login screen is in full 1920x1080 resolution - which is way too small to be of any use.  So, I login and go to the System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution menu to drop the resolution down a little.

Lo-and-behold there are a large number of screen modes listed; from full 1920x1080 right down to 320x200!  I suspect these may have been picked up by querying the gfx card and the tv capabilities, but I'm not sure exactly.  The important thing to note is that there don't appear to be any widescreen modes listed.

Having found that screen modes are normally listed in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, I opened the file up hoping to simply be able to add my desired widescreen modes into the "display" section - only to find that there were no modes listed.  I have copied my xorg.conf file in below.

------------------------
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc R420 JK [Radeon X800]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc R420 JK [Radeon X800]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection
------------------------

This makes me wonder where all the resolutions found in the "screen resolution" menu are coming from, and how I can add to that list?

One further thing. I am happily able select a lower resolution for my desktop session, but my login screen remains at full 1920x1080 resolution.  I believe the resolution used for the login screen is taken from the first mode found in the xorg.conf file. As my xorg.conf doesn't have any modes listed, can somebody please suggest how I can lower it down?

I'm sorry for this rather long post, I've tried to be a through as possible.

Many thanks for anybody who can help.
Protek

---

