---
title: "Ubuntu loads and then goes black..."
date: 2009-02-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by abel_bcn on 2009-02-06
Hi everybody.

I'm running Ubuntu Intrepid on my desktop with an ATI graphics card and fglrx drivers (detected and installed by Intrepid when I updated). It has always worked fine.

Suddenly, from one day to another, ubuntu loads correctly but when it gets to the login screen it blacks out.

I've tried running xfix from recovery mode, which had solved this problem a while ago, but it won't this time. I've also tried several things I found on the forums but still I'm not getting it to work, including restoring the initial settings on xorg.conf for the ATI configuration.

By the way, if I hit CTRL + ALT + F1 (for example), I CAN see the "terminal" login and run commands normally.

I will appreciate any help regarding this issue. Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by warp99 on 2009-02-06
First thing you should do is open your /etc/var/Xorg.*.log to see if there are any error messages using a CLI text editor such as nano or vi. You may find your answer right there.

---

### Post by abel_bcn on 2009-02-06
> **warp99 said:**
> First thing you should do is open your /etc/var/Xorg.*.log to see if there are any error messages using a CLI text editor such as nano or vi. You may find your answer right there.

Hi! Thanks for answering.

Actually, there's no var directory under /etc.

Where else can it be? It's not on /etc/X11/ either.

---

### Post by warp99 on 2009-02-06
I'm sorry it's "/var/log/Xorg.*.log". I was trying to multi-task between editing a file and typing a post. :oops:

For future reference almost **all** log files are kept in this directory.

---

### Post by Yashiro on 2009-02-06
Possibly totally uninstalling your fglrx packages then running xfix will get you back to a working desktop.

---

### Post by abel_bcn on 2009-02-08
Thanks for both answers.

I've taken a look at the logs and I haven't found anything that might be causing the problem.

I've also removed all packages of fglrx (with aptitude) and run xfix after it.

Still not working. Is there another way of completely uninstalling fglrx, or disabling it for now?

This happened from one day to another on my computer, the one I use for work, and I'm going crazy. I've tried many things and it keeps not working.

What happened in the first place?

Thanks for your help once again.

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2009-02-08
Install and run envy maybe?

---

### Post by warp99 on 2009-02-08
You may have a problem with the system detecting and configuring xorg settings. I would make sure the fglrx drivers are installed and replace you xorg.conf file with the following one:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "PseudoColorVisuals" "off"
	Option	    "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "EnableMonitor" "crt1"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

```

At least with this xorg.conf if it doesn't work we can rule out a configuration error.

---

### Post by warp99 on 2009-02-08
Another thing that can help you with trouble shooting is the  atigetsysteminfo.sh script that's included with the fglrx packages. I would run that and check the generated file for errors.

---

### Post by abel_bcn on 2009-02-08
> **warp99 said:**
> You may have a problem with the system detecting and configuring xorg settings. I would make sure the fglrx drivers are installed and replace you xorg.conf file with the following one:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "PseudoColorVisuals" "off"
	Option	    "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "EnableMonitor" "crt1"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

```

At least with this xorg.conf if it doesn't work we can rule out a configuration error.

It worked! Now I'm running ubuntu in 'Low graphics mode', but it works perfectly.

On the hardware controllers, ATI fglrx propietary control driver is not listed as before, so I can't enable it. Do I have to reinstall it manually?

Thnx guys!

---

### Post by warp99 on 2009-02-08
I would reinstall the fglrx driver and the restricted drivers then change the driver back to fglrx either manually in xorg.conf or use the ATI control application. If you like here's the command string:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall xorg-driver-fglrx fglrx-control linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)
```

Cut/paste the string into the terminal as is including the variable. Reboot after you have made **all** of the changes then the fglrx driver will load. You can set the display resolution at that point.

---

### Post by forestwalkerjoe on 2009-02-09
i have sent warp a PM .. but sorry to hyjack this thread. I have posted a simlar issue in my own thread and no one has even viewed it in nearly a week. IN hopes that some one might notice and help me out.. since the person who posted here seems to have receieved a SOLVE.. please be patient with me. 
i also tried a few of your ideas from here.. except mine is a different set up. 
Sony / Viao older lapptop. Savage X video card. 
Driver installed.. 
boot up is : makes to Ubuntu orange timer screen.. X never shows up.. can hear boot up but can not see.. can not see mouse and keyboard is not responding. Some times i can move mouse with out seeing it to hit restart. REISUB doesnt work on this config. 
here is the out put from the sudo gedit rj@rj-laptop:~$ sudo gedit /var/log/Xorg.*.log
I know this is terribly long.. i am not trying to FLOOD or any thing.. if some one would help by answering my own thread.. please? i am getting desperate.
here is the link back to my Thread .. is trying to save the page by deleting the loooog post i put in.. again sorry. OUT PUT IN LINK number 2 Post. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1061015]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1061015")





AGAIN.. i am very sorry i had to put the whole LOG up here.. but i have no idea what parts are related to my issues.. and wanted to make sure that "IF" some one did choose to help me that they had all the info.. which i can not decipher. 
My Keyboard config is differnt than most as well and the special HOT keys that are related to this lappys build dont work.. IF i do some times get into the ubuntu install.. which once in a long while Does happen.. all the worty keys work.. but the Blue hot keys using FN to activate dont. As well as the fact that the above log shows an issue with REFRESH rates and finding the right way to load what i think is XORG stuff. 
So.. some times NO keybard , mouse or screen. Can some one help me edit some thing to tell the system how to boot up right? 
thanks 
FWJ

---

### Post by warp99 on 2009-02-09
Next time use the search feature **before** you start posting. I found this thread in about 3 seconds with the same problem:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1030782&highlight=Savage+video+card](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1030782&highlight=Savage+video+card)

Solution is to use the VESA driver. There are countless threads with the same problem offering similar solutions. Think before you post.

---

### Post by forestwalkerjoe on 2009-02-09
I will read your link.. 
don't be frustrated.. i know that VESA is a generic video driver thing.. i have not the first idea how to install or un-install a correct driver.. 
when my install first was in.. all seemed to work except 3d. 
Pythias suggested we find the correct driver for my video card. Savage X was the right one.. he helped me code in the command line to install it. we started after that running into THIS black screen trouble. 
I have no idea now.. how to either include the vesa thing.. and some how keep 3d.. or if that is even possible. 
I found other posts that described others with Black screen issues.. but NONE with my VID card.. and i truly need to have the 3d running on my system. 
I am also not too sure how to make the commands to ask for the AGE and TYPE so on of my lap top. I thought that the long log i put in might help show you what i have. 
<(side note)> i did the code for adding Vesa on the edit.. and it did allow me to reboot and come back in with X.. but the resolution is SO large and it wont allow for smaller in this Gen. Vesa thing. most of my system now runs slowly.. 
how is it that 3d CAN run when it allows me to.. on the Savage card.. in 3d even.. but some times it loads and some times it doesnt? i can get an every time load with out black screen but not use the stuff my lappy has? 
i thought this would be a code that could some how allow the begining READ of what is needed to SEE the Card Savage x each time. i am ON laptop now.. and the screen is kinda donkey Kong looking.. is there no other solve?
FWJ

---

