---
title: "14.04: three keyboard layouts - switch issues"
date: 2014-05-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by JDreamer on 2014-05-21
Hello,
I have upgraded to Ubuntu 14.04 from 12.04, and have a problem with keyboard layouts.
I need to have three keyboard layouts: Russian, English and Japanese. Every of them works fine, but there are two issues with switching:

**1. Description:**
Every time I switch between tabs or windows, layout is changing to English, though layout indicator remains unchanged.
For example: I was typing Russian in Skype and then switched to browser. Indicator says I still have Russian layout, but when I start typing it appears that I have the English one. So I got to switch from 'Russian' to Russian through Japanese and English every time. Quite annoying :)
If I remove Japanese layout from list (**leaving two layouts**: English and Russian), everything works just fine.
**I've tried** to change settings from 'same source for all windows' to 'different sources' (with both variants of 'default source' and 'current source') and back again, but it didn't help.

**Questions**: 
- how to avoid this endless swiching? I would prefer variant from settings 'different sources for each window: new window use the default source'... or at least
- how to make layout indicator follow this swiching? It would save me at least one layout swich per window change :)

**2. Description:**
 For Japanese layout I have manually installed iBus in Ubuntu 12.04, and I used to have **two layout switchers**: native Ubuntu one for switching between Russian and English with (alt+shift) or whatever, and iBus one - between Japanese and 'native' with (ctrl+space). 
It was the most convenient way one could imagine: switches Ru->En and back again is a routine action, while Japanese is used much rarer.
But for now all of them are united in a **circle**, so I have En->Ru->Ja->En... and when I need to switch En->Ru and back again, I got to use two different key combinatios (forward (alt+shift) and backward (ctrl+alt+shift) swich), or use the first one once for forward switch (En->Ru) and twice for backward (Ru->Ja->En).

[B]Question:
[/B]Is there any way to get back to that two-switcher schema?

Thanks in advance for any help :)

---

### Post by vytah on 2014-06-25
I'm having problems with 3 layouts too, in my case Polish, Russian and Japanese. In my case, Japanese either doesn't work at all, or works even if I'm switched back to Polish.

---

### Post by wijit on 2014-08-01
I've just managed to upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04. As keyboard layout interface has been changed, it seems to me that Ubuntu development team see it as an object of fashion so they make change without care on the way people get use to. Interface, for me, though not the same as, is very close to language. Interface communicates people to computers while language communicates among people. Is there a way to get interface and control we use to use in Lucid and Precise back in Trusty?

---

