---
title: "Using DPMS to turn off monitor"
date: 2005-04-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by vtrac on 2005-04-11
I can't seem to get my monitor to shut off after X amount of time.  I've got the DPMS option in my xorg.conf and have checked the "Off after X time" box in screensaver preferences.  xset -q shows that it should work, but all I get is a dark screen (lcd backlight is still on).  Anyone have any ideas? 

Here's my xorg.conf:
> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
#	Option 	"Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
	Driver		"radeon"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "backingstore"              "true"
	Option 		"AllowGLXWithComposite" "true" 

        Option          "Accel" 
        Option     "AGPFastWrite"               "yes" 
        Option     "EnablePageFlip"             "yes" 
        Option     "DDCMode"                    "yes" 
        Option      "AGPMode"           "4"
#	Option      "MonitorLayout" 	"TMDS, NONE"

EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	DisplaySize	370	277	# 1400x1050 96dpi
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9000 (M7 LW)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


And here's the output from "xset -q" :
> Keyboard Control:
  auto repeat:  on    key click percent:  0    LED mask:  00000000
  auto repeat delay:  342    repeat rate:  55
  auto repeating keys:  00ffffffdffffbbf
                        fadfffdfffdfe5ef
                        ffffffffffffffff
                        ffffffffffffffff
  bell percent:  50    bell pitch:  400    bell duration:  100
Pointer Control:
  acceleration:  2/1    threshold:  5
Screen Saver:
  prefer blanking:  yes    allow exposures:  yes
  timeout:  0    cycle:  0
Colors:
  default colormap:  0x20    BlackPixel:  0    WhitePixel:  16777215
Font Path:
  /usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi,/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi,/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType
Bug Mode: compatibility mode is disabled
[b]DPMS (Energy Star):
  Standby: 300    Suspend: 300    Off: 300
  DPMS is Enabled
  Monitor is On[/b]
Font cache:
  hi-mark (KB): 5120  low-mark (KB): 3840  balance (%): 70
File paths:
  Config file:  /etc/X11/xorg.conf
  Modules path: /usr/X11R6/lib/modules
  Log file:     /var/log/Xorg.0.log

As you can see, it's set to go to standby, suspend, and go off after 5 minutes.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by dabeej on 2005-04-11
Weird, have you tried using xscreensaver? (Gnome Uses It)

System -> Preferences -> Screensaver

Advanced Tab:

See the settings on the right?

Try enabling and setting those accordingly.

---

### Post by vtrac on 2005-04-11
Yeah, those are set (that's where xset gets it's DPMS settings from).

---

### Post by dabeej on 2005-04-11
Try setting them apart. Like 1 minute apart from each other. It's worth a shot.

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-01
I have the exact same problem :-(

Some solutions suggest using vbetool (which I'm gonna try).

---

### Post by mattjackets on 2005-08-02
Same problem here.....

[QUOTE=dabeej]Try setting them apart. Like 1 minute apart from each other. It's worth a shot.[/QUOTE]
This is one of the first things I tried...didn't work...

ideas anyone?

---

### Post by Mr_Smiley on 2005-08-02
Same problem here aswell.

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-02
vbetool was another dead end... sigh.

---

### Post by mctavish on 2005-08-02
G'day

I'm not using gnome or xscreensaver, so I did I bit of research and found that I could turn off the monitor using options in my xorg.conf.

I seemed to recall a bit of experimentation was required, but this is what I ended up with (extract only ) ...

```

Section "ServerLayout"

[snip]

        Option "BlankTime"	"7"	# Blank the screen in 10 minutes (Fake)
#	Option "StandbyTime" 	"1"	# Turn off
#	Option "SuspendTime"	"1"	# Full hibernation
	Option "OffTime"	"8"	# Turn off (DPMS)
EndSection
```

You also need to set DPMS in the monitor section of course 

I hope this helps, it works for me.

---

### Post by mattjackets on 2005-08-02
[QUOTE=mctavish]
I'm not using gnome or xscreensaver, so I did I bit of research and found that I could turn off the monitor using options in my xorg.conf.
```

Section "ServerLayout"

[snip]

        Option "BlankTime"	"7"	# Blank the screen in 10 minutes (Fake)
#	Option "StandbyTime" 	"1"	# Turn off
#	Option "SuspendTime"	"1"	# Full hibernation
	Option "OffTime"	"8"	# Turn off (DPMS)
EndSection
```
[/QUOTE]

Thanks mctavish, This does work for me but only while not logged in (ie. at the gdm
 login screen).

For everyone else, I did a lot of tinkering today and found that if I use setings like:
standby: 1
suspend: 2
off: 3
The lcd will turn off eventualy (didn't time it but it was more than three minutes)

if i used these settings:
standby: 20
suspend: 21
off: 22
it would take a very long time to turn off....about an hour.  (again, this wasn't timed
 exactly).  can anyone confirm or deny that these times are cumulative?  meaning 
that the 21 minutes til suspend starts after the monitor stands by and not when 
the mouse stopps moving.


:idea:Here's the settings that i'm using now, and they work for me (dell 2005fpw)
standby: 0
suspend: 0
off: 15

since both standby and suspend are useless to me (backlight stays on) i skip right 
to "off".  it seems as though setting a time of zero minutes disables the mode.

hope this helps some of you.
+matt

---

### Post by mctavish on 2005-08-02
> This does work for me but only while not logged in (ie. at the gdm
login screen).

ahh yes, I'm not using gdm, I guess it might make a difference. Linux gets messy sometimes huh.

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-03
I filed a bugreport on this here [http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13163](http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=13163)

---

### Post by Gustavo on 2005-11-27
I'm sorry for the bump but has someone found a way to turn off the monitor? When I type xset dpms force off sometimes the monitor shuts down but sometimes it goes to a blank screen mode, blinking.

---

### Post by dunnerz on 2006-04-27
same problem here

no idea how to fix it

](*,)

---

### Post by dunnerz on 2006-04-27
[QUOTE=dunnerz]same problem here

no idea how to fix it

](*,)[/QUOTE]

"sudo vbetool dpms off" 
works

"sudo xset force off"
does nothing

the monitor (dell 1704) will not go into stanby/off automatically (i.e. from the screensaver control)

---

### Post by natrik on 2006-10-24
I have a related issue.

I have a Dell Inspiron E1505

Screensaver and idle time don't make my backlight turn off when I'm in Gnome ... unless I'm still in GDM (AKA before login, or at screen lockout).

but this command: *does* make the screen blank and the backlight turn off.
  ```
xset dpms force off 
```

Right after I installed Ubuntu, it was the case that closing the lid would blank the screen, but leave the backlight on But now, mysteriously, it seems to reliably out the backlight.

Screensaver (or some type of idle timeout) would really be ideal for blanking the screen.  It's easy enough to make a shortcut key combo for that "force off" command, but then there's the "remembering to do that" part.

I'd be happy enough to create a "screensaver" that simply calls "xset dpms force off" and locks the session (requiring a password to get back in) ... but there doesn't seem to be a place in Ubuntu's Gnome to let you add a command to run as a screensaver!  KDE has such a thing.  

(I can't even hit "preview" or "test" or "screensaver options" here in gnome.. what's happened to those options?)

:-? 

- Nate

P.S. I use ubuntu with gnome (as opposed to KDE) because the hibernate and suspend functions work really fantastically with my laptop.  If I can find how to enable that in KDE, I'm converted.

---

### Post by natrik on 2006-10-24
> **dunnerz said:**
> "sudo vbetool dpms off" 
works

"sudo xset force off"
does nothing


"sudo xset force off" is not a valid command
Try (with or without sudo):

xset dpms force off

See my other post ;o)

---

