---
title: "New User-Crash when installing video driver"
date: 2009-01-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Sg1410 on 2009-01-12
Hello
Apologize for not knowing how to do this as this is my first attempt at Linux-ubuntu. I also use MS xp and vista. Here is the problem
1) installed Hardy Heron and updated it via web
2) activated drivers for my printer
3) installed codec for my audio files
4) installed real player (with some difficulty)
5) installed flash to work with Firefox

Then
My screen resolution is low so wanted to update higher res (more that 800) so I can work.
1) went to hardware drivers
2) installed graphic driver as suggested
3) rebooted
4) system froze
5) hard shutdown (power switch)
6) power on
7) esc
8) special mode
9) got high res environment but very eratic - couldn't enter info
10) totally reinstalled and updated ubuntu (Hardy Heron)
11) tried again
12) same problem but
13) esc
9) recovered with warning that new restricted driver in use
10) back to low res environment

Any suggestions would be helpful as I spent a lot of time trying to get ubuntu functional. I suspect my graphic card is not compatible but it seems more than that.

Regards
Stuart Gage

Specs
Desktop: Sony model PCV RAX 842

---

### Post by underworld288 on 2009-01-12
what does your xorg.conf (located in /etc/X11) look like?

---

### Post by Sg1410 on 2009-01-12
Hi U228

Like this (below)

Stuart

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by underworld288 on 2009-01-14
Try to install the display drivers with a program called EnvyNG instead. Install the program by typing the following in the terminal.

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-qt
```

Then just open up the program and install a driver that is marked compatible.

---

