---
title: "ctrl+alt+backspace fail gdm restart"
date: 2005-11-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by sal on 2005-11-19
when i do an ctrl+alt+backspace it fails to restart the gdm and puts me at a console logon. i would like to know if anyone knows how to fix this so it reloads the gdm instead of the console.

i have ubuntu 5.10 with a nvidia InteGeForce FX 5200 PCI card.

this is how my xorg is set:
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
       #Load    "GLcore" #addded 
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
       #Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
        Load    "v4l" #added
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "Buttons"               "7"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "6 7"
        Option          "Resolution"            "100"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"InteGeForce FX 5200"
	Driver		"nvidia"
        Option "NvAGP" "0"
	BusID		"PCI:1:11:0"
        Option          "IgnoreDisplayDevices"	"TV, DFP"
        Option          "RenderAccel"    "false"
        Option          "NoLogo"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"IBM G96"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-95
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"InteGeForce FX 5200"
	Monitor		"IBM G96"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1600x1200"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection


thanks.

---

### Post by Ampersand on 2005-11-19
does it work if you do a 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```
from the console?

---

### Post by sal on 2005-11-19
[QUOTE=Ampersand]does it work if you do a 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```
from the console?[/QUOTE]

i just issued the command and yes, from what went by fast, i saw it stop then restart the gdm.

i want to be able to just do the ctrl+alt+backspace and have it automaticly return me to the gdm log on. is there something i would have to do to make this happen.
thanks.

---

### Post by sal on 2005-11-20
one thing i found out.

if i switch from the GDM to KDM, then do an ctrl+alt+backspace, it dose not go to a console logon but back to the KDM. i'm woundering why that would be.

---

