---
title: "Problem with fast-user-switch"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kylecomm on 2008-11-07
Hi All,

First off I'm pretty new with Linux, though I have been dealing with it more and more recently. I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 and installed EnvyNG to get my Nvidia 3D display working, which came through beautifully with actually zero hassel. But now i get an error when I try to do the quick user switch, which details says:

User Switcher Error 

Graphical System Error


The graphical interface did not properly start, which is needed for graphical logins. It is likely that the X Window System or GDM is not properly configured.
Details:
The X server failed to finish starting.
3 X failed"

My xorg.conf file is this:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option	"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option	"UseDisplayDevice"	"DFP"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
	Disable	"dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Any help to explain this would be much appreciated, as I have multiple people using this laptop and it is a real pain to have to log out whenever someone needs to access their email

Thanks

-Kyle

---

### Post by soho2014 on 2008-11-07
I get the identical problem.  I didn't get this problem until I enabled my nvidia driver that ubuntu recommended.

---

### Post by JackCorbae on 2008-11-09
I get the same problem with the latest (Catalyst 8.10) ATI proprietary drivers. 

Ubuntu 8.10 with fglrx enabled - compiz on or off doesn't seem to make any difference.

Xorg.conf below:

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by randomlogic on 2008-11-09
I also had this problem.  But I was able to solve it by re-installing fast-user-switch.  I don't know what what wrong and I already had the most recent version.  But the reinstall took care of it.

---

### Post by nemolomen on 2008-11-09
Reinstalling "fast-user-switch-applet" via Synaptic solved this problem for me as well. 

Thanks randomlogic,

nemolomen

---

### Post by soho2014 on 2008-11-09
> **nemolomen said:**
> Reinstalling "fast-user-switch-applet" via Synaptic solved this problem for me as well. 

Thanks randomlogic,

nemolomen

Sadly I just tried that and it didn't fix the problem for me.  :confused:

---

### Post by nemolomen on 2008-11-09
Soho,

If you disable the driver does the problem go away?

Have you tried reinstalling the NVidia driver from the repository? Might work better if you disable the driver first then reinstall then enable.

My problem arose when I did an upgrade from Ubuntu 8.04.1 to 8.10 so I imagine there might be a few other things like this hanging around and we just haven't discovered them yet.

nemo

---

### Post by soho2014 on 2008-11-09
> **nemolomen said:**
> Soho,

If you disable the driver does the problem go away?

Have you tried reinstalling the NVidia driver from the repository? Might work better if you disable the driver first then reinstall then enable.

My problem arose when I did an upgrade from Ubuntu 8.04.1 to 8.10 so I imagine there might be a few other things like this hanging around and we just haven't discovered them yet.

nemo

Yes, if I disable the driver, the problem goes away.  I had the problem with an upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10, so I decided to try clean install again.  As soon as I enabled the Nvidia driver the problem appeared again.

I haven't as yet tried reinstalling the Nvidia driver from the respository.  Maybe I'll try that.

---

### Post by soho2014 on 2008-11-09
> **soho2014 said:**
> Yes, if I disable the driver, the problem goes away.  I had the problem with an upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10, so I decided to try clean install again.  As soon as I enabled the Nvidia driver the problem appeared again.

I haven't as yet tried reinstalling the Nvidia driver from the respository.  Maybe I'll try that.

OK, just now I tried reinstalling the nvidia driver, and then I restarted, but the problem persists..... sadly.:guitar:

---

### Post by OwnSurname on 2008-11-21
Thanks nemolomen.
I upgraded from Hardy to Intrepid, and the problem showed up.
Reinstalling "fast-user-switch-applet" via Synaptic did the trick for me.

---

### Post by soho2014 on 2008-11-22
> **OwnSurname said:**
> Thanks nemolomen.
I upgraded from Hardy to Intrepid, and the problem showed up.
Reinstalling "fast-user-switch-applet" via Synaptic did the trick for me.

Sadly, I've tried that too and it won't work for me.  I don't know why.

---

