---
title: "0.3 GB missing"
date: 2006-08-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by veli on 2006-08-07
Hi guys, I got rid of some stuff in Dapper and freed space on my HDD. But in process monitor/devices the numbers are not as they should be. Look at the attachement, the hda7 is ext3, 4.8 GB, 51% free, shows 2.5 GB free, but only 2.2 GB available. How can I find the rest 0.3 GB. Any help is appreciated.

Veli

---

### Post by Anduu on 2006-08-07
Have you cleared your apt cache?...this is where all packages downloaded/installed by Synaptic are stored.

You can clear them by entering in a terminal:

```
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get clean

```
Oops I didn't read that very close I guess it doesn't adress the missing 0.3 does it :p

Lemme think...

---

### Post by simonn on 2006-08-08
It is probably the journal - [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journaling_file_system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journaling_file_system)

---

### Post by Anduu on 2006-08-08
Ok if you look at your free and used numbers they do add up to 4.8

I bet if you open the Disks manager...System>Administration>Disks you will see that your swap accounts for that 0.3...or the journal like simonn says....heh I made a funny :p

---

### Post by veli on 2006-08-08
the SWAP is OK, I run fsck, it says 3% non-contigious sectors or something like that.

And what do you mean by"probably the journal" how to check or how to fix it. Thanks guys,

---

### Post by simonn on 2006-08-08
> **veli said:**
> And what do you mean by"probably the journal" how to check or how to fix it. Thanks guys,

Read the fscking link and you will find out what a journal is, why they are good and why there is nothing to fix.

Sometimes I wonder why I bother!

---

### Post by veli on 2006-08-08
Meanwhile, I run fsck /dev/hda7 from a LIve CD, the output was: clean

I'll check the link.

---

### Post by veli on 2006-08-08
I read the journaling staff, but unfortunately it doesn't say anything about fixing problems within the file system.

Could you give a link how to check and fix the journal. Thanks

---

### Post by simonn on 2006-08-08
There is nothing to check or fix.

The space missing is the journal.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journaling_file_system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journaling_file_system)

> 
Some file systems allow the journal to grow, shrink and be re-allocated just as would a regular file; most, however, put the journal in a contiguous area or a special hidden file that is guaranteed not to change in size while the file system is mounted.


---

