---
title: "12.10 getting slower and slower"
date: 2012-12-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by quadrantids on 2012-12-14
I don't know whether this is the right place...sorry if it isn't:

I have 12.10 running on a new machine: i3, 8GiB memory and a HDD.

Bootchart says my machine takes 53 seconds to boot. Can anyone suggest whether this is a reasonable time?(I was hoping for a faster boot time with a HDD.)

Thx.

---

### Post by Mister08 on 2012-12-15
Do you have a large amount of excess programs running during startup that would cause the system to boot slower?

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-12-15
> **quadrantids said:**
> I don't know whether this is the right place...sorry if it isn't:

I have 12.10 running on a new machine: i3, 8GiB memory and a HDD.

Bootchart says my machine takes 53 seconds to boot. Can anyone suggest whether this is a reasonable time?(I was hoping for a faster boot time with a HDD.)

Thx.

it is reasonable, faster with a HDD as oppose to what ? or did you mean a SSD ?

Mine boots from a SSD in 12 seconds, but anything upto a minute i would say is reasonable depending on system services etc

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2012-12-15
> **Mister08 said:**
> Do you have a large amount of excess programs running during startup that would cause the system to boot slower?

Nothing that wasn't on the Ubuntu distribution.

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2012-12-15
> **haqking said:**
> it is reasonable, faster with a HDD as oppose to what ? or did you mean a SSD ?

Mine boots from a SSD in 12 seconds, but anything upto a minute i would say is reasonable depending on system services etc

I'm sorry: of course I meant SSD. What's more I have integrated Intel graphics, which I would have thought was easier to manage during boot.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2012-12-15
Mine boots in about 25 seconds from a HDD (12.04, but that shouldn't matter much). Maybe it's your network configuration that's slow?

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2012-12-15
> **Impavidus said:**
> Mine boots in about 25 seconds from a HDD (12.04, but that shouldn't matter much). Maybe it's your network configuration that's slow?

Here's the most recent bootchart (attached): it doesn't mean much to me.

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2012-12-16
> **quadrantids said:**
> Here's the most recent bootchart (attached): it doesn't mean much to me.

I think Chromium is the culprit: I had purged the "Startup Applications" and so thought it was empty. In fact Chromium automatically reinserts itself in this folder at every launch.

To stop this I had to go into Chromium's advanced setting and clear "background apps". These run regardless of whether one has launched Chromium.

The result is enormous: my boot time has systematically halved from around 52 seconds to around 26 seconds.

I'm still not really happy with 26 seconds but I can live with that.

---

