---
title: "5.10 Net configuration"
date: 2006-05-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tk23 on 2006-05-04
Im having trouble configuring the net with Ubuntu 5.10.
It says to edit something in the /etc/hosts but I dont have permissions
Also an 'X server has crashed. It may not be configured well' message always pops up at the start :confused:

---

### Post by louis_nichols on 2006-05-04
Dude, why try to do things the hard way? In Ubuntu you have some very useful GUI's that will let you configure stuff.

Like, for network, go to System/Administration/Networking

Type in your password and configure all you need right there, including hosts and all. Now, of course, it may also depend on exactly what you are trying to configure about the network.

===================================================
As for the X server, we need more details in order to be able to help. What exactly did those errors say? Also, please post here the contents of the files /etc/X11/xorg.conf  and  /var/log/Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by tk23 on 2006-05-05
My Networking Window doesnt pop-up at all! :S
It says 'starting network something' then It just quits and doesnt pop up!!
Come to think of it... all the things using administrator priveliges dont work

When I try to log on as ROOT... It says that I cant log on as Admin from this screen :confused:

---

### Post by Cathou on 2006-05-05
> It says to edit something in the /etc/hosts but I dont have permissions
Yes I see what you mean. It occured to me once. I had installed Breezy in expert mode. It appears that this kind of install has quirks.
Did you give a special name to your host other than the default (i.e: Ubuntu) ?
Let's say that you named it 'mylinuxbox'.
Then when you issue this command:
cat /etc/hosts
you must see something like:
127.0.0.1 localhost.localdomain localhost mylinuxbox
If you don't see your custom host name at the end, then you'll be unable to perform any sudo command :(
I can't remember how I fixed this. Try to boot from your CD and open a shell so as to edit /etc/hosts.
I hope this helps.

---

