---
title: "Screen resolution too low"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by crazyplum on 2008-05-26
Have installed Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop Edition.

My preferred screen res is not available as a selection in the config box. I assume because my vid card has not been recoginsed - nvidia geforce 7300.

Any advice on where i can search for and download recognised video adapter drivers for Ubuntu 8.04 LTS Desktop Edition ? 

Many thanks.

---

### Post by 505 on 2008-05-26
Before you go and install the Nvidia binary drivers another piece of advice (they can be quite difficult to install).

You have the edit the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Towards the bottom of that file you'll find a line with all screen resolutions that are available for your system. Simple add you desired resolution to that list. Best to add it first in the line, since the first one is the preferred resolution for the login screen.

P.S. If you do want the Nvidia binary drivers search for the program EnvyNG.

---

### Post by tom56 on 2008-05-26
> **505 said:**
> Before you go and install the Nvidia binary drivers another piece of advice (they can be quite difficult to install)

They used to be but they're not as difficult any more. Go to System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers.

---

### Post by Gilthans on 2009-05-09
I have the same issue on my Jaunty Ubuntu (9.04) - my maxium resolution is 1280x800 which is not near good enough for me. I want to try a bigger resolution, and everywhere I read said 'edit xorg.conf'. However, my xorg.conf file has nothing like a resolution in there:
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

Incidentally, I tried running the dpkg-reconfigure recommended in the file, but got a 'package xserver-org is not installed' error, which seems pretty strange.

Any idea on what I should do?

---

### Post by tibellus on 2009-05-09
I have a similar issue like Gilthans does. The login screen starts with a resolution of 1280 x 1024 but after that Ubuntu goes into 800 x 600. Although I tried with dpkg-reconfigure, there are no results. The same thing goes with the Nvidia Xserver Settings utility: I can change the resolution to whatever I want but after I restart my computer the problem comes back. Any ideas?

---

### Post by tom56 on 2009-05-10
> **tibellus said:**
> I have a similar issue like Gilthans does. The login screen starts with a resolution of 1280 x 1024 but after that Ubuntu goes into 800 x 600. Although I tried with dpkg-reconfigure, there are no results. The same thing goes with the Nvidia Xserver Settings utility: I can change the resolution to whatever I want but after I restart my computer the problem comes back. Any ideas?

Open using gksu (i.e. in terminal or Alt-F2: gksu nvidia-settings), make the changes you want like before and hit the button that says "save to X configuration file"

---

### Post by tibellus on 2009-05-10
> **tom56 said:**
> Open using gksu (i.e. in terminal or Alt-F2: gksu nvidia-settings), make the changes you want like before and hit the button that says "save to X configuration file"

I already did that. The problem persists, unfortunately.

---

### Post by Bugleman on 2009-05-24
Hey, don't forget you guys can zoom your pages in/out with ctrl + / ctrl - !
I just found I can do that with 8.04 anyway (you might have to wait 5 secs on a 
detailed web page etc.   Good Luck
 
ps...I still can't seem to downsize my menu bars though.  Hell, that takes up
a quarter of my screen !!  I'll keep tryin'

---

