---
title: "10.04 Bottom panel can't move windows around"
date: 2010-10-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by phaedon on 2010-10-01
In just about every previous release recently you can reorganize the order of your windows in the bottom panel ie: if I have firefox and chrome open and firefox is to the left of chrome in the bottom panel I could drag firefox so it would be to the right of chrome.  I really liked this feature and always cursed Windows for not having something so simple but now I can longer do this in Lucid Lynx and it's very frustrating.

Any one know how I can get this functionality back?

---

### Post by loopodoopo on 2010-10-01
Hi phaedon, 

I tried this on my own 10.04 desktop installation and I don't have any problems with this. 

Could you give me more info of what you have done previously with you machine?

---

### Post by David2926 on 2010-10-01
It seems to be senitive on how far you drag the icon. Going from left to right drag to the place you want to put it but not beyound the last icon. If you go beyond the last icon it does nothing, as you noted!

---

### Post by phaedon on 2010-10-01
It's a brand new install on VMWare.  I've done some samba winbind stuff to join it to our domain and installed Google Chrome.  Other than that I haven't changed anything in regards to themes window colors etc.

I have tried moving the windows to various different locations and never to the end but they still snap back to their original position.

---

### Post by xzinkx on 2010-10-01
Just tried this now, it seems quite apparent that you have to drag window one on top of the other, if you let go when there is a small arrow showing in your cursor then the two windows will swap places. I think this is better as this allows you to re-arrange windows even when the bottom panel is completely full.

---

### Post by phaedon on 2010-10-01
Appears it's an XRDP issue.  If I login through the console in VMWare then I can rearrange the windows but if I use xrdp and remote into it I can't move the Windows around.

---

### Post by loopodoopo on 2010-10-03
Good to here you fixed the problem your self. I guess we can close the thread now?

---

### Post by phaedon on 2010-10-03
It actually isn't fixed yet.  I've just narrowed down where the problem is.  Strangely though using xrdp and Karmic Koala I don't have this problem it is only present in Lucid Lynx.

---

### Post by phaedon on 2010-10-04
Well technically it's not resolved I did come up with a workaround which was to download the latest X11rdp server from [http://server1.xrdp.org/xrdp/x11rdp_xorg71.tar.gz](http://server1.xrdp.org/xrdp/x11rdp_xorg71.tar.gz) and compile and install using the relevant parts of this post [http://kernelcrash.nfshost.com/blog/](http://kernelcrash.nfshost.com/blog/)

---

