---
title: "iptables rules work but why?"
date: 2006-02-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jmirick on 2006-02-06
(I accidentally posted this in Network Hardware, my appologies)

The ruleset generated by Firestarter has in INPUT the following rules:

Chain INPUT (policy DROP)
target prot opt source destination
ACCEPT tcp -- ams-fs01.ams.com anywhere tcp flags:!SYN,RST, ACK/SYN
ACCEPT udp -- ams-fs01.ams.com anywhere
ACCEPT all -- anywhere anywhere
<snip>

Why doesn't the third rule just let everything in? Doesn't it say, accept all protocols from anywhere to anywhere? Why doesn't chain evaluation just terminate here with acceptance? But it obviously doesn't stop here because it does block, for example, telnet which I have not defined as allowed. So what am I missing?

---

### Post by joft on 2006-02-06
Hi,

what does "iptables -L INPUT -v" (v = verbose) say?

---

### Post by jmirick on 2006-02-06
Those rules, and the next couple, say:

Chain INPUT (policy DROP 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
  367 20243 ACCEPT     tcp  --  any    any     ams-fs01.ams.com     anywhere            t cp flags:!SYN,RST,ACK/SYN
  232 32105 ACCEPT     udp  --  any    any     ams-fs01.ams.com     anywhere
 299K   23M ACCEPT     all  --  lo     any     anywhere             anywhere
    0     0 ACCEPT     icmp --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            l imit: avg 10/sec burst 5
   21  6958 DROP       all  --  eth0   any     anywhere             255.255.255.255
  825  101K DROP       all  --  any    any     anywhere             192.168.10.255

Is the number of packets the number that applied to that rule?

---

### Post by joft on 2006-02-06
[QUOTE=jmirick]
Is the number of packets the number that applied to that rule?[/QUOTE]

Yes.

[QUOTE=jmirick]
 299K   23M ACCEPT     all  --  lo     any     anywhere             anywhere
[/QUOTE]

Look at the "in" column. There you have got "lo". So this rules only applies to packets coming from the loopback interface.

---

### Post by jmirick on 2006-02-06
Aha!  And then I went back to Rusty Russell's outline of iptables, and there it was, down on about page 18 . . .  sorry for the weak eyesight, thanks for your patience.  I would think that any list of the rules would include something as key as that, maybe the numbers or something else would be "verbose", but, ah well.  I am now informed.  Thanks.

---

