---
title: "Fluxbox stopped working."
date: 2007-12-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Gigamo on 2007-12-26
Okay, I guess I'll begin with the beginning:

My fluxbox stopped working :D

I have no idea what caused it. I wasn't using Fluxbox as my default DWM yet, I was just giving it some testdrives by logging out, selecting fluxbox as session, and then picking 'this time only', you know the drill.

Just now, I went again, CTRL ALT BACKSPACE and go into fluxbox, but here's my problem: I can rightclick the desktop and get my menu, but I can't launch anything from the menu. Simply nothing happens when I click on an application in the menu. Also, I've found that I cant rightclick on the fluxbox toolbar (usually when you rightclick on it, you get options for the toolbar), it simply shows my normal right-click menu that you'd get when rightclicking anywhere on the desktop.

I don't know what's wrong here, I also don't recall doing any changes to my fluxbox files since the last time I'd logged into it. The only thing that I changed was add another theme folder in the /styles folder, and installed a font used by that new theme.

Should also mention that apps/programs that I put in the startup file and are automatically launched together with fluxbox (like conky) are working fine. This is so weird.

Thanks for any help :(

---

### Post by Gigamo on 2007-12-26
Bumpybump :( Nobody?

I now also tried reinstalling with no luck.

---

### Post by Seaman on 2007-12-26
If you go to console mode (Ctrl + Alt + F1)  you'll be able to access the output from the programs (I think). Is there any error messages concerning Fluxbox? Press **Ctrl + Alt + F7** to get back to the graphical user interface.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-27
I've run into a similar problem several times after using the (awful) Fluxbox keys configuration utility. It sets some very strange defaults. 

Anyway, try this: when you left-click on a menu item, hold down the left ctrl key. If that works, then you are having the same problem as I did.

Post your ~/.fluxbox/keys file, and I can give you instructions for fixing it. Note that reinstalling *won't* fix the problem, as it exists in a file which is located in your home folder.

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-12-27
As p_quarles says, it's probably something to do with the ~/.fluxbox/keys file. I just edit it by hand. That's assuming you have one? If you want to return it to fluxbox's default settings, check in /usr/share/fluxbox and see if it's there and copy it. Failing that, check out the ~/.fluxbox/init file too for any changes. Also it occurs that if this isn't it, what about that theme, have you tried another one? Maybe it's wonky. Luck :)

---

### Post by Gigamo on 2007-12-27
Thanks guys :) Here's my keys file:

```
# File generated by FluxConf
None Mouse1top :HideMenus
None Mouse2top :WorkspaceMenu
None Mouse3top :RootMenu
None Mouse4top :NextWorkspace
None Mouse5top :PrevWorkspace
Mod1 Tab :NextWindow
Mod1 Shift Tab :PrevWindow
Mod1 F1 :Workspace 1
Mod1 F2 :Workspace 2
Mod1 F3 :Workspace 3
Mod1 F4 :Workspace 4
Mod1 F5 :Workspace 5
Mod1 F6 :Workspace 6
Mod1 F7 :Workspace 7
Mod1 F8 :Workspace 8
Mod1 F9 :Workspace 9
Mod1 F10 :Workspace 10
Mod1 F11 :Workspace 11
Mod1 F12 :ShowDesktop
```

I'm going to check if it works while holding down ctrl now.


Edit: YUP! This is exactly my problem. When holding down CTRL everything works. Hope you can fix me p_quarles, would be very thankful if you did :)

---

### Post by Einsidler on 2007-12-27
Replace this:
```
None Mouse1top :HideMenus
None Mouse2top :WorkspaceMenu
None Mouse3top :RootMenu
None Mouse4top :NextWorkspace
None Mouse5top :PrevWorkspace
```
With this:
```
OnDesktop Mouse1 :hideMenus
OnDesktop Mouse2 :WorkspaceMenu
OnDesktop Mouse3 :RootMenu
OnDesktop Mouse4 :NextWorkspace
OnDesktop Mouse5 :PrevWorkspace
```
I tried changing mine temporarily to what you had and the exact same problem occured

---

### Post by Gigamo on 2007-12-27
Thanks mate, worked like a charm :)

---

### Post by cknight on 2007-12-27
As stated by others, Fluxkeys  or Fluxconf is the culprit corrupting your keys file.  Never use this to modify your keys file as it will actively corrupt any but the simpliest keys file.  It shouldn't even be included in the repos.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-27
> **cknight said:**
> As stated by others, Fluxkeys  or Fluxconf is the culprit corrupting your keys file.  Never use this to modify your keys file as it will actively corrupt any but the simpliest keys file.  It shouldn't even be included in the repos.
Agreed. Fluxkeys may be the closest thing to malware in the Ubuntu repos. In fact, I think I'll go make sure there's a bug report on it in Launchpad.

---

