---
title: "Can't get 1280x1024 screen resolution"
date: 2010-12-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Rhodophyta on 2010-12-14
Happy Holidays, everyone :)

EDITED: PLEASE SEE POST BELOW--I just want my normal settings back. I deleted the original post because I really screwed something up and I have to use Windows until I can figure out how to fix it. Forget about my resolution preferences. My Linux boot is stuck in low-graphics mode :(

Would anyone be able to provide me step by step, easy to follow for a newb instructions on fixing my boot?

I have to use recovery mode to load any graphics at all, and it's stuck in low graphics mode and I can't change it. More info below.

---

### Post by Rhodophyta on 2010-12-14
Ok, I made a big mistake.

I added ```
Option "UsesEDID" "false"
``` to the end of my xorg.conf file and saved. Then my computer went crazy and I couldn't load any graphics. I had to boot into recovery mode and use the default configuration.

Now, when I try to get to the NVIDIA server settings, I get the message: You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.

I ran sudo nvidia-xconfig and my new xorg.conf looks like this:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```
But I still get that error message and now I'm stuck an a very horrible screen resolution. I have to use recovery mode each time I boot otherwise it won't let me in and goes straight to the root command line...

---

### Post by Stainesy on 2010-12-14
You haven't provided any details about your system to assist in the diagnosis but at first glance I suspect your HorizSync 28.0 - 33.0 and VertRefresh 43.0 - 72.0 ranges might be wrong for your monitor.  Perhaps you should do some forum research on that.  As an example, I run a Samsung SyncMaster 2333 monitor (1920x1080 resolution) with a Nvidia GeForce GT 240 graphics card using a Nvidia proprietory driver and xorg.conf shows my HorizSync range is 30.0 - 83.0 and my VertRefresh range is 56.0 - 75.0

---

### Post by Rhodophyta on 2010-12-14
Thank you for your reply, but I don't understand any of that. I would actually just like to get back to normal--the resolution that came with my install of Linux Mint.

What's on the xorg.conf is what my system automatically created when I ran recovery graphics mode and selected "use my default configuration" and "sudo nvidia-xconfig". I did not screw around with refresh rates or anything.

Would it be better to close this thread and make a new one, since my issue has completely and utterly changed and the title is no longer relevant? I don't want to spam the forum with my threads!

---

### Post by Stainesy on 2010-12-14
If your nvidia card only gives you low resolution and/or low vertical refresh, which seems to be what you have described, this may be the trick you need.   To find out what values you should have for HorizSync and VertRefresh in the Section "Monitor" of your xorg.conf file you can use ```
xvidtune
``` in a terminal. Click Cancel in the box that pops up and you've got your monitors horizontal and vertical frequencies. These should be what is used in the Section "Monitor"

---

### Post by aewrfh on 2010-12-15
type: 
**xrandr -s 1280x1024**
in terminal then enter.

You have to repeatedly do this after bootups, because it is not preserved in system memory. Just make a quick custom application launcher icon named as
[B]change res
[/B]then put that command "**xrandr -s 1280x1024" **in where it says "command". Then you are good to go.

How to do this precisely? : Right click on the panel bar>>add to panel>>custom application launcher, click add>> fill in the two textboxes I mentioned above and you can leave the "comment" textbox blank, have it as application

---

