---
title: "10.04 lts sun-java5 or 6-jre &amp; sun-java5 or 6-plugin"
date: 2011-03-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by JKH Designs on 2011-03-08
Hello,

Has anyone been able to install java for the firefox browser in lubuntu?

I have been using Kubuntu desktop on my 10.04 lts server and have successfully installed java for the firefox browser but for some reason it is unavailable for lubuntu 10.04?

Anyone know why or how to go about this?  


Thanks in advance,

James

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2011-03-08
Hi,
sun-java6-plugin and sun-java6-jre should both be available.

I believe it got moved into a different repository called "Canonical Partners" in Lucid. This is the case for Ubuntu 10.10. Check your software sources in Lubuntu to see if the partner repository is enabled then try searching again. To do this go into Synaptic Package Manager, go to the menu, Settings > Repositories > Other Software, then enable Canonical Partners. I think Lubuntu has a menu entry for Software Sources to edit the repositories too. (Sorry, I'm a Kubuntu user ).

If for some reason the "partner" repository is missing, you can try enabling/adding these lines to your /etc/apt/sources.list file:

```
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu lucid partner
deb-src http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu lucid partner
```

Hope this helps

---

### Post by JKH Designs on 2011-03-09
Hey Ankspo71,

You are correct,  I was missing the Canonical partners repository.  When I got them loaded I was then able to load the missing java files and firefox was able to run the file manager in Webmin on Lubuntu 10.04.

Thanks for your help.

James

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2011-03-09
You're welcome. I'm glad it helped.

---

