---
title: "12.10 Theme Troubles"
date: 2012-11-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by blueagate on 2012-11-04
Hi, all. I just got Lubuntu 12.10 installed on my netbook because I was  tired of Linux Mint - just had too many problems with it. I decided to  go with Lubuntu because I had no problems with Kubuntu except not enough  RAM - everything worked fine. But now I have problems with Lubuntu.

GTK3 applications do not theme properly. The colors aren't right,  checkboxes don't show when they are checked, there is a solid color  behind all text.

[[IMG]http://www.overclock.net/content/type/61/id/1115237/width/350/height/700/flags/LL[/IMG]]("http://www.overclock.net/content/type/61/id/1115237/")

I cannot change my mouse cursor. It insists on using the standard white  pointer, but all the other pointers (hand, busy, text cursor) change.

Anyone have any ideas?

BTW, this theme worked perfectly in Mint XFCE

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-11-04
> **blueagate said:**
> ...
BTW, **this **theme worked perfectly in Mint XFCE
Just mention the theme and a link to it.

I suspect you're using some theme that requires a theme engine that isn't shipped with Lubuntu. But unless you provide relevant information ...

---

### Post by blueagate on 2012-11-05
Sorry :oops: , that particular theme is [Mediterranean Dark]("http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/MediterraneanNight?content=148398"). I also noticed it with [elementary Dark]("http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/elementary+Dark?content=148597"). Both gtk2 themes worked perfectly, both gtk3 themes had the same issues. And both use the same engine, which comes pre-installed. I already tried re-installing it and that didn't help.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-11-05
> **blueagate said:**
> ... And both use the same engine, which comes pre-installed. ...
If you don't mind, which engine? Why do you think it comes pre-installed?

In your theme_name/gtk-3.0/gtk-widgets.css, which engine is mentioned?

Vanilla Lubuntu 12.10 comes with the unico engine for gtk3, if I understand correctly.

---

### Post by blueagate on 2012-11-05
Check the links :) Both use the unico engine, which is already installed.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-11-05
> **blueagate said:**
> Check the links :) Both use the unico engine, which is already installed.

From the ED link:
The theme is compatible with the **latest GTK 3.4** and uses the Unico engine. It also includes the elementary Dark GTK 2.0 theme using Murrine engine.

Maybe that's the problem? Anyway, you could ask Satya. He generally responds relatively promptly.
Another theme he's involved with, Greybird, doesn't work well with Lubuntu 12.10. So I'm just staying with Lubuntu's default theme and editing stuff by hand to get things to look the way I want.

---

### Post by blueagate on 2012-11-05
What version of GTK does Lubuntu have?

Edit: actually that's probably a bad question. LXDE uses gtk2, I know that.

Does supporting gtk3.4 mean that it won't support gtk3.(0,1,2,3) applications properly? And if so, why did it work properly in Mint XFCE 13? I tried MediterraneanDark v 1.10 and the gtk3 theme worked fine, I just didn't like that the gtk2 theme didn't match (which was fixed in 1.11), so I used elementary Dark.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-11-05
> **blueagate said:**
> What version of GTK does Lubuntu have?
I don't know how to find that out!
All I know is that the default theme has gtk2 and gtk3 from the directory listing. I don't know how to dig deeper to find if it's gtk-3.x or gtk-3.y.

---

### Post by blueagate on 2012-11-05
Actually, that probably depends on the app. I edited my previous post before I saw yours, to explain better.

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2012-11-29
It's weird the themes were working fine for me in 12.04, in 12.10, they're all messed up. :\ I'm looking into it, I'm still getting my computer set up for 12.10. Only reason I switched was to move to 64bit.

---

