---
title: "14.04 Switching Workspaces Causes System Crash"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by fortitude on 2014-05-04
Upgraded from 13.10 to 14.04 LTS and now workspace switching is causing a crash. Screen freezes and have to reboot. No key combo works other than control - alt - F1 (2, 3, 4) to get to the prompt.

I'm running a fullscreen app in wine on the other workspace. Switching back and forth bwteen this and my other workspaces worked just great in 13.10. Now it's very unreliable, crashing about 50% of the time. Seems to just happen with fullscreen app in wine though.

Seems to be similar to this bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz-plugins-main/+bug/815996](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz-plugins-main/+bug/815996)

I'm running Nvidia driver 334.21.

Any workarounds?

---

### Post by Cw3D on 2014-05-18
I am haveing the same issue.  Switching workspaces causes a total lock up at the workspace chooser screen and I have to do a forced restart.  I do have access to the text interface via ctl-alt-F1, though, as a fairly new linux user coming from mac I don't know what to do from there or how to do it (is there a cache that I could clear? or can I log out of my unity session and get back to the login screen or another method of restarting unity is it an issue with lightDM or somthing?  Just some thoughts I had I'm not sure how to explore them though).

I am not using any wine apps although I do ask alot of my workspaces they are a major, major part of my workflow, and it's a huge disapointment that a bug this bad made it to release.  I switch workspaces often and switch between alot of spaces if I use it the way I normally would I get about 10-20 minutes in before it freezes on me.  The problem is hard to recreate on purpose so testing in a VM has prooven to be difacult.

If it's relavent this is a pretty typical layout for me:
Usualy:
    2-3 Instances of fire-fox with mabe 50(+-10) tabs between them
    2-3 instances of Gedit 
    1-2 terminals
    1-3 folder / file directory viewers
    Rythem Box
    Thunder Bird
   gCalcTool calculator
Somtimes
    Virtual Box
    Ubuntu Software Center
    Unity Tweak Tool
        I have hot corners enabled to switch workspaces
    Sestem Settings

Hardware
circa 2010 dual core i7 Lenovo Thinkpad T 410
RAM 8 gigs
Graphics card: NVS 3100M/PCIe/SSE2
Graphics driver: Nvida 331.38 (tested)

Loking forward to a good fix for this thanks.

---

