---
title: "11.10 White Screen of Death"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by damitch on 2011-10-21
I've been trying to get everything working again after updating from 11.04 to 11.10.  Grub: working now.  Wireless: working now, just needed to disable blacklisting of a couple of drivers. Okay.

Ubuntu (Unity?) 2D seems to work, so I should probably be happy to stick with that...  but maybe I can get a little more advice here.

When I start a regular Ubuntu session, the left black/gray (launcher?) bar shows, but no icons.  Mouse-over flashes 'tooltip' descriptions of what should be there, but otherwise nothing.

The top 'tray' bar shows with its proper icons.

The main desktop area is dead white.  No display of anything except the pointer cursor.

With that situation, I can't even shut down Ubuntu properly, because even if I click "Shutdown" on the top bar (that dropdown menu displays okay), the next thing to be seen should be a dialog asking to confirm.  It might be there - mouse-over causes some kind of cursor changes - but it's invisible.  So I'm forced to completely reboot.

Under 2D, I called up the terminal and ran unity --reset.  That caused the screen to blank out as above.  I've also tried /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p, but that simply says that there's no problem found.

To anticipate the next question:

```
david@david-MS-7046:~$ sudo lshw -C video
[sudo] password for david: 
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: NV37GL [Quadro FX 330/GeForce PCX 5300]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a2
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nouveau latency=0
       resources: irq:16 memory:d0000000-d0ffffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:d1000000-d1ffffff memory:d2000000-d201ffff
david@david-MS-7046:~$ 
```

Thanks for any advice.

---

### Post by marnixava on 2011-10-21
Just noting that I have the same problem (mostly white screen) with Ubuntu 11.10 and I have a similar video card:

# lshw -C video
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: NV35GL [Quadro FX 3000]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:09:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm agp agp-3.0 vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=248 maxlatency=1 mingnt=5
       resources: irq:16 memory:c1000000-c1ffffff memory:e0000000-efffffff

I hope someone can tell us how to get around this issue.

---

### Post by phydeaux98038 on 2011-10-21
I, too, have to report similar behavior.  Not the same, but close.  About 70% of the time, when waking the laptop back up, the screen is blank white.  I can still login, just typing my password, and trusting to luck.  Opening new windows in Chrome will usually (80-85% of the time?) result in a completely blank window.  The Dash consistently shows on the same icons, and no others, though a mouseover also produces the same tooltips as previously mentioned.  Many other applications opened will also show blank.  Trying to open a document from within LibreOffice Writer will also produce the same blank window, though sometimes it works to resize it.  Not always, though.

lshw output:

```
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: C51 [GeForce Go 6150]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 5
       bus info: pci@0000:00:05.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:18 memory:b2000000-b2ffffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:b1000000-b1ffffff memory:60000000-6001ffff
```

---

### Post by decaeric on 2011-10-22
I just upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10, and here is what I am seeing.  When I open Libre Office Writer, I am able to have two windows open at time, for example, two documents.  After that, if I try and save one of the documents, open a new document, etc. that third window now appears as a blank white screen.  

What made it even more interesting was I then went to Chrome or Firefox and the web page I was just recently looking at went all white as well. But the other two Libre Office documents were still viewable. When I closed the extra third screen, then the web site I was seeing came back.

I tried opening three different desktops to see if it would give me the same issue, and it did.  I had Chrome going on one desktop, I opened a 2nd desktop with two Libre Office writer documents open, and I then opened a 3rd desktop and tried to open a new Libre Office Writer document and got the blank screen.

I am new to Linux so I am sorry I don't know how to look at my video card specs.

Yesterday I upgraded from version 10.04 to 10.10, and then to 11.04 and then to 11.10, so I can't confirm if this white screen was because of 11.10 or if I would have seen it in 11.04 since I only had 11.04 for a matter of minutes before upgrading.  I wish now I would had just stayed with my older version.  Oh well...

Any ideas???

Eric

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-10-22
Report it on launchpad bugs:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/")

If 3 of you have the same issue; it's likely to be fixed relatively soon.

@decaeric: all of the stuff above is from a terminal emulator; a bit like a DOS window in windows. Press Ctrl-Alt-T, then type the commands above (for instance, you can do a lot more with a terminal):

```
sudo lshw -C video
```

then press the return key, and enter your password. Then paste here in code tags.

---

### Post by damitch on 2011-10-22
I'm sort of a newbie myself, but I've found that a lot of the fixes and diagnostics for Linux take place at a Terminal command line.

Open up a terminal window, and at the command line type:

```
sudo lshw -C video
```

Translation: "Using super user authority, list the system hardware of class 'video'".  

When you do this, the computer will ask you to enter your 'super user' password.  Don't worry, it's the same as your regular password - but it's a security thing, I guess, so that's why it wants it done as super user.

Copy the results and paste into any further posting here.  It helps the experts here to know what hardware we've got. 

BTW, another good command to know is:
```
man *MostAnyCommand*
```
That is, "Print the manual information available for 'MostAnyCommand'. There's no guarantee that the manual information will be totally useful, but it can help boost your confidence level.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-10-22
[Linuxcommand.org]("Linuxcommand.org")

Also:

```
mostanycommand --help
```

sometimes works.

---

### Post by damitch on 2011-10-22
> **MG&TL said:**
> Report it on launchpad bugs:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/")

If 3 of you have the same issue; it's likely to be fixed relatively soon.

@decaeric: all of the stuff above is from a terminal emulator; a bit like a DOS window in windows. Press Ctrl-Alt-T, then type the commands above (for instance, you can do a lot more with a terminal):

```
sudo lshw -C video
```

then press the return key, and enter your password. Then paste here in code tags.
I've never posted a bug report, and as I get into it, I see that setting up the account and developing personal security keys, et cetera, will take some time that I don't have just now.  I'll do it when I can.

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2011-10-22
Sure. But you don't need the keys. Just an account and you can go. When you do have the time, perhaps.

---

### Post by rarepollo on 2011-10-23
This is similar to the problem I'm having, although with some different circumstances...

in 11.04 I rolled back the Nvidia driver to 173 and in doing that took care of this type of issue.

I can not stand Unity so I'm using Gnome shell for 11.10. While installing Gnome shell, I had this same issue, just blank screens after [x] number of windows were opened.  for me, (now in Gnome shell) it's more like 6-7 windows before it goes blank though.

I'm using a 64 bit machine with an Nvidia card, and my lshw output is almost identical to the others with a 64 bit machine.

  ```
*-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: C61 [GeForce 6150SE nForce 430]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: d
       bus info: pci@0000:00:0d.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:21 memory:fc000000-fcffffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:fb000000-fbffffff memory:fdf40000-fdf5ffff
pollo@Pollo-cyberdyne:~$ 

```I'll consider trying the 173 driver again after I do some more research into 11.10.

---

### Post by rarepollo on 2011-10-23
I didn't find any other reasons not to try this, so I did.

It seems to have fixed the blank screen nVidia issue (at least that I have).  This is slightly different, but based on the fix from the one back in 11.04 with nVidia/blank window problem.

I changed the nVidia driver from the -current to the post release updated one for 173. (this time instead of using the release only (no post release), I used the post-release.

I opened 9 separate programs full screen and then started watching hulu full screen and didn't have the problems I did last night with a big, black screen of nothing.

I venture to say that some people may need to use the non-post-release 173?  I don't know, I'm not really all that familiar with the nVidia issues.

I'll post back if this isn't really fixed for me.

---

### Post by TREESofRIGHTEOUSNESS on 2011-10-23
that is kinda odd, my situation is totally different.  But I have an old school comp running Xubuntu, and for the first time it correctly identified my nVidia card, and installed the correct drivers, and works better than ever.
I hope you all get your issue fixed.

---

### Post by decaeric on 2011-11-02
Rarepollo - I went into my drivers and set my display driver to 173 like you mentioned and it resolved my issue.  Thanks everyone!

Eric

---

### Post by damitch on 2011-12-11
Between work projects and other commitments to friends, it really did take me some time to get back to this, but last night I finally submitted the bug report.  Will report further when I learn more.

---

### Post by damitch on 2011-12-11
Oh. Okay. I think I've fixed my immediate problem, so I'll mark this thread 'solved'.  After more checking, I see that the problem was that the system was running the 'nouveau' video driver, which will only work with Unity 2D.  Instead, I installed the NVIDIA proprietary driver:

[Far right 'on/off' gear]->System Settings->Additional Drivers

It gave me 4 choices, and the one that seems to work the best for my system is the NVIDIA version 86 'regular', not the post-release upgrade.  All the others are slower.

---

### Post by Newbtoeverything on 2012-01-09
These seem similar to my problem, but not quite. Whenever I open a page that opens larger than the standard window is it comes up as white. If I shrink the window it will show the page but I can't make the page larger than it should be or all I get is white. This happens constantly when I try to go full page or even just try to save a file. The biggest problem is the latter of the last sentence. This is because some of the save or open windows will not allow me to shrink beyond a certain point, and many of these windows won't shrink smaller than a certain size so I can't open or save many pictures or documents. I don't really know how to switch back to an early version of my Nvidia driver, but I will try to find how to online. Any additional help will help.

---

### Post by kat_ams on 2012-01-22
> **damitch said:**
> Between work projects and other commitments to friends, it really did take me some time to get back to this, but last night I finally submitted the bug report.  Will report further when I learn more.

What was the Bug number that you reported on Launchpad?
I have the same problem using the Ubuntu Boot Stick and was curious what was in bug report as a solution

---

### Post by kukusha on 2012-02-29
> **damitch said:**
> Oh. Okay. I think I've fixed my immediate problem, so I'll mark this thread 'solved'.  After more checking, I see that the problem was that the system was running the 'nouveau' video driver, which will only work with Unity 2D.  Instead, I installed the NVIDIA proprietary driver:

[Far right 'on/off' gear]->System Settings->Additional Drivers

It gave me 4 choices, and the one that seems to work the best for my system is the NVIDIA version 86 'regular', not the post-release upgrade.  All the others are slower.

Sorry, how did you get the menu work when the screen is still dead blanc? I am having the same problem with ubuntu 11.10 and NVIDIA graphic card and cannot follow your recipe. 

 Code:
    [FONT=&quot]kukusha@nike:~$ sudo lshw -C video[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot][sudo] password for kukusha: [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]  *-display               [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       description: VGA compatible controller[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       product: NV37GL [Quadro PCI-E Series][/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       vendor: nVidia Corporation[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       physical id: 0[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       version: a2[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       width: 32 bits[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       clock: 33MHz[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       configuration: driver=nouveau latency=0[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]       resources: irq:16 memory:dd000000-ddffffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:de000000-deffffff memory:dfe00000-dfe1ffff[/FONT]
    
  
Is there any - ubuntu or non-ubuntu - way of changing the NVIDIA driver from the text screen?  :confused:

---

### Post by FraggedLocust on 2012-04-02
My symptoms: anything fullscreen went whtie. Panels showed fine. Windows not fullscreen (using the half-snapping, restoring, sometimes stretching) worked fine.

Downgraded from nvidia version-current to nvidia version 173, which fixed the issue.

---

### Post by checkmateuk on 2012-05-06
[LEFT]I've got the same problem as the OP. I have an Nvidia GeForce FX5700 and I can only run Ubuntu 12.04 in '2D' mode, however it seems incredibly sluggish.

I've tried installing the version 173.x drivers, however they won't install due to 'Package dependencies'.
I can install the latest Nvidia driver, however I end up with 1024x768 as my maximum resolution and I'm using a monitor with 1280x1024. (i also noticed the monitor isn't detected properly with these drivers installed).

Is it just a case of waiting for a newer release of the 173.x driver that is compatible with Ubuntu 12.04?
[/LEFT]

---

### Post by Trent T on 2012-05-16
Hi all--
I have been getting the white screen with both 11.04 and 11.10;
I get it with the 'nouveau' driver installed, and with it blacklisted, using #173.
I get it before installing Compiz, and get it with Compiz installed.

I think the Bug Report # is 902670.

Here's my nVidia info from my 32-bit desktop;

trent@Linux-Main-1:~$ sudo lshw -C video
[sudo] password for trent: 
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: C73 [GeForce 7050 / nForce 610i]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 10
       bus info: pci@0000:00:10.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:22 memory:fd000000-fdffffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:fc000000-fcffffff memory:fea40000-fea5ffff
trent@Linux-Main-1:~$ ^C

---

