---
title: "[12.10] Screen blanking after 10 mins"
date: 2013-05-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Chowchilla on 2013-05-24
(Running Ubuntu Gnome 12.10 64-bit, on an Ivy bridge system, using integrated graphics, fully updated)

My settings are such that:

- At 30 mins of inactivity the screen should be turned off AND lock screen enabled

- At 60 mins of inactivity the system will suspend

- "Dim screen to save power" is disabled

However, without fail, at 10 mins of inactivity the screen goes blank (but still on).

I've tried a number of solutions proposed, but none made any difference:

```

gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.screensaver idle-activation-enabled false

```

```

sudo xset s off

```

```

sudo xset s 0 0

```

```

sudo xset -dpms

```

---

### Post by siguie on 2013-05-24
I'm on 12.04 and am having the same problem.

I also have the screen set to Never turn off and it's Locked.

But like you after 10 minutes the screen goes blank. 

I know there is an issue like this with Xscreensaver so I checked synaptic and it's not installed on my system.

This all started happening after I updated last night so my guess is that it's an update issue but I'm here also hoping to find someone who can fix this.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2013-05-24
> **siguie said:**
> I'm on 12.04 and am having the same problem. I also have the screen set to Never turn off and it's Locked. But like you after 10 minutes the screen goes blank. 

Check and adjust the power manager settings as well as the screensaver. The power manager is probably causing the blanking after 10 mins.

---

### Post by siguie on 2013-05-24
Nope that's not it ... I have always had that set to "Don't Suspend" and I just checked and it's still set that way.


I havent touched my settings in months so I'm pretty sure this is somehow linked with the last  update.

---

### Post by siguie on 2013-05-24
Well my system is working properly again. I just did a manual update and 83mb and one restart later the screen stays on the way it's supposed to  :D 

I have no idea what was causing the problem but since not many others are here complaining I suspect there was something I installed that broke after the first update and was fixed after this last one.


@ Chowchilla - You should try a running the Update Manager and see if this latest update fixes what was wrong with your system.

---

### Post by Chowchilla on 2013-05-27
@siguie

Yes, I'm pretty sure this only started occuring after I updated towards the end of last week (kernel update on 24/05). I did also switch from using the discrete graphics in the system (Geforce 8400GS with nouveau) to the integrated intel graphics around the same time, don't know if that could be somehow responsible.

Checked again today but no updated packages...what packages were upgraded for you that resulted in the issue being resolved? Also what graphics hardware/driver are you using?

I should also add that I have a PC at home, which also has 12.10 Gnome installed, but does not experience the problem. It has a discrete Radeon card and uses the FOSS radeon driver.

EDIT:

Here's the exactly what was updated on 24/05...

```

Upgraded the following packages:
distro-info-data (0.10ubuntu2) to 0.10ubuntu3
linux-image-generic (3.5.0.30.46) to 3.5.0.31.47
linux-libc-dev (3.5.0-30.51) to 3.5.0-31.52

Installed the following packages:
linux-image-3.5.0-31-generic (3.5.0-31.52)
linux-image-extra-3.5.0-31-generic (3.5.0-31.52)

```

---

