---
title: "Settings Manager wont show up"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by belovedmonster on 2008-04-24
I just upgraded to 8.04 Xubuntu from 7.10 and now my Settings Manager isn't showing up. 

As a test I created a new user and sure enough the Settings Manager shows up on their menu.

What can I do to get Settings Manager back on my own menu?

---

### Post by jmikola on 2008-05-01
I recently did a clean upgrade to 8.04, preserving only my home directory, and noticed that my XFCE desktop menu's Settings sub-menu was abridged.  In 7.04, my Settings sub-menu contained an entry for "Settings Manager" as well as all entries of the individual buttons you find therein (e.g. "User Interface, "Window Manager", "Window Manager Tweaks", etc).  I have no idea why the duplicate entries were there, but I appreciated the convenience.  After upgrading to 8.04, these entries no longer appeared, along with the "Settings Manager" entry.

I found the master menu.xml file in: **/etc/xdg/xfce4/desktop/menu.xml** and diffed this against my local menu file in **~/.config/xfce4/desktop**.  Sure enough, there were a few differences.  The master file, which is used as a template when you create a new user, contains:

```
	<menu name="Settings" icon="gnome-settings">
		<app name="Settings Manager" cmd="xfce-setting-show" snotify="true" icon="gnome-settings"/>
	</menu>

	<separator/>

	<!--
	  The next line includes the autogenerated menu at the current level.  If
	  you want, you can put this in its own submenu.
	-->
	<include type="system" style="simple" unique="true"/>
```

The equivalent area in my personal menu.xml contained only:

```
	<include type="system" style="simple" unique="true" legacy="true"/>
```

The directives in the template file manually insert a link to "Settings Manager"; however, it seems that in 7.10, XFCE automatically inserted menu links for all of the configuration programs *and* "Settings Manager" by scanning the system for .desktop shortcut files.  I have no idea what stopped it from doing so after the upgrade, but I remember having a similar issue back when I went from 7.04 to 7.10.

Copying the relevant section in the template file into my personal menu.xml did not restore all of the extra configuration links I had in 7.10, but it did get the "Settings Manager" back (and through that, I have access to everything else).

---

