---
title: "10.04.GNOME(Classic) Why does some terminal window background appear differently?"
date: 2011-05-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by agrayray on 2011-05-22
Why does on some computers my terminal window have a background I can see through and on others its a solid color?

I have Ubuntu 10.04 installed on 4 machines as base OS and I have many virtual machines of it also.  I havent changed the terminal preferences on any of them, however on some computers the terminal background which is purple is not solid in that you can see what is in the background behind it. On others the background is truly solid purple; you can not see behind/through it.

Is there any way to change the terminal window for these machines that are displaying solid to the 'see-thru' way?

Ive been using some ebooks and things and really like opening up vi/vim in the purple see-thru window that allows me to write and see the text in the background...however on some machines I can not do this because the terminal display is truly solid.  ?

All my computers have the same profile settings for terminal..
color = use system theme
background = Solid color

?

Thanks in advance!

Note - I am making a distinction here between what I call see-thru and  the 'transparent' setting in the terminal preferences as this seems to  use the desktop background and is different from what I am talking here.

---

### Post by teachop on 2011-05-22
Are desktop effects enabled on all the machines?

---

### Post by agrayray on 2011-05-22
Figured I would keep my original post below as it was hard to find anything relevant via search for me leading to this post...

anyway - update:

it seems that this problem is vmWare related/my config related as I dont  have 3d effects installed nor does it seem that vmware will work with  it...so unless
anyone knows of a way to get this via vmWare (I know this is more a  vmWare question now)..would love to hear it as I know it also a 'big  deal' for two other ppl
I work with that want the transparent effect from terminal window in a vmWare virtual machine...?

----------------------------
orig.reply
-----------------------------
thanks for reply teachop...

no visual effects were set to none on all the machines that were using a solid color....via

System..Preferences...Appearance...Visual Effects

changing it on my one base OS (Thinkpad W500) solved it, now its transparent.

That said, I can not change it on my virtual machines.

I have five virtual machines of 10.04 in VMware Workstation and I am not able to change the visual effect setting on them.  All of them have vmWare tools installed.  When I try to set the Visual Effect setting to 'Normal' I get some crazy screen re-drawing attempts and then ultimately a dialog that says "Desktop effects could not be enabled"

any ideas or pointers to a log that I can check what is going on?

Thanks again for your helpful reply!!!

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-23
Compiz, the window manager used when you have visual effects enabled, doesn't play nicely with virtual machines. I've never used VMWare, but look into whether or not there's a way to enable 3D graphics acceleration for your virtual machines.

The transparent terminal, however, does not require this. Run gconf-editor and navigate to apps > metacity > general and check the box next to the key compositing_manager. This will allow the fallback window manager, Metacity, to do compositing for transparent windows.

---

### Post by agrayray on 2011-05-24
WOW...That totally did the trick...THANKS COPPER!!!

FYI:

I did a fair amount of googling and reading etc..and it seems that vmWare still (as of 2011.05.24) only supports 3d effects/drivers if your hosts are windows platforms..if you running on LX you are out of luck...

but as I mentioned, changing this option in the gconf-editor totally worked and now we have transparent terminals ..thanks again!

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-24
Very cool. I'm glad that worked out. = )

---

### Post by mi_di on 2012-01-06
this worked for me too, thanks

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-01-06
**Re: Transparent Terminal Windows.**

I found that,  whether the gconf editor was set as described above, or not, a Right-Click in a Terminal Window and selecting > Profiles  > Profile Preferences, or selecting Menu item Edit > Profile Preferences, and then the Background tag and checking the 'Transparent background' option, worked equally for me.

I tried it both in Ubuntu 11.10 with and without, Gnome3, and also in 10.04 LTS.

---

### Post by agrayray on 2012-05-30
Need to re-open this issue again for 12.04 release.

It seems the old technique of running the gconf-editor and changing the metacity settings does not work for 12.04.  

I am running Ubuntu 12.04 on vmware..have switched back to classic instead of unity and want the old purple see-thru terminal window.

Again, running gconf-editor and changing the compositing_manager setting doesnt do the trick now...

anyone know how to change it?

Thanks in advance!

---

