---
title: "A TwinView/nVidia/X server problem"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by clausmarvin on 2009-04-20
I'm not sure if this is a right place and English is not my native language, but I hope that some of you may kindly help me:

I'm very new Ubuntu user (installed 8.10 about 2 hours ago) and I've got a problem with my nvidia drivers, two screens and/or X Server.
After successful installation and updating of Ubuntu itself, I installed also NVIDIA graphics driver (vrs 180) because the system told me so. Basically it works fine, but when I try to configure my two displays quite weird problems occur.

After the installation of those Nvidia drivers I found under the "System" menu a new tool, "NVIDIA X Server Settings". I'm able to enable the TwinView with that tool, but every time I try to save xorg.conf file (by pressing button named "Save to X Configuration File") I get error "Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'.". Also, it seems not to save anything into xorg.conf. Apparently because of that, when I have to restart X (logging off, restarting, etc.) my second display turns dead and I'm forced to all that configuration stuff again in order get that screen working again.

I've tried to copy/paste the xorg.conf file the NVIDIA Settings offers (but doesn't save) manually over the original one with text editor, but that doesn't work either. (The text editor gives message "You don't have permission to save into this directory...")

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Darael on 2009-04-20
To save files into the /etc/X11 directory, you need to have root priveleges.  Root is the user that can do anything with the system and that owns system files and directories.  In Ubuntu, you can run a command with root priveleges by prepending "sudo " or in the case of graphical applications, "gksu " or "gksudo ".

You probably know all that - maybe not that you need root privs to write into /etc/X11 - but the thing you need to know is this: For some reason, the Nvidia config application is not set up to use gksuso by default.  The best solution - the one that will save you from having to do any extra steps every time you run it - is (I can't be too precise as I'm not in the right desktop environment to check right now, but you should get the drift):

-right-click your menu
-select "edit menus"
-choose the appropriate submenu on the left of the window that appears (the one the Nvidia settings app is under)
-select the Nvidia config app
-press "properties"
-in the command field, add "gksudo " to the beginning (note the trailing space)
-exit out of the menu editor

If you try and run the config app now, you should be prompted for your password.  It will now be able to save the config file.

Alternatively, if you still have the settings manager's xorg.conf you could press alt+f2 and type "gksu gedit".  This will open the text editor, but with root priveleges (after entering your password).  You can then open the file and save it to /etc/X11.  Note however that this method will require you to rememberthe command every time you wish to change your settings, so I advise you to use the former.

...Phew! Talk about a long-winded explanation :D.  Anyway, I hope it helps.  Oh, and by the way, your English is exceedingly good - especially compared to some of the native speakers I've known.

---

### Post by clausmarvin on 2009-04-20
Thanks, it seems to work (at least I didn't get any error messages when saving).

---

### Post by thefluxster on 2009-11-17
Your explanation covered exactly the steps I had to follow to get my config saved correctly to xorg.conf.  Great job.

My problem is that once I log out, that's it.  The configuration is not being reapplied for some reason...  Here's my xorg.conf:

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL 2001FP"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro NVS 135M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-0: NULL, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1600+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

