---
title: "11.04 Window Issues"
date: 2011-09-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jwh400 on 2011-09-25
I consider myself a veteran Linux user having dove headfirst into it in 2005 and never looking back. But 11.04 leaves me with the feeling I had when I first encountered Windows 98. Everything I bought the computer for was put on hold while I chased down problems, re-configured settings, and generally despaired at my lack of computer knowledge. I clearly remember that satisfying feeling of composing my first email message while in safe mode. But Ubuntu 11.04 has caused me to ask a really stupid question;

How do I minimize a window?

No matter what directory I have open, if I minimize it, it will re-open in the home directory. In other words, the minimize button does the same thing as the close button.

Where do I find the settings for windows effects? I would like to stop the 'sticky windows' because I'm tired of having to wrestle them away from that long slender thingy at the top that use to be a tool bar. 

How do I get windows to remember their position and size? It seems that they just take a random shot at the desktop with the intent of getting on there somewhere in some form. The Gimp usually appears sticking halfway above where the bottom toolbar use to be. 

Thanks for any and all help. I stand ready with terminal open ready to download, install, configure, and re-configure. Plus, according to UPS, the latest edition of 'Linux for Dummies' is in shipment and on time.
):P

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-09-25
Let's start with a bit of on line learning. [http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity](http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity)

Now that does assume you are using unity and that will be the default session type if your video card is reasonably capable. On the login screen you can enter your password and before you press enter look at the bottom of the screen. There is a session type combo box in which you can select classic if desired.

It sounds to me like you haven't quite understood the launcher yet. When you minimize a window, look at its icon in the launcher. There will be a little triangle on the left. More than one if you minimize more than one instance of that application. Restore it from there and it will go to the position it last was in.

There are a lot of good links on the page I linked above. Check them out and I think things will become clear quickly.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-09-25
To clarify, then, you're using the new default Unity interface, with the Launcher (Mac-like dock-style row of icons in place of a window list on the left?)

> No matter what directory I have open, if I minimize it, it will re-open in the home directory. In other words, the minimize button does the same thing as the close button.

Is this happening with every application, or just specific ones? It shouldn't be the case - a minimized window should behave just as it did in previous versions, and clicking the icon of a minimized window should just bring it back up.

> Where do I find the settings for windows effects? I would like to stop the 'sticky windows' because I'm tired of having to wrestle them away from that long slender thingy at the top that use to be a tool bar. 
The settings for window effects are in compizconfig-settings-manager, which you may or may not have installed. "Sticky" actually describes something else - you might want to turn off the plugins for the Grid or Snapping Windows, both of which are in the Window Management section of CompizConfig. That may or may not solve your problem.

As for window placement, you might look at the options in the Place Windows plugin in the same.


Edit: Simultaneous post, there, but good call, Blasphemist - that's a very useful guide.

---

### Post by jwh400 on 2011-09-25
Thanks for both and yes, snapping windows is what I meant rather than sticky. And yes I'm running Unity. 
I'm aware that I can run the classic but wanted to Give Unity a chance so thanks for that link Blasphemist. 

App windows appear to minimize and re-open OK. But when I minimize a directory window,there is no white arrow showing. Concerning the other issues, I'll check to see if Compiz is installed.

Thanks for the quick answers.
:p

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-09-25
Good to hear!

When you say minimize a directory window, did you launch it to start with from the launcher folder icon? Or maybe some other way like places?

Just so we don't confuse things, compiz is already installed and running to support the desktop. What can be installed is ccsm (compiz config settings manager) which give you access to more settings than you have control of in the default simple settings manager.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-09-25
Yeah, I think it sounds like that's the Places lens, as opposed to a Nautilus file browser menu (which will be clearer from the guide.)

One minor bit just in case - the package for ccsm is actually named compizconfig-settings-manager, while ccsm is the command to run it from terminal (but it'll come up in the Software Center to install and Dash to run either way.)

---

### Post by jwh400 on 2011-09-25
I couldn't find Compiz so I assumed they were creating the effects with some other program. The Compiz settings manager is now installed and all windows are now remembering their size and placement. 

Yes, I launch the directory window from the icon in the launcher. I rarely if ever use the 'Files & Folders' launcher if that's what you mean by 'Places'. I can adjust my habits and designate a desktop just for that window and with it's dual pane ability the need for it to be minimized is greatly reduced. All other windows minimize correctly so I'm considering this resolved.
Thanks to both of you.
:p

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-09-25
Great! = )

> I rarely if ever use the 'Files & Folders' launcher if that's what you mean by 'Places'.
Yeah, sorry about this - I'm stuck in the old terminology since I've never used the Unity interface extensively. Sorry about that! = o

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2011-09-25
Just a note, when all windows are minimized, and focus is on the desktop, there is a "Places" menu in the top Unity panel when you hover the mouse pointer over it.

---

### Post by jwh400 on 2011-09-25
The last issue is now solved. I've been launching from the folder icon in the launcher but it minimizes to the computer icon which was missing. After installing the Compiz settings manager it suddenly appeared and there were 7 directory windows minimized to it.
:lolflag:

---

