---
title: "24.04 won't use primary monitor after locking"
date: 2024-05-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by stephenpeters on 2024-05-27
I'm running X11.

Setup:
[LIST]
[*]One primary monitor in Landscape, two monitors in portrait, one on either side.
[*]Ubuntu 24.04
[*]NVidia 3090 using nvidia-driver-535
[/LIST]

Repro Steps:

[LIST=1]
[*]Lock the screen with Special+L
[*]Wait until the monitors go to sleep
[*]Press a button to log back in
[/LIST]

Expected:
[LIST]
[*]The login prompt appears on my primary monitor, and I can resume using my session
[/LIST]

Actual
[LIST]
[*]My primary monitor doesn't turn back on. The login appears on one of my side monitors which has reverted to landscape mode.
[/LIST]

Things that I've tried:
[LIST]
[*]Suspending instead of just locking results in everything coming back as it should.
[*]Removing one of the two side monitors results in everything coming back as it should.
[*]Unplugging one of the two side monitors results in everything coming back as it should.
[*]If, after I have seen the blank screen on the primary monitor, I unplug one of my monitors and then plug it back in, it will start to work again. However, this will crash X.org after the second or third time I do it, which is less than ideal.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by djandiek on 2024-06-12
I posted an answer to this on askubuntu, but I am not currently using NVIDIA drivers, just a stock standard 24.04 install.

I had the same issue with a fresh install of 24.04. I followed the answer from [https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/442057/ubuntu-18-04-wont-wake-after-screen-lock-and-blank-suspend-sleep](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/442057/ubuntu-18-04-wont-wake-after-screen-lock-and-blank-suspend-sleep) and it worked great.


The steps are:


Edit GRUB [FONT=courier new]sudo nano /etc/default/grub[/FONT]


change [FONT=courier new]GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""[/FONT] to [FONT=courier new]GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="nouveau.modeset=0"[/FONT]


Save changes (Ctrl+X)


Update GRUB with [FONT=courier new]sudo update-grub[/FONT]


Reboot and you're good to go.

---

