---
title: "9.04 on VMWare with Dual Screen monitors"
date: 2009-05-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by PeteSmith on 2009-05-07
Hi all.

I'm a relative newcomer to Ubuntu. I played around with Linux at the time of RedHat 5.2, which is many years ago.

I'm having a play with Ubuntu 9.04 at work, because we're interested in getting a virtualised development environment up and running. We're using VMWare Server 1.0.9 running under WindowsXP. The reason we're thinking of doing this is that we develop apps that run under Linux/Solaris, but corporate IT policy (Not Windows? Not on the network!) dictates Windows. We'd like to develop on the same platform we deploy to. It also would have the advantage that we could build a vanilla development environment (Java, MyEclipse, all the tools pre-installed) that we can give to a new starter, or use ourselves to torch a bad environment and start again.

I have to say that I like how far Linux has come in the intervening decade! If I didn't play games on my PC at home, I'd have a hard time justifying sticking with Windows. Out of the box Ubuntu does most of the stuff Vista does (with the exception of a Windows Media Center equivalent). If I could get 100% DirectX 10, and could play the latest games, I'd drop Vista like a shot, and come over to the Dark Side. (I say "Dark", it's more of a "Swirly Chocolate Brown" really :P)

I've been able to install Ubuntu on the VM very nicely. About 20 minutes from start to finish, including virtual machine setup time.

Once I'd set up our corporate proxy details, the auto update went like a dream. (Except for killing Firefox! 3.0.8 worked fine, but the new one that came with todays update no longer works)

I installed Java 6_13 JDK without problems, the same as Eclipse Ganymede. It all just works!

I'm now starting to slow down though!:confused:

All our dev machines are dual screen (1280*1024 x 2). I'd like the Ubuntu desktop to be the same resolution as the Windows desktop, so when we "Full Screen", we use up all of the real-estate.

I'm using xrandr to set up the desktop. I've created a modeline for 2560*1024, added the mode to the default output (xrandr --addmode default 2560x1024_60.00) . I can't select the resolution however (xrandr --output default --mode 2560x1024_60.00).  xrandr returns "xrandr: Configure crtc 0 failed". Via the "Display preferences" menu item, I get "Could not apply the selected configuration. Could not set the configuration for CRTC 256"

Does anyone have any ideas where I go from here? Other people have posted similar questions, but they're all graphics card specific.

I've installed VMWare tools (as far as I'm aware), but the problem is still here.

Thanks.

Pete.

---

### Post by shampooi on 2009-07-12
I'm having the exact same problem, did you manage to solve it?

---

