---
title: "9.10 - MythTV 0.23 / 0.22 Small fonts in some themes"
date: 2010-05-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by schitthoch2 on 2010-05-28
Hi there,

I have a font problem with Graphite and Mythbuntu theme.

The interesting part is that in both themes there are some places where the fonts are WAY too small, but it's not the same place.

Initial workaround for small fonts in mythtv-setup TEXT-AREAS (e.g. where you enter the storage group path) was to use **qtconfig-qt4 / qtconfig** from a terminal to adapt the dont sizes. Now 90 % of the fonts are correctly sized. For the other 10% i have no clue:

Problem description, first example: Theme Mythbuntu
Go to System Information --> Tuners, in the bottom-left corner, there should be some Detail-Information which i cannot read because it is too small.

Problem description, secondexample: Theme Graphite
Go to Media --> Recordings, navigate to specific recording and press the MENU key (M), the first field in the list is WAY too small again.

What font-type / font-definition / theme-scaling do i need to adapt to solve this issue.

---

### Post by schitthoch2 on 2010-05-30
Picture for first example:

Check font size bottom-left under "Einzelheiten"

[IMG]http://i50.tinypic.com/2j5tz8.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by schitthoch2 on 2010-06-03
Solved

sudo nano /usr/share/mythtv/themes/Mythbuntu/status-ui.xml

and added the red line in the right place "helptext"

        <textarea name="helptext">
            <area>30,645,1220,75</area>
            <value>This screen displays the status of various system components</value>
            [COLOR="Red"]<font>basesmall</font>[/COLOR]
            <multiline>yes</multiline>
        </textarea>

---

### Post by schitthoch2 on 2010-06-03
For the Graphite Theme, there is probably a mistake in the theme definition in /usr/share/mythtv/themes/Graphite/base.xml .

Defined is:
<font name="baseextrasmallest" from="basesmall">
        <pixelsize>11</pixelsize>
    </font>

But the references on it (in the same file) are sometimes
**basesmallest**instead of **baseextrasmallest**.

Therefore search for **basesmallest** in that file and replace it with **baseextrasmallest**.

Then you can at least read it. Tweak the pixelsize from 11 to 12 or 13, to make it perfect.

<font name="baseextrasmallest" from="basesmall">
        <pixelsize>12</pixelsize>
    </font>

---

