---
title: "14.04 to have classic?"
date: 2013-10-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2013-10-22
is classic or fallback to be available in 14.04?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-10-22
There is a Gnome Shell Classic session on gnome 3.8. The fallback is now named flashback in 13.10 though I don't know if it will make it to 14.04. I will add a screen shot when log into current Classic session.
 
Edit : You can use the drop-down menu or the shell overview depending on where you put the cursor . It has a bottom panel window list and a places extension on top.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-10-23
I'm not a betting man, but I'd say yes.

At least some form of classic should be available on trusty.

And I cannot see the ubuntu-gnome developers setting out to anger/lose their user base, who probably like the flashback as well as shell.

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2013-10-23
Frog's Hair, nice ! So maybe there's hope for us traditionalists

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-10-23
Xfce for me. Have never looked back. ;)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-10-23
It is at the vUDS that plans are laid out. And there are two of them during the development cycle. A lot depends on how different 14.04 will be from 13.10 and how much modification is needed to present code of flashback. But as 14.04 is LTS there might not be that much of a difference between the code base of 13.10 and 14.04.

Now, when it comes to 14.10 that is where the fun begins.

[http://uds.ubuntu.com/](http://uds.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by zKhtdyX on 2013-10-28
I do not know if gnome panel makes into the final version of 14.04, but it is still in 14.04 [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel)

---

