---
title: ".desktop problem"
date: 2018-05-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gcharb on 2018-05-15
Hello everyone, first post here! :D

I have installed an application, copied the folder to opt, the software starts no problem from the folder when I click the program icon, then I created a shortcut with alacarte, the shortcut appears in show application, but nothing happens when I click on the shortcut, I checked permissions, they are the same as other folders in opt from which shortcuts work without a glitch, anyone has an idea as of how to solve this?

Thanks in advance for any help!

Gilles

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-05-15
What is the Exec= line of the .desktop file? Is alacarte still around? Which Ubuntu (what DE) is that?

---

### Post by gcharb on 2018-05-15
Hello, and thanks for the reply!

Ubuntu 18.04, the Exec = sh /opt/3DCoat-4.8.15d/3D-Coat.sh, yes, alacarte is still around, but I also made the .desktop manually, same results, here is the full .desktop content, as I mentioned, if I click 3d-coat.sh, 3d coat starts no problem!

[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Version=1.0
Type=Application
Terminal=false
Exec=sh /opt/3DCoat-4.8.15d/3D-Coat.sh
Name=3D-Coat
Icon=/opt/3DCoat-4.8.15d/3D-Coat.ico
Comment=Run 3D-Coat
Categories=Graphics

Thanks again, Gilles

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-05-15
you don't need the "sh" part just "/opt/3DCoat-4.8.15d/3D-Coat.sh" is fine.
make sure "3D-Coat.sh" is executable.

chmod +x /opt/3DCoat-4.8.15d/3D-Coat.sh
or
sudo chmod +x /opt/3DCoat-4.8.15d/3D-Coat.sh

run it form terminal to check for errors.
/opt/3DCoat-4.8.15d/3D-Coat.sh

---

