---
title: "12.04 KeePass Ctrl and Alt Keys Not Recognized"
date: 2012-05-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Gotit on 2012-05-26
Hi,
I have upgraded to 12.04 i386 and I'm having trouble with KeePass (portable style v2.15, v2.16, v2.19) as it doesn't recognize the control or alt keys.  If I highlight text and press Ctrl+C to copy to the clipboard the highlighted text changes to a "c".  If I right click the highlighted text and select copy then place the courser and press Ctrl+V to paste I get a "v" instead.  

This happens on all version of KeePass I have tried including a version keep on a thumbdrive.  Running off the thumbdrive on my 10.04 machine it works fine so it's not KeePass.  I have also checked other Mono based applications and they handle Ctrl and Alt as expected. I am running with mono 2.10.8.1. 

This is very odd.  Any thoughts.  This is the only issue I am having with 12.04 so far.

Thanks!

---

### Post by directhex on 2012-05-27
> **Gotit said:**
> Hi,
I have upgraded to 12.04 i386 and I'm having trouble with KeePass (portable style v2.15, v2.16, v2.19) as it doesn't recognize the control or alt keys.  If I highlight text and press Ctrl+C to copy to the clipboard the highlighted text changes to a "c".  If I right click the highlighted text and select copy then place the courser and press Ctrl+V to paste I get a "v" instead.  

This happens on all version of KeePass I have tried including a version keep on a thumbdrive.  Running off the thumbdrive on my 10.04 machine it works fine so it's not KeePass.  I have also checked other Mono based applications and they handle Ctrl and Alt as expected. I am running with mono 2.10.8.1. 

This is very odd.  Any thoughts.  This is the only issue I am having with 12.04 so far.

Thanks!

Can't reproduce this using the keepass2 package in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Gotit on 2012-05-28
@directhex Thanks for the sanity check, I tried that too but no joy.

However, I did track the problem down to a bad /home/gotit/.config/dconf/user file.  I simply deleted it, logged out/in and the issue is now resolved!

---

### Post by pabouk on 2012-09-18
I have exactly the same problem (updated Ubuntu 12.04, tested Keepass 2.18, 2.19, 2.20). By chance did not you discover the setting(s) which cause the problem? I do not want to delete the whole [FONT="Courier New"]~/.config/dconf/user[/FONT].

---

### Post by Gotit on 2012-09-18
> **pabouk said:**
> I have exactly the same problem (updated Ubuntu 12.04, tested Keepass 2.18, 2.19, 2.20). By chance did not you discover the setting(s) which cause the problem? I do not want to delete the whole [FONT="Courier New"]~/.config/dconf/user[/FONT].

No, I can't really even see what all is in that file as it looks encrypted in gedit.  

If you don't want to delete the whole file before knowing if it's the problem, you could simply rename it, log out/in, to generate a new one and see if Keepass works.

---

### Post by pabouk on 2012-11-16
Finally I discovered the problematic option. I did not want to reset all my settings by deleting [FONT="Courier New"]~/.config/dconf/user[/FONT].

The problem is the [bug #9441 "the locate pointer option breaks other keybindings"]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/9441") related to the mouse pointer setting *Show position of pointer when the Control key is pressed*. I have found the bug more or less by accident because the Ctrl key was not working in VNC Viewer.

I just turned the option off and Ctrl+something combinations work flawlessly in KeePass. Currently I have KeePass 2.20.1 and updated Ubuntu 12.04.1.

---

