---
title: "10.04 Password Anomalies"
date: 2010-10-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-10-06
Yesterday I installed 10.04 in 32-bit form to dual boot with Win/XP. I used the text-based installer. Passwords for root and the main user were set to the values I have been using in the past. They are very familiar to me but are non-trivial.

Installation completed without obvious problems. For a few hours after install I was able to respond to all authentication requests without any errors, but then the password for root failed authentication. I was able to logon to the non-root user. But today is a new day: password fails authentication for both root and the main user. By the way it is the same, non-trivial, password for both.

The only possible relevant change I made (as root) was to change the keyboard mapping so that the system recognised that I have a numeric keypad to the right of the alpha keys (extended keyboard?).

At first I concluded that the batteries in my wireless keyboard were exhausted, causing keyboard errors. New batteries have made no differnce. My system is now essentially unusable. Are there some steps I can take to reset the passwords for root and the main user, or do I need to do a total re-install?

---

### Post by hhh on 2010-10-06
You can try resetting your passwords by going to System>Administration>Users and Groups, click your user name and under Password click Change, but you'll need to enter your current password to change it.

I'm confused about you saying you created a root password, I thought Ubuntu doesn't create a root account, it does everything through sudo...
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-10-06
Thanks for this guidance - I was not aware of this at all. I do recall the text based install asking for an 'Administrator' password - I just assumed this meant 'root'.

Anyway, following information found elsewhere through Google (see [http://www.debuntu.org/recover-root-password-single-user-mode-and-grub](http://www.debuntu.org/recover-root-password-single-user-mode-and-grub)) I was able to reset the root password and this satisfied all authentication requests - so I am now really confused too!.

The reset of my main user has been successful too.

I absolutely do not know why my system has behaved in this way.

---

