---
title: "cpu temp in conky?"
date: 2008-01-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-03
Hi!
I have been trying to make so I can see my cpu temp in conky.
But I cant understand why I cant see it :s

I have installed:
"apt-get install lm-sensors"

And then after that I have:
"apt-get install lm-sensors"
And answerer Yes on all questions.


I can see my temp if I write "sudo sensors" in the Terminal.

Can someone please write some string who shod work so I can put it in my conky config?

Some information about my system:
CPU: AMD Athlone 64 2x 6000+
Linux dist: Ubuntu 7.10
Kernel: 2.6.22-14-generic

---

### Post by iDleR on 2008-01-03
hello!
You can look at: [http://conky.sourceforge.net/variables.html](http://conky.sourceforge.net/variables.html)
There you can find the right variable to use.

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-03
lm-sensors won't work on all hardware (there's probably a list somewhere)
here's a thread on configuring it:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2780&highlight=cpu+temp](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2780&highlight=cpu+temp)

I've tried it in the past but found that my notebook (a cheap acer) isn't supported

in conky I use acpitemp - like:
```

${color0}CPU Temp: ${color #FF0000}${acpitemp}${color0}Celsius

```

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-03
> **erfahren said:**
> lm-sensors won't work on all hardware (there's probably a list somewhere)
here's a thread on configuring it:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2780&highlight=cpu+temp](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2780&highlight=cpu+temp)

I've tried it in the past but found that my notebook (a cheap acer) isn't supported

in conky I use acpitemp - like:
```

${color0}CPU Temp: ${color #FF0000}${acpitemp}${color0}Celsius

```

But as it works in the terminal for me soI thought that It shod work in conky.

Your string dident work for me =/

And when I write: "$i8k_cpu_temp" in the config file for conky I get this error messages when I trying to start conky:
Conky: can't load font 'Sans'
Conky: desktop window (100016b) is subwindow of root window (252)
Conky: window type - override
Conky: drawing to created window (2c00004)
Conky: drawing to double buffer
Conky: /proc/i8k doesn't exist! use insmod to make sure the kernel driver is loaded...

---

### Post by mattator on 2008-01-03
if you have installed acpi,you can look in your /sys/acpi/bus/devices for a file displaying the current temp and use it in conky via {exec expr 'cat /sys/.....'/1000}.0°C
or sometimes it works directly {ice2 temp 1}

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-03
try entering this in the terminal
```

acpi -t

```

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-03
oh, my string there was just an example - I have a color set for the varible "color0"
you also are having a problem loading the Sans font - 

try like this string instead
```

${color}CPU Temp: ${color #FF0000}${acpitemp}${color}Celsius

```

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-03
> **erfahren said:**
> try entering this in the terminal
```

acpi -t

```


When I typ acpi -t in terminal I get:
robin@robin-desktop:~$ acpi -t
No support for device type: thermal
robin@robin-desktop:~$

---

### Post by ~LoKe on 2008-01-03
Here's an example of my conky:
>  +--thermal; ${execi 6 /usr/bin/sensors | grep Core\ 3| paste -s | cut -c15-16,19-20}

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-04
> **~LoKe said:**
> Here's an example of my conky:

Dident work =/

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-04
hey Lulle - did you install lm-sensors? this guide shows how to get it set up: [http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/iwizard/Detection](http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/iwizard/Detection)

go through that and see what you can come up with

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-04
> **erfahren said:**
> hey Lulle - did you install lm-sensors? this guide shows how to get it set up: [http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/iwizard/Detection](http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/iwizard/Detection)

go through that and see what you can come up with

When I make the sudo sensors-detect
I get this:
Some CPUs or memory controllers may also contain embedded sensors.
Do you want to scan for them? (YES/no): y
```
AMD K8 thermal sensors...                                   Success!
    (driver `k8temp')
Intel Core family thermal sensor...                         No
Intel AMB FB-DIMM thermal sensor...                         No

```

and

```

Driver `f71882fg' (should be inserted):
  Detects correctly:
  * ISA bus, address 0x600
    Chip `Fintek F71882FG/F71883FG Super IO Sensors' (confidence: 9)

Driver `k8temp' (should be inserted):
  Detects correctly:
  * Chip `AMD K8 thermal sensors' (confidence: 9)

```

And I get this warning in /etc/modules:

```

# Generated by sensors-detect on Thu Jan  3 15:01:20 2008
# Chip drivers
# Warning: the required module f71882fg is not currently installed
# on your system. For status of 2.6 kernel ports check
# http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/Devices. If driver is built
# into the kernel, or unavailable, comment out the following line.
f71882fg
k8temp

```

So I think I got K8 then, and yes I got amd64.
How do I typ to get cpu temp in conky?

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-04
I don't think k8temp is supported in conky. Since acpitemp won't work for you, you'll just have to try the other cpu yemperature varibles listed on conky's varilble chart - [http://conky.sourceforge.net/variables.html](http://conky.sourceforge.net/variables.html)

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-04
> **erfahren said:**
> I don't think k8temp is supported in conky. Since acpitemp won't work for you, you'll just have to try the other cpu yemperature varibles listed on conky's varilble chart - [http://conky.sourceforge.net/variables.html](http://conky.sourceforge.net/variables.html)

Thanks I find some commands.
But I got this error:
```
Conky: /proc/i8k doesn't exist! use insmod to make sure the kernel driver is loaded...
```

when I try to start conky.
Why do I get that error and how do I fix it?

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-05
> **~LoKe said:**
> Here's an example of my conky:

how Do i specify that one for my cpu?

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-05
> **mattator said:**
> if you have installed acpi,you can look in your /sys/acpi/bus/devices for a file displaying the current temp and use it in conky via {exec expr 'cat /sys/.....'/1000}.0°C
or sometimes it works directly {ice2 temp 1}


I write sudo gedit /sys/acpi/bus/devices

And its just a empty txt .
What do I do wrong?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-01-05
I'm also having the same issues. I've been working on this most of the night, back at it again. If I find something I'll let you know. Please let me know if you find something as well.   :)

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-01-07
**Computer:**HP Pavilion dv9608nr laptop
[B]
[SIZE="4"][COLOR="Red"]UPDATE[/COLOR][/SIZE]    :     "A"     CHARACTER FIX     == == == ==[/B]

Find the line within the conky script and change to yes ::
```

# Force UTF8? note that UTF8 support required XFT
override_utf8_locale yes
```

I've been working on this for awhile and I know now that conky does not support the k8temp driver. I just use the cat command to display my temps. Working on the weird "A" character next to my degree sign now.

---

### Post by erfahren on 2008-01-07
> **cdtech said:**
> **Computer:**HP Pavilion dv9608nr laptop

I've been working on this for awhile and I know now that conky does not support the k8temp driver. I just use the cat command to display my temps. Working on the weird "A" charactor next to my degree sign now.
could you post your .conkyrc? How do you go about using the cat command?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-01-07
This is the conkyrc script and you can see my call to the temperature directory. You might want to see if your temps are in the same directory though. Hope this helps. 

```
# conky configuration

# set to yes if you want Conky to be forked in the background
background yes

# X font when Xft is disabled, you can pick one with program xfontsel
#font 5x7
#font 6x10
#font 7x13
#font 8x13
#font 9x15
font *mintsmild.se*
#font -*-*-*-*-*-*-34-*-*-*-*-*-*-*


# Use Xft?
use_xft yes

# Xft font when Xft is enabled
#xftfont Bitstream Vera Sans Mono:size=8
xftfont Terminus:size=8

# Text alpha when using Xft
xftalpha 0.8

# Print everything to console?
out_to_console no

# mail spool
#mail_spool $MAIL

# Update interval in seconds
update_interval 1.0

# This is the number of times Conky will update before quitting.
# Set to zero to run forever.
total_run_times 0

# Create own window instead of using desktop (required in nautilus)
own_window yes
own_window_type override
own_window_hints undecorated,below,sticky,skip_taskbar,skip_pager
own_window_transparent yes

# Use double buffering (reduces flicker, may not work for everyone)
double_buffer yes

# Draw shades?
draw_shades no

# Draw outlines?
draw_outline no

# Draw borders around text
draw_borders no

# Stippled borders?
stippled_borders 0

# border margins
border_margin 10

# border width
border_width 2

# Default colors and also border colors
default_color white
default_shade_color white
default_outline_color white

# Minimum size of text area
minimum_size 5 5
maximum_width 680

# Text alignment, other possible values are commented
#alignment top_left
alignment top_right
#alignment bottom_left
#alignment bottom_right

# Gap between borders of screen and text
# same thing as passing -x at command line
gap_x 3
gap_y 75

# Subtract file system buffers from used memory?
no_buffers yes

# set to yes if you want all text to be in uppercase
uppercase no

# number of cpu samples to average
# set to 1 to disable averaging
cpu_avg_samples 2

# number of net samples to average
# set to 1 to disable averaging
net_avg_samples 2

# Force UTF8? note that UTF8 support required XFT
override_utf8_locale no


# Add spaces to keep things from moving about?  This only affects certain objects.
use_spacer yes
#Note: doesn't work in conky 1.2 =(

#   mldonkey_hostname     Hostname for mldonkey stuff, defaults to localhost
#   mldonkey_port         Mldonkey port, 4001 default
#   mldonkey_login        Mldonkey login, default none
#   mldonkey_password     Mldonkey password, default none


# Possible variables to be used:
#
#      Variable         Arguments                  Description                

# 	addr              (interface)   IP address for an interface
# 	acpiacadapter                   ACPI ac adapter state.                   
# 	acpifan                         ACPI fan state                           
# 	acpitemp                        ACPI temperature.                        
# 	adt746xcpu                      CPU temperature from therm_adt746x       
# 	adt746xfan                      Fan speed from therm_adt746x             
# 	alignr            (num)         Right-justify text, with space of N
# 	alignc                          Align text to centre
# 	battery           (num)         Remaining capasity in ACPI or APM        
# 					battery. ACPI battery number can be      
# 					given as argument (default is BAT0).     
# 	buffers                         Amount of memory buffered                
# 	cached                          Amount of memory cached                  
# 	color             (color)       Change drawing color to color            
# 	cpu                             CPU usage in percents                    
# 	cpubar            (height)      Bar that shows CPU usage, height is      
# 					bar's height in pixels                 
# 	cpugraph          (height),(width) (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					CPU usage graph, with optional colours in hex,
# 					minus the #.
# 	downspeed         net           Download speed in kilobytes              
# 	downspeedf        net           Download speed in kilobytes with one     
# 					decimal                                  
# 	downspeedgraph    net (height),(width) (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					Download speed graph, colours defined in
# 					hex, minus the #.
# 	exec              shell command Executes a shell command and displays    
# 					the output in conky. warning: this      
# 					takes a lot more resources than other    
# 					variables. I'd recommend coding wanted   
# 					behaviour in C and posting a patch :-).  
# 	execbar           shell command Same as exec, except if the first value
# 					return is a value between 0-100, it
# 					will use that number for a bar.
# 					The size for the bar is currently fixed,
# 					but that may change in the future.
# 	execgraph         shell command Same as execbar, but graphs values
# 	execi             interval, shell command
#  					Same as exec but with specific interval. 
# 					Interval can't be less than              
# 					update_interval in configuration.        
#	font		  font		Specify a different font.  Only applies
#					to one line.
# 	fs_bar            (height), (fs)Bar that shows how much space is used on 
# 					a file system. height is the height in   
# 					pixels. fs is any file on that file      
# 					system.                                  
# 	fs_free           (fs)          Free space on a file system available    
# 					for users.                               
# 	fs_free_perc      (fs)          Free percentage of space on a file       
# 					system available for users.              
# 	fs_size           (fs)          File system size                         
# 	fs_used           (fs)          File system used space                   
# 	hr                (height)      Horizontal line, height is the height in 
# 					pixels                                   
# 	i2c               (dev), type, n  I2C sensor from sysfs (Linux 2.6). dev   
# 					may be omitted if you have only one I2C  
# 					device. type is either in (or vol)       
# 					meaning voltage, fan meaning fan or
# 					temp/tempf (first in C, second in F)
# 					meaning temperature. n is number of the  
# 					sensor. See /sys/bus/i2c/devices/ on     
# 					your local computer.                     
# 	if_running        (process)     if PROCESS is running, display
# 					everything if_running and the matching $endif
# 	if_existing       (file)        if FILE exists, display everything between
# 					if_existing and the matching $endif
# 	if_mounted        (mountpoint)  if MOUNTPOINT is mounted, display everything between
# 					if_mounted and the matching $endif
# 	else                            Text to show if any of the above are not true
# 	kernel                          Kernel version                          
# 	linkstatus        (interface)   Get the link status for wireless connections
# 	loadavg           (1), (2), (3) System load average, 1 is for past 1     
# 					minute, 2 for past 5 minutes and 3 for   
# 					past 15 minutes.                         
# 	machine                         Machine, i686 for example                
# 	mails                           Mail count in mail spool. You can use    
# 					program like fetchmail to get mails from 
# 					some server using your favourite         
# 					protocol. See also new_mails.            
# 	mem                             Amount of memory in use                  
# 	membar            (height)      Bar that shows amount of memory in use   
# 	memmax                          Total amount of memory                   
# 	memperc                         Percentage of memory in use
# 	
# 	metar_ob_time
# 	metar_temp
# 	metar_tempf                     Temp in F
# 	metar_windchill
# 	metar_dew_point                 There are a bunch of these
# 	metar_rh                        and they are self-explanatory
# 	metar_windspeed
# 	metar_winddir
# 	metar_swinddir
# 	metar_cloud
# 	metar_u2d_time
# 	
# 	ml_upload_counter               total session upload in mb
# 	ml_download_counter             total session download in mb
# 	ml_nshared_files                number of shared files
# 	ml_shared_counter               total session shared in mb, buggy
# 					in some mldonkey versions
# 	ml_tcp_upload_rate              tcp upload rate in kb/s
# 	ml_tcp_download_rate            tcp download rate in kb/s
# 	ml_udp_upload_rate              udp upload rate in kb/s
# 	ml_udp_download_rate            udp download rate in kb/s
# 	ml_ndownloaded_files            number of completed files
# 	ml_ndownloading_files           number of downloading files
# 	
# 	mpd_artist			Artist in current MPD song
# 					(must be enabled at compile)
# 	mpd_album			Album in current MPD song
# 	mpd_bar           (height)      Bar of mpd's progress
# 	mpd_bitrate                     Bitrate of current song
# 	mpd_status                      Playing, stopped, et cetera.
# 	mpd_title			Title of current MPD song
# 	mpd_vol				MPD's volume
# 	mpd_elapsed                     Song's elapsed time
# 	mpd_length                      Song's length
# 	mpd_percent                     Percent of song's progress
# 	new_mails                       Unread mail count in mail spool.         
# 	nodename                        Hostname                                 
# 	outlinecolor      (color)       Change outline color                     
# 	pre_exec          shell command Executes a shell command one time before 
# 					conky displays anything and puts output 
# 					as text.                                 
# 	processes                       Total processes (sleeping and running)   
# 	running_processes               Running processes (not sleeping),        
# 					requires Linux 2.6                       
# 	shadecolor        (color)       Change shading color                     
# 	stippled_hr       (space),      Stippled (dashed) horizontal line        
# 			(height)        
# 	swapbar           (height)      Bar that shows amount of swap in use     
# 	swap                            Amount of swap in use                    
# 	swapmax                         Total amount of swap                     
# 	swapperc                        Percentage of swap in use                
# 	sysname                         System name, Linux for example           
# 	offset            pixels        Move text over by N pixels
# 	tail              logfile, lines (interval)
# 					Displays last N lines of supplied text
# 					text file.  If interval is not supplied,
# 					Conky assumes 2x Conky's interval.
# 					Max of 30 lines.
# 					Max of 30 lines can be displayed.
# 	time              (format)      Local time, see man strftime to get more 
# 					information about format                 
# 	totaldown         net           Total download, overflows at 4 GB on     
# 					Linux with 32-bit arch and there doesn't 
# 					seem to be a way to know how many times  
# 					it has already done that before conky   
# 					has started.                            
# 	top               type, num     This takes arguments in the form:
# 					top <name> <number>
# 					Basically, processes are ranked from 
# 					highest to lowest in terms of cpu
# 					usage, which is what <num> represents.
# 					The types are: "name", "pid", "cpu", and
# 					"mem".
# 					There can be a max of 10 processes listed.
# 	top_mem           type, num     Same as top, except sorted by mem usage
# 					instead of cpu
# 	totalup           net           Total upload, this one too, may overflow 
# 	updates                         Number of updates (for debugging)        
# 	upspeed           net           Upload speed in kilobytes                
# 	upspeedf          net           Upload speed in kilobytes with one       
# 					decimal                                  
# 	upspeedgraph      net (height),(width)  (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					Upload speed graph, colours defined in
# 					hex, minus the #.
# 	uptime                          Uptime                                   
# 	uptime_short                    Uptime in a shorter format               
# 	
# 	seti_prog                       Seti@home current progress
# 	seti_progbar      (height)      Seti@home current progress bar
# 	seti_credit                     Seti@hoome total user credit


# variable is given either in format $variable or in ${variable}. Latter
# allows characters right after the variable and must be used in network
# stuff because of an argument

# stuff after 'TEXT' will be formatted on screen

TEXT
${color #00ff00}bobkat${color #888888}@${color red}$nodename:
${color #888888}$sysname $kernel ${color #CCCCCC}on ${color #888888}$machine bit
${color #888888}Uptime: $uptime
${color #888888}${time %a,}${time %e %B %G}                     ${color #00ff00}${time %H:%M:%S}
${color white}${hr 2}

${color #ffccaa}System:
${color #888888}cpu1: ${color #CCCCCC}${freq cpu0} MHz
${color #888888}load: ${color #CCCCCC}${cpu cpu0}%
${color #888888}cup2: ${color #CCCCCC}${freq cpu1} MHz
${color #888888}load: ${color #CCCCCC}${cpu cpu1}%

${color #888888}Core1 Temp: ${color #CCCCCC}${execi 2 cat /sys/bus/pci/drivers/k8temp/000*/temp1_input | cut -c1,2}°C
${color #888888}Core2 Temp: ${color #CCCCCC}${execi 2 cat /sys/bus/pci/drivers/k8temp/000*/temp3_input | cut -c1,2}°C

${color #888888}${cpugraph 25 ff0000 ff00ff}
${color #888888}ram: ${color #CCCCCC}$mem${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}$memmax ${color #888888}, ${color #CCCCCC}$memperc%
${color #888888}swap: ${color #CCCCCC}$swap${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}$swapmax ${color #888888}, ${color #CCCCCC}$swapperc%
${color #888888}avg load: (${color #CCCCCC}$loadavg${color #888888})
${color #888888}processes: ${color #CCCCCC}$processes	${color #888888}running: ${color #CCCCCC}$running_processes
${color #888888}Battery: $color${battery}
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}Wireless Network:
${color #888888}ip address: ${color #CCCCCC}${addr wlan0}
${color #888888}essid: $color${execi 5 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep ESSID | sed 's/ESSID:"//'| sed 's/"//'}
${color #888888}link status: $color${execi 2 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep Quality | sed 's/Link Quality://' | sed 's/Link Quality=//' | sed 's/ //g' } ${color #C2C3F3}s: $color${execi 5 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep Signal | sed 's/Signal level=//' | sed 's/Signal level://' }
${color #888888}total download: ${color #CCCCCC}${totaldown wlan0}	 
${color #888888}download speed: ${color #CCCCCC}${downspeed wlan0} k/s	
${color #888888}${downspeedgraph wlan0 25,100 ff0000 0000ff}
${color #888888}total upload: ${color #CCCCCC}${totalup wlan0}
${color #888888}upload speed: ${color #CCCCCC}${upspeed wlan0} k/s
${color #888888}${upspeedgraph wlan0 25,100 0000ff ff0000}     
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}File Systems:
${color #888888}root: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /}, ${fs_free_perc /}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /}
${color #888888}home: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /home}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /home} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /home}, ${fs_free_perc /home}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /home}
${color #888888}storage: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /media/Storage}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /media/Storage} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /media/Storage}, ${fs_free_perc /media/Storage}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /media/Storage}
${color #888888}vista: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /media/sda1}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /media/sda1} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /media/sda1}, ${fs_free_perc /media/sda1}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /media/sda1}
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}Weather:$color
${execi 60 /home/bobkat/conky-scripts/weather.sh 15065}
```

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-09
> **cdtech said:**
> This is the conkyrc script and you can see my call to the temperature directory. You might want to see if your temps are in the same directory though. Hope this helps. 

```
# conky configuration

# set to yes if you want Conky to be forked in the background
background yes

# X font when Xft is disabled, you can pick one with program xfontsel
#font 5x7
#font 6x10
#font 7x13
#font 8x13
#font 9x15
font *mintsmild.se*
#font -*-*-*-*-*-*-34-*-*-*-*-*-*-*


# Use Xft?
use_xft yes

# Xft font when Xft is enabled
#xftfont Bitstream Vera Sans Mono:size=8
xftfont Terminus:size=8

# Text alpha when using Xft
xftalpha 0.8

# Print everything to console?
out_to_console no

# mail spool
#mail_spool $MAIL

# Update interval in seconds
update_interval 1.0

# This is the number of times Conky will update before quitting.
# Set to zero to run forever.
total_run_times 0

# Create own window instead of using desktop (required in nautilus)
own_window yes
own_window_type override
own_window_hints undecorated,below,sticky,skip_taskbar,skip_pager
own_window_transparent yes

# Use double buffering (reduces flicker, may not work for everyone)
double_buffer yes

# Draw shades?
draw_shades no

# Draw outlines?
draw_outline no

# Draw borders around text
draw_borders no

# Stippled borders?
stippled_borders 0

# border margins
border_margin 10

# border width
border_width 2

# Default colors and also border colors
default_color white
default_shade_color white
default_outline_color white

# Minimum size of text area
minimum_size 5 5
maximum_width 680

# Text alignment, other possible values are commented
#alignment top_left
alignment top_right
#alignment bottom_left
#alignment bottom_right

# Gap between borders of screen and text
# same thing as passing -x at command line
gap_x 3
gap_y 75

# Subtract file system buffers from used memory?
no_buffers yes

# set to yes if you want all text to be in uppercase
uppercase no

# number of cpu samples to average
# set to 1 to disable averaging
cpu_avg_samples 2

# number of net samples to average
# set to 1 to disable averaging
net_avg_samples 2

# Force UTF8? note that UTF8 support required XFT
override_utf8_locale no


# Add spaces to keep things from moving about?  This only affects certain objects.
use_spacer yes
#Note: doesn't work in conky 1.2 =(

#   mldonkey_hostname     Hostname for mldonkey stuff, defaults to localhost
#   mldonkey_port         Mldonkey port, 4001 default
#   mldonkey_login        Mldonkey login, default none
#   mldonkey_password     Mldonkey password, default none


# Possible variables to be used:
#
#      Variable         Arguments                  Description                

# 	addr              (interface)   IP address for an interface
# 	acpiacadapter                   ACPI ac adapter state.                   
# 	acpifan                         ACPI fan state                           
# 	acpitemp                        ACPI temperature.                        
# 	adt746xcpu                      CPU temperature from therm_adt746x       
# 	adt746xfan                      Fan speed from therm_adt746x             
# 	alignr            (num)         Right-justify text, with space of N
# 	alignc                          Align text to centre
# 	battery           (num)         Remaining capasity in ACPI or APM        
# 					battery. ACPI battery number can be      
# 					given as argument (default is BAT0).     
# 	buffers                         Amount of memory buffered                
# 	cached                          Amount of memory cached                  
# 	color             (color)       Change drawing color to color            
# 	cpu                             CPU usage in percents                    
# 	cpubar            (height)      Bar that shows CPU usage, height is      
# 					bar's height in pixels                 
# 	cpugraph          (height),(width) (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					CPU usage graph, with optional colours in hex,
# 					minus the #.
# 	downspeed         net           Download speed in kilobytes              
# 	downspeedf        net           Download speed in kilobytes with one     
# 					decimal                                  
# 	downspeedgraph    net (height),(width) (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					Download speed graph, colours defined in
# 					hex, minus the #.
# 	exec              shell command Executes a shell command and displays    
# 					the output in conky. warning: this      
# 					takes a lot more resources than other    
# 					variables. I'd recommend coding wanted   
# 					behaviour in C and posting a patch :-).  
# 	execbar           shell command Same as exec, except if the first value
# 					return is a value between 0-100, it
# 					will use that number for a bar.
# 					The size for the bar is currently fixed,
# 					but that may change in the future.
# 	execgraph         shell command Same as execbar, but graphs values
# 	execi             interval, shell command
#  					Same as exec but with specific interval. 
# 					Interval can't be less than              
# 					update_interval in configuration.        
#	font		  font		Specify a different font.  Only applies
#					to one line.
# 	fs_bar            (height), (fs)Bar that shows how much space is used on 
# 					a file system. height is the height in   
# 					pixels. fs is any file on that file      
# 					system.                                  
# 	fs_free           (fs)          Free space on a file system available    
# 					for users.                               
# 	fs_free_perc      (fs)          Free percentage of space on a file       
# 					system available for users.              
# 	fs_size           (fs)          File system size                         
# 	fs_used           (fs)          File system used space                   
# 	hr                (height)      Horizontal line, height is the height in 
# 					pixels                                   
# 	i2c               (dev), type, n  I2C sensor from sysfs (Linux 2.6). dev   
# 					may be omitted if you have only one I2C  
# 					device. type is either in (or vol)       
# 					meaning voltage, fan meaning fan or
# 					temp/tempf (first in C, second in F)
# 					meaning temperature. n is number of the  
# 					sensor. See /sys/bus/i2c/devices/ on     
# 					your local computer.                     
# 	if_running        (process)     if PROCESS is running, display
# 					everything if_running and the matching $endif
# 	if_existing       (file)        if FILE exists, display everything between
# 					if_existing and the matching $endif
# 	if_mounted        (mountpoint)  if MOUNTPOINT is mounted, display everything between
# 					if_mounted and the matching $endif
# 	else                            Text to show if any of the above are not true
# 	kernel                          Kernel version                          
# 	linkstatus        (interface)   Get the link status for wireless connections
# 	loadavg           (1), (2), (3) System load average, 1 is for past 1     
# 					minute, 2 for past 5 minutes and 3 for   
# 					past 15 minutes.                         
# 	machine                         Machine, i686 for example                
# 	mails                           Mail count in mail spool. You can use    
# 					program like fetchmail to get mails from 
# 					some server using your favourite         
# 					protocol. See also new_mails.            
# 	mem                             Amount of memory in use                  
# 	membar            (height)      Bar that shows amount of memory in use   
# 	memmax                          Total amount of memory                   
# 	memperc                         Percentage of memory in use
# 	
# 	metar_ob_time
# 	metar_temp
# 	metar_tempf                     Temp in F
# 	metar_windchill
# 	metar_dew_point                 There are a bunch of these
# 	metar_rh                        and they are self-explanatory
# 	metar_windspeed
# 	metar_winddir
# 	metar_swinddir
# 	metar_cloud
# 	metar_u2d_time
# 	
# 	ml_upload_counter               total session upload in mb
# 	ml_download_counter             total session download in mb
# 	ml_nshared_files                number of shared files
# 	ml_shared_counter               total session shared in mb, buggy
# 					in some mldonkey versions
# 	ml_tcp_upload_rate              tcp upload rate in kb/s
# 	ml_tcp_download_rate            tcp download rate in kb/s
# 	ml_udp_upload_rate              udp upload rate in kb/s
# 	ml_udp_download_rate            udp download rate in kb/s
# 	ml_ndownloaded_files            number of completed files
# 	ml_ndownloading_files           number of downloading files
# 	
# 	mpd_artist			Artist in current MPD song
# 					(must be enabled at compile)
# 	mpd_album			Album in current MPD song
# 	mpd_bar           (height)      Bar of mpd's progress
# 	mpd_bitrate                     Bitrate of current song
# 	mpd_status                      Playing, stopped, et cetera.
# 	mpd_title			Title of current MPD song
# 	mpd_vol				MPD's volume
# 	mpd_elapsed                     Song's elapsed time
# 	mpd_length                      Song's length
# 	mpd_percent                     Percent of song's progress
# 	new_mails                       Unread mail count in mail spool.         
# 	nodename                        Hostname                                 
# 	outlinecolor      (color)       Change outline color                     
# 	pre_exec          shell command Executes a shell command one time before 
# 					conky displays anything and puts output 
# 					as text.                                 
# 	processes                       Total processes (sleeping and running)   
# 	running_processes               Running processes (not sleeping),        
# 					requires Linux 2.6                       
# 	shadecolor        (color)       Change shading color                     
# 	stippled_hr       (space),      Stippled (dashed) horizontal line        
# 			(height)        
# 	swapbar           (height)      Bar that shows amount of swap in use     
# 	swap                            Amount of swap in use                    
# 	swapmax                         Total amount of swap                     
# 	swapperc                        Percentage of swap in use                
# 	sysname                         System name, Linux for example           
# 	offset            pixels        Move text over by N pixels
# 	tail              logfile, lines (interval)
# 					Displays last N lines of supplied text
# 					text file.  If interval is not supplied,
# 					Conky assumes 2x Conky's interval.
# 					Max of 30 lines.
# 					Max of 30 lines can be displayed.
# 	time              (format)      Local time, see man strftime to get more 
# 					information about format                 
# 	totaldown         net           Total download, overflows at 4 GB on     
# 					Linux with 32-bit arch and there doesn't 
# 					seem to be a way to know how many times  
# 					it has already done that before conky   
# 					has started.                            
# 	top               type, num     This takes arguments in the form:
# 					top <name> <number>
# 					Basically, processes are ranked from 
# 					highest to lowest in terms of cpu
# 					usage, which is what <num> represents.
# 					The types are: "name", "pid", "cpu", and
# 					"mem".
# 					There can be a max of 10 processes listed.
# 	top_mem           type, num     Same as top, except sorted by mem usage
# 					instead of cpu
# 	totalup           net           Total upload, this one too, may overflow 
# 	updates                         Number of updates (for debugging)        
# 	upspeed           net           Upload speed in kilobytes                
# 	upspeedf          net           Upload speed in kilobytes with one       
# 					decimal                                  
# 	upspeedgraph      net (height),(width)  (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					Upload speed graph, colours defined in
# 					hex, minus the #.
# 	uptime                          Uptime                                   
# 	uptime_short                    Uptime in a shorter format               
# 	
# 	seti_prog                       Seti@home current progress
# 	seti_progbar      (height)      Seti@home current progress bar
# 	seti_credit                     Seti@hoome total user credit


# variable is given either in format $variable or in ${variable}. Latter
# allows characters right after the variable and must be used in network
# stuff because of an argument

# stuff after 'TEXT' will be formatted on screen

TEXT
${color #00ff00}bobkat${color #888888}@${color red}$nodename:
${color #888888}$sysname $kernel ${color #CCCCCC}on ${color #888888}$machine bit
${color #888888}Uptime: $uptime
${color #888888}${time %a,}${time %e %B %G}                     ${color #00ff00}${time %H:%M:%S}
${color white}${hr 2}

${color #ffccaa}System:
${color #888888}cpu1: ${color #CCCCCC}${freq cpu0} MHz
${color #888888}load: ${color #CCCCCC}${cpu cpu0}%
${color #888888}cup2: ${color #CCCCCC}${freq cpu1} MHz
${color #888888}load: ${color #CCCCCC}${cpu cpu1}%

${color #888888}Core1 Temp: ${color #CCCCCC}${execi 2 cat /sys/bus/pci/drivers/k8temp/000*/temp1_input | cut -c1,2}°C
${color #888888}Core2 Temp: ${color #CCCCCC}${execi 2 cat /sys/bus/pci/drivers/k8temp/000*/temp3_input | cut -c1,2}°C

${color #888888}${cpugraph 25 ff0000 ff00ff}
${color #888888}ram: ${color #CCCCCC}$mem${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}$memmax ${color #888888}, ${color #CCCCCC}$memperc%
${color #888888}swap: ${color #CCCCCC}$swap${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}$swapmax ${color #888888}, ${color #CCCCCC}$swapperc%
${color #888888}avg load: (${color #CCCCCC}$loadavg${color #888888})
${color #888888}processes: ${color #CCCCCC}$processes	${color #888888}running: ${color #CCCCCC}$running_processes
${color #888888}Battery: $color${battery}
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}Wireless Network:
${color #888888}ip address: ${color #CCCCCC}${addr wlan0}
${color #888888}essid: $color${execi 5 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep ESSID | sed 's/ESSID:"//'| sed 's/"//'}
${color #888888}link status: $color${execi 2 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep Quality | sed 's/Link Quality://' | sed 's/Link Quality=//' | sed 's/ //g' } ${color #C2C3F3}s: $color${execi 5 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep Signal | sed 's/Signal level=//' | sed 's/Signal level://' }
${color #888888}total download: ${color #CCCCCC}${totaldown wlan0}	 
${color #888888}download speed: ${color #CCCCCC}${downspeed wlan0} k/s	
${color #888888}${downspeedgraph wlan0 25,100 ff0000 0000ff}
${color #888888}total upload: ${color #CCCCCC}${totalup wlan0}
${color #888888}upload speed: ${color #CCCCCC}${upspeed wlan0} k/s
${color #888888}${upspeedgraph wlan0 25,100 0000ff ff0000}     
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}File Systems:
${color #888888}root: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /}, ${fs_free_perc /}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /}
${color #888888}home: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /home}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /home} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /home}, ${fs_free_perc /home}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /home}
${color #888888}storage: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /media/Storage}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /media/Storage} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /media/Storage}, ${fs_free_perc /media/Storage}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /media/Storage}
${color #888888}vista: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /media/sda1}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /media/sda1} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /media/sda1}, ${fs_free_perc /media/sda1}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /media/sda1}
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}Weather:$color
${execi 60 /home/bobkat/conky-scripts/weather.sh 15065}
```



NICE!
It worked for me to :)
THANKS!

One quastion, do you know if I can call out my graphiccard temp?

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-09
Is it some way to find out temp on the ddr2 ram?
And how do I take hdd temp in to conky?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-01-09
As far as the hard drive temp's, I downloaded the hddtemp via apt-get install. Just call your drive as such:
```
hddtemp /dev/sda
# or whatever your drive is
```

Then you can use the cut command to display within your .conkyrc script.
For mine it would look like:
```
 hddtemp /dev/sda | cut -c34-38
40°C

```

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-09
> **cdtech said:**
> As far as the hard drive temp's, I downloaded the hddtemp via apt-get install. Just call your drive as such:
```
hddtemp /dev/sda
# or whatever your drive is
```

Then you can use the cut command to display within your .conkyrc script.
For mine it would look like:
```
 hddtemp /dev/sda | cut -c34-38
40°C

```

Hope this helps.


I typ this in my conkycr:
HDD: ${hddtemp /dev/sda | cut -c34-38}

And I get: gethostbyname: Connection timed out
And in my conky bar it just say N/A


edit but in the termianl it works:
robin@robin-desktop:~$ sudo hddtemp /dev/sda
[sudo] password for robin:
/dev/sda: WDC WD2500JS-55NCB1: 40°C
robin@robin-desktop:~$

Edit2:
It worked in conky when I typed: HDD: ${hddtemp /dev/sda}
What is the numbbers for? that you have typed in cut -c38
What do they do?


Dosent someone know how to check out ddr temp, motherboard temp or grafikcard temp?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-01-09
> **Lulle said:**
> I typ this in my conkycr:
HDD: ${hddtemp /dev/sda | cut -c34-38}

And I get: gethostbyname: Connection timed out
And in my conky bar it just say N/A


edit but in the termianl it works:
robin@robin-desktop:~$ sudo hddtemp /dev/sda
[sudo] password for robin:
/dev/sda: WDC WD2500JS-55NCB1: 40°C
robin@robin-desktop:~$
Edit2:
It worked in conky when I typed: HDD: ${hddtemp /dev/sda}
What is the numbbers for? that you have typed in cut -c38
What do they do?


Dosent someone know how to check out ddr temp, motherboard temp or grafikcard temp?

The cut just say's cut all but the -c24th space too the -27th space (all empty spaces are counted as well). Yours looks like 31 - 34 maybe, you'll have to count them.

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-09
> **cdtech said:**
> The cut just say's cut all but the -c24th space too the -27th space (all empty spaces are counted as well). Yours looks like 31 - 34 maybe, you'll have to count them.

Nope that dident work, can I check it up someway?

---

### Post by Lulle on 2008-01-14
Dosent someone know how I can check my graficcard temp and my ddr2 temp and motherboard temp?

---

### Post by Derspankster on 2008-01-28
> **cdtech said:**
> **Computer:**HP Pavilion dv9608nr laptop

I've been working on this for awhile and I know now that conky does not support the k8temp driver. I just use the cat command to display my temps. Working on the weird "A" charactor next to my degree sign now.


Any fix for the weird A character yet? I have the same issue.  Your screenshots don't show the character so I assume you got it fixed. How?

---

### Post by MikeCheck on 2008-02-03
> **cdtech said:**
> This is the conkyrc script and you can see my call to the temperature directory. You might want to see if your temps are in the same directory though. Hope this helps. 

```
# conky configuration

# set to yes if you want Conky to be forked in the background
background yes

# X font when Xft is disabled, you can pick one with program xfontsel
#font 5x7
#font 6x10
#font 7x13
#font 8x13
#font 9x15
font *mintsmild.se*
#font -*-*-*-*-*-*-34-*-*-*-*-*-*-*


# Use Xft?
use_xft yes

# Xft font when Xft is enabled
#xftfont Bitstream Vera Sans Mono:size=8
xftfont Terminus:size=8

# Text alpha when using Xft
xftalpha 0.8

# Print everything to console?
out_to_console no

# mail spool
#mail_spool $MAIL

# Update interval in seconds
update_interval 1.0

# This is the number of times Conky will update before quitting.
# Set to zero to run forever.
total_run_times 0

# Create own window instead of using desktop (required in nautilus)
own_window yes
own_window_type override
own_window_hints undecorated,below,sticky,skip_taskbar,skip_pager
own_window_transparent yes

# Use double buffering (reduces flicker, may not work for everyone)
double_buffer yes

# Draw shades?
draw_shades no

# Draw outlines?
draw_outline no

# Draw borders around text
draw_borders no

# Stippled borders?
stippled_borders 0

# border margins
border_margin 10

# border width
border_width 2

# Default colors and also border colors
default_color white
default_shade_color white
default_outline_color white

# Minimum size of text area
minimum_size 5 5
maximum_width 680

# Text alignment, other possible values are commented
#alignment top_left
alignment top_right
#alignment bottom_left
#alignment bottom_right

# Gap between borders of screen and text
# same thing as passing -x at command line
gap_x 3
gap_y 75

# Subtract file system buffers from used memory?
no_buffers yes

# set to yes if you want all text to be in uppercase
uppercase no

# number of cpu samples to average
# set to 1 to disable averaging
cpu_avg_samples 2

# number of net samples to average
# set to 1 to disable averaging
net_avg_samples 2

# Force UTF8? note that UTF8 support required XFT
override_utf8_locale no


# Add spaces to keep things from moving about?  This only affects certain objects.
use_spacer yes
#Note: doesn't work in conky 1.2 =(

#   mldonkey_hostname     Hostname for mldonkey stuff, defaults to localhost
#   mldonkey_port         Mldonkey port, 4001 default
#   mldonkey_login        Mldonkey login, default none
#   mldonkey_password     Mldonkey password, default none


# Possible variables to be used:
#
#      Variable         Arguments                  Description                

# 	addr              (interface)   IP address for an interface
# 	acpiacadapter                   ACPI ac adapter state.                   
# 	acpifan                         ACPI fan state                           
# 	acpitemp                        ACPI temperature.                        
# 	adt746xcpu                      CPU temperature from therm_adt746x       
# 	adt746xfan                      Fan speed from therm_adt746x             
# 	alignr            (num)         Right-justify text, with space of N
# 	alignc                          Align text to centre
# 	battery           (num)         Remaining capasity in ACPI or APM        
# 					battery. ACPI battery number can be      
# 					given as argument (default is BAT0).     
# 	buffers                         Amount of memory buffered                
# 	cached                          Amount of memory cached                  
# 	color             (color)       Change drawing color to color            
# 	cpu                             CPU usage in percents                    
# 	cpubar            (height)      Bar that shows CPU usage, height is      
# 					bar's height in pixels                 
# 	cpugraph          (height),(width) (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					CPU usage graph, with optional colours in hex,
# 					minus the #.
# 	downspeed         net           Download speed in kilobytes              
# 	downspeedf        net           Download speed in kilobytes with one     
# 					decimal                                  
# 	downspeedgraph    net (height),(width) (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					Download speed graph, colours defined in
# 					hex, minus the #.
# 	exec              shell command Executes a shell command and displays    
# 					the output in conky. warning: this      
# 					takes a lot more resources than other    
# 					variables. I'd recommend coding wanted   
# 					behaviour in C and posting a patch :-).  
# 	execbar           shell command Same as exec, except if the first value
# 					return is a value between 0-100, it
# 					will use that number for a bar.
# 					The size for the bar is currently fixed,
# 					but that may change in the future.
# 	execgraph         shell command Same as execbar, but graphs values
# 	execi             interval, shell command
#  					Same as exec but with specific interval. 
# 					Interval can't be less than              
# 					update_interval in configuration.        
#	font		  font		Specify a different font.  Only applies
#					to one line.
# 	fs_bar            (height), (fs)Bar that shows how much space is used on 
# 					a file system. height is the height in   
# 					pixels. fs is any file on that file      
# 					system.                                  
# 	fs_free           (fs)          Free space on a file system available    
# 					for users.                               
# 	fs_free_perc      (fs)          Free percentage of space on a file       
# 					system available for users.              
# 	fs_size           (fs)          File system size                         
# 	fs_used           (fs)          File system used space                   
# 	hr                (height)      Horizontal line, height is the height in 
# 					pixels                                   
# 	i2c               (dev), type, n  I2C sensor from sysfs (Linux 2.6). dev   
# 					may be omitted if you have only one I2C  
# 					device. type is either in (or vol)       
# 					meaning voltage, fan meaning fan or
# 					temp/tempf (first in C, second in F)
# 					meaning temperature. n is number of the  
# 					sensor. See /sys/bus/i2c/devices/ on     
# 					your local computer.                     
# 	if_running        (process)     if PROCESS is running, display
# 					everything if_running and the matching $endif
# 	if_existing       (file)        if FILE exists, display everything between
# 					if_existing and the matching $endif
# 	if_mounted        (mountpoint)  if MOUNTPOINT is mounted, display everything between
# 					if_mounted and the matching $endif
# 	else                            Text to show if any of the above are not true
# 	kernel                          Kernel version                          
# 	linkstatus        (interface)   Get the link status for wireless connections
# 	loadavg           (1), (2), (3) System load average, 1 is for past 1     
# 					minute, 2 for past 5 minutes and 3 for   
# 					past 15 minutes.                         
# 	machine                         Machine, i686 for example                
# 	mails                           Mail count in mail spool. You can use    
# 					program like fetchmail to get mails from 
# 					some server using your favourite         
# 					protocol. See also new_mails.            
# 	mem                             Amount of memory in use                  
# 	membar            (height)      Bar that shows amount of memory in use   
# 	memmax                          Total amount of memory                   
# 	memperc                         Percentage of memory in use
# 	
# 	metar_ob_time
# 	metar_temp
# 	metar_tempf                     Temp in F
# 	metar_windchill
# 	metar_dew_point                 There are a bunch of these
# 	metar_rh                        and they are self-explanatory
# 	metar_windspeed
# 	metar_winddir
# 	metar_swinddir
# 	metar_cloud
# 	metar_u2d_time
# 	
# 	ml_upload_counter               total session upload in mb
# 	ml_download_counter             total session download in mb
# 	ml_nshared_files                number of shared files
# 	ml_shared_counter               total session shared in mb, buggy
# 					in some mldonkey versions
# 	ml_tcp_upload_rate              tcp upload rate in kb/s
# 	ml_tcp_download_rate            tcp download rate in kb/s
# 	ml_udp_upload_rate              udp upload rate in kb/s
# 	ml_udp_download_rate            udp download rate in kb/s
# 	ml_ndownloaded_files            number of completed files
# 	ml_ndownloading_files           number of downloading files
# 	
# 	mpd_artist			Artist in current MPD song
# 					(must be enabled at compile)
# 	mpd_album			Album in current MPD song
# 	mpd_bar           (height)      Bar of mpd's progress
# 	mpd_bitrate                     Bitrate of current song
# 	mpd_status                      Playing, stopped, et cetera.
# 	mpd_title			Title of current MPD song
# 	mpd_vol				MPD's volume
# 	mpd_elapsed                     Song's elapsed time
# 	mpd_length                      Song's length
# 	mpd_percent                     Percent of song's progress
# 	new_mails                       Unread mail count in mail spool.         
# 	nodename                        Hostname                                 
# 	outlinecolor      (color)       Change outline color                     
# 	pre_exec          shell command Executes a shell command one time before 
# 					conky displays anything and puts output 
# 					as text.                                 
# 	processes                       Total processes (sleeping and running)   
# 	running_processes               Running processes (not sleeping),        
# 					requires Linux 2.6                       
# 	shadecolor        (color)       Change shading color                     
# 	stippled_hr       (space),      Stippled (dashed) horizontal line        
# 			(height)        
# 	swapbar           (height)      Bar that shows amount of swap in use     
# 	swap                            Amount of swap in use                    
# 	swapmax                         Total amount of swap                     
# 	swapperc                        Percentage of swap in use                
# 	sysname                         System name, Linux for example           
# 	offset            pixels        Move text over by N pixels
# 	tail              logfile, lines (interval)
# 					Displays last N lines of supplied text
# 					text file.  If interval is not supplied,
# 					Conky assumes 2x Conky's interval.
# 					Max of 30 lines.
# 					Max of 30 lines can be displayed.
# 	time              (format)      Local time, see man strftime to get more 
# 					information about format                 
# 	totaldown         net           Total download, overflows at 4 GB on     
# 					Linux with 32-bit arch and there doesn't 
# 					seem to be a way to know how many times  
# 					it has already done that before conky   
# 					has started.                            
# 	top               type, num     This takes arguments in the form:
# 					top <name> <number>
# 					Basically, processes are ranked from 
# 					highest to lowest in terms of cpu
# 					usage, which is what <num> represents.
# 					The types are: "name", "pid", "cpu", and
# 					"mem".
# 					There can be a max of 10 processes listed.
# 	top_mem           type, num     Same as top, except sorted by mem usage
# 					instead of cpu
# 	totalup           net           Total upload, this one too, may overflow 
# 	updates                         Number of updates (for debugging)        
# 	upspeed           net           Upload speed in kilobytes                
# 	upspeedf          net           Upload speed in kilobytes with one       
# 					decimal                                  
# 	upspeedgraph      net (height),(width)  (gradient colour 1) (gradient colour 2)
# 					Upload speed graph, colours defined in
# 					hex, minus the #.
# 	uptime                          Uptime                                   
# 	uptime_short                    Uptime in a shorter format               
# 	
# 	seti_prog                       Seti@home current progress
# 	seti_progbar      (height)      Seti@home current progress bar
# 	seti_credit                     Seti@hoome total user credit


# variable is given either in format $variable or in ${variable}. Latter
# allows characters right after the variable and must be used in network
# stuff because of an argument

# stuff after 'TEXT' will be formatted on screen

TEXT
${color #00ff00}bobkat${color #888888}@${color red}$nodename:
${color #888888}$sysname $kernel ${color #CCCCCC}on ${color #888888}$machine bit
${color #888888}Uptime: $uptime
${color #888888}${time %a,}${time %e %B %G}                     ${color #00ff00}${time %H:%M:%S}
${color white}${hr 2}

${color #ffccaa}System:
${color #888888}cpu1: ${color #CCCCCC}${freq cpu0} MHz
${color #888888}load: ${color #CCCCCC}${cpu cpu0}%
${color #888888}cup2: ${color #CCCCCC}${freq cpu1} MHz
${color #888888}load: ${color #CCCCCC}${cpu cpu1}%

${color #888888}Core1 Temp: ${color #CCCCCC}${execi 2 cat /sys/bus/pci/drivers/k8temp/000*/temp1_input | cut -c1,2}°C
${color #888888}Core2 Temp: ${color #CCCCCC}${execi 2 cat /sys/bus/pci/drivers/k8temp/000*/temp3_input | cut -c1,2}°C

${color #888888}${cpugraph 25 ff0000 ff00ff}
${color #888888}ram: ${color #CCCCCC}$mem${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}$memmax ${color #888888}, ${color #CCCCCC}$memperc%
${color #888888}swap: ${color #CCCCCC}$swap${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}$swapmax ${color #888888}, ${color #CCCCCC}$swapperc%
${color #888888}avg load: (${color #CCCCCC}$loadavg${color #888888})
${color #888888}processes: ${color #CCCCCC}$processes	${color #888888}running: ${color #CCCCCC}$running_processes
${color #888888}Battery: $color${battery}
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}Wireless Network:
${color #888888}ip address: ${color #CCCCCC}${addr wlan0}
${color #888888}essid: $color${execi 5 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep ESSID | sed 's/ESSID:"//'| sed 's/"//'}
${color #888888}link status: $color${execi 2 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep Quality | sed 's/Link Quality://' | sed 's/Link Quality=//' | sed 's/ //g' } ${color #C2C3F3}s: $color${execi 5 iwconfig wlan0 | sed 's/  /\n/g' | grep Signal | sed 's/Signal level=//' | sed 's/Signal level://' }
${color #888888}total download: ${color #CCCCCC}${totaldown wlan0}	 
${color #888888}download speed: ${color #CCCCCC}${downspeed wlan0} k/s	
${color #888888}${downspeedgraph wlan0 25,100 ff0000 0000ff}
${color #888888}total upload: ${color #CCCCCC}${totalup wlan0}
${color #888888}upload speed: ${color #CCCCCC}${upspeed wlan0} k/s
${color #888888}${upspeedgraph wlan0 25,100 0000ff ff0000}     
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}File Systems:
${color #888888}root: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /}, ${fs_free_perc /}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /}
${color #888888}home: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /home}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /home} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /home}, ${fs_free_perc /home}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /home}
${color #888888}storage: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /media/Storage}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /media/Storage} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /media/Storage}, ${fs_free_perc /media/Storage}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /media/Storage}
${color #888888}vista: ${color #CCCCCC}${fs_used /media/sda1}${color #888888}/${color #CCCCCC}${fs_size /media/sda1} ${color #888888}(${color #CCCCCC}${fs_free /media/sda1}, ${fs_free_perc /media/sda1}% ${color #888888}free)
       ${fs_bar /media/sda1}
${color white}${hr 1}

${color #ffccaa}Weather:$color
${execi 60 /home/bobkat/conky-scripts/weather.sh 15065}
```


I used your lines for the processor temp.  How would I change the temperature to Fahrenheit?  Is there a reason that you have "CPU1" and "CPU2" as the labels?  I'm assuming that's Core1 and Core2.


> **Derspankster said:**
> Any fix for the weird A character yet? I have the same issue.  Your screenshots don't show the character so I assume you got it fixed. How?

Look at post #18

---

### Post by IamIthinkIwill on 2008-04-18
To those of you having trouble with the funky A symbol next to your temp, I believe this is caused by the degree symbol (the small superscript circle) simply being mistranslated or misrepresented between the .conkyrc and and actual conky program display.  At the moment I am having difficulty getting a correct temp to display in my conky, and will try the methods described above. I currently have no fix for the A symbol problem but will try to figure something out, perhaps by displaying all the ASCI letters possible in conky and looking for the degree symbol.

---

### Post by LODRazor on 2008-04-18
I have a similar problem in that I can enter my sensors ID in my Conky config, but I cannot seem to use the cut command to show the pertinate information.  Here is what I get when I run the "sensors" command:

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 0: +47°C (high = +100°C) 

coretemp-isa-0001
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 1: +50°C (high = +100°C) 

Ok..thats all well and good.  The problem is when I try to "cut" 9-12 to just show the temperature, it also show characters 9-12 of the 2 lines above the temperature line.  So I end up with a display like this:

-isa
 ISA
50 C

It show the 9-12 characters of all 3 lines.

How do I completely cut the first 2 lines as well as the characters on the 3rd line that I do not wish to see.  Does this make sense?

---

### Post by tasos on 2008-05-24
> **LODRazor said:**
> I have a similar problem in that I can enter my sensors ID in my Conky config, but I cannot seem to use the cut command to show the pertinate information.  Here is what I get when I run the "sensors" command:

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 0: +47°C (high = +100°C) 

coretemp-isa-0001
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 1: +50°C (high = +100°C) 

Ok..thats all well and good.  The problem is when I try to "cut" 9-12 to just show the temperature, it also show characters 9-12 of the 2 lines above the temperature line.  So I end up with a display like this:

-isa
 ISA
50 C

It show the 9-12 characters of all 3 lines.

How do I completely cut the first 2 lines as well as the characters on the 3rd line that I do not wish to see.  Does this make sense?

try this :
> /usr/bin/sensors | grep [+] | cut -d"+" -f2 | cut -d"(" -f1
you shoud get something like this :
47°C 
50°C

for nvidia users get vga temperature with :
> ${execi 60 nvidia-settings -query GPUCoreTemp | perl -ne 'print $1 if /GPUCoreTemp.*?: (\d+)./;'}°C

---

### Post by jjgomera on 2008-05-24
> **LODRazor said:**
> I have a similar problem in that I can enter my sensors ID in my Conky config, but I cannot seem to use the cut command to show the pertinate information.  Here is what I get when I run the "sensors" command:

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 0: +47°C (high = +100°C) 

coretemp-isa-0001
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 1: +50°C (high = +100°C) 

Ok..thats all well and good.  The problem is when I try to "cut" 9-12 to just show the temperature, it also show characters 9-12 of the 2 lines above the temperature line.  So I end up with a display like this:

-isa
 ISA
50 C

It show the 9-12 characters of all 3 lines.

How do I completely cut the first 2 lines as well as the characters on the 3rd line that I do not wish to see.  Does this make sense?

have you already prove conky variables, like ${i2c temp 1} ${i2c temp 2}, that works fine for me with a adapter isa too.

---

