---
title: "12.04 with Cinnamon"
date: 2012-11-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by czgirb on 2012-11-03
Is it possible for us to install Cinnamon DE in Ubuntu and have it works flawlessly?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-11-03
> **czgirb said:**
> Is it possible for us to install Cinnamon DE in Ubuntu and have it works flawlessly?

1. Yes. 
2. Can't say!

---

### Post by coldraven on 2012-11-03
I installed Linux Mint 12.04 with Cinnamon and used it for a couple of months but found it to be buggy. I'm sure that it will improve in time but I changed to Kubuntu. I would prefer to use Unity but my laptop graphic card cannot run it.

---

### Post by Karlchen on 2012-11-03
Hello, czgirb.
> Is it possible for us to install Cinnamon DE in Ubuntu and have it works flawlessly?Yes to both questions. Both answers based on my own experience.
This means that I have tried it on my Dell Latitude E6400 where it worked fine. This does, however, not imply automatically that the same will be true on all other machines as well.

Anyway. This is the slightly unorthodox approach which I have followed: ***[[HOW TO] Convert Ubuntu 12.04 to Linux Mint 13]("http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=42&t=113455#p632816")***

Before rejecting this approach, please, keep in mind that Linux Mint 13 Cinnamon desktop is something like Ubuntu 12.04 minus Unity desktop plus Cinnamon desktop.

Cheers,
Karl

---

### Post by Karlchen on 2012-11-03
Hello, coldraven.
> I installed Linux Mint 12.04 with Cinnamon and used it for a couple of months but found it to be buggy.I assume it was Linux Mint 13.
If you download and install Linux Mint 13 today, what you get and install is Linux Mint 13 as it was way back in May 2012.
If you install the initial April release of Ubuntu 12.04, you find that it was buggy and whoopsie had a lot of work to do. (Oops, I am sorry, but an application has crashed. May I send out a crash report?)
By now I experience hardly any more whoopsie popups of this kind, because Ubuntu 12.04 has received a ton or two of bugfixes and other updates.
The same is true for Linux Mint 13. But in Linux Mint 13 you have got to make sure you really get all the relevant bugfixes and updates by making sure that you will see and install updates for all of the 5 Mint risk categories. By default you will only get updates in the categories 1, 2 and 3. This will effectively prevent your system from receiving those *bad* and *dangerous* updates which will really fix systemwide bugs.

[U]Summary:
[/U]Ubuntu 12.04.1 (Unity desktop) - having received all available updates (except *romeos*) - and
Linux Mint 13 (Cinnamon desktop) - having received all available updates (except *romeos*) -
will run equally well and be equally stable. This statement is based on my own experience.

Kind regards,
Karl

---

### Post by coldraven on 2012-11-04
> way back in May 2012. LOL you are making me feel old :)

> install updates for all of the 5 Mint risk categories. I never saw that option, how do you do that?

---

### Post by critin on 2012-11-08
> **czgirb said:**
> Is it possible for us to install Cinnamon DE in Ubuntu and have it works flawlessly?

Did you ever get this resolved?  Cinnamon works on my Poor Dell's 12.04 ubuntu.   I notice a bit of lag in Cinnamon 2D, but regular Cinnamon is good.  I can't run unity either so this lag is not caused by cinnamon.  No need to install another desktop unless you just want to.

        > sudo add-apt-repository ppa:gwendal-lebihan-dev/cinnamon-stable
        sudo apt-get update
        sudo apt-get install cinnamon

---

