---
title: "10.10 problems: No system tray, no windows manager, cursor is an X"
date: 2011-05-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by MPL_49 on 2011-05-25
Hello everybody:

I've been using Ubuntu 10.10 without incident since it came out, however, I've encountered the following problems that are beyond the limits of my knowledge on how to fix.

When trying to enter anything in Places: Home Folder, Documents, Downloads etc. I kept receiving the following message:

"Could not open location."

"No application is registered as handling this file."

"Your windows manager does not support the show desktop button, or you are not running a windows manager."

Some online research suggested that the problem may be related to Compiz. I un-installed Compiz, Configuration Editor, Metacity, Mutter and a couple of games with the intention of reinstalling Compiz, and any other necessary programs.

Upon rebooting I had lost the top and bottom panels. My cursor had turned into a black X and this message was displayed: "No system tray detected on this system." 

The only thing available was Docky. This is how I was able to get on line.

I'm clearly able to use my browsers, play music, and use the printer. However, the rest of the desktop doesn't work at all.

I've never encountered anything like this before, and as already stated, I'm at the limits of my knowledge.

I'm running Ubuntu 10.10 on a Gateway 835 GM with 4GB of memory.

Hopefully someone here is familiar with this issue and can help me to get back up and running.

I don't want to do a reinstall and loose all my documents, files and downloads.

Any and all help will be much appreciated.

Allow me to thank everyone in advance for helping me with this issue.

Thank you. MPL_49

---

