---
title: "8.10 Upgrade or 9.10 download"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by alexham on 2009-05-01
Hi,

I attempted to upgrade from 8.10 last night. The packages were downloaded in 16 minutes, but the system showed that it would take 1 hr 15 mins to install.  As it was already nearly 2am I aborted the update and went to bed.  Now I cannot boot up at all, but that is a small problem as I can re-install from CD in about 10 mins and I have not lost anything.

However, when I downloaded 8.10 it took only 22mins and I had it up and running in 10 mins after that.  In contrast, the upgrade would have taken 1 and a half hours!

Is there any benefit in taking the upgrade route as opposed to a fresh download?

Many thanks,

Alex

---

### Post by keithld on 2009-05-01
My thoughts on this are, If you haven't made any tweaks and added a lot of stuff to 8.10 I'd just start over, get rid of 8.10 and do a Fresh Install of 9.04 instead of trying to upgrade from 8.10...

Seems you would not have a lot of problems like we are seeing on the forums with upgrading...

---

### Post by slimx3m on 2009-05-01
i would say that the benefit from fresh install is better than upgrading.  whenever you upgrade there area a lot or few applications that will not be compatible with the new release.  if you do a rfesh intall you will be able to find all the applications that are compatible with the current one.

i always upgrade myself.  but, before i always perform a backup off all my important files (specially my applications) and then upgrade.

i hope that helps answering your question.

---

### Post by skullmunky on 2009-05-01
I almost always do fresh installs.  I usually tweak out and experiment on my system in all kinds of crazy ways so that way I also get a nice, clean slate every so often.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-05-01
yes fresh install.

when some upgrade and experience undesirable behavior they automatically assume jaunty is broken.

simply said you cannot rule out any causes unless it's freshly installed.

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-05-01
My opinion i would do a clean install of 8.10 
the new 9.04 seems like it has a lot of problems
you see the about the same ones posted all the 
time but like all os's some problems takes time
to work out but that is just my opinion everybody
has there's 9.04 will be the greatest ubuntu ever
when some stuff is worked out.

---

### Post by alexham on 2009-05-02
Thank you for your advice and comments.  I downloaded 9.10 last night when I was on "uncapped" bandwidth and installed it this morning.  Great graphics and all apps work, but the same problem that I had since the Ibis - neither Suspend nor Hibernate work, so I have to "suffer" full logon every time I want to check my emails!

That takes about 80secs and in contrast Windows comes out of Suspend in 10sec.  

I can think of few things less annoying than having to put up with a bug at the start - it's like facing a locked door.  I see from the threads on this forum that Suspend/Hibernate feature has been a long standing problem and it is high time that the developers sorted that out.

No good to me, I am afraid, so I am back to Windows.

Thanks anyway,

Alex

---

### Post by Ozymandias' Broken Dreams on 2010-06-25
> **alexham said:**
> ...so I have to "suffer" full logon every time I want to check my emails!
That takes about **80secs and in contrast** Windows comes out of Suspend in **10sec**.  
No good to me, I am afraid, so I am back to Windows.


WTF?!?!?!?!?
Holey cr@p buddy, I hope you never have kids - if a delay of 70seconds is a *sufferance* then you've got no hope.

Give micro$oft our regards.

---

