---
title: "Problem with graphics card - PLEASE HELP"
date: 2005-06-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by thieflar on 2005-06-20
Ok, I just installed Ubuntu, and my Screen Resolution is stuck at 640x480. I can't change it.

I have an Intel(R) 82845G/GL Graphics Controller. I did a normal installation; nothing funky, I'm pretty sure my graphics card just isn't being recognized. I've googled, scoured tech support forums, asked in IRC, and come up fruitless. The closest I've gotten is at intel's website ([http://support.intel.com/support/graphics/sb/CS-010512.htm)](http://support.intel.com/support/graphics/sb/CS-010512.htm)), where they had something different to install on Linux systems, but after half an hour of futilely trying to install something that thoroughly confused me, I gave up. (I'm a Linux newbie, and this is actually my first installation.) At one point, I came pretty close, but it said I didn't have the neccessary compiler (gcc). When I went to [http://gcc.gnu.org/install/](http://gcc.gnu.org/install/), confusion took over. I have NO idea what most of that means, or how I'm supposed to go about "building" gcc from source (after getting it out of tarball, from the ftp server.) I'm completely lost.

Please, someone explain how I can fix this and get my resolution to where I can actually do something. And please explain it in simple terms. =)

Thanks.

---

### Post by blind0wl on 2005-06-20
Can you post your xorg.conf file?  In a terminal, just type:

```
more /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and copy and paste its contents into here...it'll be pretty long, but will give me a better indication of whats wrong.

Im also assuming you've tried pressing and holding {Ctrl, Alt} + (This will generally increase your resolution if its capable.

Cheers

Blindy

---

### Post by thieflar on 2005-06-20
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "unix/:7100"                    # local font server
        # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "dbe"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "record"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "keyboard"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
        Driver          "i810"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "eView 17s"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
        Monitor         "eView 17s"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by blind0wl on 2005-06-20
Theres a couple of things you can try, first is to find out the horizontal and vertical sync ranges of your monitor...have a google for the make and model.  If it truly is a eView 17s I found the specs here [http://www.emachines.com/support/product_support.html?cat=monitor&subcat=CRT&model=eView+17s](http://www.emachines.com/support/product_support.html?cat=monitor&subcat=CRT&model=eView+17s) 

It looks like the sync ranges are: 
30~72 KHz (horizontal)
50~160 Hz (vertical)

Back your xorg.conf file up first by typing:
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.bak

```

Then in your xorg.conf add the following lines to the Section "Monitor" like below:
```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "eView 17s"
Option "DPMS"
[B]HorizSync 30-72
VertRefresh 50-160[/B]
EndSection

```

The other thing you might want to do is get rid of the 640x480 option in the Screen section.  So edit the bottom list of resolutions (you need to change the depth 24 section, as this is the default).  Find below in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

SubSection "Display"
**Depth 24**
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

```

and change it to:

```

SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
**Modes "1024x768" "800x600"**
EndSubSection
EndSection

```

As you see, Ive removed the 640x480 option.  Restart your X windows by either Ctrl + Alt + Backspace, or at a terminal window /etc/init.d/gdm stop....once out to a back console screen, login and type /etc/init.d/gdm start.  (Ctrl + Alt + Backspace is easier  ;-) )

If all went to plan, you should be in 800x600, if this isnt your desired resolution, then get rid of the 800x600 entry as well, and you'll have 1024x768.

When you restart the X server, if you get an error, try and post what it said and your xorg.conf file again.

BTW, did you try my Ctrl, Alt, + suggestion to change resolutions?  And I assume you've opened the gnome control panel and tried to use the graphical interface to change resolutions?

Cheers

Blindy

---

### Post by thieflar on 2005-06-21
Well, I tried it. It said "X can't load" or something and showed me an error report, so I Ctrl+Alt+Backspaced out, it gave me the full error report, but I didn't copy it down or anything. 

I tried the Ctrl, Alt, + thing, and tried to change the resolution in the GUI. Neither budged. 

I'll post the xorg.conf file and error report later. I'm going to rest and try again later. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by blind0wl on 2005-06-21
Can you post the output of:
```

lspci

```

and

```

lsmod

```

---

### Post by thieflar on 2005-06-22
HAHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA IT WORKS IT WORKS!!! I'm soooo happy.

Thank you so much blind0wl. It turns out, the HorizSync and VertRefresh thing worked, except when I deleted the 640x480 option. But I got it working, I'm in a fully functional OS now. Thank you!

---

### Post by blind0wl on 2005-06-22
Good to hear, you can start enjoying Ubuntu properly  :)

---

