---
title: "11.04 Unity should be recalled like a serious auto issue."
date: 2011-06-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by hooper on 2011-06-13
Hello,

This will be short. And as always, I do start off by saying that the only time I post here on the Ubuntu forums is when I take issue with something that I don't like about Ubuntu. Otherwise, you'll never hear from me. This post makes 6, so I certainly don't complain or post unless I feel that it is absolutely something that needs said.

I've been using ubuntu since the first releases. A long time. Prior to that it was slackware or debian even for desktop use.

I admire the work that goes into the ubuntu project and believe it's one of the best desktop disributions on the market today. At least up to version 10.10. However, and this is where the issues are, 11.04 is less than anything I would ever consider using for a desktop, and for numerous reasons. Unity is just garbage. The design of ubuntu 11.04 with all the shadowing, glossy icons etc.. doesn't pass go, doesn't collect 200 dollars. And having a delay of almost 87 seconds to load the garbage to the desktop is not adequate for those that use desktops in productive environments.

My recommendation to Cononical at this point would be to drop the whole direction and get back to what people need in a desktop. 10.04 and 10.10 were good examples of what Cononical is capable of, and produced one of the best desktop linux distributions to date available at any price. Both for the average daily user, and the enterprise user base.

I couldn't believe my eyes when I first logged in. And worked to figure out how any why everything on the desktop should be drug to the trash can on install. Needless to say, that is exactly what happened and the machines being worked on had to be re-installed with 10.10 - 10.04 LTS after a removal of unity left one machine in an unusable state.

I am both advised and aware of what can and cannot be achieved with the login disfunction and the configuration options to disallow the Unity desktop. But even after disabling the Unity desktop, the system did not perform to satisfaction. Thus the attempt at removal of Unity.

If the ubuntu team continues in the current direction, I have a feeling there will be quite a few abandoning ship with this distribution and move towards a more productive type atmosphere with other linux's.

I'm completely shocked that a team of the best linux gurus on the planet could make such a mess out of years of superior work producing a quality productive desktop environment.

This is just my opnion, I don't post feedback to responses. See you when I have another complaint if I'm still interested in Ubuntu.

Thank you

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-06-13
10.04 LTS is supported until 2013 (2015 servers). Where Ubuntu will be by then, of course, is anyone's guess. You can choose Ubuntu Classic from 'Session' tab at the login screen in 11.04 and avoid Unity completely. I try and avoid anything but LTS releases personally and have just done a minimal install of 10.04 myself. 

Good luck whatever you decide.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-06-13
Closed.

Not a support request.

---

