---
title: "12.04 Some windows disappears in middle of second screen"
date: 2012-11-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by sarsolot on 2012-11-16
Hi.

For couple of months I am using Xubuntu 12.04 with multi-monitor configuration on one of my machines. I had experienced this issue since the beginning, but every week I found it more and more annoying.

The problem is, that on second screen (in my case the one on the right, but I checked different configurations) some windows disappears somewhere around middle of second screen. These windows are eg. terminals (all I checked - XTerm, gnome-temrinal and default xfce4-terminal), Notes app, Cairo-Dock. Apps that works (fortunately there is more of them) are all browsers, XChat, Skype, Calc, VirtualBox, Thunderbird or Ristretto (just the examples).

Do you have any ideas what is wrong and how to fix/workaround this problem? I can't find any solution or even similar problem on internet. I don't have too much experience with multi display configurations so I don't know if it is common issue or not.

I am using stock kernel 3.2.0 (now -33) and open source Radeon driver with Radeon X1250 integrated graphics card.
```
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI RS690M [Radeon X1200 Series]
```

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2012-11-16
Okay, so Qt 4 and GTK 3 works while GTK 2 doesn't. Interesting.

Have you tried fglrx? The open source driver isn't quite as nice in my experience.

---

### Post by sarsolot on 2012-11-16
I am afraid that it is not possible to use fglrx with 12.04 and this - quite old - graphics.

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2012-11-16
Okay, might give this a shot, then:

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx)

---

### Post by sarsolot on 2012-11-17
The problem is that legacy driver is designed for Xorg up to version 7.4 while in 12.04 is 7.7. It is not available in precise repo also. I will check it on Monday but I am pretty sure it won't work.

---

### Post by sarsolot on 2012-11-21
Yesterday I found out that there are also compositor effects missing after this "magical" line on second screen (as shown on attached image). 

I checked ATI proprietary driver but it seems to be incompatible with Xorg, kernel 3.2 and probably other packages in 12.04.

---

