---
title: "12.04 to old, anybody has updated xorg ppa?"
date: 2012-03-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by aljosa on 2012-03-13
i have 12.04 (beta1 + dist-upgrade) installed and it's already old (for my needs) before final release.
i'm looking for latest xorg/xinput stuff but xorg-edgers ppa is not what i'm looking for because i want latest stable not development stuff.

anybody has instructions on howto build the latest xorg stuff from source on ubuntu and create appropriate packages?

although my current issue is that i don't have latest xorg/xinput what i actually always want and mostly the reason why i upgrade is latest stable releases of software i use.
so is there a "release rolling" ppa?

---

### Post by toasterboy1 on 2012-03-13
Did you check out the x-swat ppa. Supposed to be the latest stable version.
[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)

Although I find it funny you run beta os but not bleeding edge xorg stuff.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-03-13
Have you thought of switching to a rolling release distro? It may suit your needs better.

---

### Post by aljosa on 2012-03-14
> **toasterboy1 said:**
> Did you check out the x-swat ppa. Supposed to be the latest stable version.
[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)

Although I find it funny you run beta os but not bleeding edge xorg stuff.

none of the ppa mentioned or what i've found have the latest stable releases.
i'm using beta because i expect it to be final next month.

---

### Post by aljosa on 2012-03-14
> **Cheesemill said:**
> Have you thought of switching to a rolling release distro? It may suit your needs better.

i'm currently looking at archlinux

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-14
Even a Ubuntu beta will not be bleeding edge. Mind you, we did, on 12.04, get Libreoffice Beta but a few days later it went from Beta to stable.

The idea of  the Ubuntu Alpha and Beta releases is for people to test it and discover bugs that can be fixed before it is finally released.

The next release of Ubuntu usually brings with it later versions of applications and Linux but not the very latest because that would make Ubuntu unstable.

Regards.

---

