---
title: "8.04 Human theme in 12.04 MATE"
date: 2012-10-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nk09 on 2012-10-17
Hello all.

A few days ago, I've installed the MATE desktop, and it's great, I "feel at home" again. However, I'd like to make it look like the Gnome desktop of Hardy Heron, because in my opinion, it was the best looking Ubuntu release so far.

So I've installed human-theme and human-icon-theme via apt-get. While the icon set is the one I wanted, the theme is quite different from the one in Hardy. It's main color is dark brown instead of orange, and the controls (especially scroll bars) look completely different from the 8.04 theme. After doing some research, I found out that Hardy used the Murrine theme engine, and I found a post suggesting to install the human-murrine-netbook pack. I did, but again, it looks nothing like the one I was looking for.

After more research, I got the human-theme package of 8.04 as a .deb archive, and tried to install it, but it failed as it was conflicting with something. (I can't remember the exact message, but it said something about a file named ubuntu-screensaver.svg, if I recall correctly. Right now, I'm away from that machine, so I can't try it again.)

Has anyone managed to do this? It shouldn't be a problem, as the new human-theme from the precise repository works, and MATE worked well with all standard Gnome 2 themes I've tried so far. I'm sure this should work as well, but I'm doing something wrong...

---

### Post by nk09 on 2012-10-18
[Never mind.]

---

