---
title: "Gutsy + dual monitors + nvidia + compiz."
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Amt0571 on 2007-10-20
Hello,

I've been trying to configure dual monitors with a 7900GS card using the assistant that comes with Gutsy with no success. The assistant made a mess of my xorg.conf.

My configuration consists of a 20" 1680x1050 monitor on the left and a 17" 1280x1024 monitor on the right. To make it a bit more difficult, the primary monitor is connected on the secondary output of the graphics card, so it needs to be reversed.

Since I have seen a lot of people having problems with Gutsy and dual monitos with nvidia, I thought it would be a good idea to post my xorg.conf. With this xorg.conf both fullscreen applications and compiz on both screens work perfectly.

```
 
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GS]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "IQT Q17 Digital"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GS]"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
#    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1280x1024 +1680+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; DFP-0: 1024x768 +1680+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; DFP-0: 640x480 +1280+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
#    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1280x1024 +1680+0, DFP-1: 1680x1050 +0+0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1280x1024 +1680+0, DFP-1: 1680x1050 +0+0; DFP-0: NULL, DFP-1: 1680x1050; DFP-0: NULL, DFP-1: 1280x1024; DFP-0: NULL, DFP-1: 1024x768; DFP-0: NULL, DFP-1: 800x600; DFP-0: NULL, DFP-1: 640x480"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
		InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
		InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
		InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
    Option      "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

```

Surprisingly, if you have taken a look at how the new screen config utility writes xorg.conf and how mine is written you'll see that they are completely different. I'm still trying to understand why the utility doesn't configure it this way.

I hope this is useful to the persons who are having problems with dual monitors.

---

### Post by Dual Cortex on 2007-10-20
I looked at the new X configuration but since it did not have a way to add a second screen, I just went with the usual way when dealing with nvidia cards... which is a pretty nice and easy way too.

So, anyway, what you got to do (since you already have the drivers installed) is to simply open up a terminal and write "sudo nvidia-settings".

Then just go to "X Server Display Configuration" and enable the second monitor by pressing Configure and selecting TwinView. Then just set whatever resolutions  you want, etc.
Finally, press Apply to see whether the configuration is how you wanted it. Notice the menu bars and any maximized windows may stretch across both monitors. Don't worry about it though, when you save the settings and restart X everything will be normal.
So, now, if you see everything is OK, simply click "Save to X Configuration file", click "Save" again, and  finally, close nvidia-settings, log out, and press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to restart X. Then log back in and *hopefully* enjoy your dual monitor set up.

---

### Post by The other One on 2007-10-29
This solution worked perfectly for me, 1st time. Thanks, DC!:guitar:

---

### Post by mindless1973 on 2007-11-03
> **Dual Cortex said:**
> I looked at the new X configuration but since it did not have a way to add a second screen, I just went with the usual way when dealing with nvidia cards... which is a pretty nice and easy way too.

So, anyway, what you got to do (since you already have the drivers installed) is to simply open up a terminal and write "sudo nvidia-settings".


Hi, 

I did as you described above, but I still have the following problems:

1.) The login panel and the GNOME Panels are on the wrong screen. Even that I tried to make the left screen no 0, it seems that Ubuntu is still placing it on the analog screen. Do you know a way to promote the other screen to the main screen?

2.) It seems that after switching on TwinView all 2d acceleration is gone. When I minimize/maximize a window, I can see that the screen is flickering a little bit in the area the window is shadowing up or down. Also, if I would activate any effects, the whole system becomes that slow that it is unusable.

I use a GeForce 6 GPU with 128MB RAM (onboard graphics in my Asus Pundit-R AH-2).

Thanks for help,

bye
me.

---

### Post by Nutone718 on 2007-11-04
This worked out great. I couldn't get Compiz Fusion to work with dual monitors since I upgraded to gutsy. Now I have Dual 19" Widescreen Monitors with one big cube.

Thanks,

---

### Post by drted on 2007-11-06
Thanks to this and other forums I am now up and running with Gutsy, a nVidia Geforce 6800GT card, dual LCD monitors (apple cinema 23" and a 17" envision en7410) at different resolutions, and compiz-fusion, with the screens correctly maximizing to their own monitor, instead of a giant desktop span.  :-D  Here's how I did it, after making a giant mess of my xorg.conf when trying to do everything manually.

* Run and install envy (which will give you the latest nvidia drivers and kernel module and CORRECTLY configure them) per the screencast found here:
[http://www.lockergnome.com/nexus/linux/2007/06/18/dual-monitors-with-ubuntu/](http://www.lockergnome.com/nexus/linux/2007/06/18/dual-monitors-with-ubuntu/)

(envy is great, as is the nvidia-settings tool.  I hope the next ubuntu release takes some cues from these tools.)

* Make sure xserver-xgl is NOT installed (even though you may be seeing that "Checking for Xgl: not present") message followed by a segmentation fault when looking at the compiz output.

* Disable xinerama.

* Enable twinview.

* Turn on Desktop Effects in System->Preferences->Appearance.

* In the CompizConfig Settings manager -> General Options -> Display Settings -> Outputs section make sure "Detect Outputs" is checked and "Outputs" looks appropriate (in my case I had to change it from 640x480+0+0 to 1920x1600+0+0)

---> Note, between many of these steps a reboot, or at least restarting X, is necessary.

---

### Post by Lexrst on 2007-11-07
> **Dual Cortex said:**
> I looked at the new X configuration but since it did not have a way to add a second screen, I just went with the usual way when dealing with nvidia cards... which is a pretty nice and easy way too.

So, anyway, what you got to do (since you already have the drivers installed) is to simply open up a terminal and write "sudo nvidia-settings".

Then just go to "X Server Display Configuration" and enable the second monitor by pressing Configure and selecting TwinView. Then just set whatever resolutions  you want, etc.
Finally, press Apply to see whether the configuration is how you wanted it. Notice the menu bars and any maximized windows may stretch across both monitors. Don't worry about it though, when you save the settings and restart X everything will be normal.
So, now, if you see everything is OK, simply click "Save to X Configuration file", click "Save" again, and  finally, close nvidia-settings, log out, and press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to restart X. Then log back in and *hopefully* enjoy your dual monitor set up.

:) Thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you!!!!

This worked great with my Gutsy + nVidia 7800 GTX (using restricted drivers manager to install the nVidia drivers) + Dual 19" FP setup.

The only caveat: if I hit "Apply" in the nvidia settings program, it would generate errors.  However, if I simply saved the config to xorg and rebooted, it worked fine.

Now if only Creative would get off their collective butts and develop a real driver for the Soundblaster X-Fi I'd be set...

Cheers,

Lexrst

---

### Post by F W Adams on 2007-11-08
I started with a completely new installation of 7.10, using fx5200.

loaded the nvidia drivers using "System / Admin. / Restricted driver's manager ( as I'm sure most already know how do do.

Then followed the instructions as in #2 and everything was fine.

---

### Post by franck3d on 2007-11-08
I'm getting stuck!   Every time I try to
sudo nvidia-settings
it tells me

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.

I do this and when I try again, it gives me the same message.
I installed the nvidia driver via ENVY but I was getting the same message when I was using the driver from the Restricted Drivers module.

Any Ideas?

---

### Post by drted on 2007-11-09
> **franck3d said:**
> I'm getting stuck!   Every time I try to
sudo nvidia-settings
it tells me

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.

I do this and when I try again, it gives me the same message.
I installed the nvidia driver via ENVY but I was getting the same message when I was using the driver from the Restricted Drivers module.

Any Ideas?

Are you running xserver-xgl?  Try uninstalling it, if so.  I had that same message while stuggling to get things working, and I think uninstalling xgl was the trick.

---

### Post by mattalexx on 2007-11-09
> **Dual Cortex said:**
> ... simply open up a terminal and write "sudo nvidia-settings".

Perfect! Thanks.

---

### Post by franck3d on 2007-11-12
> **drted said:**
> Are you running xserver-xgl?  Try uninstalling it, if so.  I had that same message while stuggling to get things working, and I think uninstalling xgl was the trick.

That did it!   Thanks.
Maybe it's my video card, but it seem that Cf is running slower on dual screens than Beryl used to.
Or is my card just not strong enough to push 2560x1024?   I have a nvidia FX5200.
Are there any effect I should avoid, anybody have any ideas?

---

### Post by dmig on 2007-11-26
> Or is my card just not strong enough to push 2560x1024? I have a nvidia FX5200.
Are there any effect I should avoid, anybody have any ideas?
I have 5700LE -- compiz is noticeably slower, than on one screen, but still useable. 
Disable complex animations, wobbly windows -- this will speedup rendering.

Also, when sizing several windows up to whole desktop size -- it's easy to see 'black windows' nvidia bug.

---

### Post by bond17_007 on 2007-12-03
I followed the steps mentioned here. Dual monitor setting worked fine. 
However, I am facing one issue. 

I set up my dual monitors (1680X1050 and 1224X1240) with Twin view. 
When I use 3D rotate (Compiz), the edge is replicated in between the screens. 

I had followed the same instructions before when i set up ubuntu 7.10 on my old HDD and it worked as intended. The 3D box rotate looked fine with no duplication of the edges in the middle of both the screens. 

I just bought a new HDD just for ubuntu and instead of copying over I decided to do a fresh install. 

I will try to post the screen shoot tonight to explain further. 

I would really appreciate you guys help!

(I am using Nvidia 7900 GS, 256M, I am using the restricted drivers, proprietery driver.)

---

### Post by arch stanton on 2007-12-04
Here's a question ..and this seems to be the place to ask it..

has anyone tried to set up dual monitors only as one user...I use my tv as my second monitor and works well now..

but...

i want to disable dual monitors on my main user account but have it enabled for another user, named AV or something , just for watching movies once in a while.

Surely I'm missing something simple, but its either on for all users or off..

---

### Post by ryodoan on 2007-12-06
First I want to say thanks a TON for this, I finally have dual monitors set up but I have run into a rather strange problem (probably due to my mucking around with the xorg.conf).

[IMG]http://img.photobucket.com/albums/v298/ryodoan/Screenshot-1.png[/IMG]

When I first ran "sudo nvidia-settings" and set it all up, everything actually looked fine, I clicked save to xorg.conf, logged out, logged back in, and while my 2ndary monitor was the proper size (1280x1024) my main monitor had reverted to 640x480  (or some equivalent to that).

I ran sudo nvidia-settings again and changed my settings back to what I wanted, and it fixed it, saved to xorg.conf, restarted x, same problem.

So I looked at a line in xorg that it was saving:
> Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024_60 +1680+0; DFP-0: 1280x1024 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1280x960 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1152x864 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1152+0; DFP-0: 1024x768 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0; DFP-0: 832x624 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +832+0; DFP-0: 800x600 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +800+0; DFP-0: 640x480 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +640+0"

and changed it to just:
> Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024_60 +1680+0"

Now when I log in everything is perfect except for the top panel.

My complete xorg.conf is:
```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:30:30 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GS]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GS]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x640" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024_60 +1680+0; DFP-0: 1280x1024 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1280x960 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1152x864 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1152+0; DFP-0: 1024x768 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0; DFP-0: 832x624 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +832+0; DFP-0: 800x600 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +800+0; DFP-0: 640x480 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +640+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024 +1680+0; DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024_60 +1680+0; DFP-0: 1280x1024 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1280x960 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1152x864 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1152+0; DFP-0: 1024x768 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0; DFP-0: 832x624 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +832+0; DFP-0: 800x600 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +800+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024 +1680+0; DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024_60 +1680+0; DFP-0: 1280x1024 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1280x960 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; DFP-0: 1152x864 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1152+0; DFP-0: 1024x768 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0; DFP-0: 832x624 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +832+0; DFP-0: 1680x1050 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0, DFP-1: 1280x1024_60 +1680+0"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Neffscape on 2007-12-10
I'm currently using my Nvidia fx5200 go with 2 monitors, but when I try to load compiz I'm missing window decorations (in both screens). With metacity everything works perfectly and when i disable my secondary screen compiz actually works... I need your help!

---

### Post by Mr.Slappy on 2008-01-09
> **Neffscape said:**
> I'm currently using my Nvidia fx5200 go with 2 monitors, but when I try to load compiz I'm missing window decorations (in both screens). With metacity everything works perfectly and when i disable my secondary screen compiz actually works... I need your help!

Same problem as Neffscape except using Nvidia 8400 GS, I have read elsewhere that problem was rectified after a couple of reboots, no such luck for me tho'. installed driver through both methods (restricted & Envy-which installed the latest driver)
Anybody know of a workaround?

---

### Post by nPoc on 2008-01-15
> **bond17_007 said:**
> I followed the steps mentioned here. Dual monitor setting worked fine. 
However, I am facing one issue. 

I set up my dual monitors (1680X1050 and 1224X1240) with Twin view. 
When I use 3D rotate (Compiz), the edge is replicated in between the screens. 

I had followed the same instructions before when i set up ubuntu 7.10 on my old HDD and it worked as intended. The 3D box rotate looked fine with no duplication of the edges in the middle of both the screens. 

I just bought a new HDD just for ubuntu and instead of copying over I decided to do a fresh install. 

I will try to post the screen shoot tonight to explain further. 

I would really appreciate you guys help!

(I am using Nvidia 7900 GS, 256M, I am using the restricted drivers, proprietery driver.)

I have the same exact issue, and yes it's hard to explain unless you see it for yourself.

Here's what I'm seeing when I'm rotating desktops.  I have 2, 1600x1200 displays, running on a 7900GS as well. The image I uploaded is a scaled version of exactly what I'm seeing when rotating what should be a cube. 


[ATTACH]56583[/ATTACH]
[ATTACH]56582[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by grandtxred on 2008-01-17
I did this and it worked great.  The only problem is that on my 2nd monitor the images and text are not very clear. It looks as if the resolution is set properly on both monitors but the again the images and text are a bit garbled on the 2nd monitor.

Dell inspiron Nvidia 7900 GS 
17" lcd wide on laptop
20" dell E207WFP as 2nd monitor

both resolutions current set at 1400 x 900

I am doing extended display to second monitor for additional workspace not monitor clone

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by seanreynoldscs on 2008-01-29
I have Nvidia 6600 with 512.

When Install the ubuntu Nvidia new restricted drivers, i have no luck.

When i go to Nvidia and get their updated driver, i get one screen working. 
When I use the Screen And Resolution in ubuntu, i get the Low Resolution error. 
I had alot of trouble getting Compiz and Dual Screens. This is what i did.


Process:
Get new ubuntu 7.10 with updates: DONT INSTALL RESTRICTED DRIVER. 
Go to Nvidia and get their driver and install it.
Install Nvidia Settings through Synaptic Manager. (STAY AWAY FROM [Screen and Resolutions] It breaks the xorg.conf file)
Go to the Nvidia Settings and set Seperate X Screens with xinerama. Reboot (make sure to save the xorg.conf file each time) ( I had to cut and paste it because the Nvidia settings did not elevate when trying to save the xorg.conf file)
Go back to Nvidia Settings and set TwinView and merge the settings.(make sure to save the xorg.conf file each time)

and its all better.

To make it work, i had to get: ```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
```
which uninstalled the restricted nvidia new drivers (if you had them installed).

Using Nvidia settings I was able to get both monitors with good resolution and Compiz using seperate x screens or Using TwinView. BUT I did not want either of those settings. Seperate X Screens wouldnt let me drag a window from one screen to another, and twin view gave me one big cube and when i maximized a window it went to both monitors full screen!

So i found out that if you go to Seperate X Screens and tick xinerama and restart, it sets that flag in your xorg.conf file but disables 3D! Then if you switch settings to Twinview once xinerama was already ticked, you get the 3d with the ability to drag windows from one screen to another, Two separate cubes, and Maximize to one screen only. Exactly what i wanted. 

Im sure there is a better way to do this, Im quite new to linux: but i got it to work, and that was how.

---

### Post by photismos on 2008-02-17
Thank you Dual Cortex...using Gutsy and a GeForce FX5500 the "sudo nvidia-settings" worked great!!!  Dual monitors working just fine =)  I'm very happy...this noob entirely appreciates your post...

---

### Post by nPoc on 2008-02-18
> **nPoc said:**
> I have the same exact issue, and yes it's hard to explain unless you see it for yourself.

Here's what I'm seeing when I'm rotating desktops.  I have 2, 1600x1200 displays, running on a 7900GS as well. The image I uploaded is a scaled version of exactly what I'm seeing when rotating what should be a cube. 


[ATTACH]56583[/ATTACH]
[ATTACH]56582[/ATTACH]

I discovered the solution to my own problem.

Here's the solution

1.  Open Synaptic and install compizconfig-settings-manager

2.  After installing open System->Preferences->Advanced Desktop Effects and Settings

3.  Click Desktop Cube.

4,  Set Multi Output Mode to "On big Cube".


YAY!

---

### Post by Thespazz on 2008-02-18
First of all, this post saved me from throwing my machine out the window. 

The trick for me was to install nvidia-settings first, before enabling the restricted drivers.  When I did it in the opposite order, it would uninstall glx-new, which would break the whole thing.

Hope that helps somebody.

---

### Post by aspora.isernia on 2008-02-20
I tried hard and I was able to have one big desktop over two 1600x1200 monitors using the nvidia-settings utility, _BUT_ I'm still stuck with compiz: when I enable the visual effects, the window borders disappear and I cannot keep the configuration. I also tried to select the 'show windows decoration' option in the advanced desktop effect preferences...

I have gutsy on a 64 bit machine, with nvidia quadro graphic card.

Any hint is welcome

a.i :)

---

### Post by miesnerd on 2008-03-04
hey all worked well for me, expect it makes me pose a question.
When doing multiple monitors and having multiple cubes, can they not rotate independently?
Whenever Im on screen one and use the mousewheel to move over to a different side of my cube, my second monitor rotates also. Is this normal? I'd love it if they could rotate independently, after all, they are seperate X 's.

---

### Post by SloYerRoll on 2008-03-08
> **nPoc said:**
> I discovered the solution to my own problem.

Here's the solution

1.  Open Synaptic and install compizconfig-settings-manager

2.  After installing open System->Preferences->Advanced Desktop Effects and Settings

3.  Click Desktop Cube.

4,  Set Multi Output Mode to "On big Cube".


YAY!Dude, I your biggest fan right now!

I've had a thread going for almost a week asking this question and I finally decided to read this thread start to stop and I'm so glad I did!

Beers on me if your ever in Oregon!

All the best,

---

### Post by Henpecked on 2008-03-27
> **Dual Cortex said:**
> I looked at the new X configuration but since it did not have a way to add a second screen, I just went with the usual way when dealing with nvidia cards... which is a pretty nice and easy way too.

So, anyway, what you got to do (since you already have the drivers installed) is to simply open up a terminal and write "sudo nvidia-settings".

Then just go to "X Server Display Configuration" and enable the second monitor by pressing Configure and selecting TwinView. Then just set whatever resolutions  you want, etc.
Finally, press Apply to see whether the configuration is how you wanted it. Notice the menu bars and any maximized windows may stretch across both monitors. Don't worry about it though, when you save the settings and restart X everything will be normal.
So, now, if you see everything is OK, simply click "Save to X Configuration file", click "Save" again, and  finally, close nvidia-settings, log out, and press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to restart X. Then log back in and *hopefully* enjoy your dual monitor set up.

Thank you thank you - worked fine !

---

### Post by bagrol1 on 2008-04-29
I've been using both Fiesty and Gutsy and could never set up twin output correctly so it would work with Beryl/Compiz. This discussion gives me a new hope. 

Can you please tell me what should I do as I've seen here several approaches.

I have Nvidia 7900GS and running Gutsy with Nvidia driver installed by Envy.

I am using 20" LCD 1650x1050 as my main screen and use video output to my TV at 720x640(?). I used the Screens and Resolutions utility to have them working, but Special effects will not. Also, another bug I see is when I try to do a full screen option in VLC on the TV screen, it goes full screen but on the LCD, thus I can only watch videos in maximize mode and not the fullscreen one.

Thanx a lot!!!

---

### Post by jodrre on 2008-05-22
:confused:  I'm having a harder time then I should. 

I followed the 5-step instructions a couple posts above me, and it added the fancy desktop switcher and effects

However, when I plug my second monitor into the monitor out port (I am using a laptop) all it wants to do is clone, which isn't what I am looking for

i apologise if this has been said above, but I haven't read the entire thread.

Thank you in advance!

---

