---
title: ".mp3 ripping question"
date: 2006-07-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bfqw11 on 2006-07-20
I want to make it to where I can rip my songs to .mp3, but I cannot install the package "gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse" like the docs say.  I get an error when I try to do so.  Any advice?

---

### Post by cwaldbieser on 2006-07-20
> **bfqw11 said:**
> I want to make it to where I can rip my songs to .mp3, but I cannot install the package "gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse" like the docs say.  I get an error when I try to do so.  Any advice?

Can you paste the error here?

---

### Post by zhoux on 2006-07-20
did you enable the extra repositories? if you didn't check my signature for the link.

---

### Post by ardchoille on 2006-07-21
BTW, if you install grip and lame, you will be able to rip music cd's to mp3's.. I have been doing it for quite a while.

---

### Post by jedsen on 2006-07-21
Have you tried using lame? It's really the best solution to encoding mp3s. I use the flags, "-h -V 3" for ~192kbit/sec variable rate encoding.

---

### Post by bfqw11 on 2006-07-21
Yes, I have the extra repositories enabled.  Here is the error I get:

======
apt-get install gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have 
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.

Since you only requested a single operation it is extremely likely that 
the package is simply not installable and a bug report against
that package should be filed.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse: Depends: liblame0 (>= 3.96.1-1) but it is not installable
E: Broken packages
======

I may try this grip + lame thing.  Is that a graphical tool, or command line?

---

### Post by tozebr on 2006-07-21
it appears to be a dependence error
try doing this
```
sudo apt-get install liblame0
sudo apt-get install gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse  
```

or try doing this in gui like Synaptic(?), it choice the dependencey too

sorry for the english, i´m brazilian

---

