---
title: "11.04 Classic interface is worse than old Gnome 2"
date: 2011-06-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Agent24 on 2011-06-06
I have recently upgraded to 11.04 and am running the Classic interface as I don't like Unity.

However, I have noticed so far two areas where this Classic version has gone backwards from the default Gnome in 10.10 and earlier...


I can't rearrange window buttons on the Window list, nor can I drag-and-drop say FLAC files onto the button for "Movie Player" any more -they end up pinned on the panel!


How can I get back the ability to drag window buttons around and and turn off the annoying pinning feature and get drag-and-drop back?

---

### Post by rtimai on 2011-06-06
Agent24,

Ubuntu's moving toward a look and functionality that suits mobile devices such as netbooks, touchpads, and phones, as well as desktops and notebooks. I feel like you, but I think if we want to stay in the loop, we need to stay familiar with the new interfaces. I know people who "fell away" from computing when the market took on new directions, MS-DOS gurus who disappeared when Windows grew in popularity, who faded away when "net-centricism" took off (that's me, I guess.) Now we have "cloud computing" where much of the computing happens on remote servers, and data is stored in any number of remote locations. Imagine: A worker putting together a business presentation on his iPhone during his train commute -- or while driving on the freeway at 60mph. 

And everybody is continuously sharing everything with everybody these days. A few days ago here in my own town, some Twitter account was posting cryptic messages about a shooting that he was doing at a music festival (some kid got wounded in the knee.) Today's users are so continuously connected, I can't even imagine what their interior experiences are like. They want to put on public exhibition everything they're doing, even their crimes.

Anyway, the new interface is targeting users like these. Haaaa... Now I'm not so sure I want to stay with this kind of computing. Hmmm...  =:P

DRAG-AND-DROP
I miss the drag-and-drop files into panel icons too. You can, however, work around that. If you're using Totem movie player (I play my MP3 music in it) in maximized view you can click Movie, Open. This will open a navigation box in the default folder. You can select a file and drag it into the Playlist window (visible because Totem is maximized,) to add it to the playlist. If you drag it into the Player window, it will replace the current file playing.

---

### Post by Agent24 on 2011-06-06
Cloud computing is useful but I do not really rely on or trust it, there is no guarantee your data will be safe from theft nor loss due to disaster.

True, this is the same for your own PC but you know what backups you have, where they are, and what is happening, you have no idea where or what is really going on with your data stored 'in the cloud'

The ongoing security issues with Sony's PSN service is a good example of this. The idiots weren't even encrypting people's sensitive data (Credit Card numbers etc) Do you really want to trust these people? I certainly do not.


Unity might be designed for a new style of use, but the "Classic" version as far as I know isn't - the whole point of it is for people who don't want to use Unity - BUT what is the point of that if it has missing features? - features that were there 6 months ago?

---

