---
title: "11.4 Ubuntu Classic - How to move down a single line with the new scrollbars?"
date: 2011-05-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by leon_chame on 2011-05-06
I really like the look of the new scrollbar - but I am having several issues using it - most importantly I can not figure out how to move down/up a single line anymore, 

I would have thought the arrows at the edges of the new scrollbar move up/down by line and the grey pads of space between the separator would move by pg/up or down.  All seems correct with the exception of the arrows to move up/down.

I look around through code, manuals and pdfs and such often and used to the use arrow pointers at the top and bottom of the old scrollbar style to move down or up by line all with the mouse....now with the new scroll bar I find myself struggling all the time for this type of simple operation as it seems the arrows in the overlay scrollbar perform a pgDown/pgUp operation not a move down/up line....anyone know how?

PS - If anyone is curious on how to best to test this on your own, a simple test I did was to create a text file of line numbers with the following command:

seq 1 200 > numbers.txt

open the file up in gedit, mousepad or any other program and you will see what I am talking about I hope.
If not, Im curious to hear....

?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-05-07
You can't and likely won't be able to.
The arrows on the thumb aren't usable, they just point to direction - page up. page dn. with the thumb split in half

The closet you'll get to line advance is using scroll while the cursor is  on the thumb or somewhat with cursor on thumb and arrow keys on keyboard.
 
Though these  both highlight the 'timeout till thumb fade' which is set to 250ms after pausing scroll  - if you pause to read a line then the thumb fades and has to be reacquired
(don't know what they were thinking there, the thumb disappearing on cursor removal is fine (1 sec), this however makes no sense at all..

I've altered that here so the thumb pretty much never fades while the cursor is on it - set the fade to 60 sec's

---

### Post by leon_chame on 2011-05-07
yikes..thanks for the reply...i use a touchpad all the time (work on laptops) and I have scroll off as this always cause issues with me....let me change topic then...

anyone know the best way to get the 'old' scrollbars back?

I found a link to this command but its from the beta times not an ubuntu site-

TO REMOVE:
sudo apt-get remove overlay-scrollbar liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0      

Always like to hear more from here

?

Finally, just curious is there a website,wiki or forum that is designed for feedback on Ubuntu - figured there has gotta be a place where users can voice their opinion on design and implementation of things????

Thanks as always all!!!

Leon

---

### Post by teachop on 2011-05-07
> **leon_chame said:**
> yikes..thanks for the reply...i use a touchpad all the time (work on laptops) and I have scroll off as this always cause issues with me....let me change topic then...

anyone know the best way to get the 'old' scrollbars back?

I found a link to this command but its from the beta times not an ubuntu site-

TO REMOVE:
sudo apt-get remove overlay-scrollbar liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0      

Always like to hear more from here

?
You can disable them by creating a file, as in:
sudo gedit /etc/X11/Xsession.d/80-normal-scrollbars

that contains:
export LIBOVERLAY_SCROLLBAR=0

---

### Post by leon_chame on 2011-05-07
Thanks teach, worked like a charm!!!

WOW - change of opinion I forgot how easy and good the 'old' scroll is :)

bad design, is bad if anyone out there is listening and cares about my opinion - and thats what I think the new scrollbar is....Love it when I can do simple tasks simply = good design IMHO.

---

