---
title: "./configure doesn't work"
date: 2006-08-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mck134 on 2006-08-02
Hi,
While installing a program i typed ./configure but it didn't work. I've already downloaded the build-essentials. What's the problem? Thanks.

---

### Post by &amp;)ky#)^ on 2006-08-02
We'll need more info.  What program?

---

### Post by mck134 on 2006-08-02
the file is pppoe-3.8.tar.gz it says in the readme file that after unpacking you have do: "./configure"  then "make" and then "make install". But as i said "./configure" doesn't work. I downloaded the build-essentials typing sudo apt-get install build-essentials but it's still the same.

---

### Post by loell on 2006-08-02
any output when you type ./configure?

---

### Post by mck134 on 2006-08-02
it's something like the command or directory doesn't exist.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-08-02
1) We really need the **exact** output.  Just copy/paste it from the terminal :)

2) You **almost certainly** don't need to install this from source anyway.  What is the program that this will become/what do you want to do with it?

---

### Post by mck134 on 2006-08-02
the reason why i didn't copy paste is because i'm using windows now, i don't have an internet conncection in linux. I have a usb adsl modem. I can use in windows but in linux it doesn't work. I searched the internet and i've found that i need to install two files. one of them is the rp-pppoe-3.8.tar.gz and the othor one is eagle-usb-2.3.2.tar.bz2. So i downloaded and followed the instructions from the website that i found. but after unpacking     the files as i said ./configure didn't work. So i searched the internet and i found that i sould install the build-essentials. i did, but it's still the same.

---

### Post by loell on 2006-08-02
there might other dependencies  thats required , build-essential is there for compiling. .

---

### Post by DavidSkelton on 2006-08-02
?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2006-08-02
> **mck134 said:**
> it's something like the command or directory doesn't exist.

That sounds like you aren't running the ./configure command in the directory where your files are..

---

### Post by doobit on 2006-08-02
I agree with mcduck. ./configure executes a script that examines your machine for dependancies, languages, and such that are needed to compile the application you want to install. You watch the output to look for any errors that you may need to correct to make the install work after you "make" it. If ./configure doesn't return any output in the terminal, then the configure script doesn't exist in the directory you are running the command from. It's also possible that the tar.gz file is there and you never unpacked it. If you did, then it probably created another directory to dump the unpacked files into.
Here's a way to find out:
open the terminal and navigate (**cd /username/home/** for example)to the directory where you downloaded and unpacked the file that you want to compile. If you created another directory when you unpacked, then you need to navigate into that. Type **ls -a** and see if there is a file called "configure" with or without and extention.

The solution for the problem of how to show us an output of a command may to pipe it's output into a text file:
$ ./configure | configure.txt
However, most configure scripts already create a log file, so you can just copy that to a pen drive or a floppy, then boot into Windows and open the text file in Notepad. Then copy and past that here.
Hope that helps and anyone is free to correct my inaccuracies. I'm learning as I go too.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-08-02
Perhaps you should check out this [Eagle USB howto]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=201127&highlight=eagle+usb+modem")

---

