---
title: "12.04 User Accounts not listed in System Settings User Accounts or LightDM"
date: 2012-06-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by JakeGully on 2012-06-07
I'm running 12.04 on PPC (IMAC G5) - but have a problem with  creating/editing user accounts with the System Preferences User Accounts  tool.   All updates have been downloaded and installed.
  

When I run the tool my account appears under the Other Accounts line  and I do not see any other accounts - I can unlock and add an account,  though this does not appear in the list.  However the accounts are  created in /etc/passwd.
  

LightDM only displays the last user account created, and after login  by command line and enabling the account/setting a password it is  possible to login to LightDM as this user.   If I delete a user account from command line and restart then the next previously created user account displays in LightDM.

  

I have added the old gnome users.admin package which does allow me to  see all users on the system, but accounts still do not show up in  LightDM.
  

lightdm.conf and users.conf are set correctly, with minimum UID set  to 1000.   However I understand that these should be ignored with  requests handled by accounts-daemon.
  The accountsservice appears to be started/running - though I am not sure how or where to debug this.
  

I am not using any prescribed service account names - makes no  difference if users are administrators or standard accounts.   I have  searched the forums and found only one unanswered post that matches - so  at least not totally alone!
  

If any one can assist or point out the error of my ways it'd be much appreciated.

---

