---
title: "11.10 Mouse Still a Problem"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Pastysmuggler on 2011-10-17
I installed 11.04 (Natty) 3 months ago and had a real problem with Mouse functionality. Updates and various fixes didn't help so I waited patiently for Oneiric. On Saturday I ran the auto-update process (very impressed - worked without problem!) but I still have my mouse problem!
 
When I launch an application (doesn't matter what it is!) the mouse buttons are not active within that application window. They work when moving to the top of the screen and highlighting the activity bar so they let me close the app or minimised the window or activate menu functions. But I get no response in the application window itself. Sure, the mouse pointer moves around but it never changes to the 'finger pointer' when hovering over a link and no clicks (right or left) do anything at all.
 
Lots of button pressing/clicking etc. can change the functionality so that it works within the window but then does not work outside it - i.e. when moving to the screen top the app menus are not displayed. I have not been able to get it to switch from one mode to the other with any consistency.
 
This 'either/or' functionality of the mouse makes the system quite unworkable for me so I need to get it sorted quickly. Otherwise it will be a return to Bill for me - and an awful lot of lost credibility as a result!
 
Incidentally, I'm new to Ubuntu but not to Unix! Did a lot of work on SVR4 20 years ago and I'm an I.T. Consultant too! So technical stuff doesn't faze me!
 
Many thanks
Pastysmuggler!

---

### Post by Steve(spt) on 2011-10-19
I to have the same issue with the mouse in 11.04, and like you waited for the new release 11.10 and still have mouse issues.

lacking of response, not reponding to mouse clicks - left or right.

even afte chenge the mouse settings the lack of responce is still an issue.  

I have check this on three other systems with the same results,

Looks like something has been broken in the last two releses since Unity was introduced.

---

### Post by wowtip on 2011-10-26
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11396942&posted=1#post11396942](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11396942&posted=1#post11396942)

Seems like the same problem.

Do you also have Nvidia gfx cards and USB mouse?

Regards,
wowtip

---

### Post by Pastysmuggler on 2011-10-31
I do have a USB mouse (a Labtech wireless setup including keyboard), but not an NVidia graphics card. I have an aging Radeon 9800 SE All-in-Wonder with a massive 128Mb of memory!
 
Unfortunately though, time and frustration got the better of me and I've blown away Ubuntu and reinstalled Windows XP - at least I know that works!!!

---

### Post by miketwo on 2012-03-08
Had a similar problem to what's being described here.  Seemingly random, my left-clicks on my mouse would stop working.  Middle and right clicks were spotty.  I also noticed that Alt-Tab stopped working while this was going on as well.

My situation was unique, however, in that I have a touchscreen. Ubuntu identifies it as seen here:
```

Thu Mar 08 - 09:46:17      
[michael:~] $ [COLOR=Blue]**xinput --list**[/COLOR]
&#9121; Virtual core pointer                        id=2    [master pointer  (3)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Virtual core XTEST pointer                  id=4    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Logitech USB Receiver                       id=12    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; PS/2 Generic Mouse                          id=15    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad                  id=16    [slave  pointer  (2)]
[COLOR=Blue][B]&#9116;   &#8627; Serial Wacom Tablet stylus                  id=17    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Serial Wacom Tablet eraser                  id=18    [slave  pointer  (2)]
&#9116;   &#8627; Serial Wacom Tablet touch                   id=19    [slave  pointer  (2)][/B][/COLOR]
&#9123; Virtual core keyboard                       id=3    [master keyboard (2)]
    &#8627; Virtual core XTEST keyboard                 id=5    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=6    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Fujitsu FUJ02E3                             id=7    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Video Bus                                   id=8    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Fujitsu FUJ02B1                             id=9    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Power Button                                id=10    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; Logitech USB Receiver                       id=11    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; FJ Camera                                   id=13    [slave  keyboard (3)]
    &#8627; AT Translated Set 2 keyboard                id=14    [slave  keyboard (3)]

```For me, the fix was surprisingly simple -- **touch the screen**.  That is considered a left-click by the Wacom, and it cleared whatever errors were present in my USB mouse.

Hope that helps someone...

---

