---
title: "13.04 + nvidia drivers = small text?"
date: 2013-06-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by RabidSquirrel on 2013-06-01
Steam told me my 560 was running "nouveau gallium 0.4 on nvce" drivers. I don't know what that means but I got terrible framerates in games so I figured I'd install some drivers for it. First I used the "Additional Drivers" program. I installed the driver on the top of the list and rebooted. This fixed my framerate, but it also made the text size in KDE / Dolphin much smaller, to the point where it's hard to read. Icons seem smaller too. I uninstalled the drivers and rebooted and ended up with a black screen. I switched to Windows and spent a while on Google before giving up and reformatting my root partition.

Eventually I found myself wanting to play some games on linux so I took another shot at it. I used (sudo apt-get install nvidia-current). Now I find myself in the same situation. I've looked through Nvidia's settings menu and found nothing that could help me. Can anyone think of how I might fix this? I only have a few days experience with linux so please try not to get too complicated.

---

### Post by Grafens on 2013-06-02
I use 12.04 so thing maybe different for 13.04, I can adjust the font size under
system settings > application appearance > fonts
When doing this it's probably best to adjust all of the fonts with equal increments

---

### Post by RabidSquirrel on 2013-06-02
Thanks, that definitely helped a lot. It didn't work for everything like Firefox but I can live with that. I still wish I could undo whatever the drivers did though. If anyone has any idea what that is, please let me know.

---

### Post by GhettoMrBob on 2013-06-02
If you're using Unity try out Unity Tweak Tool, should be available through the Software Center. If Gnome, Gnome Tweak Tool. You mentioned KDE but never specified what DE you're using.

Also, have a look at what driver you're using. I'd recommend using the stable, tested version above anything else. You can find out through software & updates -> drivers tab.

Edit: I'm an idiot and didn't see you posted as kubuntu. I'm not too familiar with KDE but you may still be able to use either Gnome or Unity tweaks to fix the fonts. The drivers suggestion still stands however.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-06-02
You might try modifying xorg.conf and adding 

```
Options "DPI" "96x96"
```

to the "Monitor" stanza in that file as described [here](http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Specifying_DPI_for_NVIDIA_Cards).   My 9500GT would display the opening screen with a miniscule font when I displayed it on my Sony Bravia TV.  Adding a DPI line helped a lot.  The linked article recommends 100x100, but I think 96x96 makes more sense since they are multiples of sixteen.  The difference was negligible.

If there is no /etc/X11/xorg.conf, you can generate one with the GUI NVIDIA Settings utility.  Running "sudo nvidia-xconfig" might generate one as well.

---

### Post by RabidSquirrel on 2013-06-03
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> You might try modifying xorg.conf and adding 

```
Options "DPI" "96x96"
```

That fixed it. I appreciate the help.

I can't find "mark as solved"?

---

