---
title: ".htm files won't open"
date: 2006-02-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by daz4126 on 2006-02-13
Hi, I've just started using ubuntu and have a lot of web pages containing xhtml and javascript with the .htm extension.

When I try to open them using nautilus I get the following message;

'Do you want to run "file.htm", or display its contents?
"file.htm" is an executable text file.
Follwed by four options: Run in Terminal, Display, Cancel, Run

Display will open with Bluefish, but run does nothing.

I want to open the file to view in Firefox, but even if I righ-click on the file and select this option, nothing happens.

I have tried opening firefox and navigating to the file through firefox (i.e. typing '/home/daz/websites/file.htm' into the address bar) and this displays fine. 

Can anybody help me out with this one?

Thanks in advance,

DAZ

---

### Post by dcstar on 2006-02-14
[QUOTE=daz4126]Hi, I've just started using ubuntu and have a lot of web pages containing xhtml and javascript with the .htm extension.

When I try to open them using nautilus I get the following message;

'Do you want to run "file.htm", or display its contents?
"file.htm" is an executable text file.
.....[/QUOTE]
chmod -x *htm

May remove one of your issues.

---

### Post by daz4126 on 2006-02-14
Thanks for the advice David but the message now reads

Couldn't display 'file.htm' There was an error launching the application.

If I try right-clicking and select 'open with Opera' then opera opens but does not display the file, it shows an error message 'Could not Open file: you You tried to access the address file://localhost/media/DATA/myDocs/WebDesignProjects/javascript/test.htm, which is currently unavailable. Please make sure that the Web address (URL) is correctly spelled and punctuated, then try reloading the page.

I can't understand what is going on, any ideas??

DAZ

---

### Post by dcstar on 2006-02-14
[QUOTE=daz4126]Thanks for the advice David but the message now reads

Couldn't display 'file.htm' There was an error launching the application.

If I try right-clicking and select 'open with Opera' then opera opens but does not display the file, it shows an error message 'Could not Open file: you You tried to access the address file://localhost/media/DATA/myDocs/WebDesignProjects/javascript/test.htm, which is currently unavailable. Please make sure that the Web address (URL) is correctly spelled and punctuated, then try reloading the page.

I can't understand what is going on, any ideas??

DAZ[/QUOTE]
In Nautilus, what is displayed in the Location bar when you are in the directory where the file is and you do: Go-Location?

---

### Post by daz4126 on 2006-02-14
[QUOTE=dcstar]In Nautilus, what is displayed in the Location bar when you are in the directory where the file is and you do: Go-Location?[/QUOTE]

Sorry David, I'm not sure what you mean my do: Go-Location??

In the navigation bar it displays the following buttons: - 
computer, media, DATA, myDocs, Web Design Projects, Javascript

Is that what you wanted?
btw - DATA is a usb external HD

Thanks for the help,

DAZ

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-02-14
try: right click on the file -> properties -> open with -> add -> command: firefox

I realize that the option to open in firefox is already in the menu, but the command might be somehow borked. So the above is worth a try.

---

### Post by daz4126 on 2006-02-14
[QUOTE=kaamos]try: right click on the file -> properties -> open with -> add -> command: firefox

I realize that the option to open in firefox is already in the menu, but the command might be somehow borked. So the above is worth a try.[/QUOTE]
Kaamos - I tried this, but firefox is already there and you can't remove it. If I try to add the command firefox, it just sets itself to the firefox comman that is already there!

DAZ

---

### Post by vruum on 2006-02-14
try removing the spaces in the folder name, so Web Design Projects becomes WebDesignProjects (or maybe all lowercase like "webdesignprojects"), if that works then, I think, it's a unicode problem, and might be a result of how the drive is mounted. what is the output of ```
sudo cat /etc/fstab | grep DATA
``` ?

---

### Post by daz4126 on 2006-02-14
Thanks for all the help everyone.

I reinstalled ubuntu again and the problem was still there partially, but now right clicking and selecting 'open with firefox' does indeed work. Unfortunately it doesn't default to this evertime I subsequently open the file. It still gives the four options...
run in terminal, display, cancel, run
of which 'display' opens up in firefox.
Has anybody got any ideas about how I can set it to default and open html files up automatically in firefox on a double-click?

Thanks again.

DAZ

---

