---
title: "11.10 Gnome3 Gnome Shell system font"
date: 2011-12-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ontwowheels on 2011-12-28
Anyway to make the system font black and not gray?  Running 11.10 and Gnome Shell.  Other than that mostly everything else is default.  When I type in information in web pages the font is gray instead of black.

I have done a ton of searches and have come up empty.

This shouldn't be this hard...lol.

THANKS in advance.

---

### Post by flyingfisch on 2011-12-28
did you try GNOME color chooser?

---

### Post by ontwowheels on 2011-12-29
> **flyingfisch said:**
> did you try GNOME color chooser?

Thanks for the reply, no I did not.  I saw a reference to it in another post and tried to find it and did not.  I looked in the package manager and didn't see it listed.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-29
Are you using a browser theme other than the default ? Themes can have their own background color settings in the search boxes , so the font may be a different color at times .

The Gnome Color  Chooser in the  software center on my 64 bit 11.10 installation , but I am wondering why you would need it to begin with .

---

### Post by ontwowheels on 2011-12-29
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Are you using a browser theme other than the default ? Themes can have their own background color settings in the search boxes , so the font may be a different color at times .

The Gnome Color  Chooser in the  software center on my 64 bit 11.10 installation , but I am wondering why you would need it to begin with .

No, not running browser theme other than default, pretty much a stock 64bit 11.10 install running the Gnome Shell.  The system font is gray instead of black.  I'll look again for the Color Chooser.

---

### Post by ontwowheels on 2011-12-29
No, couldn't find anything in Gnome Color Chooser that lets me have a black font.....am I doomed to keep this gray font?

---

