---
title: ".dircolors"
date: 2011-03-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by PocketHercules on 2011-03-10
How do I define a custom color that I can use in .dircolors instead of using the canned attribute color codes.  For example, I want to define a light blue, which is not available as one of the canned codes.  How can I define this color for .dircolors to use?  Is this even possible?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-03-10
There is a man page for dircolors .  I found some guides in my search , but they were old , 2005 vintage .

---

### Post by PocketHercules on 2011-03-10
Yeah,  I checked this out...it doesn't seem to have the information I am requesting.

---

### Post by PocketHercules on 2011-03-11
Robert008 et. al.,

Thanks for the steps.  What is really unclear to me is how to define a new color.  For example, pretend I want to define a color called fireenginered.  Presumably, I need to define some RGB values somewhere in some format to identify my color by name and associate it with the RGB values.  My question really asks how do I create this new color name (or symbolic number as like other colors in .dircolors), what is the method for assigning for RGB values to it, and what file does this definition get put in (.dircolors?)?  Once I have the color, I know how to use it in dircolors.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-03-11
Here is the guide I wrote about . [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=41538](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=41538)

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-03-11
Colors are not defined in the **.dircolors** file.  The values in that file, or in the $LS_COLORS environment variable, specify offsets into a table of colors.  That table of colors is controlled by the terminal software you're using.

Both **gnome-terminal** (default for Gnome) and **konsole** (default for KDE) allow for configuration of the color palette they use through their respective menus.  **xterm** allows configuration through the .Xresources file.

**gnome-terminal** supports 16 colors, configurable through it's menu: Edit -> Profile Preferences -> Colors.  The "Color palette" shows the current colors and allows modification.

**konsole** supports 256 colors, but only the first 16 are configurable through the gui menu: Settings -> Configure Profiles -> Shell (or alternate configuration) -> Edit -> Appearance -> Color Scheme & Background -> Edit.  I'm not sure how to modify the other colors.

**xterm** supports 256 colors.  At least the first 16 are configurable through X resources. Reference /etc/X11/app-defaults/XTerm-color.

Hopefully this information is correct, but I may be off.  Corrections welcome.

---

### Post by PocketHercules on 2011-03-11
[B][SIZE=1]In tmllvs response, I see that he setup a color brown (which is not a standard color).  From what I can tell, all he did was add the following lines to the end of his .dircolors file.

.red 00;31
.green 00;32
.yellow 00;33
.blue 00;34
.magenta 00;35
.cyan 00;36
.blueb 01;34
.blueu 04;34
.bluebi 05;34
.bluer 07;34
.brown 00;33           <<<< isn't this yellow? 
.blackb 01;30
.redb 01;31
.yellow 01;33
.magentab 01;35
.cyanb 01;36
.gray 00;37
.greenb 01;32
.java 00;32
.c 00;33
.cpp 00;36

[/SIZE][/B][B][SIZE=1]Just for giggles, I added this to the end of my .dircolors file and added  the line ".v 00:33" after this.  When I went through the steps related to my .bashrc...even started a new shell... I did not see that .v files were brown.  Instead, they were yellow, which is what the color represented by code 33.

It appears that I am pretty dense when it comes to what I am being told to do.  Either I am not understanding what is being described, or it isn't there.

-Rob
[/SIZE][/B]

---

### Post by PocketHercules on 2011-03-11
[SIZE=2]My last reply did not take into account gmargo's response...need to process it before posting again.[/SIZE]

---

