---
title: "11.04 Unity taskbar does not autohide"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by PABlanche on 2011-05-03
I upgraded for Ubuntu 11.04. 

Sometime, the taskbar on the left get stuck and does not hide automatically. It partially cover the application window. Then after a while, for no apparent reason, it hides by itself.

I have not yet found how to reproduce the behavior.

Any of you have seen that?

---

### Post by mojo706 on 2011-05-18
yeah Ive seen that too and I think it has a timer in its source like wait 10 seconds before hiding

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-18
I haven't noticed any delay with autohide , but I have only used it for 2 of 19 days that 11.04 has been installed.

---

### Post by IanSyd on 2011-05-30
> **PABlanche said:**
> 
Any of you have seen that?

I've just had it happen once - 11.04 has been installed for about 3 days. I guess its just a bit "buggy". If it gets too bad I'll switch back to the old desktop.

---

### Post by chandrageetha on 2011-08-26
Press Alt+F2. A window will appear to run program. There type Config-Editor, automatically it will be displayed and you may have to click on the icon.

there click to unscroll on:

apps->panel->top-level screen0. then the corresponding keys and values are displayed on the right pan. so you may find  the autohide key setting and check it. set values for hide-delay and unhide-delay for your convenience.

---

### Post by vitalije on 2011-08-29
I have noticed the same thing. When I start dragging text in my favourite editor (Leo [http://webpages.charter.net/edreamleo/front.html](http://webpages.charter.net/edreamleo/front.html)) right panel shows up and stays open until I shot down editor. Leo editor is written in Python and uses PyQt4 bindings. I suspect that it has something to do with PyQt and/or Ubuntu 11.04
I regularly use same version of editor on other computers that have different Ubuntu versions (9.10,10.4,10.10) and haven't noticed any problem there. Just on my new computer with installed Ubuntu 11.04.
I have never reported a bug in ubuntu, pyqt, qt,...  and I am not sure how/where would it be best to fill bug report.

---

