---
title: "i7 920 @4.0GHz in BIOS showing 2.67GHz in 10.10?"
date: 2011-04-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by MmmDieselFumes on 2011-04-09
Howdy yall!

I just recently ventured into the *nix scene (al la, yesterday) from Win7pro64 (having used windows since Win95), and have been learning the ropes and whatnot as fast as I can. Anyhow, after starting to backup my 10.10 install (since I have it exactly how I like it) so I can try out 11.04 with Gnome 3, and maybe a couple of other distros, I noticed while looking at the resource monitor that it displays my processor running at 2.67ghz.

Hmm, I think to myself, I have my i7 920 overclocked to 4.0ghz (rock friggin' solid running prime95 while folding with intel burntest firing away for 12hours, while on win7) in the BIOS, so that's not right. I figure maybe it's just reading the stock speed of the proc's info, so run 'cat /proc/cpuinfo' and it says: 2667mhz for the frequency across all my cores. So then I install the CPU Scaling Frequency Monitor Applet, set the kernel to performance (cause I'm aware they can downclock if you use ondemand or another governor), and it STILL shows my speed at 2.67GHz...

SO, I'm rather curious. Obviously things run a bit differently on Ubuntu than windows, but what the heck gives here? I had thought that the BIOS would dictate to the OS what the processor speed was going to run at, then the kernel can downstep for powersaving/idle modes. I'd really like to use my whole potential here. (And I must be honest, I really don't care for the save electricity when you're not using it arguments, so that needs not to be addressed).

Oh, and if it matters:
1000w Corsair PSU
ASUS P6T Mobo
6gb (2x3gb) G.Skill DDR3-2000 in tri-channel
i7 920, set @ 4.0ghz (200x20)
Asus ATI 5870
1TB 7200rpm Hitachi formatted in Ext4
Pretty much stock Ubuntu 10.10, as it comes downloaded, with a couple add-ons installed, but no major changes...

Thanks in advanced yall!
-Clint

---

### Post by MmmDieselFumes on 2011-04-10
Well, I believe I figured it out (not sure though, because I'm on a live CD of the Gnome3 OpenSuSE 64bit, and played with my BIOS a bit before), but in the BIOS I disabled Intel SpeedStep, and when I ran "cat /proc/cpuinfo" it shows 3999.9mhz for all cores, so I suppose it's working now.

Which is kind of stange because at least with win7 when speedstep is enabled in the bios, the freq will go up to the top speed once there is a load put upon it (prime95, intel burntest, f@h), but even when I was making a full tar backup of ubuntu, with the kernel profile set to performance, it would still stay on 2.67ghz...

Any take on that, or at lease an explination, for my future referance?

Thanks!
-Clint

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-10
Glad to see you figured it out. I was curious about the solution.

Windows in notorious for not respecting BIOS settings, I guess that is where the difference is.

---

