---
title: "12.04 - Remove Default Places Shortcuts - gnome classic"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by applejuicekiss on 2012-05-10
it bugged me for weeks that you can no longer remove the default shotcuts in the places bar in gnome classic in 12.04. In the side panel, under "Places", you usually start off with the default shortcuts: "Desktop", "Downloads", "Videos", "Music", etc.  i don't use those directories, and i don't have room for them the way i use my side panel, so:

to remove the default shortcuts, open in a text editor, like gedit, the file:

/home/[username]/.config/user-dirs.dirs

or copy this into a terminal:

gedit ~/.config/user-dirs.dirs

once open, simply comment out the lines corresponding to the shortcut you want to remove by placing a "#" at the beginning.

mine looks like this now:

XDG_DESKTOP_DIR="$HOME/Desktop"
# XDG_DOWNLOAD_DIR="$HOME/Downloads"
XDG_TEMPLATES_DIR="$HOME/Templates"
XDG_PUBLICSHARE_DIR="$HOME/Public"
# XDG_DOCUMENTS_DIR="$HOME/Documents"
# XDG_MUSIC_DIR="$HOME/Music"
XDG_PICTURES_DIR="$HOME/Pictures"
# XDG_VIDEOS_DIR="$HOME/Videos"

now save the file, close all nautilus windows.

this should have removed the "Downloads", "Documents", "Music", and "Videos" shortcuts, leaving in place "Desktop" and "Pictures".  "Templates" and "Public" are not currently displayed on my profile, so i left them alone for now.

strangely, the altered lines removed the shortcuts from under the "Computer" heading, but they turned up in "Bookmarks".  from there i was able to right click on them and remove them as expected.  now you are happy.

i guess it's not an issue in Unity(?), but i havn't really tried the new interface yet.  one day...


sorry if this is already posted somewhere, but i searched for information about this for weeks before finally using grep to find the file to edit.  hope this helps you if you are also annoyed by this new behaviour.

---

### Post by obi22 on 2012-10-11
Thanks. I'm also not using these directories.

---

### Post by -NabLa- on 2012-10-12
> **applejuicekiss said:**
>  [ useful stuff ]
Thank you.

---

