---
title: ".mp3 woes"
date: 2006-10-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DeemanXu on 2006-10-06
Hi guys.

I'm having a problem playing .mp3 files in Songbird, and Exaile. Everytime i click any of the files to play, i either get an error, or they just will not play. I fished around a little bit, and hoped that gstreamer plugings ugly would fix the issue, but unfortunately, installing the package turned into 'dependacy hell'. Most of the packages needed installed ok, but others were installed broken.

It's something that's getting on my damn nerves to be perfectly honest, and it's to you good good people that i now look towards for a little assistance.

Many thanks, 

DeemanXu ](*,) 

Oh, for some reason, they play alright in XMMS - i know, beats the crap outta me too :???: .

---

### Post by gosh on 2006-10-06
> **DeemanXu said:**
> Hi guys.

I'm having a problem playing .mp3 files in Songbird, and Exaile. Everytime i click any of the files to play, i either get an error, or they just will not play. I fished around a little bit, and hoped that gstreamer plugings ugly would fix the issue, but unfortunately, installing the package turned into 'dependacy hell'. Most of the packages needed installed ok, but others were installed broken.

It's something that's getting on my damn nerves to be perfectly honest, and it's to you good good people that i now look towards for a little assistance.

Many thanks, 

DeemanXu ](*,) 

Oh, for some reason, they play alright in XMMS - i know, beats the crap outta me too :???: .


This wiki might be helpful: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)

---

### Post by DeemanXu on 2006-10-07
> **gosh said:**
> This wiki might be helpful: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats)


Thanks Gosh....jesus, am going to have to remember about Ubuntu Wiki......I never remember, and you would have thought that the frustration caused by not being able to rectify or remedy a situation would force me into doing so.

One day, i will learn, one day.

Thanks again, Gosh, it's playing beautifully now.....Who needs Windows :twisted:

---

### Post by gosh on 2006-10-08
Glad to be of service!

---

### Post by Toxyn on 2006-12-09
*hugs gosh* I've been ripping my hair out for 3 hours troubleshooting! THANKYOU!!

---

