---
title: "Why is GNOME ignoring xorg.conf resolutions"
date: 2006-06-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by T800vsT1000 on 2006-06-18
Hi Guys,

I have made a xorg.conf with only a selectable resolution of 1280x768 (9:15). This resolution is what I want, nothing more nothing less. When GDM starts and ask me for a login name and password, this is also the resolution I get. So everything is still right. But when I have logged in, and my desktop is showing, I don't have the 1280x768 resolution, but it's 1024x768 (4:3). 

In System->Preferences->Screen resolution I can select 

1600x1200
1280x1024
1024x768
800x600
640x480

Why is GNOME ignoring the xorg.conf file and uses his own. And more important, what must I do for GNOME to use mine desired resolution.

No resolution is changed with Ctrl+ALT plus + or -

[PHP]
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Express Chipset Family Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-86
	VertRefresh	50-180
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Express Chipset Family Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection[/PHP]

---

### Post by evilghost on 2006-06-18
This may be the solution:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=199424](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=199424)

---

### Post by T800vsT1000 on 2006-06-19
Okay, this is bringing me in the right direction. I have to install a package called 915resolution. Looks like this is what I need. So I have installed it and with 915resolution -l (-l display the modes found in the video BIOS) I get the following list

> Intel 800/900 Series VBIOS Hack : version 0.5.2

Chipset: 915G
BIOS: TYPE 1
Mode Table Offset: $C0000 + $269
Mode Table Entries: 27

Mode 30 : 640x480, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 32 : 800x600, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 34 : 1024x768, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 38 : 1280x1024, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3a : 1600x1200, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 3c : 1920x1440, 8 bits/pixel
Mode 41 : 640x480, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 43 : 800x600, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 45 : 1024x768, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 49 : 1280x1024, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4b : 1600x1200, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 4d : 1920x1440, 16 bits/pixel
Mode 50 : 640x480, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 52 : 800x600, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 54 : 1024x768, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 58 : 1280x1024, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5a : 1600x1200, 32 bits/pixel
Mode 5c : 1920x1440, 32 bits/pixel

Unfortunatly, the resolution I want, isn't in the list. I think this means the 1280x768 resolution isn't in the video bios.

In windows XP I can get a simular list of all the modes it can display, but with the 1280x786 resolution and it works.

So I guess I have three options now.

1) Trying to update my video bios
2) Search for post with same problems and fixes
3) Maybe some of you already knows the answer

If I have fixed it by using other posts I will let it know here and hopefully I can get this post a [SOLVED] status. Otherwise I hope some of you has the answer.

---

### Post by T800vsT1000 on 2006-06-19
[QUOTE=T800vsT1000]1) Trying to update my video bios
[/QUOTE]

I have a Dell Dimension 3100 (servers tag BM7972J) and there was a bios update available. This is the only way to update a VBT (Video Bios Table), it can't be done directly, it is inside a system bios. So I have done this, but unfortunatly, the 915resolution list has not been enlarged. So one point done, two to go.

---

