---
title: ".wmv, .mp3, .avi, etc in Firefox"
date: 2005-12-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Jordan Meeter on 2005-12-13
Hey guys,

I was wondering how I could get Firefox to play embedded .mp3, .wmv, and .avi files?

Thanks. :)

---

### Post by Robocoastie on 2005-12-13
search the Wiki for "Restricted Formats". There's a how-to there.

Now the standard disclaimer: we should use and support OSS and patent-free codecs instead such as .ogg, FLAC, and theora. An often ignored resource for "legal" mp3 encoding and conversion is dBpowerAMP in wine after paying a nominal fee for the mp3 codec (i think its $15). As far as streaming video goes I've found that nearly all sights with it support both Windows Media and Real audio which has a native Linux version (and even does legal mp3 playback). Korn sights are, lets face it the biggest reason to need the windows quicktime and wmv formats.

We now return to our regularly scheduled broadcast.

---

### Post by Jordan Meeter on 2005-12-13
Hmm? Sorry, I'm really new to this. I just want to be able to stream .avi and .wmv movies in Firefox. =\

---

### Post by Sykil on 2005-12-13
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats?highlight=%28restricted%29%7C%28formats%29#head-98f0945855102afe97a542ae07168f3ddcc61124](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats?highlight=%28restricted%29%7C%28formats%29#head-98f0945855102afe97a542ae07168f3ddcc61124)

---

### Post by tnh5g3zpi7bzcev on 2008-01-06
Actually all was well in Firefox and Ubuntu Linux within Firefox....But For Windows (since I go back and forth...firefox would not stream the darn avi so below should work for you: At least for streaming .avi, here is the solution:

[http://forums.assgaming.com/showthread.php?t=2403](http://forums.assgaming.com/showthread.php?t=2403)

---

### Post by Casual Fan on 2008-01-06
To solve at least part of the problem, on your desktop, click on System>Administration>Synaptic Package Manager.

Click on "Search" and type "ubuntu-restricted-extras" into the box.

When the search result comes up, right click on the check box, and select "mark for installation." Then click the ensuing series of applies and okays and it will load the package.

This will load a lot of proprietary software like Java but also .mp3 codecs and other good stuff.

Also, make sure Firefox is set to play most everything with Totem (Movie Player). That is set under Edit>Preferences>Content>File types>Manage (in Firefox). Totem is pretty good about going out and getting whatever codecs you need. As is VLC Media Player, also available by searching Synaptic.

---

### Post by Culsar on 2008-01-07
> **Casual Fan said:**
> 
Also, make sure Firefox is set to play most everything with Totem (Movie Player). That is set under Edit>Preferences>Content>File types>Manage (in Firefox). Totem is pretty good about going out and getting whatever codecs you need. As is VLC Media Player, also available by searching Synaptic.
Casual - I tried following your advice, and could not change the action of WMV filetypes. So I removed it thinking that I could then add it back. So now WMV is gone from my list.

Do you know how I add it back, and how I choose "Open with Totem Web Browser Plugin 2.18.1" as opposed to "Open with Windows Media Player Plug-in 10 (compatible; Totem)" ??

---

