---
title: "10.10 CUPS server not saved"
date: 2010-11-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kaspar42 on 2010-11-16
I have a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.10 64, and when I change the CUPS-server via system->administration->printing->server->connect, the new list of network printers loads up correctly.
But when I close the window and reopen it, the old CUPS-server is back, so it seems that the change isn't saved anywhere. Rebooting doesn't do anything.
Does anyone have any idea what is going on?

---

### Post by tom4everitt on 2010-11-18
Hmm, I would suggest you have a look in /etc/cups

For example, on my computer at least, there is a file 'printers.conf', which seems to contain the info about the network printers I have set up. So this, I think, would be the place where your changes should be saved. 

You could take a look at these files as you try the save the new printer list. My suspicion would be that those files are not changed, either due to permission problems or something else. 

I'm sure it would be possible to edit these files manually. But as a first step I would try to
1. Remove all the setting files (but back them up before), restart cups and regenerate the printer list, and see if it helps. 
2. Give those files full permission, and see if that helps (don't forget to switch back, though)

Another option is of course to reinstall cups:
```

sudo apt-get remove --purge cups
sudo apt-get install cups

```

Hope you find something along those lines. Don't hesitate to get back with new ponderings.

Good luck!

---

