---
title: "12.04 switching desktops shortcuts no longer work"
date: 2012-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by hemna on 2012-05-01
I just upgraded to 12.04 and am running gnome-shell.   

```
$  echo $DESKTOP_SESSION
gnome-shell
```

I have keyboard shortcuts to switch directly to desktop N  (CTRL-F1 goes to desktop 1, CTRL-F2 goes to desktop 2, etc).   I can see the shortcuts are still set in the keyboard settings, but they don't work.   

I can use CTRL-ALT-UP and CTRL-ALT-DOWN to cycle through desktops, but that really really sucks when I'm on desktop 5 and want to go to 1 directly.

Anyway to get the shortcuts to work again?

---

### Post by bstock on 2012-05-01
I'm seeing same issue, 12.04 running gnome 3. I had my multimedia keys set for various tasks (switching to specific workspaces, launching a terminal, etc). I run the keyboard shortcut GUI and it shows the buttons assigned properly, but they simply don't work. Tried un-assigning and re-assigning, no difference.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-05-01
For gnome-shell you can set such things thru gsettings, graphically thru dconf-editor, see screen 
org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings

I used Ctrl, Control should also work
['<Ctrl>F1']

(dconf-editor is in dconf-tools, to make or edit a key click in the area so it turns 'white'. Then add/edit & set by pressing enter on keyboard while cursor is still in the edit area. Don't click out or no entry/edit will be made

Edit: to use cli thru gsettings the above
```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings switch-to-workspace-1 "['<Ctrl>F1']"
```

---

### Post by bstock on 2012-05-01
Hi,

I found that it can be set through dconf-editor, or I can edit /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/ files directly, but the issue I'm having is I have a Microsoft Ergonomic Keyboard ([http://www.microsoft.com/hardware/_base_v1//products/natural-ergonomic-desktop-7000/mk_ned7000_otherviews01.jpg](http://www.microsoft.com/hardware/_base_v1//products/natural-ergonomic-desktop-7000/mk_ned7000_otherviews01.jpg)), and I want to use those numbers at the top labeled 1-5. The issue is I don't know how to specify to use those keys. When I set it using the graphical tool in system settings -> keyboard, it's labeled as 'Launch5'-'Launch9' (for 1-5). I can also use xev and get keycode values of 192-196, but again I don't know what to put into dconf to tell it to use that key. Any ideas?

Thanks.

---

### Post by bstock on 2012-05-01
A Ha! Found it by looking at gconf-editor, even though those settings don't take effect, I can set the key in the GUI from System Settings -> Keyboard, then look at gconf-editor to see what value it gives the key, then set that value using 'gsettings set' or dconf-editor! What a PITA tbh but it works.

---

