---
title: "Compiz/Beryl on AIGLX low performance"
date: 2007-04-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by czuczu on 2007-04-22
Hello there! This is kinda my first post on this forum and probably the answer on this was given here too many times. I was a openSuSE user for quite a long time and always wanted to try out new releases of Ubuntu but there was always something that always brought me back to installing the old fast openSuSE distro on my PC. The reason for this was the performance of AIGLX which everyone says is faster than XGL. What I experienced is the exact opposite. My graphics card sucks a lot (it's GF FX 5200) but I found it quite suitable for my SuSE desktop with all the eyecandy turned on. In Ubuntu for instance, with beryl turned on, minimizing apps results in a 1 sec freeze of the magic lamp animation, the entire thing is overall slow. I turned on the sync to blank stuff, tried Force AIGLX option in Beryl but perhaps my xorg configuration is just messed up. Do you have any suggestions?? Any help would be appreciated. 

This is my xorg.conf:

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:20 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    Option         "AIGLX" "True"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "pl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "L1915S"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
    Option         "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
    Option         "TripleBuffer" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
    Monitor        "L1915S"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


I just found out that there is a separate section for the desktop effects - I am sorry about that.

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-04-22
> Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
Option "TripleBuffer" "True"

Put a # in front like this

#Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
#Option "TripleBuffer" "True"

I have a FX-5200 and do not have those two in my config. Running Feisty-Beryl on 9755 nvidia driver.

You can undo one at a time to see which one or both is responsible.

---

### Post by czuczu on 2007-04-22
I commented them out and tried all the combinations but nothing has changed. BTW Are there any plans for releasing the compiz 0.4 deb packages because the ones included in Feisty seem to behave somewhat weird (and have broken buttons on the gtk window decorator)?

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-04-22
Don't know use beryl myself no problems. 

Won't use compwiz because I hate gconf for settings compared to beryl manger.

---

### Post by gkiller on 2007-04-22
Hi,

I am no expert, but you don't seem to have DRI activated.

You can check this by typing ```
glxinfo |grep direct
``` into a terminal. If you see a "yes" in the output, then it's good. If not, you could try to enable it.

Edit your xorg.conf and add ```
Load    "dri"
``` to the "Module" section (ie. below **Load "vbe"** )

Then add this to the bottom of xorg.conf:
```
Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection
```

I have an ATI card, so I have no idea if that would help. You should backup your original xorg.conf so in case the X server does not start anymore, you can quickly copy the original one back on a text console.

---

### Post by czuczu on 2007-04-23
I tried that before and it didn't get any better. glxinfo | grep direct says DRI is turned on. As far as I can remember, you have to add these lines if you are a ATI user. I have no idea what's causing these frame rate drops. I just hope that I want have such problems with my next possible config which will include NVidia 7600/8600GT GPU. I just didn't decide on buying a whole new PC yet. And we all should probably pray to God or whatever you believe in for the open source drivers from Nvidia and ATI :D.

---

