---
title: "11.04 - boots to tty1, no gui, after installing updates and nvidia driver"
date: 2011-06-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jeff032 on 2011-06-12
[Graphics Card - NVIDIA GeForce 9800GTX+ 512MB]

I did a fresh install of 11.04 using Wubi (though I've had this issue when not using Wubi as well).

After logging in for the first time, I got the Unity warning stating that I didn't have the required hardware, then I installed all the available updates and the proprietary NVIDIA graphics driver (which wanted me to reboot to finish installation), and rebooted.

Now, whenever I start Ubuntu, it shows a flashing cursor in the upper left corner for a few seconds, before taking me to TTY1. If I do Ctrl-Alt-F7, all I see is the flashing cursor again.

Any suggestions? Thanks.

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-06-12
Check these two threads.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1484694](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1484694)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1776945](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1776945)

---

### Post by jeff032 on 2011-06-12
Thanks, but it didn't work.

I tried remove 'quiet' and 'splash' from grub, and adding 'nomodeset'. While I don't get the blinking cursor anymore, I still end up at the login for tty1, with no gui.

I tried installing the beta nvidia drivers, no difference.

'nouveau' does not seem to be listed by lsmod, so I probably don't need to blacklist it?

Any other thoughts? Thanks.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-12
> **jeff032 said:**
> Thanks, but it didn't work.

I tried remove 'quiet' and 'splash' from grub, and adding 'nomodeset'. While I don't get the blinking cursor anymore, I still end up at the login for tty1, with no gui.

I tried installing the beta nvidia drivers, no difference.

'nouveau' does not seem to be listed by lsmod, so I probably don't need to blacklist it?

Any other thoughts? Thanks.Hi, you need to look here because you are using wubi.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198)

---

### Post by jeff032 on 2011-06-13
As mentioned before, I know that it isn't an issue with Wubi. Doing a normal install causes the same problem.

I've managed to fix the issue though:

[LIST=1]
[*]Clean install
[*]Install updates
[*]Add "vmalloc=192M" to grub options
[*]Activate proprietary Nvidia driver
[*]Reboot into recovery mode, and select the first list item and log in to tty1
[*]sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-...
[*]sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-image-...
[*]Reboot
[/LIST]

---

