---
title: "10.4 widget ordering when on the left hand side"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Carr0t on 2010-05-13
On Windows, the widget set for windows is on the right and the widget order is minimise, fullscreen, close. Linux in general (And Ubuntu's themes specifically) *generally* mirrored this.

On OSX, the widgets are on the left and the order is close, minimise, fullscreen.

On Ubuntu 10.4 the widget set has been moved to the left hand side, but is just a move of the standard windows order. Is it possible (in a way that won't break future themes or edits, so by using the GUI preferrably but I can't find any option) to change the widget ordering?

I like the Dust Sand theme for window borders etc, which doesn't actually show icon differences for the 3, just 3 dots. As a user of Windows and OSX as well as Ubuntu I keep finding myself clicking the wrong one as my brain just expects them to be in the OSX order when on the left (it just makes sense in my head for close to be on the outside edge, whichever side that may be, and for minimise to come before maximise/fullscreen when reading left-right). I realise other people may (and probably will) disagree with me on this, especially non-mac users, so it'd be preferable to be able to customise the order rather than force one or the other on people.

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-05-13
Easy, just press alt+F2, type "gconf-editor" and hit enter. Then navigate to “/apps/metacity/general/”, double-click "button_layout", and have fun!

Be aware that messing around with some of the other options in the gconf-editor can be dangerous.

---

### Post by Carr0t on 2010-05-14
Marvellous! Thank you :)

---

