---
title: "12.04 gnome-classic no-effects"
date: 2012-06-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-06-27
I have a new install of 12.04 with two panels. The panels have notification areas. When I open apps the do not show up in either panel's notification area. As a result, when I minimize them I cannot get them back.

Any suggestions on what I need to fix or a temporary workaround until I can get a fix?

Thanks

Pablo

---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-06-27
Here is a screenshot of the desktop attached.

Pablo

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2012-06-27
Open Applications show up in a Task List, not the notification area except for certain applications.

As a temporary fix, I  think Alt+Tab will cycle through all of the opened applications.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-06-27
Hi!,** pabloikba**.

On my 12.04, Gnome Classic (no effects) the open windows are listed in the bottom bar, but are invisible, as  the bar is set to Auto-Hide, until the Mouse cursor is brought down to the bottom edge of the screen, when the bar shows up.

Have you tried that??

Alternatively, click on Applications>Acessories>Unity 2d Launcher.
 You will get a left-hand Unity type Launcher  toolbar, and any open windows will show as arrow-heads on the application's Launcher Icon. Click on the Icon and you can choose which to un-minimize.

Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-06-27
First, thanks for your responses, Bogan & Dragonbite....
Second, I am using gnome-classic no-effects, not Unity.

Dragonbite, where is the Task List you refer to? BTW, the Alt-Tab does work as a temp workaround....

And, Bogan, as you might be able to see from the screenshot, the bottom panel does not autohide....there is just nothing on it except Show Desktop and Workspace Switcher.

Also, do you know if there is there a gnome-classic no-effects equivalent to the Unity 2D launcher?

Many thanks,

Pablo

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2012-06-27
> **pabloikba said:**
> First, thanks for your responses, Bogan & Dragonbite....
Second, I am using gnome-classic no-effects, not Unity.

Dragonbite, where is the Task List you refer to? BTW, the Alt-Tab does work as a temp workaround....


I know you are using gnome-classic so unfortunately I am having to go on from memory. :)  So this is from Gnome 2 (on my 10.04 desktop):
[LIST=1]
[*]right-click on the panel
[*]select "Add to panel"
[*]Select "Window Selector"
[/LIST]
You may have to move it around or adjust its location but that's the fun stuff.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-06-28
Hi!, **pabloikba,**

You Posted: > Do you know if there is there a gnome-classic no-effects equivalent to the Unity 2D launcher?Yes, it definitely works in Gnome Classic and in GC (no effects).

When, 12.04 LTS was first released i't did nothing, just gave a 'not found' message, even though it was installed.=; but an update, some time ago fixed it and I use it all the time, as It gives me the best of both worlds.    [ The only problem is that the big Launcher Icons can not be reduced with Tweak or MyUnity.]

From memory, you need to install it, as it does not come with the default installation.

Chao!,** bogan**.

---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-06-28
many thanks for your help.
I am happy now and will close the thread.

---

### Post by mr.suchy on 2012-06-30
Hey

I use Ubuntu 12.04 with Gnome Classic without effect. But I want to change this black border in information windows. Check attachment.

---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-06-30
> **mr.suchy said:**
> Hey

I use Ubuntu 12.04 with Gnome Classic without effect. But I want to change this black border in information windows. Check attachment.

I actually switched to Cinnamon....it is easier to do things that I want to do....check it out.

---

### Post by inigo48 on 2012-07-10
> **mr.suchy said:**
> Hey

I use Ubuntu 12.04 with Gnome Classic without effect. But I want to change this black border in information windows. Check attachment.

i also has this problem. and it looks awful... and woraround how to solve it?

thans in advance! :KS

---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-07-10
> **inigo48 said:**
> i also has this problem. and it looks awful... and woraround how to solve it?

thans in advance! :KS

I had written before that I switched to the Cinnamon DE. I found too many things that I didn't like child windows solidly attached to the mother window.

So, I installed Linux Mint 13 with Mate DE. Guess what? It is just like 10.04/10.10 used to be like and I love it! And, very few, minor problems that are easy to solve by simple internet searches. 

I'm tired of trying to beat a dead horse with Precise where sound doesn't work, borders are f___'d, child windows, etc etc etc. Why release a new OS & DE that doesn't work right? Who is the genius decision maker deciding on Unity? I'll come back to Ubuntu when they get their act back together...for now, too many chiefs and nobody caring about the end user.

---

