---
title: "11.04 desktop hell"
date: 2011-05-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by buddajah on 2011-05-15
_______-opinionated rant - _______________________________
this new 11.o4 desktop is actually worse and less functional than windows 7. i actually considered going back to windows because of it. if this continues i may have to go back to debian or suse.
__________________________________________________________

_ the request - 

can some one please tell me how i can get this useless desktop to be more like the one from ubuntu 10.x. al list of meta-packages and a way to add sources for compbiz. i also need a way to manually install packages that are newer than in the current repository. ubuntu seems to have left that app out and i cannot remember what it was.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-05-15
While i think 11.04 is better, no matter

At the login screen, click on your username, but before logging in at bottom of screen click in the drop down and choose Classic

As far as .debs
```
sudo apt-get install gdebi
```

Then r. click on any .deb > properties > open with and switch the default to gdebi from software center

---

### Post by buddajah on 2011-05-15
thank you. any way to get the bar at the bottom like in 10?

---

### Post by buddajah on 2011-05-15
i have no menu's now. all get is desktop background. i hate this desktop. how do i get my menu bars back like in 10.x ?

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-16
Which desktop? By default, Unity has only a global menu bar and a launcher.

---

### Post by buddajah on 2011-05-16
i do not want unity at all. i can't stand it. i want my old desktop like in 10.x. i was trying to get rid of it, looks kike i succeeded there. but i wasn't able to get my menu bars.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-16
Logout and choose Classic GNOME session.

---

### Post by buddajah on 2011-05-16
thank you. that is what needed.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-16
> **buddajah said:**
> i do not want unity at all. i can't stand it. i want my old desktop like in 10.x. i was trying to get rid of it, looks kike i succeeded there. but i wasn't able to get my menu bars.

HI, you can install awn launcher or docky and put the bar where you want it, and choose which icons to put on it, I love mine it is at the bottom with custom icons.They are both in synaptic.:)

---

### Post by BruisedQuasar07 on 2011-05-16
I couldn't agree more. Ubuntu 11.04 just took Linux a huge step backward in user friendliness and recruiting newbies to Linux O/S.

I have enough trouble getting people to try Linux. If I show them Unity desktop, Windows will own them forever.

Fortunately, I can reinstall using classic but what a time waster, resetting everything. I allowed upgrade on both my laptops. I am left with no way to choose classic. I no longer get login & I'm not asked for my password anymore

What a turkey! What was Canonical thinking? Windows desktop is far more intuitive. Did they let the techies take over this Ubuntu project, or did the team get a medicinal marijuana permit?

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-16
The launcher is intuitive enough and the search function is 80% there. If you come from Mac OSX, it kinda works, though its rough at this point.

The Ayatana Project has yet to see its full potential. Its headed in the right direction and I'm not that frustrated that I want to take a blowtorch to my computer!

---

### Post by buddajah on 2011-05-16
i agree the unity desktop is a step backward in my opinion. however with a bit more work it could be better than the classic. in my opinion unity should have been a cross of the classic with what it is now. i would have prefered a drop down normal menu rather than the side bar but with all the options in int like preferences and apps as choices in a tree. but i can see how others would prefer unity as it is. it is not for me however.

thank you mc4man and NormanFLinux for your replies. it took a minute to find the option for classic because it was not there till i chose a user, which seems new to me but it may be that this changed awhile ago. i remember  being able to choose any manager i wanted from a drop down before i chose an account.

i am relieved to not have to reload by boot loader every week now since installing 11.04 and no nomodeset, or mic issues either this version. i am a happy camper. thanks every one.

---

