---
title: "unable to change resolution settings (JJ 9.04)"
date: 2009-07-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ianmck on 2009-07-27
Hi

I have just upgraded to 9.04 and am a real newbie to Linux and Ubuntu. I have delved around looking for a solution (editing xorg etc) have tried a few but no luck. I hope someone here can help.

I have a desktop machine with 4GB RAM; nVidia Geforce 8600GT and two monitors: a 22" Chimei (1680x1050) and a 19" Samsung (1280x1024) both at 60Hz. It dual boots XP and Ubuntu. Ubuntu is installed on its own logical drive.

When I start 9.04 the screen resolution looks fine but from the login screen onwards it is stuck at 800x600 on my primary 22" display. Ideally I would like both monitors to work as one (as they do on my XP set up). I am using the nVidia driver v180 that was recommended by ubuntu itself in the install. I suspect that I will have to change the xorg.conf file but have no knowledge how to go about this. The only change I made was to change the MODES to "1680x1050" from an "nVidia-Auto-detect" setting - which hasn't worked.

I reproduce below a copy of my xorg.conf file.

Thanks in advance for any help. - Apologies if this is to the wrong forum.

---------------------------------------
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#<snip>
# removed comments here
#</snip>
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
#    Driver        "kbd"
#    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
#    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
#    Option        "XkbLayout"    "gb"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
#    Driver        "mouse"
#    Option        "CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

----------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by jagtesh on 2009-07-27
What do you see on the Samsunng 19" display, before and after the login screen?

---

### Post by ianmck on 2009-07-27
Hi

The Samsung monitor is blank. My 'widescreen' 22" displays an 800x600 window with black bars down each side.

---

