---
title: "Ubuntu 8.10 Display partially blocked off"
date: 2009-03-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by cutting on 2009-03-27
Hi Everyone, 

I just finished with configuring 8.10 on my Motion Computing LE1600 Tablet. I have installed the wacom drivers and the touch screen functionality is perfect. The only problem remaining is that on the tablet screen itself all but about a sixth of the screen is scrambled with vertical ubuntu colored lines at the login, and whiteness that resembles old windows freezes on login. I have been using an external display to configure everything. This problem started fresh off the install, so i can't see it being anything from the tablet config, and i cant seem to find anyone with the same problem! 

Thanks!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-27
Hi cutting,

Does the problem happen when you're not connected to the external monitor?  The vertical lines are present after you've logged in?   Is the normal part in any special position like on the left or right?  How closely spaced are the vertical lines?

Hopefully it's not a hardware problem.  You still probably ought to post your xorg.conf so folks can have a look.  Do you know what video chipset you have?

---

### Post by cutting on 2009-03-28
Thanks for the quick response!

The error happens whether I have the external display plugged in or not. To get it to recognize the external i do have to restart the computer with it plugged in. 

The vertical lines are about half a cm apart and in a gradient of the "ubuntu brown" at the login screen. The unscrambled part is always at the left side of the screen. Once logged in, the area that was vertical lines changes to more or less a large white block with one vertical blue line closer to the left side. I can take screenshots if it would help. The pen does work all over the screen though, so it seems to recognize the whole display. 

I did try to rotate the display to see if it changed, and each rotation has its own characteristics in that section, but it is always some variety of what it should be.

The chipset is an intel AGP 900. 

I just used the xorg.conf from this website.
 [http://mordfin.net/2009/03/06/linux-on-motion-computing-tablet/](http://mordfin.net/2009/03/06/linux-on-motion-computing-tablet/)

It is my model computer exactly, and claims to work perfectly. I still did have the problem before i edited it.
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"RandRRotation"	"on"
	Option		"NvAGP" 	"1"
	Option		"DRI"		"false" #3D Effects need to be disabled so screen rotation works
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "stylus"
Option "Type" "stylus"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
Option    "Button2"    "3"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "eraser"
Option "Type" "eraser"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Driver "wacom"
Identifier "cursor"
Option "Type" "cursor"
Option "Device" "/dev/ttyS0"
Option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4" # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-28
Hi cutting,

First I removed cursor.  As far as I know that refers to the Wacom mouse for external graphics tablets.  Then I rearranged things a little.  Next since you are on Intrepid (8.10) I commented out the mouse and Synaptic Touchpad sections (and of course Synaptics in "ServerLayout").  This is because HAL (hardware abstraction layer) with its .fdi files will run those fine, they do not need to be through xorg.conf.  This also applies to the keyboard section unless you have bound a single key to say rotation.  HAL breaks single key key bindings.  So if you are not doing this you could comment out the keyboard too.

I do not think you need in the "stylus" section:
```
#	Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
```
So I have commented it out.

I am hoping the problem lies in your video section.  I do not think you need the RandRRotation line to rotate with the Intel video chipset.  At least I know that is so with some of them.  So to start with I commented it out.
```
#	Option "RandRRotation" "on"
	Option "NvAGP" "1"
	Option "DRI" "false" #3D Effects need to be disabled so screen rotation works
```
See if rotation works without it.  If you are comfortable with X being broken and know how to recover from that (a blank screen on reboot, etc.) what I would suggest is commenting out next the "DRI" line and reboot.  Then the "NvAGP" line until all three lines are commented out.  Your video section would then look like some other Motion LE1600 or LE1700's I have seen.

Compiz often causes problems so the first thing to do is disable it if you have it enabled.  Check Systems>Preferences>Appearence>Visual Effects tabbed.  One of the 3 options there should be checked.  Probably, at most, Normal.

I would love a screen shot.  Certainly you are concerned this may be hardware.  If it is it does not sound like the fine Wacom grid built into the screen.  If it was, instead of your stylus pointer smoothly tracking over the abnormal areas I think it would "jump" the distorted area.  It is possible you have an LCD problem.  I hope not.

But at the worst you would still have a "Cintiq", right?

---

### Post by cutting on 2009-03-29
Thanks! 

I went ahead and placed your xconf as a starting point, and and commented those 3 lines. Everything still works perfectly, but the problem is still there. In visual effects, I had no option except "none" before I edited the xconf with yours. It simply said "unable to change" or something close to that, with no details. After editing the xconf I can change the effects, but still with the display problem. 

When taking screenshots it shows the normal desktop without the scrambled side, so i took a few pictures. I have trouble believing that it is a hardware issue because the display works great up until it goes from the ubuntu loading bar to the login screen. The bios, loading screen, and command lines all show up fine until i get in to gnome. 

[IMG]http://i203.photobucket.com/albums/aa81/xaptya/100_1649.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i203.photobucket.com/albums/aa81/xaptya/100_1650.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://i203.photobucket.com/albums/aa81/xaptya/100_1652.jpg[/IMG]

Each is in a different rotation, and one is at the login screen. Hopefully the quality isn't too terrible!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-29
Hi cutting,

Those screen shots were very helpful.

-We've removed some unnecessary wacom entries.
-We've commented out mouse and Synaptic and let HAL run them.
-We've removed some video entries
-Probably the line:
```
Option "DRI" "false" #3D Effects need to be disabled so screen rotation works
```
prevents any compositing.  That's why you could only use "none" until it was removed.
-Rotation still works.
-The Wacom functions of the tablet still work, as you can see in the external monitor.  So the digitizer part of the tablet still works.

Despite the video changes in xorg.conf your video problem remains.
-It doesn't seem to be the video ram, because the external monitor works.
-It probably isn't the Intel AGP 900 motherboard video chipset for the same reason.

I think your xorg.conf is now "optimized".  I don't think it could be a video refresh rate problem or monitor recognition problem, otherwise there wouldn't be the small normal part of the screen.  The problem seems to be with the LCD of the tablet.
-Was the tablet dropped?
-Was something spilled on it?

Are you able to go into Windows?  Does the problem persist in Windows?  I think that would verify a hardware problem.

This could be a loose connector to/from the LCD.

-Google LCD repair.  Unfortunately a lot of repair places will show but there are a few tutorials and HOW TO's buried in there.
-Google Motion LE repair, looking for a Motion specific tutorial.
-Contact Motion.

Replacing an LCD in a laptop is relatively "simple".  But since in our case it would have to be a LCD with a Wacom digitizer built in, that's a totally different animal.  So the hope would have to be something simple like a loose connector.

You could start a new thread in the multimedia & video forum with your screen shots on the first post asking for help and advice.  I think that's what I'd try first.  Let's hope someone with hardware experience will help.

Did the display problem get worse when you went from the netbook install to the full install?

---

### Post by cutting on 2009-03-29
Thanks! 

Yes, I think we have everything in the xorg streamlined. I think you're right, the next place to try is in the multimedia section. I still have trouble believing that it is a screen issue, as even the digitizer works in the bios, and everything displays properly up until the sign in, but at this point anything is possible. It has not been dropped or spilled on to my knowledge. Unfortunately, the reason for the the ubuntu install (it's not my computer, or it already would have had it) is that XP tablet corrupted and there is no optical drive to reinstall. I may try to find a way around that as well. 

Thanks a ton for your help! 

Cutting

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-29
Hi cutting,

You're welcome.  I did not know the display was normal with low resolution during boot!  That gives us hope that is is indeed a vertical or horizontal sync problem.  What we would then want to do is find out what Xorg Intel driver you currently have and whether we could install a newer one.  I know they have made some serious improvements in them for Jaunty.  Smolch just said:
> For your video-card (gma 3100) you need the driver from Intrepid (or later), older cards like mine (gma 950 from my 2 x60ts) require the latest version from Jaunty.

Try:
```
lspci | grep VGA
```
and
```
dpkg -l | grep [Ii]ntel
```

A Motion repair wiki:
[http://mobilepcwiki.com/mpc/index.php?title=Motion/M1x00/Repair_Issues_%26_Problems]("http://mobilepcwiki.com/mpc/index.php?title=Motion/M1x00/Repair_Issues_%26_Problems")

---

### Post by cutting on 2009-03-29
Great!

Output:

> root@ubuntu:~$ lspci | grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 04)




And:

> root@ubuntu:~$ sudo dpkg -i | grep [Ii]ntel
[sudo] password for root: 
dpkg: --install needs at least one package archive file argument

Type dpkg --help for help about installing and deinstalling packages [*];
Use `dselect' or `aptitude' for user-friendly package management;
Type dpkg -Dhelp for a list of dpkg debug flag values;
Type dpkg --force-help for a list of forcing options;
Type dpkg-deb --help for help about manipulating *.deb files;
Type dpkg --license for copyright license and lack of warranty (GNU GPL) [*].

Options marked [*] produce a lot of output - pipe it through `less' or `more' !




I played with the dpkg for a minute but wasn't able to get an output. Sounds like i definitely need the Jaunty driver...!

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-29
Hi cutting,

Ok we don't know the driver versions yet.  We do now know the chipset though, I think.  Or at least the VGA part.  You need that for any new post.  You used -i instead of -l.  Please try again.
```
dpkg -l | grep [Ii]ntel
```
Just copy and paste.  You may be able to get it from Synaptic Package Manager too.  Just search intel.

Well, we probably want to try a newer one anyway.  If the Jaunty one works in Intrepid that might be good.  See some of the improvement might be through the newer 2.6.28 kernel in Jaunty.

---

### Post by cutting on 2009-03-29
Wow, sorry i missed that. New output:

>  dpkg -l | grep [Ii]ntel
ii  whois                                      4.7.27                                  an intelligent whois client
ii  wvdial                                     1.60.1+nmu2                             PPP dialer with built-in intelligence
ii  xserver-xorg-video-intel                   2:2.4.1-1ubuntu10.3                     X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display d


According to synaptic i have the latest available drivers. I did reinstall anyway, but got no result.  What do you recommend for testing the jaunty drivers?

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-03-29
Hi cutting,

And Synaptic agreed with the version?  Ok what you need is a deb package of a newer driver that will run in Intrepid.  You have kernel 2.6.27, probably 2.26.27-11 and Xserver 1.5.  Jaunty has kernel 2.6.28 and Xserver 1.6.  As you can see Intrepid repositories don't necessarily contain the most recent versions.

Here's two sites at Debian I've found.  The first is information:
[http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/x/xserver-xorg-video-intel/xserver-xorg-video-intel_2.6.1-1/changelog#versionversion2:2.5.1-1]("http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/x/xserver-xorg-video-intel/xserver-xorg-video-intel_2.6.1-1/changelog#versionversion2:2.5.1-1")
the second is links to deb.s I think:
[http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=xserver-xorg-video-intel&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all]("http://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=xserver-xorg-video-intel&searchon=names&suite=all&section=all")
I'm not sure why I'm not finding more deb.s.  So look the stuff over and maybe do some searching yourself.

Then what would be good is finding someone who knows about Intel video drivers.  Back to posting in Mutimedia and Video, but now you can put up a good post, with lots of relevant information.

---

