---
title: "11.04, &quot;Edit Bookmarks&quot; missing"
date: 2011-07-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-07-24
Normal access for deleting a folder bookmark would be Places > Bookmarks > Edit Bookmarks -or- as I remember, right click on bookmark > remove bookmark...

This machine seems to have those functions missing.  I need to delete some old bookmarks that don't exist anymore.

If I go to Edit menu's to  try to add if to the menu, Places and bookmark things are not there.  Anyone know how to get around this?  Even if manually?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-07-25
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> Normal access for deleting a folder bookmark would be Places > Bookmarks > Edit Bookmarks -or- as I remember, right click on bookmark > remove bookmark...
Well, at least in my system, Lucid 10.04, neither of these ways works. But instead, open Nautilus -> Bookmarks -> Edit Bookmarks.

If you need to remove/edit the bookmarks manually though, they are stored in "~/.gtk-bookmarks" in your home directory.

Greetings.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2011-07-25
> **Krytarik said:**
> Well, at least in my system, Lucid 10.04, neither of these ways works. But instead, open Nautilus -> Bookmarks -> Edit Bookmarks.

If you need to remove/edit the bookmarks manually though, they are stored in "~/.gtk-bookmarks" in your home directory.

Greetings.
Here's a screenshot of Places (Nautilus) > Bookmarks <> With the missing Edit Bookmarks...  That's where the Natty doc's say it's supposed to be, just like Lucid.

Will try to edit "~/.gtk-bookmarks" manually, trying to figure out which of the 4 duplicate bookmarks is the one I want to keep... LMAO!

Still confused how my "Edit Bookmarks" menu item is missing and how to edit the Places/Nautilus Menu... or how to call The edit menu from the command line so I could add it through the gmome menu.  I'm sure there's some way to get it back.  I'm just not sure of the "where."

EDIT--> Did it manual edit.  Worked great / Thanks on that part...

---

