---
title: ".Xresources, emacs"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ceb on 2010-05-19
Hi,

I'm using Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

I have the following in my .Xresources file:
```

emacs*Background: DarkSlateGray
emacs*Foreground: Wheat
emacs*pointerColor: Red
emacs*cursorColor: Red
emacs*bitmapIcon: on
emacs*font: -*-courier-medium-r-normal-*-18-*-75-75-m-110-*-*
emacs.geometry: 80x50

```

When I launch emacs from a terminal window, these settings are applied. When I launch emacs from the Ubuntu menu, though, the settings are not applied. I have no idea how to tell Ubuntu about these settings, or even what to search for to find out. In previous versions of Ubuntu I have managed to muddle my way through getting emacs to launch from outside a terminal with my preferred settings, but I never understood how, and haven't been able to repeat it this time. Could someone give me a pointer?

Thanks very much,
Chris

---

### Post by ceb on 2010-05-20
Have I asked in the wrong forum? I couldn't find an answer by searching these forums or google. 

Even if someone could suggest somewhere to go to get an answer, I'd be very grateful.

Thanks

---

### Post by m_duck on 2010-05-20
I couldn't duplicate the problem exactly on my system, but try putting those details in ***.Xdefaults*** instead of .Xresources.

With those details in .Xresources on my computer, emacs ignored them regardless of how I started it, however in .Xdefaults the settings were read. *Note: I'm not using Ubuntu at present so this may or may not be of use.*

---

### Post by ceb on 2010-06-04
> I couldn't duplicate the problem exactly on my system, but try putting those details in .Xdefaults instead of .Xresources.

Thanks, I tried that, but it didn't help. I also tried .Xdefaults-machinename and .Xresources-machinename.

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2010-06-05
Have you tried```
xrdb -merge ~/.Xresources
```

---

### Post by BoneKracker on 2010-06-05
> **jpkotta said:**
> Have you tried```
xrdb -merge ~/.Xresources
```

I'm not an Ubuntu user, but shouldn't the distro's startup scripts for X be automatically taking care of merging ~/.Xresources?

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2010-06-05
> **BoneKracker said:**
> I'm not an Ubuntu user, but shouldn't the distro's startup scripts for X be automatically taking care of merging ~/.Xresources?

Yep, but you have to start a new X session if you edit ~/.Xresources, or use xrdb manually.  BTW, it looks like the Xsession scripts only check ~/.Xresources, not ~/.Xdefaults.

---

### Post by BoneKracker on 2010-06-05
> **jpkotta said:**
> Yep, but you have to start a new X session if you edit ~/.Xresources, or use xrdb manually.  BTW, it looks like the Xsession scripts only check ~/.Xresources, not ~/.Xdefaults.

If I'm understanding you correctly, you mean one must restart the X session for the ~/.Xresources to be automatically merged.  Yes, that would make complete sense.  So issuing the command manually would avoid needing to restart X.  Yes, it's coming back (haven't messed with this stuff in a while.)

As to .Xresource vs. .Xdefaults, it is my fuzzy recollection that .Xdefaults is sort of deprecated and the "correct", "new", or "preferred" way of doing it now is .Xresources.  Of course, the web is still full of howtos and what-not that make reference to .Xdefaults.

---

### Post by PenguinSHT on 2010-07-12
> **ceb said:**
> Thanks, I tried that, but it didn't help. I also tried .Xdefaults-machinename and .Xresources-machinename.

Any other ideas?

Hi Ceb,

Have you solved your problem? I encountered exactly the same problem but have no idea how to solve it.

---

### Post by bigheadjer on 2010-10-27
I fixed this by having duplicated entries in .Xdefaults for both emacs and emacs23 (which is the command line that the Ubuntu menu uses to launch emacs -- note I'm using 10.04 LTS so you'll have to check your own system for what the version should be).

---

### Post by ceb on 2010-11-30
> **bigheadjer said:**
> I fixed this by having duplicated entries in .Xdefaults for both emacs and emacs23 (which is the command line that the Ubuntu menu uses to launch emacs -- note I'm using 10.04 LTS so you'll have to check your own system for what the version should be).

Thanks for this tip - it was the solution for me!

---

