---
title: "Stuck at 640x480@85Hz"
date: 2006-03-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by imrazor on 2006-03-08
I recently had to reinstall Ubuntu on my machine, and I've hit on a weird problem. The old install had no trouble detecting monitor and running at [EMAIL="1024x768@75Hz"]1024x768@75Hz[/EMAIL]. But the new install will not run at any resolution other than 640x480. I tried manually editing the xorg.conf file and specifying the refresh rates of my monitor (an IBM E74M), but I'm still stuck with 640x480. I also tried completely removing 640x480 from xorg.conf, but the X server won't even start. The only clue I have is these lines in the X server output:
 
(1280x1024,IBM E74M) mode clock 100000MHz exceeds DDC maximum 100MHz
(1024x768,IBM E74M) mode clock 100000MHz exceeds DDC maximum 100MHz
(800x600,IBM E74M) mode clock 100000MHz exceeds DDC maximum 100MHz
 
The computer has an Intel 845 graphics chipset. The driver specified in xorg.conf is i810. I've seen reference to a fix for i855 resolution problems, but my chipset predates the i855, so I'm leery of using a driver for that chipset.
 
Anybody know what's going on here?

---

### Post by 11hjpphty76lkjj on 2006-03-08
Any luck running:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

I'm not much of a .conf editor, and doing that usually fixes any problems I'm having.  You may have different results...but might be worth a try..

Aaron

---

### Post by imrazor on 2006-03-08
Tried it several times. Same results each time...stuck at 640x480 even though I specify 800x600, 1024x768 and 1280x1024. The Screen Resolution applet (control panel? tool?) still will not allow any choices other than [EMAIL="640x480@85Hz"]640x480@85Hz[/EMAIL]. CTRL-ALT-+ doesn't change resolutions either.

---

### Post by cdsboy on 2006-03-08
could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf here

---

### Post by GordonFreeman83 on 2006-03-09
Just on the off chance, I get this problem on the machine I use a kvm switch on. It happens if I set the screen to my other computer while Ubuntu is booting up, but otherwise it works fine. Has done that for a long time, tested it many times one way and the other so it's definitely that, I just always remember to turn the screen to Ubuntu while it boots.

---

### Post by imrazor on 2006-03-09
[quote=cdsboy]could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf here[/quote]


Your wish is my command...see below. Seriously, though, I *think* it's OK:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "GLcore"
    Load    "i2c"
    Load    "bitmap"
    Load    "ddc"
    Load    "dri"
    Load    "extmod"
    Load    "freetype"
    Load    "glx"
    Load    "int10"
    Load    "type1"
    Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc104"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
    Driver        "i810"
    BusID        "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "IBM E74M"
#    Option        "DPMS"
    HorizSync    30-70
    VertRefresh     50-150
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
    Monitor        "IBM E74M"
    DefaultDepth    16
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1024x768" "960x529" "832x624" "800x600" "720x450" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        4
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1024x768" "960x529" "832x624" "800x600" "720x450" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        8
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1024x768" "960x529" "832x624" "800x600" "720x450" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        15
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1024x768" "960x529" "832x624" "800x600" "720x450" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        16
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1024x768" "960x529" "832x624" "800x600" "720x450" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1024x768" "960x529" "832x624" "800x600" "720x450" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection


There you go...thanks for the help.

---

### Post by virgule on 2006-03-10
Put a ModeLine in Section "Monitor". This simple trick solved all my resolutions issues. I used informations you provided on your first post and generated this one for you:
```

# 1024x768 @ 75.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 60.15 kHz; pclk: 81.80 MHz
  Modeline "1024x768_75.00"  81.80  1024 1080 1192 1360  768 769 772 802  -HSync +Vsync

```

It fit like this, in /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
```

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "IBM E74M"
# Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 30-70
VertRefresh 50-150
# 1024x768 @ 75.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 60.15 kHz; pclk: 81.80 MHz
  Modeline "1024x768_75.00"  81.80  1024 1080 1192 1360  768 769 772 802  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

```

You can use this tool to generate such a line. I used it to setup my ATI Mach64:
[ModeLine generator]("http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php")

---

### Post by imrazor on 2006-03-10
Thanks for the assist virgule, but it didn't work. X still refuses to work at any resolution higher than 640x480. Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by oscar on 2006-03-10
I had a quick look around and found this:
> resolution modify tool for Intel graphic chipset
915resolution is a tool to modify the video BIOS of the 800
and 900 series Intel graphics chipsets. This includes the 845G,
855G, and 865G chipsets, as well as 915G, 915GM, and 945G chipsets.
This modification is necessary to allow the display of certain
graphics resolutions for an Xorg or XFree86 graphics server.

915resolution's modifications of the BIOS are transient.
There is no risk of permanent modification of the BIOS.
This also means that 915resolution must be run every time the
computer boots inorder for it's changes to take effect.
If you want to automatically set the resolution on each boot
and before X is launched, see /usr/share/doc/915resolution/README.Debian
for information about configuring the provided initscript.

Web site: [http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/](http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/)
in the repositories. It looks like it could help you. It says it works with the 800 series intel graphics chipsets and specifically mentions the 845G. The changes it makes are not permanent so it will be safe to use.
```
sudo apt-get install 915resolution
```

---

### Post by imrazor on 2006-03-10
Hmmm, apt-get says "Couldn't find package 915resolution". I've got all the standard repositories in /etc/apt/sources.list enabled. I would try to download from that website, but my employer's proxy server doesn't allow downloads of .gz files (apt-get works fine though.) Do you know what repository that 915resolution program lives in?

---

### Post by imrazor on 2006-03-10
Found a similar utility in the regular Ubuntu repositories called 855resolution. However it reports 'Unknown VBIOS structure.' Anyone know of any other utilities for an 845G graphics chipset?

---

### Post by rockrhino27 on 2006-03-14
Hello Imrazor, 

     I tried a little experiment on my work laptop.  I resized the ntfs partition for win2k and installed Kubuntu on the free space I freed up.  My laptop is a Dell Latitude D610 and it also has an Intel video chipset.  I am in the middle of the same exact problem.  No matter what i do to the xorg.conf file I am stuck at 640x480 resolution.  

     You are correct there is not a package in the ubuntu repositories called "915resolution", but I did fine the following package: "xserver-xorg-driver-i810".  

Below is the output apt-cache show xserver-xorg-driver-i810 gives me:

[SIZE="1"]Description: X.Org X server -- Intel driver
 This driver for the X.Org X server (see xserver-xorg for a further description) provides support for the Intel i8xx and i9xx series of cards.  In particular,
 it supports:
  i8xx series: i810, i815, i830, i845, i855, i865
  i9xx series: i915, i945
 .
 For more information, please see the xserver-xorg package description.
Bugs: mailto:ubuntu-users@lists.ubuntu.com
Origin: Ubuntu
Task: edubuntu-desktop[/SIZE]


I am going to try this soon.  I'll let you know how I make out.

---

### Post by imrazor on 2006-03-14
rockrhino-
 
Please let me know how you make out. I've gotten around my problem by using a different machine, but it's a much slower model (500MHz - blech.) I'd love to be able to use a real PC, but until I get this resolution issue straightened out I'm stuck. Maybe a reinstall would fix it, or maybe I could just get my company to shell out $20 for a pci video card.

---

### Post by rockrhino27 on 2006-03-14
Nevermind guys.  I got all excited for nothing.  I just booted the laptop and tried to download the package, and it is already installed.  It obviously is not doing me any good.  oh well.  back to the drawing board. 


:cry:

---

### Post by reefland on 2006-06-20
Any luck solving this?  I have a Dell OptiPlex GX260 with Intel I845 video having this problem.  Since nobody posted a solution that work, I'm not sure its worth attempting the items listed.

---

### Post by jaywatkins on 2006-07-18
I am having the same problem, but I toasted my X-Server in the process of attempting to fix it.

New distro...

/J

---

### Post by cousteau on 2007-02-04
Hi there.

This is my first post here, and I hope it´ ll help some ppl. :)

Well, browsing this site I figured out some ppl had problem installing Ubunto 6.x on a Dell Optiplex GX260. I own one of those smooth machines and had some problems, too. Main issues seem to be with the resolution, as the 260 seems to be stuck in 640x480, especially if you install Ubunto from scratch and there is no previous operating system on the machine or it has been deleted and the machine has been set back to standard-firmware.

Well, I had the same problem with my 260: Ubuntu booted perfectly, but the screen was stuck at 640x480 at 75 Hz with no other options. I browsed the web and found the following solution:

[http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/rlucas/2004/03/22](http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/rlucas/2004/03/22)
[http://lists.ze-linux.org/2004-02/msg00154.html](http://lists.ze-linux.org/2004-02/msg00154.html)

---quote---
With a fresh install of Red Hat 9 on a Dell Dimension 4600, the only video mode that would work with XFree86 was 640 x 480, which is ludicrously big on a decent-sized monitor.  Changing the config didn't do anything, even though the config was well within my monitor's limits.

The solution was to go into the BIOS setup and change the Integrated Devices (LegacySelect Options) / Onboard Video Buffer setting from 1 MB to 8 MB.  I'm not sure what the tradeoff with other aspects of the system is, but X nicely starts up at 1280 x 1024.  Apparently, this is the solution for other Dell models as well, including the Optiplex GX260; mine had Dell BIOS Revision A08.  Also, it seems to be the case that the problem is general to XFree86, although it manifested for me under Red Hat 9.

Thanks to Erick Tonnel at Dell, who kindly provided the solution.
---quote---

Worked on my machine. Ubuntu started at 1024x768 after this BIOS-change, not bad for a start. After that I reconfigured the XServer via the standard command

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

and told the machine about the Intel-chipset and the features of my monitor, and Ubuntu booted at 1280x1024 at 75 Hz, which is perfect for my Dell 1702FP.

Well, hope this helps ...

-- 
thomas

---

### Post by jkeyes0 on 2007-06-08
> **cousteau said:**
> Hi there.

---quote---
With a fresh install of Red Hat 9 on a Dell Dimension 4600, the only video mode that would work with XFree86 was 640 x 480, which is ludicrously big on a decent-sized monitor.  Changing the config didn't do anything, even though the config was well within my monitor's limits.

The solution was to go into the BIOS setup and change the Integrated Devices (LegacySelect Options) / Onboard Video Buffer setting from 1 MB to 8 MB.  I'm not sure what the tradeoff with other aspects of the system is, but X nicely starts up at 1280 x 1024.  Apparently, this is the solution for other Dell models as well, including the Optiplex GX260; mine had Dell BIOS Revision A08.  Also, it seems to be the case that the problem is general to XFree86, although it manifested for me under Red Hat 9.

Thanks to Erick Tonnel at Dell, who kindly provided the solution.
---quote---



This worked for me on my Optiplex GX260. Setting up a machine for my parents, and couldn't figure out why the screen was blank after hitting the "Start or Install Ubuntu" from the LiveCD.

Thanks so much, I'm running at 1280x1024 now!

---

