---
title: "5.10 on Virtual PC"
date: 2005-10-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Mickey Damelio on 2005-10-14
I am attempting to install this version on virtual pc, and it is coming out with a screen resolution that is unreadable.  Its like its huge or something, but also the colors are all distorted and I am unable to read anything on the screen.  I am trying to learn linux, and so have no idea how to change the screen resolution or anything strictly through the keyboard.  The installation and everything went fine, it looked good, and I could see everything.  When it finishes up and goes to boot into the desktop manager is when the problems start.  I attempted this twice both fresh installs, and have gotten the same problem.  Toward the end of the installation when one is asked to pick screen resolutions I picked only 800X600 and 1024X768 I left 640X480 blank just in case I was reading it wrong and the starred ones were the ones it wasn't going to install.  When I go to full screen in virtual pc I can see just the mouse pointer and the rest of the screen is black.  Hopefully someone has a solution, perhaps its just ms not playing nice with linux, but I wouldn't think that would be the case. Thanks so much for any help you can offer, I'd like to play with linux in this fashion before messing with my system by duel booting or making the total switch, I'm still not that comfortable.

~Mickey

---

### Post by Ampersand on 2005-10-14
To change resolution with the keyboard, press 'Ctrl, Alt and +'.

You can reselect the available resolutions and other graphics options by runing ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```.

---

### Post by Mickey Damelio on 2005-10-14
Ok so that made it to where I can at least view the screen, but its still super large, configuring the graphics stuff is impossible since I'm not familiar with the prompts, because the wording goes off screen, so I don't know what its asking.  Is it possible that my video card is not supported?  Its geforce fx 5600, thanks for your help, I can at least see something now.  If you have any ideas how one could run the driver install for this card, without getting online since I don't have that set up in the virtual machine yet either for some reason, perhaps I can just get to the terminal and follow directions ver batem without the need to read, and then suddenly it'll install the correct driver, maybe... :-)  Thanks for anyone's assistance.

~Mickey

---

### Post by claytonharbour on 2005-10-23
It is probably colour debth, you may want to checkout this article:

[http://channels.lockergnome.com/linux/archives/20051013_installing_ubuntu_on_virtual_pc_2004.phtml](http://channels.lockergnome.com/linux/archives/20051013_installing_ubuntu_on_virtual_pc_2004.phtml)

or (same link): 
[http://tinyurl.com/cf66q](http://tinyurl.com/cf66q)

Cheers,


Clayton

---

### Post by Mickey Damelio on 2005-10-25
That  did it, thanks so much, I've since dual booted but this was still my preferred option for now.  Thanks again.

---

