---
title: "Laptop + external monitor"
date: 2009-09-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by grouchomrx on 2009-09-21
Hi, I'm new in linux environment (i want to get rid of windows), and i've a config problem with my monitors.

I'd like to get working both laptop (dell d630 1440x900) display + external monitor 1440x900 resolution using my dock.

When I try to use nvidia settings to change my external display resolution, I cannot select 1440x900. I've tried to include the mode modifying xorg.conf, but still disappeared.

I'd like to know if someone had the same problem and how it has been solved.

My optimal config should be:
· when laptop undocked: 1440x900 over laptop display
· when laptop docked and closed: 1440x900 over external display
· when laptop docked and opened: 1440x900 in both displays, desktop extended to both displays

Is it possible to get this config working automatically?

Thank you.

---

### Post by grturner on 2009-09-21
if i recall correctly 

The nvidia settings applet can't actually modify the xorg.conf unless you run it as root.

---

### Post by grturner on 2009-09-21
And another quick thing, Are you trying to say that the selection 1440x900 isnt there to choose or it simply won't save it to xorg.conf?

---

### Post by grouchomrx on 2009-09-21
Yes, I know, but this is not the problem.

The problem is that nvidia settings app doesn't show 1440x900 resolution for the external display. It isn't there.

---

### Post by grturner on 2009-09-21
i've never messed with external monitors with ubuntu. After some googling, this seems to be the most relevant. 

[HTML]http://www.brighthub.com/computing/linux/articles/31614.aspx[/HTML]

Hope this is of some help to you.

---

### Post by UpsideDownFace on 2009-09-21
The answer is to edit as root /etc/X11/xorg.conf
I found that reading about xorg.conf is easy but not much help.
The best thing I have found is to look at one that works and try to understand why, and what is different from what you want.
Here is mine, from my Lenovo R50e laptop

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "screen1" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"Intel 85x"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"i810"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"Intel"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"	"800x600@56"	"800x600@60"	"1024x768@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1024x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"Intel 85x"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:1"
	Driver		"i810"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"Intel"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

There is a "Screen", "Device" and "Monitor" section for each display, so far I have only used two, but I recently read of someone using four monitors side by side.

---

