---
title: "10.04 LTS update corrupted partition information"
date: 2012-07-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ImmortalZecred on 2012-07-10
Hello, folks.

Recently, I went on vacation, and when I returned, I attempted to update all of my Ubuntu programs via the Update Manager. The update completed successfully, and I restarted the system. After that, Ubuntu would not boot. (I am running a dual-boot system. Windows started just fine, but then I started getting blue screens and serious crashes.)

Instead of my splash screen, I got a bunch of text and a prompt, but I could not enter anything in the prompt or do anything. I had to restart the system to do anything, and Recovery Mode has the same problem.

I created a LiveCD to try to reset the OS using the dpkg method, but never got to it yet, because upon examining my disk, this is what I found. (Screenshots attached- I attached a screenshot of every partition selected, for more detail on each one.)

Now, to ME, it looks like my partitions got royally...erm, screwed. When I created my disk partitions, I had one set to 8Gigs for my swap area. I had "ZavorZone" which is my Windows partition, and another 245-gig partition for my Ubuntu install. The final one I put in was a 4Gig partition for storage of system drivers I might need later. What I don't understand is, how did it manage to create _negative_ 2TB of space on a 500GB drive? Also, it seems to have created another 257-Gig partition that I didn't have there before.

It's worth noting that I have a 2-TB external hard drive attached to my system at all times.

The last screenshot is of GParted, notifying me that some of my partitions are overlapping.

I would give you all some boot logs to sort through, but I can't access my external hard drive from the LiveCD, because it fails to mount. Same thing happens with the partition that has the Ubuntu install on it. The Windows partition mounts into Ubuntu with no problem.

Any and all help would be appreciated. If you need more information, I'll be happy to provide it if I can. Thanks, everyone!

Cheers.
-Robbie

---

### Post by ImmortalZecred on 2012-07-10
(Could not upload all photos in the first post, so here is another post to upload the rest.)

---

### Post by ImmortalZecred on 2012-07-10
Excuse my stupidity, I should have had more faith in Ubuntu. Disconnected my external hard drive, restarted computer, and Ubuntu let me know that it had problems. It told me to hit "F", so I did, and everything is awesome now.

Cheers, folks!
-Rob

---

