---
title: "9.04 X86_64 after upgrading to ati 4650 the desktop graphics are very slow."
date: 2009-09-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Dennis Beekman on 2009-09-03
So i decided to upgrade from my onboard Geforce 8300 to a PCI-E XFX Radeon HD4650

I really like this card as it is single slot and regarding the specs it a lot more powerfull then the onboard card.

So i installed the card and reinstalled a fresh copy of Ubuntu 9.04 on the machine with all the updates that where available.
After a reboot i installed the hardware driver via the interface in ubuntu and rebooted again as suggested.

Now the 8300 could even run smoothly with compiz on my 24" screen, but this card cannot handle that.
Worst off all the computer with all effect turned off cannot even play a avi file smoothly... if i try this all the input commands are very slow to respond.

Is there any know issue about using such a video card ? i figured that it should have made my computer faster rather then slower.

---

### Post by automaton26 on 2009-09-03
Some people seem to have success using the "Hardware Drivers" application, but for others (like me) it seems that ATI cards only work if the installation instructions from ATI are followed:

[INDENT][http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1205418#7]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1205418#7")[/INDENT]

If you do try that, remove any existing "Hardware Drivers" first.

---

### Post by Dennis Beekman on 2009-09-03
Is it really that bad with the drivers ? Damm. :(

I will try to install it then using the installation package from ati using the the instructions on the ati wiki

if nogo i will report back here.

---

### Post by Dennis Beekman on 2009-09-04
I have succes fully installed the 8.64 driver wich is also know as 9.8 catalist...

However this made no diffirence at all for the performance.
I tied a friend Asus Radeon 3800 and it was at least 3x faster then this Radeon 4650 card from xfx...

I do not understand why but it seems this card is not as fast as it should have been... i am going to swap it later today at my dealer and see if they have a single slot nvidia.

---

