---
title: "Nvidia settings reverting"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by sndnichols on 2009-05-21
I am running 9.04. I have installed the proprietary drivers using Hardware Drivers. It sort of works. I go to the nvidia X Server settings and set the resolution to  1280x800 and everything is great. Then, the next day when I start the computer again, it has reverted to 800x600. I have tried to save the settings to X Configuration file, /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but I get an error saying unable to remove backup. Anyone know how to fix this? BTW, th card is a 7000M/610M. 

TIA

---

### Post by ceciliaFX on 2009-05-21
I just looked at my xorg.conf file.


this is a wild guess but the instructions for what you want seem to be at the end of the comments:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2009-05-21
> **sndnichols said:**
> I am running 9.04. I have installed the proprietary drivers using Hardware Drivers. It sort of works. I go to the nvidia X Server settings and set the resolution to  1280x800 and everything is great. Then, the next day when I start the computer again, it has reverted to 800x600. I have tried to save the settings to X Configuration file, /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but I get an error saying unable to remove backup. Anyone know how to fix this? BTW, th card is a 7000M/610M. 

TIA

Type alt+f2 and in the box type "gksu nvidia-settings" and hit enter.
You will be asked for your password. This time you should be able to save the Xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by yotnottin on 2009-05-21
I had the same problem on several fresh installs of 9.04 using the nVidia driver. 

I finally discovered that the resolution can be set in System/Preferences/Display.  When the dialog pops up that says

> It appears your graphics driver does not support the necessary extension. Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?

.... answer NO. The *Ubuntu* display settings dialog will then come up. You can set your resolution from there and it will be saved along with your other user preferences.

HTH

Mlle.Yotnottin

---

### Post by zachthejones on 2009-05-21
I had a similar solution to the same issue. After finding the nvidia setting I liked, I hit the button to save it to the xorg.conf file - and then when I showed me the save dialog screen I could choose to view the changes it was going to make. Then I ran this in terminal:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

note: it will prompt you for your password as this is a root action.

the first thing I did was do "save as" and create a backup named "xorg-backup.conf"

then I ran the same command (because when You "save as" any changes would now be on the backup). I just copied and pasted the changes that needed to be made to the xorg.conf file over (for mine it was everything).

When I rebooted the resolution was correct.  Hope this (or something like it) works for you.

---

### Post by sndnichols on 2009-05-21
As the famous scientist said, I now know several ways that don't work. 

ceciliaFX, Thank you for the try. That command resets xorg.conf to a very basic configuration. 

days_of_ruin, Thanks for the try. our command did exactly as you said. It i snice to learn about the run "trick" using alt+f2. I didn't know that. I also learned the command for the settings. Where does one find that kind of information? I had tried various formes but never stumbled upon the correct one. (Meaning the nvidia-settings part, I had already discovered gksu).

yotnottin, Thanks for that, it worked. I love you man!

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2009-05-21
> **sndnichols said:**
> As the famous scientist said, I now know several ways that don't work. 

ceciliaFX, Thank you for the try. That command resets xorg.conf to a very basic configuration. 

days_of_ruin, Thanks for the try. our command did exactly as you said. It i snice to learn about the run "trick" using alt+f2. I didn't know that. I also learned the command for the settings. Where does one find that kind of information? I had tried various formes but never stumbled upon the correct one. (Meaning the nvidia-settings part, I had already discovered gksu).

yotnottin, Thanks for that, it worked. I love you man!

I discovered that in a terminal, typing nvidia then hitting tab until it showed me all the programs that start with nvidia.;)

---

