---
title: "9.04 upgraded from 8.10, now cannot open folder through taskbar --&gt; Places"
date: 2009-06-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by binbin on 2009-06-11
When I open Home or Document/Music etc. through Places, I got the message:

Error
Could not open location 'file:///home/my_userid'

Right now, my work around is to open a folder on desktop, then from there I can open any folder I like.

Now I found I couldn't empty my Evolution Waste folder either. the message:

Error while Expunging foler.

Error storing '~/.evolution/mail/local/Sent (mbox)': Error storing '~/.evolution/mail/local/Inbox (mbox)': Summary and folder mismatch, even after a sync

You help is greatly appreciated!!

Binbin

---

### Post by angelot on 2009-08-09
I just reinstalled Jaunty and kept my /home-partition. I get this error everytime I try to open anything under Places:

"Could not open location 'file:///home/myid'"
No application is registered as handling this file

Haven't got a clue how to fix this....

---

### Post by angelot on 2009-08-09
After some googling I found the solution...

It seems that nautilus "forgets" which program (e.g nautilus) to use when opening folders...

1. Open Nautilus (or hit Alt+F2, then type nautilus)
2. When Nautilus opens, right-click on a folder and choose "open with..."
3. Browse for an app and scroll down till you get to nautilus then hit OK.
4. Close Nautilus and try again. Should work OK now.

---

### Post by kellemes on 2009-10-21
I thought it would fix it for me also.. but it didn't.
For some reason "places" now opens thunar, although I've set nautilus as filemanager. By the way.. if I remove thunar, it'll open VLC, and if I remove VLC it will open a search-dialog. "places" has gone nuts!
Struggling with this for a long time now..

---

