---
title: "Cant get the dual monitor working"
date: 2009-06-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by staar2 on 2009-06-20
Ok as i have used ubuntu previously so i got there really easily to work. Using the Display program it detected the right monitors and worked.

But under XFCE the Display only shows one monitor, currently like the mirror mode works, but i would like to turn off the laptop monitor.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2009-06-20
what vid card?
read the man page for your vid card, for example for my neomagic i have these options.

```

        Option     "internDisp" "true or false"
        Option     "externDisp" "true or false"

```

---

### Post by staar2 on 2009-06-20
Laptop HP NC6220 video is integrated Intel 950i something.

Could you show more code, you mean the x config right ?
Heres the xorg.conf

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2009-06-20
now open a terminal and type> **man intel**
those are all the settings that can be used, unfortunately i don't see anything for what you want.

---

