---
title: "12.04 without graphical boot"
date: 2014-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mag00 on 2014-05-02
Hello. 

Today, when I turned on the PC with Linux I got a command prompt in tty1, instead of common gnome interface.

I googled this problem to try to understand what it could be, but had no lucky.

I`m pretty newbie in how works the heart of system. If i got no graphic interface, I`m completely lost. 

Said it, what I could discover until now is:

The lightdm fails in system start up. 

If I execute the startx, if returns me the message: "fatal server error: no screens found".

Recovery mode not working also. Same error message.

The glxinfo also returns an error: "unable to open display".

I did an apt-get remove nvidia-current and then re-installed the driver (331.49). The problem persists.

I`ve found the X log, but don't know how to get it. Can I send an email (with attachment) directly from command line?

In log I found this: "screens found, but none have a usable configuration".

My machine has 2 disks and a dual boot. Seven and Ubuntu. In Seven everything works fine, so I can assume that my hardware is OK. 

My hardware is an I7 2600 with ASUS mobo and an nvidia GTX 660.

If I need to give more information, please guide me. 

As additional information, last time that it worked fine I made an system update before turn it of, and the update goes fine.

Many thanks.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-05-02
Please confirm that Recovery mode>Resume is giving the "fatal server error: no screens found" message.

The difference between Resume and normal boot is that Resume does not load Ubuntu using a proprietary video driver (Nvidia driver). Can you run a Ubuntu live session? Does that get to a desktop? The live session uses the opens source video driver. So, if that works you might try removing the Nvidia driver and using Resume and then run Additional Drivers to experiment with the available video drivers. Perhaps using Nouveau.

Regards.

---

### Post by mag00 on 2014-05-02
Thanks for reply.

I've checked again and in failsafe mode (recovery) it returns the same error message.

I've started a 13.10 distro in live session, that I have in a pen drive, and it worked fine. No graphic issues.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by mag00 on 2014-05-09
Hello guys. Any other ideas or actions that I can do to repair my distro?

Thanks.

---

### Post by mag00 on 2014-05-27
Hello guys.

Two weeks gone and I couldn't log on Linux yet.

Maybe you have some other idea to help me?

---

