---
title: "20.10"
date: 2021-02-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2021-02-12
Hey guys I thought I'd try W10 again just to see if there was any improvements and there I don't like how they changed the file manager so its not the windows file manager its little different and hate it so I'm going back to Ubuntu only thing I do is email, browse, bank, documents of PDF's so I'm hoping everything works the default viewer for PDF  okay or whats the best software for opening and sending documents I finally got steam windows working using proton and found it works better in linux then windows sorry to be pain guys just thought I'd see how Windows turned if it was better or not and you know something guys using Ubuntu for awhile and going back to Windows I got kinda lost in Windows 

is 20.10 good platform I just like sound features you guys added thats why I asked


Thanks guys

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2021-02-12
20.04 is an long term support release , so you won't be forced to upgrade already in July. There many pdf options available and the best is a matter of opinion. I use Master PDF editor 5 free version which suites my modest reading and writing needs , but it is proprietary.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-02-12
All Ubuntu releases are sound or stable software. The important differences between releases is their support life. Every two years a version of Ubuntu is released with 5 years support (Long Term Support). In between versions are released every 26 weeks with only 9 months support (Interim). Ubuntu 20.04 was the last Long Term Support (LTS) version. The next will be Ubuntu 22.04. 

It will be possible to upgrade from 20.04 to Ubuntu 22.04 but if we install Ubuntu 20.10 we will have to upgrade to 21.04 and then 21.10 and only then upgrade to 22.04 when it is released. Upgrading usually take place without trouble but there is always the presence of risk.

Regards

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2021-02-12
Thanks guys I knew all Ubuntu OS were stable I know 20.10 is only 9 months I have good internet and with linux it only takes 15 20 minutes to install unlike Windows

---

