---
title: "7.10 - Themes - Windows Borders doens't apply"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ThomThom on 2007-10-20
I just upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10. I used the Gray theme, found here: [http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=34132&forumpage=2](http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=34132&forumpage=2)

After the upgrade the window borders are some random blue frame. Every other element works fine. It's just the window borders. With any theme I apply I get these blue window frames. Don't know where they come from, doesn't look like any of the one in the themes list.

What am I doing wrong here?

---

### Post by ThomThom on 2007-10-22
*Bump*

---

### Post by ThomThom on 2007-10-24
Am I asking on the wrong section?

---

### Post by ThomThom on 2007-10-25
I did a compiz --replace in terminal:

thomas@DEV01-UBUNTU:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 1002:4e48 (prog-if 00 [VGA])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1024x768) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting emerald
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format


anyone knows what this means? does it relate to my problem?

---

### Post by ThomThom on 2007-10-25
ok, I tried;
gtk-window-decorator --replace

that brought back the window frames. But I can move the window. The titlebar buttons, close, restore, minmize, rightclicking works. But can't drag the windows.

anyone?

---

### Post by ThomThom on 2007-10-25
Turns out that the options for moving and resizing in the compiz config was off. Enabled them and I could move the windows.

But now I experience that the frames suddenly disappear. ...reading other forums it looks like others have problems with the borders disappearing as well. But I've found no good solution.

This is really getting to me. It was working fine on 7.04 which was suppose to be less stable... what gives?

---

### Post by ThomThom on 2007-10-25
Not sure if it's suppose to work like this, but when I added 'gtk-window-decorator --replace' to Sessions window borders appears as expected.

---

