---
title: "Can't start X"
date: 2006-04-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pnix on 2006-04-17
Hi all,

Last week, I has problem with my box. I return mobo and vga card to the dealer and they give me new mobo(same model) and new model vga card(still gf4mx440).

I try to boot up my old ubuntu with new m/b and vga card but it can't start xwindows, so I try 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg'. After reconfig ,xwindow can start but I want to use nvidia driver. 
So I reinstall the driver. 'sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx nvidia-settings'

In "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
I comment out "dri","GLcore", add Load "glx" in Module section and change driver from "nv" to "nvidia" in Device section.

afterthat restart X but /var/log/Xorg.0.log give me

(II) Setting vga for screen 0.
(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(--) NVIDIA(0): Linear framebuffer at 0xE4000000
(--) NVIDIA(0): MMIO registers at 0xE9000000
(EE) NVIDIA(0): The NVIDIA kernel module does not appear to be receiving
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      interrupts generated by the NVIDIA graphics device.
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      Please see the FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS section in the
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      README for additional information.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA graphics device!
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

If I change driver back to "nv", the problem gone. Any idea pls??:confused:

---

### Post by henryk69 on 2006-04-17
It looks like your kernel module has a problem with the nvidia driver. Maybe you should reinstall it also?
```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-kernel-common
sudo apt-get install nvidia-kernel-common
```

---

### Post by pnix on 2006-04-21
thanks, henryk but it still same error.

---

### Post by TitusDalwards on 2006-04-22
can you try these:

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
sudo gedit /usr/share/applications/NVIDIA-Settings.desktop
```

&#304;nsert the following lines into the new file

```
[Desktop Entry]
Name=NVIDIA Settings
Comment=NVIDIA Settings
Exec=nvidia-settings
Icon=
Terminal=false
Type=Application
Categories=Application;System;
```

---

