---
title: "12.04 - changed username, moved home folder, can't login now..."
date: 2012-06-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by cmatte on 2012-06-08
Hi.
I'm using Ubuntu 12.04 and wanted to both change my username and move my home folder.
Home folder was encrypted (I have its password) and it is on the very same ext4 installation filesystem.
I've done this exactly, starting from my user session:
1 ) sudo passwd root..and set one
2 ) sudo passwd -u root
3 ) sudo sh -c 'echo "greeter-show-manual-login=true" >> /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf'
4 ) logout/reboot/login as root
5 ) usermod -c "Real Name" -l new_name old_name
6 ) usermod -d /home/new_name -m new_name
7 ) checked /etc/password, it has new home folder for new_name, seems right
8 ) opened /home/ saw /home/old_name disappeared and there is /home/new_name containing only a readme and a clickable file I wasn't allowed to run. I was still root, but the window said it was unsecure and I couldn't choose to go on.I thought that was expected due to encryption
9 ) sudo passwd -l root ...big error....I now know....
10 ) logout. Logging in with new_name seemed to work but after some not-much-readable lines I get straight back to login screen!

Now I can login only by guest account that has no rights.
How to have home folder back now and be able to login?

---edit1---
Created a new admin user account by the guest session.
Now I need to understand something about encrypted home folders and how they works to restore my files back!

---edit3---
Removed useless edit2.
Found out the fast and cool ecryptfs-recover-private utility that gave my files back. I've put them in the filesystem.
Now, what's the best to do? Can I remove old users, create a new one, and use it adding in its new home my restored files? I don't care about other personalizations. Will I be able to encrypt those data too?

---edit4---
Did some turnaround with users and ecryptfs-migrate-home with a new one.
Alright up and running now :popcorn:

---

