---
title: "7.04 Annoyance -- sound volume not saved  on reboot"
date: 2007-08-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-08-02
I guess I should be grateful sound works out of the box, but major annoyance is the volume control doesn't save its level across reboots and reverts to 80% master, 80% PCM which on my wife's Creative sound system blasts us out of the room with the login sound.  I turned off all Gnome sounds to eliminate the issue.

Is there some super secret sudo command for the enlightened to use to make the mixer save its settings?  If the developers want "normal" user's like my wife to use and like Ubuntu this "sudo magic otherwise invisible command" stuff  just won't cut it.  Every one of these, if they are really needed as sudo, must be made visible on the preferences menu -- things like "Set Default Audio Volume Levels" and "Lock Screen Resolution To Current" would be a start.

I did a "session save" and logout/login and Nautilus was restored, T-Bird not and sound volume was fine, but upon reboot (after the screen saver locked the system) volume was blasting again.

--wally.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2007-08-02
After some googling, "sudo alsactl store"

I'd heard about/remembered alsactrl and when "man alsactrl" didn't give me anything on 7.04 I assumed another thing had changed.  I'll try tonight and report back.

--wally.

---

### Post by kansei on 2007-08-15
The thing is, it shouldn't even be happening.. it should store your volume settings the moment you hit 'esc' to exit alsamixer. I'm having the same trouble, and it's on a mythtv frontend so any time it resumes from sleep (any time someone wants to watch tv ) I have to SSH in to the machine and set the volume to the proper levels. All I have to do is run 'alsactl restore' and bam, volume right where I set it. 

Why the heck isn't it doing it automatically?

---

