---
title: "11.10: gnome-fallback and Gnome2.x"
date: 2011-10-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by flapane on 2011-10-30
Hi,
I switched to gnome-fallback in order to mantain a visual aspect as much as similar to Gnome2.

However I'd like to move date/time to the right corner of the upper bar, and I'd like to add two Terminal-Trash Bin shortcuts on the left corner of the bottom bar.

[[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/Z86p7s.jpg[/IMG]]("http://i.imgur.com/Z86p7.jpg")

Any hints?
Thanks

P.S
11.10 overall experience seems to be much slower than previous versions on my computer, I wonder if it's due to the young age of the gtk3 libs.

---

### Post by pirxter on 2011-10-30
After having had a look at Gnome 3 (and quickly getting rid of it), reading Linus Torvalds devastating comment about Gnome 3 and then reading about all the child-illnesses of Ubuntu 11.10, I decided not to upgrade either one at all. 

Why screw with it, if it works?

I love my Gnome 2. If Ubuntu 11.04 should ever become obsolete, I'll replace it with Debian, Linux Mint or some other flavour, anyone who continues to support Gnome 2.

I would prefer, however, if Ubuntu and Gnome would find to their senses and allow a return to Gnome 2 in Ubuntu 11.10 or later.

---

### Post by flapane on 2011-10-30
> **pirxter said:**
> 
Why screw with it, if it works?


That's the main point when dealing with either Linux, Mac OSX or Windows.
It's not a matter of innovation and being more or less open minded, but more of sado-masochism.
That clock put just in the middle of my upper bar makes me angry, let alone all the bugs (upstart) I had to deal with while dist-upgrading... not much has changed since Breezy Badger times, that's a pity.

---

### Post by cbowman57 on 2011-10-30
alt+r-click

---

### Post by flapane on 2011-10-31
That did the trick, thanks.

---

