---
title: "xorg.conf - Please help"
date: 2007-07-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Squish on 2007-07-24
Hello friends, 
I have been fiddling around with beryl, and I was trying to fix a common bug that I <and many others> get:
That is, the bar at the top of the all the windows dissapear, and its simply a frustration

So laudy daw, I decided to fix this, so I visited this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=443098](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=443098)

"I'm not sure if your problem is the same as mine, but are you talking about the bar at the top of windows to move them/ resize them / minimize them? If so, I had the same problem and fixed it by adding
Quote:
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
Option "RenderAccel" "True"
Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
Option "backingstore" "True"
Option "TripleBuffer" "True"
in the "Device" section of my xorg.conf
good luck"

I tried that, and then my x server crashed.
I spent then about an hour trying to revert the xorg.conf to its original state, however now my drivers, and my screen, and my sli are a few sandwhiches short of a picnic. For instance, I have got my x server going again, however, even after reinstalling beryl, it is even more wonky than before. I have a 3d cube desktop, however, the background only appears on one of them, and the rest are transparent. And my problem still persists.

I would like to get everything back to a default state, without having to reinstall my operating system.

Its a pain in the butt to have to backup everything, reinstall my programs, and do the uber huge update again.

Here is my xorg.conf if that helps

[PHP]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-57
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection[/PHP]


So....
How can I get my xserver, my beryl, and my GUI back to its default state?


By the way, do you out there who answer questions find it fun to solve these types of programs?
My friends always ask why people would do this out of the good of their hearts
cool

---

### Post by dreadlord_chris on 2007-07-24
I have an NVIDIA 7300LE and everything works fine for me. One of the first things I noticed about your xorg.conf was:
```

Section "DRI" 
    Mode    0666 
EndSection 

```
As far as I know this should not be present for NVIDIA cards - it's not in mine
I do know that for NVIDIA cards there should be the following, that I didn't notice in yours:
```

Section "Extensions"
  option "Composite" "Enable"
  Option "RENDER" "true"
  Option "DAMAGE" "true"
EndSection

```
Only the **option "Composite "Enable"** is necessary - the other 2 I just added recently and seem to work for me.

---

### Post by Squish on 2007-07-25
I am not sure exactly what this did, but nothing really has changed that I could notice.

I have 2 nvidia 7600gs's in sli.
I came to a option while trying to restore it, anc I had to choose a chipset manufacturer for my video card. Without knowing any better, I just chose vesa, seeing it was on it by default.

anyways, let me give a screenie
[IMG]http://i183.photobucket.com/albums/x53/Squichie/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by dreadlord_chris on 2007-07-25
Dude! That's pretty psychedellic!
Anyway, as you noted vesa is the default driver - as such it *should* work for just about everything...
You can see how far "should's" get you....
I have a feeling that because your running 2 cards the way you are, your setup is gonna require some extra tweaking - not really sure how to help you with that though....

Have you tried making the changes I suggested with the NVIDIA driver?

---

### Post by Squish on 2007-07-25
yah I did, and it didnt crash my x-server, so I am good.

What I would like todo is figure out how to get everything back to a default state, as in, just reinstall those files affecting me.

I reinstalled my drivers from the repo, and reinsalled beryl, but to no avail, it is still the same as it used to be.

Hmmm, I would really like to learn more about how programming this stuff works...
hmmm...
If need be, I would reinstall. but...
I rather wouldnt - too much hassle

---

### Post by Squish on 2007-07-25
Question:
What if I upgraded 7.04 to 7.10 alpha?
If I am gonna have a buggy system, I would like to have one that is destined to be fixed. Plus, then I could submit bugs and help the linux community.

I wanna start setting up multiboots!.
Hurrah!:lolflag:

---

### Post by dreadlord_chris on 2007-07-26
go for it.... can't really hurt...

---

### Post by Squish on 2007-07-26
Sounds cool
I am also downloading saboyan,
set up a multiboot.

So, how do I do the upgrade?
Anyone know off the top of their minds?

kool!

---

