---
title: "22.04.01 want to have idle screen turn off, not lock, not suspend?   It used to work!"
date: 2023-01-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by linwood2 on 2023-01-10
I have a system embedded in a player piano with a touch screen as a music reader. It was running with an old z83 mini setup, running... I thought 20.04 but maybe it was still 18.  It mostly dates from around 2017 but may have been upgraded.

Anyway....

On the old mini PC, when idle for a long time the screen went OFF, not black; the monitor went into standby.  Touching the screen (i.e. moving the mouse) brought it back up.  The computer was NOT suspended, it was up, SSH worked, pings worked, but the monitor had no HDMI signal (I think that's the way) and turned the screen off.  It was not locked, just idle, locking was disabled.  It's in my home and a piano -- anyone should be able to walk up and see music, no passwords.  It was also using Wayland. 

Bought a new NUC, installed fresh 22.04.01, all good except -- every option I've tried will only change the screen to black -- LCD backlight still on, just black, not off.

I've seen a LOT of postings about it but no solutions, at least with Wayland (which I think is defaulting). 

I do not want to computer to suspend; it needs to stay available for remote control, plus I find on a suspend that touching the screen does not awaken it, so I would not have a way to wake it up. 

Is this just no longer possible in 22.04? 

Am I missing a technique? 

Anyone have a suggestion? 

Linwood

---

### Post by linwood2 on 2023-01-10
I tried x-org as well as wayland, no change.

---

### Post by linwood2 on 2023-01-10
Well, the problem is solved but I do not really understand it.

My hardware is a NUC11TNHV50L which has built in video (not nvidia by the way, I have seen issues there), and that video has two HDMI ports.  

It never occurred to me the HDMI ports were different. Using either one the bios comes up the same, and ubuntu boots and looks the same, and acts the same EXCEPT for this. 

In tiny print on the case is a "1" and "2".   I was plugged into 2.  When I disassembled to try my old Z83 again, and reassembled, I ended up in port 1 and it started working.

I have gone back and forth from 1 to 2 and back several times now, boot, let it sit -- in 2 it goes blank but the backlight is on and the monitor is not in standby.  In 1 at the same time it goes into standby.

So some combination of Ubuntu (both wayland and x-org) and this Intel box make it work differently.  It also has USB-C for DP video which I have not tried.  I wish I knew what makes it different; not sure if this is a bug, or a feature. 

It's a "real" Intel NUC by the way, not one of the bazillion knockoffs, and I have updated its UEFI to the latest version.

Anyway... problem solved, hopefully someone will find this useful.

---

