---
title: ".ogg severaly distorted!?"
date: 2006-07-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Nikku49 on 2006-07-29
ok i can play mp3's and whatever just fine with no problem, but i noticed that everytime i try to play a .ogg file they are severaly distorted. i first noticed this problem when i installed quake4 and the sound was distorted, i then realized that the sounds that are distorted are in .ogg format. also when i goto gdmsetup and i play a sound thats in .ogg format its distorted, but .wav files play just fine. ive tried reinstalling anything to do with ogg, vorbis, plus i reinstalled alsa-oss and still nothing.:confused: 

any ideas?

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-07-29
Just guessing here.

Type alsamixer in a terminal, and see whether PCM and WAVE are at 100%. If they are, decrease them to 77% or so. MASTER can remain at 100%. Press esc to exit.

---

### Post by Nikku49 on 2006-07-29
> **Lord Illidan said:**
> Just guessing here.

Type alsamixer in a terminal, and see whether PCM and WAVE are at 100%. If they are, decrease them to 77% or so. MASTER can remain at 100%. Press esc to exit.

nope, still severly distorted. :(

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-07-29
> **Nikku49 said:**
> nope, still severly distorted. :(
I am flummoxed.. The only reason I can think of is either dma is not enabled, or else something is eating up your cpu.

---

### Post by Nikku49 on 2006-07-29
> **Lord Illidan said:**
> I am flummoxed.. The only reason I can think of is either dma is not enabled, or else something is eating up your cpu.

nope, i have dma enabled, and im onlyusing 11% of my cpu.

---

### Post by TrashmanL on 2008-06-29
*BUMP* I know this is two years later, but I'm having the exact same problem, and I'm running Hardy 64!!! No other formats are giving me trouble, just OGG.

---

### Post by forger on 2008-06-29
Could you try to reinstall some codecs (Applications > Accessories > Terminal):
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall lame vorbis-tools flac ffmpeg liblame0 gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad gstreamer0.10-plugins-good gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg gstreamer0.10-plugins-base gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse libdvdread3 gstreamer0.10-x gstreamer0.10-fluendo-mp3
```

(Enable universe / multiverse in System > Administration > Software Sources)

---

### Post by TrashmanL on 2008-07-14
Reinstalling all ogg related libraries was the first thing I tried. It didn't work at the time. Oddly, however, a little while back they spontaneously just started working. I don't know if it was an automatic update that fixed it or what, but I'm not having the problem anymore.

---

