---
title: "nvidia-glx update broke X?"
date: 2007-03-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mthaddon on 2007-03-27
I just rebooted my machine and now have no X.

I get a message as follows:

(EE) No devices detected

in my /var/log/Xorg.0.log

Anyone else having a similar issue?

last 50 lines of log:

 Module class: X.Org Font Renderer
    ABI class: X.Org Font Renderer, version 0.5
(II) Loading font Type1
(II) LoadModule: "vbe"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libvbe.so
(II) Module vbe: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 7.2.0, module version = 1.1.0
    ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 1.1
(II) LoadModule: "nvidia"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nvidia_drv.so
(II) Module nvidia: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
    compiled for 4.0.2, module version = 1.0.9755
    Module class: X.Org Video Driver
(II) LoadModule: "kbd"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//kbd_drv.so
(II) Module kbd: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 7.2.0, module version = 1.1.0
    Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
    ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 0.7
(II) LoadModule: "mouse"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//mouse_drv.so
(II) Module mouse: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 7.2.0, module version = 1.1.1
    Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
    ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 0.7
(II) LoadModule: "wacom"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//wacom_drv.so
(II) Module wacom: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
    compiled for 4.3.99.902, module version = 1.0.0
    Module class: X.Org XInput Driver
    ABI class: X.Org XInput driver, version 0.7
(II) Wacom driver level: 47-0.7.2 $
(II) LoadModule: "synaptics"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/input//synaptics_drv.so
(II) Module synaptics: vendor="The XFree86 Project"
    compiled for 4.2.0, module version = 1.0.0
    Module class: XFree86 XInput Driver
    ABI class: XFree86 XInput driver, version 0.3
(II) NVIDIA dlloader X Driver  1.0-9755  Mon Feb 26 23:23:13 PST 2007
(II) NVIDIA Unified Driver for all Supported NVIDIA GPUs
(II) Primary Device is: PCI 01:00:0
(WW) NVIDIA(0): The NVIDIA GeForce4 440 Go 64M GPU installed in this system is
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     supported through the NVIDIA 1.0-96xx Legacy drivers.
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     Please visit [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html) for
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     more information.  The 1.0-9755 NVIDIA driver will ignore
(WW) NVIDIA(0):     this GPU.  Continuing probe...
(EE) No devices detected.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

full xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    # path to defoma fonts
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "bitmap"
    Load    "ddc"
    Load    "extmod"
    Load    "freetype"
    Load    "glx"
    Load    "int10"
    Load    "type1"
    Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc104"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
    Option        "XkbOptions"    "altwin:meta_win"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
        # Added from prior version, as scroll was very slow
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "stylus"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/wacom"    # Change to
                            # /dev/input/event
                            # for USB
    Option        "Type"        "stylus"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "eraser"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/wacom"    # Change to
                            # /dev/input/event
                            # for USB
    Option        "Type"        "eraser"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Driver        "wacom"
    Identifier    "cursor"
    Option        "Device"    "/dev/wacom"    # Change to
                            # /dev/input/event
                            # for USB
    Option        "Type"        "cursor"
    Option        "ForceDevice"    "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M/GeForce 440 Go 64M]"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    BusID        "PCI:1:0:0"
    Option        "AddARGBGLXVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"         "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Generic Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS"
    HorizSync    30-130
    VertRefresh    50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "nVidia Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 420 Go 32M/GeForce 440 Go 64M]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        4
        Modes        "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        8
        Modes        "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        15
        Modes        "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        16
        Modes        "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes        "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice     "stylus"    "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice     "cursor"    "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice     "eraser"    "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by mthaddon on 2007-03-27
given the section about my GPU no longer being supported, I've installed nvdia-glx and now I can only get 1024x768 on my 1280x800 laptop screen.

---

### Post by BoredOutOfMyMind on 2007-03-27
The Nvidia drivers conflict with the nvidia-glx driver. 

There are directions on the Nvidia website. Also if you are not using them, the touchpad, stylus, and eraser need to be commented as they will give errors. 

I have 9755 running in Feisty, but cannot exactly tell you how I got there.

---

### Post by bobpaul on 2007-03-27
The nvidia driver consists of a userspace part and a kernel module. The kernel module needs to be compiled against the currently running kernel, as that's the only kernel it can load into. If you do an update that updates your kernel, you'll have to recompile the nVidia kernel module. This can be done by running their installer script just like when you installed it the first time.

That's why I always prefer to use the nvidia-glx package. Sure, it's always a slightly older version, but at least the restricted-modules package is updated whenever the kernel package is, so I don't need to worry about this scenario.

You might try **sudo nvidia-bug-report.sh** to generate a log file with more information. nVidia staff members do hang out on the [nvnews.net linux section]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?s=&forumid=14"), so you might search/ask for additional help there. If you get a solution, be sure to update this thread with the answer or a link for future readers.

As far as the 1024 limit, attach (don't post) the log file generated by nvidia-bug-report after attempting to run the resolution you're used to and maybe we can find some clues.

---

### Post by mthaddon on 2007-03-27
I fixed this by installing nvidia's package manually. Have filed a bug in launchpad, as it should have gracefully handled the upgrade - known what card I was using and suggested nvidia-glx-legacy, and then configured appropriately. I guess that's what you get for using proprietary drivers...

[https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/97207](https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/97207)

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-03-27
Same errors here, but I'm curious as to how I should call up a terminal or even look at my xorg.conf file, as I can' t get out of bootup bluescreen. Right now I'm running from Edgy LiveCD... although it just occurred to me that the Feisty LiveCD would indeed allow me to browse my drives. Will it allow me to alter my system? Is there a step-by-step I could follow other wise? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-03-27
Never mind the above, but is there an "apt-get" solution? thanks again.

---

### Post by BoredOutOfMyMind on 2007-03-27
> **ricardisimo said:**
> Same errors here, but I'm curious as to how I should call up a terminal or even look at my xorg.conf file, as I can' t get out of bootup bluescreen. Right now I'm running from Edgy LiveCD... although it just occurred to me that the Feisty LiveCD would indeed allow me to browse my drives. Will it allow me to alter my system? Is there a step-by-step I could follow other wise? Thanks in advance.

Alt-control-backspace will take you back to the login and if it cannot load GUI, command line. 

Thankfully I have a laptop to leave on the desk while repairing errors....

---

### Post by BoredOutOfMyMind on 2007-03-27
> **mthaddon said:**
> I fixed this by installing nvidia's package manually. Have filed a bug in launchpad, as it should have gracefully handled the upgrade - known what card I was using and suggested nvidia-glx-legacy, and then configured appropriately. I guess that's what you get for using proprietary drivers...

[https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/97207](https://beta.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/97207)

I did the same to solve here. Thank you for filing the bug. 

This error does little to solve Bug #1

A posting on another forum tells of a user fed up and reinstalling Vista- which worked on finding his Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-03-28
Well, I tried to apt-get remove and reinstall nvidia-glx, as per someone else's suggestion, but no dice. finally I just edited my xorg.conf to read "nv" instead of "nvidia" and here I am, but the machine is dragging, to be sure.

Can I remove the 9755 driver and get back the 96xx via synaptic? Or any other route? Is there any way to make the 9755 work with my card: ```
product: NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000 AGP 8x]
``` Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by mthaddon on 2007-03-28
I just did aptitude remove nvidia-glx and then manually downloaded the latest 1.096x driver from Nvidia and installed that - NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-9631-pkg1.run. Worked fine for me (just make sure you have the linx-headers package that corresponds to your runnign kernel installed and them symlink that folder from /usr/src/linux-header-xxx to /usr/src/linux), but obviously it means you'll need to recompile it if you upgrade your kernel to a new major version.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2007-03-28
Nah, Synaptic worked fine, and then
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
to fine tune it. Thanks, though.

Couple of questions:
[LIST=1]
[*]In one post someone described a method of adding an " Option"  line in xorg.conf under the driver setting (" nvidia" ) to keep from losing his display at every kernel upgrade. Would such a thing be possible with the Legacy drivers?
[*]I'm assuming that the driver you got direct from nVidia will be available as a deb in the repositories somewhere down the line. Am I wrong in this?
[*]Does the " nv" driver get updated regularly as well, or is it pretty much what it will always be?
[*]Is there no gears test in Feisty? I tried " glxgears -printfps" in a terminal, and nothing. Shame if it' s not.
[/LIST]

---

