---
title: "Script to install Antaliased AMSN 0.96"
date: 2006-12-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2006-12-26
Hi there!

**IMPORTANT: after being pointed to some mistakes in this script, I just encourage you to use this one: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297676](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297676), done by Vuen**

I've done a little script that will install amsn 0.96 with antialiasing. For those too lazy to compile ;)

It won't affect tcl8.4, tk8.4 or any other amsn. If you have amsn installed from the repos it will follow to launch as amsn, while the one the script compiles and installs ti lauch as amsn96; the same with tcl/tk8.4. The script uses its own sources.list (you will need deb-src repos enabled, and not everybody has those), so that you don't have to change yours.

The script will download and install TLS1.50 and the desktop_integration plugin. It also installs libssl0.9.7, which seems helps with some TLS1.5 issues (I have still to do a lot of testing on this, though).

Download the attached file, extract it, chmod +x amsn-installer to make it executable and launch it with super user rights: sudo ./amsn-installer. In the end, you will have an antialliased amsn, **it lauches as amsn96**.

Hope it helps!

[COLOR="Red"]**IMPORTANT:**[/COLOR] if you interrupt the script for whatever a reason: **before relaunching it**, check that YOUR sources.list file is there and NOT THE SCRIPT one!!! If the sources.list file is the one generated by the installer, then you should copy over yours one (located at /etc/apt/sources.original and /etc/apt/sources.amsnbackup). If you don't, your sources.list  backup will be rewritten by the 2on attempt to run the installer, and you will lose yours. The reason I use a custom sources.list is because no everybody has deb-src repos enable, which are neede for build-dep amsn. Anyway, I encourage you to keep a copy of your sources.list in your home folder, just in case.

**EDIT-1:** added apt-get build-dep amsn to the script. Thanks to IGNIZ
**EDIT-2:** it now uses its own sources.list. It makes two copies from the original: one gets removed after it finishes, the other stays in computer in /etc/apt/sources.amsnbackup. Also fixed the script. Both for edgy and dapper.
**EDIT-3: **I have added to the script that it downloads and installs the desktop integration plugin. 
**EDIT-4:** new work on the script: it now installs both desktop_integration plugin and tls1.5. 
**EDIT-5:** another revision.. made script for 64bit :) Worked flawlesly on a 64bit clean dapper install.

---

### Post by IGNIZ on 2006-12-27
thanks, really nice, but you should add to the script the download of the dependencies, otherwise we have to install the new packet and re-run the script and redownload and recompile all. nice work indeed^^

---

### Post by IGNIZ on 2006-12-27
hem, i can't start it... how can i run amsn?

---

### Post by finferflu on 2006-12-27
Thanks for the script, but:

```
Installing and cross-linking top-level (.1) docs
Installing and cross-linking C API (.3) docs
Installing and cross-linking command (.n) docs
configure: error: cannot find sources (amsn) in . or ..
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found. Stop.
make: *** No rule to make target `install'. Stop.
```

Any idea? 

Thanks again!! :)

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2006-12-28
> **IGNIZ said:**
> thanks, really nice, but you should add to the script the download of the dependencies, otherwise we have to install the new packet and re-run the script and redownload and recompile all. nice work indeed^^
mm Yes, you are right indeed...  

Tu run amsn: amsn96 in a terminal, or Alt+F2.

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2006-12-28
> **finferflu said:**
> Thanks for the script, but:

```
Installing and cross-linking top-level (.1) docs
Installing and cross-linking C API (.3) docs
Installing and cross-linking command (.n) docs
configure: error: cannot find sources (amsn) in . or ..
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found. Stop.
make: *** No rule to make target `install'. Stop.
```

Any idea? 

Thanks again!! :)
I think you'll have to try to launch the script again... I'm not that skilled, so it doesn't check if the download was fine or whatever. Sorry for that. But it seems as the amsn-0.96 folder is missing, for whatever reason that can happen.

---

### Post by finferflu on 2006-12-28
> **patrickfromspain said:**
> I think you'll have to try to launch the script again... I'm not that skilled, so it doesn't check if the download was fine or whatever. Sorry for that. But it seems as the amsn-0.96 folder is missing, for whatever reason that can happen.

I don't know much about it. I've tried to install it on two machines, and the installation ended up with the same error. I have to point out that my Windows Manager is IceWM for now, on both machines, so could that be related to that?

Thanks!

EDIT: I've tried to run the script again and it worked! Don't ask me how and why, but it did it! Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2006-12-28
Glad it worked :)

---

### Post by paguilera on 2006-12-28
Thank you very much for your script.  This has allowed me to get a version of aMSN working that actually looks really good.  I hope the upgrade to the newest version also helps with some of the issues I've seen in the past version.

-Thank you-

P

---

### Post by TSP on 2006-12-30
Thanks for this! works great for me : )

---

### Post by jrcmuniz on 2007-01-04
Ok, the script is really good thank you very much indeed! Amsn is always asking me to install a TLS... I downloaded and installed TLS and put on /opt/amsn_tcltk/share/amsn/tls1.50 (and the path in the "preferences window" as well) as suggested... but amsn just can not locate the libs!!!
Any help?
Cheers
Joao

---

### Post by jrcmuniz on 2007-01-04
> **patrickfromspain said:**
> Hi there!

I've done a little script (very basic...) that will install amsn 0.96 with antialiasing. For those too lazy to compile ;)

It won't affect tcl8.4, tk8.4 or any other amsn, so you can't use without having to matter. If you have amsn installed from the repos it will follow to launch as amsn, while the one the script compiles and install lauches as amsn96.

Here it is:

```

#!/bin/bash

SOURCEFORGE=http://prdownloads.sourceforge.net

apt-get install libxft-dev build-essential --yes
apt-get build-dep amsn --yes

mkdir amsn_downloads

cd amsn_downloads

wget -c $SOURCEFORGE/amsn/amsn-0.96.tar.bz2 || ! echo "Couldn't download amsn source" || exit 1 
wget -c $SOURCEFORGE/tcl/tcl8.5a5-src.tar.gz || ! echo "Couldn't download tcl source" || exit 1
wget -c $SOURCEFORGE/tcl/tk8.5a5-src.tar.gz || ! echo "Couldn't download tk source" || exit 1

echo "Unpacking sources..."

tar -xf tcl8.5a5-src.tar.gz 
tar -xf tk8.5a5-src.tar.gz
tar -xf amsn-0.96.tar.bz2

cd tcl8.5a5/unix
	./configure --prefix=/opt/amsn_tcltk || ! echo "Couldn't configure tcl8.5" || exit 1
	make || ! echo "Couldn't compile tcl8.5" || exit 1
	make install ||
cd ../..

cd tk8.5a5/unix
	./configure --prefix=/opt/amsn_tcltk --enable-xft || ! echo "Couldn't configure tk8.5" || exit 1
	make || ! echo "Couldn't compile tk8.5" || exit 1
	make install
cd ../..

cd amsn-0.96
	./configure --with-tk=/opt/amsn_tcltk/lib --with-tcl=/opt/amsn_tcltk/lib --prefix=/opt/amsn_tcltk || ! echo "Couldn't configure amsn" || exit 1
	make || ! echo "Couldn't compile amsn" || exit 1
	make install
cd ../..

echo "linking amsn"

echo '#!/bin/bash

/opt/amsn_tcltk/bin/wish8.5 /opt/amsn_tcltk/bin/amsn' >> /usr/bin/amsn96

chmod +x /usr/bin/amsn96

echo "All done, enjoy amsn by launching amsn96"

rm -rf amsn_downloads

```

All you have to do is paste this into an empty file, save it with the name you want (example: amsn-installer). Then chmod +x amsn-installer to make it executable and launch it with super user rights: sudo ./amsn-installer. In the end, you will have an antialliased amsn, **it lauches as amsn96**.

Hope it helps!

EDIT: added apt-get build-dep amsn to the script. Thanks to IGNIZ

Where should I change to get it working in a 64-bit cpu? I mean, maybe ./configure --with-tclconfig=/usr/lib64/ when compiling amsn? I still getting "that" tls problem :( and it seems that this is a 64-bit head ache ](*,) 
Please help!
Cheers
Joao

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-06
MMM I see... I also had some troubles with tls.. You could try, when compiling tk and tcl, adding --enable-64bit

Hope it helps..

---

### Post by Neo40 on 2007-01-06
Does not work for me. :(
I get this: ```
<Skip>
checking for g++... g++
checking whether we are using the GNU C++ compiler... yes
checking whether g++ accepts -g... yes
checking tcl build dir... using tcl library in /opt/amsn_tcltk/lib
checking tk build dir... using tk library in /opt/amsn_tcltk/lib
./configure: line 3052: /opt/amsn_tcltk/lib/tkConfig.sh: No such file or directory
Couldn't configure amsn
```
Anyone can help me?
Thanks

---

### Post by Rackerz on 2007-01-11
> **Neo40 said:**
> Does not work for me. :(
I get this: ```
<Skip>
checking for g++... g++
checking whether we are using the GNU C++ compiler... yes
checking whether g++ accepts -g... yes
checking tcl build dir... using tcl library in /opt/amsn_tcltk/lib
checking tk build dir... using tk library in /opt/amsn_tcltk/lib
./configure: line 3052: /opt/amsn_tcltk/lib/tkConfig.sh: No such file or directory
Couldn't configure amsn
```
Anyone can help me?
Thanks

Same error. Also, how can I remove anything made by this installer?

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-11
working in the error. I'll paste a new version of the installer after I have checked it works.

To uninstall: remove /opt/amsn_tcltk and /usr/bin/amsn96

Thanx for the feedback and testing!

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-11
New version uploaded :)

Try please!

Hope it works :P

---

### Post by Martin Aulbach on 2007-01-12
Just ran the latest version of your script and everything worked great. Thank you for that fancy work! :) 

I ran the script on an i386 with Edgy and the Synaptic version of aMSN having already been installed.

When I get home later, I can try the script on my Dapper-Notebook, too.

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-12
> **Martin Aulbach said:**
> Just ran the latest version of your script and everything worked great. Thank you for that fancy work! :) 

I ran the script on an i386 with Edgy and the Synaptic version of aMSN having already been installed.

When I get home later, I can try the script on my Dapper-Notebook, too.
thanx a lot for trying, and I'm glad it worked :)

---

### Post by ubunter1 on 2007-01-13
> **patrickfromspain said:**
> Hi there!

I've done a little script that will install amsn 0.96 with antialiasing. For those too lazy to compile ;)

It won't affect tcl8.4, tk8.4 or any other amsn. If you have amsn installed from the repos it will follow to launch as amsn, while the one the script compiles and installs ti lauch as amsn96; the same with tcl/tk8.4.

Download the attached file, extract it, chmod +x amsn-installer to make it executable and launch it with super user rights: sudo ./amsn-installer. In the end, you will have an antialliased amsn, **it lauches as amsn96**.

Hope it helps!

EDIT: added apt-get build-dep amsn to the script. Thanks to IGNIZ
EDIT: it now uses its own sources.list. It makes two copies from the original: one gets removed after it finishes, the other stays in computer in /etc/apt/sources.amsnbackup. Also fixed the script.

hi ive tried to follow your guide to install amsn0.96,im new to this.what is chmod +x ? and how do i do this to make it executable?. what i tried is to open it once downloaded extracted it to desktop then open with text editor then copy and paste it to terminal,once there it went through all the script and installed it then closed but im still left with the old version,i just didnt know how to make it executable with chmod.thanks for your time. rob.

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-14
You can try to go to a terminal (Application -> accesories -> terminal), and there tipe amsn96. If it opens and works, the all fine. If not, in the terminal do: sudo rm -rf /opt/amsn_tcltk && sudo rm -rf /usr/bin/amsn96 to uninstall all that could have been installed.

Then, extract my package in your desktop. In a terminal: 
cd ~/Desktop
sudo chmod +x amsn-installer
sudo ./amsn-installer

If all works fine, you should be able to open amsn tiping the command amsn96. 

Hope it helps ^^

---

### Post by Martin Aulbach on 2007-01-14
> **patrickfromspain said:**
> thanx a lot for trying, and I'm glad it worked :)

It seems that I've been a bit too fast. I didn't actually come around to sign up for an MSN account until now. So I wanted to log in with my newly created account just now and it failed. :( The script-installed version of aMSN complains about tls not being installed. I then followed the hints in [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297676](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=297676) about adding /usr/lib/tls1.50 in the preferences, but that didn't work either. The Synaptic-Version of aMSN, however, works out of the box with no compaining about tls. Do you have a clue what to do about this?

There's another thing: Both versions of aMSN seem to share my profile information, apparently because both of them put the user settings into the .amsn folder of the home directory. I don't know if this is supposed to be so or if this could be related to the aforementioned problem? The Synaptic-installed and the script-installed version are different ones, after all, so I figure that they shouldn't share the same user-settings folder.

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-14
Lots of people are having troubles with tls. I tried the script in a fresh-installed dapper version. After installing, it said I didn't have tls1.5, so I said to install and download tls1.5 for linux x86. It downloaded and after that it was fine.

You could try to rename your .amsn folder to .amsn1 and start with a new one and use amsn 0.96. It will come up asking for tls, so download and install and it should be fine, I think.

For both versions of amsn using the same .amsn... that's normal. And I don't think we can do anything about that.

Hope it helps!

---

### Post by Martin Aulbach on 2007-01-14
> **patrickfromspain said:**
> Lots of people are having troubles with tls. I tried the script in a fresh-installed dapper version. After installing, it said I didn't have tls1.5, so I said to install and download tls1.5 for linux x86. It downloaded and after that it was fine.

You could try to rename your .amsn folder to .amsn1 and start with a new one and use amsn 0.96. It will come up asking for tls, so download and install and it should be fine, I think.

For both versions of amsn using the same .amsn... that's normal. And I don't think we can do anything about that.

Hope it helps!

Thanks! That worked very nicely for me. :) I didn't imagine the tls installation being that easy. Maybe you can put a comment in the starting post about that.

---

### Post by Martin Aulbach on 2007-01-14
I just tried your latest dapper-scipt to install aMSN on my Notebook, too. Unfortunately, a lot of problems occurred:

1. after running the script, the first output line is:

```
./amsn-installer: line 1: !/bin/bash: No such file or directory
```

this is obviously because the first line of the script is !/bin/bash and not #!/bin/bash as it should be (the edgy-script has this syntax error, too)

2. dependency hell encountered:

(the following is a translation from the German shell output)
```
The following packages have dependencies that are not met:
  libxft-dev: Depends on: libfontconfig1-dev but shouldn't be installed
              Depends on: libfreetype6-dev but shouldn't be installed
E: Damaged Packets
```

compilation continues, however, but gives a subsequent warning:

```
checking whether to use xft... configure: WARNING: Can't find xft configuration
no
```

A quick check in Synaptic shows that libfontconfig1-dev can't be installed, because it conflicts with fontconfig. However, several packages depend on fontconfig, the most prominent one being firefox. Maybe the further points all result from the missing libxft-dev, but I'll include them as well:

3. missing packages: libpng12-dev and libjpeg62-dev

Compilation stopped twice because of missing libraries. After installing them with Synaptic, the thrid attempt to compile succeded.

```
checking for png_read_info in -lpng... no
configure: error: libpng is required
Couldn't configure amsn
```

```
checking for jpeg_CreateDecompress in -ljpeg... no
configure: error: libjpeg is required
Couldn't configure amsn
```

4. when trying to start aMSN with the command amsn96 I got:

```
Error in startup script: error copying "langlist" to "/home/martin/.amsn/langlist.xml": permission denied
    while executing
"file copy -force "langlist" "$filename""
    (procedure "::lang::LoadVersions" line 20)
    invoked from within
"::lang::LoadVersions    "
    (procedure "scan_languages" line 6)
    invoked from within
"scan_languages"
    invoked from within
"if { $initialize_amsn == 1 } {
        ###############################################################
        create_dir $HOME
        create_dir $HOME/plugins
        create_di..."
    (file "config.tcl" line 1471)
    invoked from within
"source config.tcl      "
    ("uplevel" body line 23)
    invoked from within
"uplevel \#0 {

        source ctthemes.tcl
        source progressbar.tcl  ;# Progressbar Megawidget
        source migmd5.tcl
        source des.tcl          ;# DES encryption
        source s..."
    (procedure "reload_files" line 2)
    invoked from within
"reload_files"
    (file "/opt/amsn_tcltk/bin/amsn" line 237)
```

I looked at ~/.amsn and found the folder to be owned by root. After changing group and owner to myself, I could start aMSN successfully.

5. aMSN runs, even without having to download TLS, but Antialiasing is missing. (probably because of 2.) :(

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-14
ok, let me look into the error.. I'll make a clean dapper install now.

Sorry for the troubles..

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-14
Ok, it should be fixed.. on a fresh dapper install, the script works very good. It installed antialliased amsn without a hitch, with tls1.5 and the desktop_integration plugin. If you want, Martin, you can try it.

You could rename your .amsn folder to .amsn1 and remove /opt/amsn_tcltk and /usr/bin/amsn96 and rerun the script. If all is fine, it should work and give you an antialliased amsn. Also, remove the amsn_downloads folder.

There's also a 2ond option: in the script, change all amsn_tcltk to amsn_tcltk-script and /usr/bin/amsn96 to /usr/bin/amsn96-script, also, rename the .amsn folder as stated before. Then, you can run the script and if something doesn't work, you'll still have the first one installed.

Thanx for the feedback!

---

### Post by ubunter1 on 2007-01-14
ok so i did it and it works but i can only open it from the terminal typing amsn96,the second thing is if i close the terminal it shuts down amsn96 as well,how can i change this to replace the original version thats still listed in apps-internet-amsn so i wont have to open it in the terminal?.thanks.

---

### Post by Martin Aulbach on 2007-01-15
> **ubunter1 said:**
> ok so i did it and it works but i can only open it from the terminal typing amsn96,the second thing is if i close the terminal it shuts down amsn96 as well,how can i change this to replace the original version thats still listed in apps-internet-amsn so i wont have to open it in the terminal?.thanks.

That's very easy. Just run **alacarte** (the menu editor) from the terminal and navigate to the aMSN entry in the new window. Right click on aMSN to go to the Properties. Here, just change the command amsn to amsn96.

@Patrick: I'll try the updated script when I get home later this day.

---

### Post by Martin Aulbach on 2007-01-16
Sorry, the script is still not working for me. Point 1 of my previous post has been fixed, but 2 remains unaltered. About 3, I can't say anything, since the packages are now present on my Dapper. :D Point 4 is no longer an issue, but 5 is still present (i.e. no Antialiasing).

Well, maybe the dependencies are only a particular problem for my installation. My Ubuntu used to be an Kubuntu, and I've already had some troubles with OpenOffice due to the presence of installed packages for both desktop environments. :-?  So maybe, it's related to that one.

I'll just restrict myself to a slightly ugly aMSN on my notebook. In a little time, I'll upgrade from Dapper to Feisty, anyway.

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-16
martin aulbach, if you want, you could try one thing:

with deb-src repos enabled, do the following:

sudo apt-get build-dep tk8.4
sudo apt-get build-dep tcl8.4

And run the script again. Also, make sure libxft-dev is installed.

We'll works this out, don't worry :)

EDIT: could you please post your sources.list??

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-16
Ok martin, you can try the script again. I have added some repos to the script, which should take care of dependancy hell on your system (security repos).

---

### Post by Martin Aulbach on 2007-01-18
> **patrickfromspain said:**
> Ok martin, you can try the script again. I have added some repos to the script, which should take care of dependancy hell on your system (security repos).

Wow! Works like a charm now. Smooth compiling and everything working out of the box afterwards. Thank you very much! :)

I merely ran the latest version of your dapper32-script without modifying the sources.list or installing something myself. Maybe you can describe in a few words how you managed to solve the dependency issue?

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-01-18
yes, for sure: I just added the security repos :) Thats from were the packages get updated, and as I tried the script on a dapper without updates it worked, but yours, up-to-date, didn't work because of that.

Many thanx for helping and trying :)

---

### Post by Vuen on 2007-02-07
Isn't this script just a minor modification of the tarball version of my script?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1857928&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1857928&postcount=14)

It seems all you've really done is uncommented the deb-src lines (in a very dangerous way) and unnecessarily isolated it from the existing aMSN. I would have appreciated being credited somewhere; it seems you went out of your way to strip off my name as well as all the important information people need to safely run the script.

If you want to maintain your own version of the script, that's fine, but your script has quite a few serious problems you should address:

- First off, which you already know, if the script fails and is re-run, the original sources.list gets destroyed; this should be fixed. Ideally you should not be replacing their sources.list at all, because if they get the wrong version of the script, they'll be installing the packages for the wrong distribution, and disaster will ensue.

- Second, you chmod the entire ~/.amsn folder world-writeable, which is a tremendous security flaw. Instead you should chown it to the user it belongs to.

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-02-07
Vuen, when I did my script, I didn't even know yours existed. I just did for myself, for fun.

Thanks for your suggentions.

---

### Post by Vuen on 2007-02-07
> **patrickfromspain said:**
> Vuen, when I did my script, I didn't even know yours existed.

I find that rather hard to believe. You didn't even bother renaming the $SOURCEFORGE variable; you're using the identical lines I wrote to fetch the various tarballs. It even uses the same error structure.

I don't mean for you to stop working on your script; yours supports Dapper and mine doesn't, which is important for people who haven't upgraded yet. And it's always good for people to have more choices in what they want to run.

---

### Post by patrickfromspain on 2007-02-07
Yeah, the sourceforge variable and the error structure were included after I discovered yours, sorry for not mentioning it.. But the rest is just mine. The sourceforge page isn't the samen, the configure options aren't the same, the sources things isn't the same..

Anyway, I won't work anymore on this script. As said, I just did it for fun, to use myself. You've pointed me to some important mistakes, and as I won't work on this, I just prefer to point to your script. No problems for me.

---

