---
title: "9.04,  ahh dreaded screen resolution reset."
date: 2009-06-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Kennith91 on 2009-06-19
So when i decided to upgrade to 9.04,  my hardware settings, including my nvidia geforce 4 Ti 4200 were detected correctly. The computer ran, and life went on.

 However last night, as my computer turns on im like ohhh noooooo
in horror.
because once again, my screen resolution has changed from 1024x768 60 hz 
to 640x480 60hz
It seems my computer every now and then resets itself to this, and id really like a stable fix, 
but i don't know how likely is that. 
My temporary fix is under nvidia settings to change the pan
so at least  i have the screen area = but that isn't really practical.
 It seems as fate however, or a glitch, has either messed with my xorg config and made it lose several screen modes because im stuck at 640x480.
I've tried a few different things that have worked for me in the past - chiefly, a GUI that allowed me to select my monitor and screen res on 8.04, that when it got stuck at 640 it'd change it back by force detection.  but i have no clue, im new, and i dont remember how i did that.
and the two options i have under my nvidia display panel are of course, the lowest possible screen resolutions ever. 
 
Im about to grab out my linux for dummies book and start reading.
Heres what i have tried.

Rebooting a bunch. (it has fixed itself b4, but not now)
dpkg -reconfigure| (it doesn't even ask about screen res.)
trying to edit the file - it says i dont have permission and i cant get that to work gconf
doing commands that say command not found. lol.

and reading on the forums what other poor people have done.



My hardwares pretty basic - i know its not the hardware but instead software.
Dell Demension 4100
Pentium 4 2 GHZ
Nvidia Geforce 4 64 mb 
512 megs of ram
And a run of the mill Dell/Phillips Monitor that wont go much higher then 1024x768
And whatever the fix is, i hope other users like me get it perma-fixed

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by Jarkycat on 2009-07-02
Hello,

I had this very same issue this morning installing Ubuntu 9.04 and the nvidia driver (v 96, legacy).

It took a bit of fiddling around, as it appeared that it wasn't able to detect the monitor type correctly.. and hence stuck at 640x480.  Once I inserted a specific monitor type into xorg.conf (and rebooted), the nvidia settings manager was able to detect a wide variety of display resolution choices.

_I don't know your exact monitor refresh rates, but I used a pretty safe/common set that should apply to you as well.   Also have the same video card as you.  15" Viewsonic and a Geforce 4200._

Anyway, I'll try to write out the steps exactly so it may help you out.   Bold typeface is typed into the terminal.


1) Backup your xorg.conf.  At the terminal, type in:

**sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup**


2) Make a few changes to the current xorg.conf.  Type in:

**gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf**

And add/change the "Section Monitor" to read:

[I]Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 60.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
EndSection[/I]


3) Save the file and exit.

4) Reboot the system

5) When you're back in the system, start the nvidia settings panel.   Do it from a terminal though (so changes will persist).  Type in:

**sudo nvidia-settings**


6) Under the 'X Server Display Configuration', you should be able to pck out a different resolution besides 640x480 now.   Apply the new resolution and then click then 'Save to X Configuration file'


Good luck and I hope this helps.

---

### Post by Jarkycat on 2009-07-02
Also, this might be too much info, but here's my xorg.conf in it's entirety for reference:


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 60.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 Ti 4200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Modes      "1024x768_60.00" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_60 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Zaery on 2009-09-24
Aight, i've been having the same problem, and i fixed it by running me a little bit of this:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Then a restart and so far all is fine. I don't yet know if it's a temporary fix or not, but i've restarted about 3 times so far and it's still working.

Cheers!

---

