---
title: "9.10 compiz desktop switching problem"
date: 2009-10-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by resination on 2009-10-24
[LEFT]Hello,  I have laptop set up to dual boot with XP and 9.04.  Yesterday I downloaded 9.10 RC, and did a Wubi install just to see if there were any major changes/problems before I replace my 9.04 install.
[/LEFT]
 
Everything seems to be ok, except one thing.  In 9.04, I use 2 virtual desktops, usually one with an XP Virtualbox running seamless.  To switch between the two desktops, I would just use the mouse wheel anywhere in open desktop.  I've gotten very used to this method of switching between desktops.  In 9.10, this doesn't work.  The only way I can switch between desktops is using ctrl+alt+left/right.  Anyone know where I can specify the mouse wheel for this function?

Thanks.

*edit-  After a lot of time comparing the settings with 9.04, I found it.  In compizconfig under viewport switcher, Move Next and Move Prev were set to use Button 5 and Button 4 respectively.  These were not defined in 9.10.

---

### Post by zoroko on 2009-10-29
I was having the exact same problem, but your solution didn't work... at first. I had to have expo, view switcher and desktop wall all enabled. Desktop wall in my config was disabled. 

Thanks for the post! :D

---

### Post by p310don on 2009-10-30
I can confirm that resination's fix with the mouse buttons works a treat. Nice work. Thanks

---

### Post by Wanas on 2009-10-30
Thanks I was looking for something to fix this and finally you got the solution ;)

---

### Post by mcmom on 2009-11-03
Hey man, bless you for the solution to this lil Karmic Koala curve ball. I, like you, use the mouse wheel for moving back and forth between compiz desktops ALL THE TIME! Not being able to do just that was driving me crazy! Thank you for taking the time and making the effort to post your solution! (Viva open source and viva 'the community'!

---

### Post by resination on 2009-11-05
[LEFT]Glad to hear this helped others!
[/LEFT]

---

### Post by mrbinitie on 2009-11-05
resinations instructions worked.
Gracias!!

---

### Post by bromalex on 2009-11-13
Thank you "resination" for this info. Works like a charm.

---

### Post by whomajigi on 2009-11-14
I had a whole question up here and figured it out. Thanks for the solution! Now all I need to figure out is my headphone issue, my drop down menu option, my screen resolution issue and about half a dozen other issues. 0_o

---

### Post by Agapo on 2009-11-24
Thank you!
AJ

---

### Post by ad5 on 2009-12-06
Although I see no deeper sense in this setting your solution works fine! Thanks a lot!!!

---

