---
title: "12.10 + nvidia = appearence settings panel does not work"
date: 2012-10-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by carolinason on 2012-10-15
running xubuntu 12.10 with either nvidia driver, current or the current-updates causes the appearance control panel to not work at all, no changes made will take effect. also generic icons have replaced the themed ones and many are missing all together. [snip]. i can however choose window decorations in the window manager applet. If I boot into a session running the noveau driver those changes will occur. i can't be the only one having this issue! it started early in 12.10 development some time after the first alpha.

this is a straight up default install, no kernel parameters... I simply install the daily and then choose software sources to run the nvidia driver and reboot.

i do not have this problem in 12.04.1.

the nouveau drivers work fine, so i suppose this is no big deal and i was able to use an xrandr command to configure my dual displays correctly. 

attached is a screenshot running the nvidia drivers.

thanks. hardware profile is below.

---

### Post by carolinason on 2012-10-16
deleting my ~/.config directory, then rebooting the pc, remediates the desktop to work normally. the above issue is reproducible. i am examining the differences in the config directories to see if there is an obvious cause.

so again in my ~ home directory i typed the code in the below code box. 
```
home:~$ rm -rf .config
```
then reboot the PC. i have to re-customize the desktop again, since i deleted the config directory. a small effort for a working video driver, functioning appearance control panel and a normal looking desktop.

admin note: (!!![COLOR="Red"]be careful[/COLOR] typing rm -rf on a directory since it will delete the directory, the files it contains and all its subdirectories and the files contained in them as well!!! however this directory is simply desktop settings and after the reboot the desktop will be in the default configuration)

:guitar:

---

### Post by carolinason on 2012-10-18
a side note. thunar file manager has a bug in that it will delay opening in certain situations. before the install of the nvidia driver there is no delay of thunar in my install. after the first boot into the nvidia driver thunar has the delay and then after rebooting again the delay is gone. hmm.

---

### Post by carolinason on 2012-10-25
i have found some diffs in the directories. now to sort through those diffs. 

there is quite a bit of xml data in the config file when the system is first booted with the nvidia drivers than after it is deleted and rebooted. i have no idea of what it really means, let me know if you want the output of the diff commands. i backed up the original config, then again after it is booted with the nvidia driver and then yet again after it is rebooted and the fresh config file is generated.

---

