---
title: "Strange and annoying behavior from NVIDIA drivers"
date: 2005-08-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by AdmiralSenn on 2005-08-26
Okay, after much blood, sweat, and tears I got the NVIDIA run package for my card to install. Works great. Just one teensy little problem:

Whenever I restart, the system breaks. XMMS, Blender, anything requiring OpenGL for something (at least I think that's what it is) fails to start. Sometimes if I go into a console only mode, kill gdm/X, uninstall the drivers, reboot, and reinstall the drivers, things would work. (If it helps any, a few times doing this would break all sound output... never did figure out why, it just started working again). 

Why do I have to do this every time? I've edited xorg.conf as I was instructed, but I don't thinik that's the problem. Here it is anyway:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"NEC LCD1912"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5500]"
	Monitor		"NEC LCD1912"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection



And while I'm posting, I may as well ask how to change which apps/windows load when Ubuntu starts. I guess I saved a session when I first started, and now XChat and /dev open every time I log in, and it's really annoying.

---

### Post by AdmiralSenn on 2005-08-28
Hate to bump this, but here goes. This is getting old fast.

---

### Post by arnieboy on 2005-08-28
[QUOTE=AdmiralSenn]Hate to bump this, but here goes. This is getting old fast.[/QUOTE]
Under section "Device" try changing the Driver to "nv" from "nvidia". save, kill X server and restart gdm.

---

### Post by Pionner on 2005-08-28
I had random freezes on 3d apps too. Adding a few options solves it for me,

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option		"DPMS"			"true"
	Option		"NvAGP"			"1"
	Option		"NoLogo"
	Option		"IgnoreDisplayDevices"	"TV"
EndSection

```

Note that the last option disable tvout.

I hope it helps.

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2005-08-28
Did you use the stock nvidia drivers from Ubuntu or the official drivers? Definitely use the official driver from [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com) if you can.

Just a stab in the dark, but install them, and run these commands:

sudo modprobe nvidia
sudo cp -a /dev/nvidia* /etc/udev/devices/
sudo  chmod 0666 /dev/nvidia*
sudo chown root /dev/nvidia*

Hopefully that should fix it, but if you are using the apt-get nvidia driver, get rid of it and get version 7676 from nvidia.com because it works great.

---

### Post by AdmiralSenn on 2005-09-02
Yes I'm using the official NVIDIA drivers. Didn't I say that? I thought I did. I know I pasted my xorg.conf and it clearly says 'nvidia' there, so I dunno where that response came from...

Doing all this:
sudo modprobe nvidia
sudo cp -a /dev/nvidia* /etc/udev/devices/
sudo chmod 0666 /dev/nvidia*
sudo chown root /dev/nvidia*

didn't fix it. 

I'll be adding those extra lines later on. This is getting really frustrating.

---

### Post by skoal on 2005-09-02
[QUOTE=AdmiralSenn]Yes I'm using the official NVIDIA drivers. Didn't I say that? I thought I did. I know I pasted my xorg.conf and it clearly says 'nvidia' there, so I dunno where that response came from...[/QUOTE]
What the prior poster was referring to was the Ubuntu Nvidia package _or_ the Nvidia binary installer.  You cannot tell that alone from just looking at the 'nvidia' driver usage in 'xorg.conf'.  You did mention the word "run file" in your first post, so I'll assume you meant the latter, the official Nvidia binary installer and _not_ the Ubuntu .deb package.

More than likely, this is your issue:

* Did you ever install the Ubuntu Nvidia package (.deb file) at any prior point (to using the official Nvidia binary installer)?

If so, this is more than probably what's causing your strange OpenGL strangeness (and occasional seg faults, if any).  The Nvidia Ubuntu package handles the TLS libs a little differently (in conjunction with the '/etc/init.d/nvidia-glx' script).  If you did not uninstall all the Ubuntu Nvidia packages _properly_ before using the official Nvidia binary installer, you _will_ get these type of errors.  There are some threads around here showing you what all you need to uninstall first, _before_ you use the official Nvidia binary installer...

here's one such link: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=59387&highlight=nvidia](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=59387&highlight=nvidia)

read the last part posted in that thread.  There are other threads in these forums as well which give similiar sol'n(s).  If that don't fix ya up, fire me a private message and we'll figure it out over gAIM...

/edit - oops. I just reread that final post in that link I gave above. I don't know what he means by steps 5&6.  Ignore it since you will no longer have those packages installed.

\\//_

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2005-09-03
the ubuntu driver .deb works fine for me, but when i install the official drivers (on any distribution mandrake,suse,ubuntu etc) it breaks my shutdown screen (splashy) and turns it into a random blur.

---

### Post by Maier on 2005-09-03
Sounds strange.. The apt-get way worked for my nvidia card (6600GT), although im certain i read somewhere that there could be some sort of "bug" with eom of the FX cards (will try to find link later)

To your other question, regarding your startup..

try : system-->preferences-->sessions, and simply delete the session you dont want to automaticly start up.  

Hope it helps :)

---

