---
title: "8.04 server installed... but no gui interface."
date: 2008-05-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ClandestineMan on 2008-05-18
I just installed the 8.04 server installation onto my computer.  But there is not gui interface to start... or maybe I am missing how to start it.   Any ideas?  where should I start looking?

Thanks.

---

### Post by bikeboy on 2008-05-18
By default, the server version is meant to be like that. I can suggest two options, depending on how brave you feel.

1) Install the Desktop for now and learn things with some GUI help. All the server applications can be installed on desktop very easily.

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```
Lots of things will need to be downloaded.

2) Install ebox to use a web interface for configuring things. Might be a little trickier, but will make better use of your computer's available resources.

A good start would be the following:
```
sudo apt-get install ebox ebox-samba ebox-printers ebox-network
```

---

### Post by desheikh on 2008-05-18
Hi,

I have a feeling you werent aiming at setting up a server. The server version of ubuntu is barebones as they are not meant for use as a workstation.

You should either download the desktop version of ubuntu which comes with the Gnome desktop or as bikboy suggested you can add in the gui part by doing

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

Regards,
Ali

---

### Post by DXNET on 2008-12-07
[COLOR="Blue"][COLOR="Blue"][FONT="Arial"][COLOR="Blue"][I][I][QUOTE=bikeboy;4984417]By default, the server version is meant to be like that. I can suggest two options, depending on how brave you feel.

Just want to say thanks for a your answer on interface I did not ask the question but was just doing the search for some answers.

I would admit to knowing nothing about Ubuntu, linux I have just installed Ubuntu on my brand new laptop oh this is on the 3rd partion the the other containing Vista and other. I only downloaded it lastnight and yes it was intentional that i installed the ts server option. 

Oh the laptop is temp as I dont want to screw the main PC up the laptop has Vista on it. this is the point where me and Bill of Ms fame fall out.

As I said I have just started after many years in admins running Novell, Microsoft and IBM etc. what I like are straight answers because some of us dont claim to be geeky.

Do you know what Ms software will run on Ubuntu or any ideas on the replacement of. would like to run somesort of sql server also maybe apache I need to setup a webserver for developement for a wider deployment early stages yet.

Thanks Dx

---

