---
title: "6.06 fubar'd files in a fat32 partition?"
date: 2006-07-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by orangedoor on 2006-07-21
I had the previous version running for a while some time ago until I got a new sound card(x-fi). Well now I got a new soundcard again that will work with linux (envy24 chip) so I decided to install the latest version. I did most of the default settings and I had it use the same partitions as my previous install and it reformatted them. During the install I noticed it automatically configured mounting my other partitions (3x Fat32 and 1 NTFS). Whether it was after the first boot or after a subsequent one after trying to get the nvidia driver working I got the following error (I think it was fine the first time booting):
> 
* Checking all filesystems...
dosfsck 2.11, 12 Mar 2005, Fat32, LFN
dosfsck 2.11, 12 Mar 2005, Fat32, LFN
/drivec-2-14-061.tib
	File size is 0 bytes, cluster chain length is > 0 bytes.
	Truncating file to 0 bytes
/drivec-2-14-062.tib
	File size is 0 bytes, cluster chain length is > 0 bytes.
	Truncating file to 0 bytes
/drivec-2-14-061.tib
/dev/hdb1: 34786 files, 4086410/4093568 clusters> 0 bytes.
dosfsck 2.11, 12 Mar 2005, Fat32, LFN
There are differences between boot sector and its backup.
Differences: (offset:original/backup)
	71:48/00, 72:44/00, 73:42/00 ... 81:20/00
	Not automatically fixing this.
/dev/hdb2: 196 files, 1564987/1615643 clusters


After hitting Control-c:

* File system check failed. Please repair manually.
* CONTROL-D will exit from this shell and continue system startup.
root@bean:


Basically it set 4 files on hda2 to size 0. The same message comes up each time I boot. When I boot in windows it sees those files as having size 0, though it seems like it still thinks they are taking up the same amount of space as before.

I've done some searching and didn't find any clear results for fixing my files, which is hopefully possible. I will try using some data recovery tools that will hopefully work.

When I had 6.06 working that first boot I was pretty impressed, was down hill after that :/

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by gbrent on 2006-08-15
I have seen the same problem... installed 6.06 and when it boots it complains about my 2nd drive giving the same messages. Dosfck sets file sizes to 0 and has corrupted some of my data on the drive. The drive is a 200GB IDE  and is partitioned as one large drive. Win2000 accesses it with no problems and also does the disk check on it without errors.  I can't find any reference to this problem on any of the forums, but it happens on every boot, so I CTRL-C out of it then hit CTRL-D to continue. Can I turn off the dosfck during boot?

Ubuntu can access the files once the boot completes without problems, so it must be something with dosfck. 

Any help?!

Thanks!

---

### Post by jimscafe on 2006-08-22
I get the same problem - doesn't appear to be causing any harm.

---

### Post by linophyte on 2006-08-23
I'll add that I have the same problem, however it does cause problems for me.  The files that it zeros out are backup disk image files which makes them unreadable by my windows application.  The files in question are 4GB files, so there may be a question of their exceeding some limit in dosfsck or the Ubuntu startup apps.  I didn't have this problem with the two previous versions nor with several other Debian distros, e.g. the latest Mepis or Kanotix.

---

### Post by linophyte on 2006-08-25
I found an answer from shdgrao in the thread

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=225280](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=225280)

Entering a 0 as the last entry in /etc/fstab for that drive will disable checking the drive.

---

