---
title: "11.04 - compiz no icons or right click on desktop"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by netmonky on 2011-05-02
Hi All,

I am new to the compiz world - tried it on 10.10. but hit a big and needed to restart the session at startup. I upgraded to 11.04 hoping it was fixed - it was :). 

I have enabled compiz but I dont have any desktop icons or any right click is this normal? do i need to do something to enable this?


Thanks 

mark

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-02
Check if the key "/apps/nautilus/preferences/show_desktop" is enabled in "gconf-editor":
- press Alt+F2
- enter "gconf-editor"

Greetings.

---

### Post by netmonky on 2011-05-02
ahh -- no it was not. If I turn it on I see the Desktop icons but loose my compiz wallpapers :-(.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-02
> **netmonky said:**
> If I turn it on I see the Desktop icons but loose my compiz wallpapers :-(.
Of course you do, you can't have both at the same time.
You have to decide on one.

---

### Post by netmonky on 2011-05-02
ok :-(. thanks man.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-02
Yeah, there was a patch to Nautilus that allowed it to render transparently over the wallpaper, but it's no longer usable in the present Nautilus and Gnome doesn't support the feature. You might look into screenlets, specifically [Folderview]("http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Folderview+Screenlet?content=102890"), to regain *some* of the functionality.

Out of curiosity, does Compiz Wallpaper work in 11.04 without any weird workarounds? There was an odd bug in 10.10.

---

### Post by netmonky on 2011-05-03
cool - I will look into that. 

Yes - it works in 11.4 :-D

---

### Post by mdacova on 2011-05-23
> **netmonky said:**
> cool - I will look into that. 

Yes - it works in 11.4 :-D

helped me also after I had been playing with ubuntu tweak

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-24
[QUOTE=netmonky]Yes - it works in 11.4[/QUOTE]

Excellent. I've been curious about this and still haven't upgraded to 11.04.

---

