---
title: "Dual Monitor Issues"
date: 2009-01-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ductiletoaster on 2009-01-22
OK so i have been playing around with Nvidia X settings and have gone through all the options. i opened it up under sudo and change the appropriate settings so that i could have two separate displays (separate X) so when i restart X it works for about a second and then the secondardy monitor acts strange. It basically looks like this...

Monitor 0 (standard 19 LCD) is at 1280x1024 and looks fine
Monitor 1 (Samsung 40" LCD TV) is set to 1900x1080 but abut a 1/4 of the right side is cut off and a strip of the bottom.

Now i restored my Xorg.conf file to my original

Here is my question.... I would like to have these things

1)Separate Resolutions and Refresh rates 
  Monitor 0  1280x1024
  Monitor 1  1900x1080 

2)Be able to have Desktop effects enabled and be able to have each        monitor have its own CUBE workspaces

3) Be able to move windows between the two. 

O and here is my set up..... Nvidia 6800gs
Left Monitor          Right Monitor
19" Hyundai LCD       40" Samsung LCD TV

Ubuntu 8.10

And here is my Xorg.conf As is:
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection



Any advice would be appreciated....Thank You

---

### Post by sp0nge on 2009-01-22
I'm not familliar with your card but with mine I was able to get the dual monitors working with fairly little effort. The card should also be able to be configured to allow the option to stretch across both screens which will allow  you to move windows across the two. Unfortunately, I don't believe you'll be able to assign a cube for each monitor. The config of the card should be such that you can either clone them (show the same thing on each) or stretch them across both (thus expanding the workspace). 

I'll hope someone can educate you (and me for that matter) otherwise. I would love to be able to accomplish such a feat. Good luck and happy hunting!

---

### Post by ductiletoaster on 2009-01-22
Yeah i got the "Stretched Screen" working great its just wierd with my set up because one my mointor is 19" and my tv is 40" and two my monitors are about 4 feet from each other so rotating a cube is wierd

But i appreciate ur input... I thought about Seperate X servers but as i described before the tv has a part of the screen blacked out( thought the mouse is allowed to travel over it)

---

