---
title: "12.10_x64 Menu Editor Failure"
date: 2012-10-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by zaleksf on 2012-10-18
The 'Edit Menu' function on the Applications Menu dialog, or 'Main Menu' icon in the Settngs Manager does launch the Main Menu editing dialog; I assume this is using alacarte.

All manual edits made with the Main Menu dialog fail to take effect. However, an 'applications.menu' file is created in ~/.config which includes generic entries such as:

<DefaultLayout inline="false"/>
<Menu>
	<Name>alacarte-made-1</Name>
	<Directory>alacarte-made-1.directory</Directory>
</Menu>

regardless of the desired name of the new menu item entered in the editor.

New applications installed with root-level installers do have their menu items show in the applications menu. Trying to use the Main Menu editor in su mode does not work either. 

This functionality works perfectly in Xubuntu 12.04. Not having this capability greatly reduces the quality and usability of Xubuntu - its worse than having to use Unity (worst-interface-ever).

---

### Post by lachild on 2012-10-20
This is not working for me either in xubuntu 12.10 64bit.

---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2012-10-20
This cheeses me off.  

This menu problem has plagued XFCE since it came out and continues to be a problem.  I loaded 'lxmed' as the XFCE website suggests and it still does not work.

I am running 12.10 Xubuntu, on a cheap Gateway NV51B08u with a AMD dula-core C50 and AMD Radeon HD 6250.

---

### Post by M__L on 2012-10-21
Downgrade alacarte [menu editor]: remove alacarte [via synaptic] then download and install older version [I'm using ~0.13.2] from the deb file. Pros: alacarte works correctly, Cons: remember - DO NOT upgrade alacarte in update manager.  Edit: And by not upgrading I mean locking package version in synaptic NOT deselecting it everytime update manager pops up ;-). Other [cleaner] solution might be something like this - check if Quantal's alacarte version [3.5.5] is not missing some dependencies that were present in previous releases [I might do it some other time].

---

### Post by chris2kari on 2012-10-25
> **zaleksf said:**
> This functionality works perfectly in Xubuntu 12.04. Not having this capability greatly reduces the quality and usability of Xubuntu - its worse than having to use Unity (worst-interface-ever).

Yeah I can confirm this bug also.

This begs the question.. ***how*** did this get through QA???? 

Seems like Xubuntu has succombed to Fedora disease.. packages are updated but stuff all testing.. what a shame. :(

Guess I will have to fall back to Debian testing

---

