---
title: "10.04 Dual Screen Launcher Issues"
date: 2011-04-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by yogiman.uk on 2011-04-25
Hello

Can anyone help me with this one?

I have a dual screen setup with one card NVidia 8400GS.

Both screen are identical 22" LCD LG W2246 Monitors.

I have Dual X-Display setup.

I am using Gnome Desktop.

The left hand screen displays everything, menus, panels, background and of course desktop launchers.

The right hand screen displays everything except the desktop launchers.

If I create a new launcher on the left it appears on the left desktop when created.

If I create a new launcher on the right it appears on the left and can not be dragged over to the right screen.

Is this correct?  Is something not right?  If so can anyone help with this issue please.

Many thanks

Yogiman!

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-25
What if you run Nautilus on the right screen, by just picking any directory item from the "Places" menu?

---

### Post by yogiman.uk on 2011-04-25
If I do that then Nautilus opens a Window on the right screen containing that location.

TY for the reply.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-25
> **yogiman.uk said:**
> If I do that then Nautilus opens a Window on the right screen containing that location.
What I was particularly meaning is, do the icons appear at the desktop when you do so?

---

### Post by yogiman.uk on 2011-04-25
No icons appear on the desktop.

Also if I open Nautilus from the Right screen and click desktop I can only see the icons that belong on the left screen.

See screen shot.

Regards


Yogiman

---

