---
title: "11.10 Unity File Manager Icons and Theme Disappear at Random"
date: 2012-02-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by fortitude on 2012-02-11
I have noticed that, on my relatively stock install of Ubuntu 11.10 (fresh install), that the file manager sometimes flickers and the icons become all the same, basically plain white. It is hard to tell which are folders and which are files, since they all look the same. I can close the file manager and re-launch it (Home Folder icon on the dock), but the issue persists. After a reboot, it is fine, but this is Linux, why should I have to reboot every day or two? :)

Note that I have not installed any themes. I have just the stock Ubuntu theme.

Maybe someone can point me to the right thread or bug report, ideally with a solution... I searched, but no luck. Thanks!

---

### Post by kazztan0325 on 2012-02-11
Hi fortitude,

I think maybe the post and its thread at below would help you.

**"[ubuntu] Desktop losing theme"**
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1917037]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1917037")

---

### Post by fortitude on 2012-02-11
> **kazztan0325 said:**
> Hi fortitude,

I think maybe the post and its thread at below would help you.

**"[ubuntu] Desktop losing theme"**
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1917037](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1917037)

Thank you. The OP in that thread had the exact same issue as I have.

I tried to run the command mentioned, but....

```

sudo apt-get remove nautilus-open-terminal
....
Package nautilus-open-terminal is not installed, so not removed
....

```

And, the 'Advanced Settings (gnome-tweak-tool) does not appear to be something I have either.... relatively stock installation as mentioned.

nautilus -q did fix it, for now, but I'm sure just temporarily. I'll update this thread if I notice when it happens exactly next time.

---

### Post by fortitude on 2012-03-20
I just hit the unmount/eject button next to my DVD drive under 'Devices' to pop out a movie disc, and the theme disappeared again. While it was unmounting, I was navigating to a different folder at the same time. Maybe it would not have happened if I were moving slower, taking one thing at a time - who knows.

---

