---
title: ".desktop launcher files don't launch in normal folders"
date: 2023-10-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by riccd on 2023-10-06
Hi, I'm on Ubuntu 22.04, GNOME 42.9. 
I have been able to get .desktop launchers to work, for example using the "Menu editor" program or by creating one my own and installing it in /usr/share/applications/ with the command ```
desktop-file-install myprogram.desktop
```. In just one instance I have been able to copy one of these files into a  normal folder and make it work, tough I don't remember exactly how. In no easy way I can get one of those launchers to work fine from a normal folder, despite allowing launch and despite the correct read/write permissions. I don't understand why. The files are identical, permissions and metadata also seem to be identical to me.
Someone knows where is the data that discriminates between the two files, those that launch and those that don't?
Thanks

---

### Post by norvel4 on 2023-12-24
If you can open a .desktop file and post what is in it might help. I know if you know file paths to programs you can use "nano" to write some things. Also, do you have it executable as a program because I think you may need that. Maybe file paths are relative or refer a specific way to programs. You should be able to copy and paste those to any folder and have them work if paths are not relative but maybe they are relative with that command. Try to edit them or view them where they install and have an absolute path to programs and icons in that .desktop before copying and pasting. All as per one might be maybe or might not be maybe, maybe or maybe not, maybe.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2023-12-27
What is the content of the file and which desktop session do you use?

---

