---
title: "12.04 boots into the terminal after an update"
date: 2012-05-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by GreggC on 2012-05-25
I just installed updates in 12.04(dual boot vista/Ubuntu 12.04 - Unity) and the system froze when someone was playing a game. I had to turn off the computer using the power button - It was the only way to get the system to shut down.
The system rebooted into the terminal. I ran xstart and the system froze. I tried rebooting into recovery mode (repair broken packages) and when the prompt appeared to run in low resolution graphics, the system froze. On subsequent reboots (into the terminal), I ran sudo apt-get update & sudo apt-get upgrade and the problem still exists.
- I have no problems running windoze side so I doubt it's a hardware issue.
Does anyone have suggestions on what to try to get the GUI working again?

The system is an I7 with a Radeon HD6870 graphics card

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by HansHaagan on 2012-05-26
I'm having a similar problem. I think it has something to do with the ATI drivers. I'm not 100% sure but I keep having problems that is caused by videocard drivers.

When I finally remove the ATI drivers and reinstall them I get a pixelated screen and the system hangs. ...or it just boots to the terminal. Very frustrating because this all sparked because I installed an upgrade.

---

### Post by HansHaagan on 2012-05-26
I removed the Catalyst using this: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx)

My dock and menu task bar thing are kind of screwed up now but it did allow me to boot to the GUI. If anyone else has any suggestions please help.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-05-26
> **HansHaagan said:**
> I removed the Catalyst using this: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx)

My dock and menu task bar thing are kind of screwed up now but it did allow me to boot to the GUI. If anyone else has any suggestions please help.

You are going to want to have your own thread, you're welcome to post your fix here, but piggybacking is not a good idea, unlikely the cause is the same even though the symptoms are.

---

### Post by GreggC on 2012-05-26
> **HansHaagan said:**
> I removed the Catalyst using this: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx)

My dock and menu task bar thing are kind of screwed up now but it did allow me to boot to the GUI. If anyone else has any suggestions please help.

:p You're awesome - it worked without a hitch.
Uninstalled the ATI driver and re-installed the driver from the Ubuntu repository. I was using the latest driver installed from the ATI website to solve a shutdown issue before the upgrade.

I'll mark the thread solved. - Thanks!!!

---

