---
title: "10.04 top panel (&quot;notification area&quot;) problem?"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by virtual_pkh on 2010-05-02
Recently updated to 10.04 LTS and I have a bit of a problem with the icons in the top panel (or what I think of as the notification area, being an ex windows bod)

Sometimes everything is fine.  Occasionally however, after booting, there's a strange mixture; some missing, some "broken", some repeated.  For example right now I've got two power off icons, one and a half dates, and nothing else. Any ideas?

Be gentle with me, I'm not that "up" with Ubuntu, okay with using it but not that great on tinkering under the bonnet!

Ta
PkH

---

### Post by kuckunniwi on 2010-05-03
> **virtual_pkh said:**
> Recently updated to 10.04 LTS and I have a bit of a problem with the icons in the top panel (or what I think of as the notification area, being an ex windows bod)

Sometimes everything is fine.  Occasionally however, after booting, there's a strange mixture; some missing, some "broken", some repeated.  For example right now I've got two power off icons, one and a half dates, and nothing else. Any ideas?

Be gentle with me, I'm not that "up" with Ubuntu, okay with using it but not that great on tinkering under the bonnet!

Ta
PkH

I've been having the same exact problem (Ubuntu 10.04 LTS amd64). I'm quite a newbie and don't have a better solution, so for now, what I do is:

- ALT + F2  
- Paste the command "killall gnome-panel" (without the brackets). This terminates the panel, after which the system restarts it automatically, bug-free.

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by zanknits on 2010-05-08
Thanks so much for the tip! I'm not the OP, but I'm still having a similar problem, even after the 'kill all' - my sound and wireless icon won't show up, and haven't shown up at all. I have the "notification area" added to the panel, and the skype/rhythmbox/battery icon shows up, but no wireless or sound.

---

### Post by zanknits on 2010-05-09
I also tried this:
> nm-applet --sm-disable
And the response I got was this:
> An instance of nm-applet is already running.

** (nm-applet:2477): WARNING **: <WARN>  constructor(): Couldn't initialize the D-Bus manager.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Skorov on 2010-05-09
I am also having the same problem. Running 10.04 x64 on my ASUS K52F laptop.

The "killall gnome-panel" hack works as a reset, but if there is a permanent way to fix this that would be great!

Thanks.

---

### Post by Moustache Chef on 2010-05-16
Using Ubuntu 10.04 64bit, and having the same problem. I have to do the killall gnome-panel every time I start my system. Logging out and logging back in doesn't mess up my panel though.

---

### Post by bigs4610 on 2010-05-16
I'm having the same problem, every time I reboot, my top panel is all rearranged.
Even when the applets are "locked to panel."

I dual booted with Win 7 & Karmic Koala for a while, but now I'm a full on Lucid Lynx user.
Still learning about, and how to tinker with Ubuntu.
So any help would be appreciated!
Thanks

---

### Post by TripleEye on 2010-05-17
Just upgraded from Karmic Koala and having the same problem... The top panel seems broken and repeated.

"killall" works, but one has to do it every time the panel crashes. Is there any other solution to be done just once??

Thanks

---

### Post by jonathank89 on 2010-05-17
I've got the same problem, post a comment in this bug report and hopefully it'll get fixed.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/439448](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/439448)

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2010-05-21
Same problem here on my PC and laptop.

---

### Post by kaito_kid on 2010-06-17
same problem on my toshiba laptop (ubuntu 10.04).....

---

### Post by giovannif on 2010-10-01
same problem on my hp laptop (ubuntu 10.04).....

When it happens I usually follow this procedure:

1) right click on the top panel
2) select properties 
3) tick "show hide buttons"
4) untick "show hide buttons"

It temporary  solve the problem but I need a permanent solution too.

Ciao
Gio

---

### Post by fawkesey on 2010-10-09
It would be great if someone could fix this - bit a pain having to run the script almost every time I log-on & makes the OS look shoddy.

---

### Post by b3rylord on 2010-11-08
Also seeing this in ubuntu 10.10. The right hand side of the signal or aerial is missing and I will get two power off buttons during the course of a power on session neither of which will work so I have to power off by pressing the power button at which point I am offered the option of closing apps etc.. Not difficult to live with but untidy....[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon12.gif[/IMG]

---

### Post by lmellor on 2010-11-18
I too am getting the same problem, I can't believe that nobody has found a fix for it yet.

---

### Post by FractalBrain on 2010-11-18
My wife and I have two netbooks running Ubuntu 10.04 netbook and the panel works fine.

However, at my NGO we have three computers running 10.04 and one with 8.04.  The 10.04 computers have the corrupt panel problems.  They were fresh installs all at vastly different dates, all different models, and are all up-to-date.

Our problem manifests itself with a broken/missing shutdown button and multiple/half mail/chat/broadcast bubble clock...stuff.  It happens randomly...well randomly to me.

I think most of the staff just leave it and press the power button when they need to, but it is bothersome.

Have not had a problem in 10.04 netbook, 9.04 or 8.04.

I believe I am complaining.  This would probably be good in a bug report, but I've already written the reply...Ill call it a panel bug awareness bump.

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2010-11-18
I most commonly encounter this problem when switching my login between my laptop and external monitor.  I've seen this behavior in every version since 8.10.

Probably have to wait for Gnome 3, honestly. :p

---

### Post by teseglet on 2010-11-18
I think I experienced a similar problem that seemed somewhat theme related; i.e., I got the problem with some themes and not others.  Also, when I spread apart the panel items a bit, particularly ensuring the Notification Area "had it's own space" the mangled icon problem seemed to go away.  I recently upgraded to 10.10 and have not had the problem in a while.

---

### Post by jdonbook86 on 2010-12-05
Running an ACER Travelmate 800 on 10.10 with similar problems. Some icons show up in full color, others are just grey outlines. I do wonder if cairo-dock is somehow interfering with the panels, since they function in a similar way. I do the kill all and then add back routine to get 5 icons to show.

---

### Post by SaintDanBert on 2011-02-01
I have a similar but different problem.

There are two items at the far right of the top panel.
one -- permits selection of 'shutdown' 'restart' etc
two -- gives quick access to IM and other messaging

My problem?  They are shifted right far enough that one is no longer able to click on the panel objects.

No ideas about what causes this.  A fresh login or panel restart will correct the trouble but it surely returns at random intervals.

Merci d'avance,
~~~ 0;-Dan

---

### Post by restorer-john on 2011-02-20
unfortunately it is ongoing, on maverick across several machines all with vastly different hardware.
It's a sad indictment on Ubuntu as it is the main notification area and important. It is also visually annoying and shows the shoddy nature of the entire OS as three releases have all had the issue and no-one has bothered to fix it.
After another 124meg of 'updates' my computers still all have the issue. It's enough to send me back to a stable OS with a reliable GUI.

---

### Post by SaintDanBert on 2011-02-21
> **restorer-john said:**
> 
...
It's a sad indictment on Ubuntu as it is the main notification area and important. 
...
It's enough to send me back to a stable OS with a reliable GUI.

The panel and notification area are independent projects. Those projects are themselves part of a larger project **gnome**. What you refer to as "... a stable OS ..." is in fact a DISTRIBUTION of hundreds of projects in a common package called "Ubuntu."

Given the huge number of "moving parts," for the typical linux workstation's software multiplied by the huge number of possible hardware configurations, it is astonishing that things work as well as they do ... all without demanding our money to solve their problems.

Respectfully,
~~~ 0;-Dan

---

### Post by TripleEye on 2012-06-30
I know it has been more than two years already, but for those who are still stuck in 10.04 and do not want to upgrade, I figured out a very simple work around that will do the job pretty well.

We are going to create a script that gets executed every time we log in. 

1. Open your text editor and save it as a .txt
```
sleep 3s;            #waits for 3 secs
killall gnome-panel; #resets top panel
```

2. When you are done, right-click on the file's icon, go to Properties / Permissions and activate the option "Allow executing file as a program".

3. Go to System / Preferences / Startup Applications

4. "Add" a new one, (name it and describe it as you want) and type the following in the "command" field:
```
sh filepath/filename.txt
```

Depending on your computer you might want to adjust those 3 seconds to a shorter time; but anyhow, it should work pretty well. Hope it helped!

---

