---
title: ".jar and .zip Archives are Confused"
date: 2013-01-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dodle on 2013-01-13
My Lubuntu desktop has got .jar and .zip archives confused. They both appear as ZIP Archive to the system. I have been through /etc/xdg/lubuntu/applications/defaults.list and /etc/gnome/defaults.list and have set up application/x-java-archive, application/x-java, and application/java-archive to open with my java.desktop file. I have also been through the /usr/share/mime directory. Everything seems fine there. But still anytime I change the default application for either .jar or .zip files, it also changes it for the other. Any ideas how these two mime-types are affecting each other?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2013-01-15
I think .jar files are .zip files, just with java content. For example if you download .jar files in Internet Explorer it uses its own convoluted method to determine file type and incorrectly saves them with .zip filename extension.

But the only .jar files I run need parameters, so I never run them by double click, I either put scripts in my ~/bin to launch them or something like this in a desktop launcher:
```
sh -c 'java -Xmx2G -Xms1G -cp ~/MC-client/minecraft.jar net.minecraft.LauncherFrame'
```

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2013-01-16
Did you just update your Java like me? Because it just did the same thing for me as well after updating my Java.

Anyway a quick work around for this is to right click on .jar file and click "Open With", go to the "Custom Command Line" tab, and put in 

```
 cautious-launcher %f /usr/bin/java -jar 
```

Set it as the default action and it should open all .jar files correctly then.

---

### Post by dodle on 2013-02-11
I got it fixed, but it was a week or so ago and I'm not sure if I remember how I did it. I was screwing around with the mimetypes files. I think I created a new mimetype for .jar files. I think your workaround would have worked too Gaygerbil, thanks.

---

