---
title: "11.04 Classic Window Decorator"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by burpootus on 2011-05-01
Gave unity a try, did not like it, switched to classic. I had pretty much figured out eye candy in previous versions, but I can't change the window border in 11.04. If I enable emerald as the window decorator under compiz settings, I get a blank window border, regardless of which emerald theme I select. If I click the default under compiz settings and use compiz-decorator, I also get a blank window border. If I use gtk-window-decorator, I then have a proper window border, but I have no way to change it. With it, I can use appearance preferences and change themes, colors, icons, etc., but selecting different window borders under customize has no effect at all. I don't like the window border I'm stuck with, anybody know how to switch these in 11.04?

Edit: Doing a metacity --replace returns full control, including the window borders, to appearance preferences. I prefer to use emerald so I guess the real question for this post is how do I get window borders to show up when using emerald?

---

### Post by burpootus on 2011-05-02
> **burpootus said:**
> Gave unity a try, did not like it, switched to classic. I had pretty much figured out eye candy in previous versions, but I can't change the window border in 11.04. If I enable emerald as the window decorator under compiz settings, I get a blank window border, regardless of which emerald theme I select. If I click the default under compiz settings and use compiz-decorator, I also get a blank window border. If I use gtk-window-decorator, I then have a proper window border, but I have no way to change it. With it, I can use appearance preferences and change themes, colors, icons, etc., but selecting different window borders under customize has no effect at all. I don't like the window border I'm stuck with, anybody know how to switch these in 11.04?

Edit: Doing a metacity --replace returns full control, including the window borders, to appearance preferences. I prefer to use emerald so I guess the real question for this post is how do I get window borders to show up when using emerald?

I'm not sure exactly how, but now gtk-window-decorator is working with the ability to change everything in appearance preferences. But now after working for awhile with different applications I'll notice that I'm doing something that calls up a dialog box and then when I click to enter information the dialog disappears and I get in to a loop with some of my applications on the bottom panel not being able to be maximized and some general weird window behavior and then if I go to the fusion icon and reload the window manager this usually clears up.

All in all I wish I could resist the urge to try new things. We expect them to be better and more stable with new features but so far 11.04 has been a real disappointment. I put a lot of time into my installation and I don't want to have to reinstall.

---

### Post by burpootus on 2011-05-03
> **burpootus said:**
> I'm not sure exactly how, but now gtk-window-decorator is working with the ability to change everything in appearance preferences. But now after working for awhile with different applications I'll notice that I'm doing something that calls up a dialog box and then when I click to enter information the dialog disappears and I get in to a loop with some of my applications on the bottom panel not being able to be maximized and some general weird window behavior and then if I go to the fusion icon and reload the window manager this usually clears up.

All in all I wish I could resist the urge to try new things. We expect them to be better and more stable with new features but so far 11.04 has been a real disappointment. I put a lot of time into my installation and I don't want to have to reinstall.

The best way to get out of the disaster that is called ubuntu 11.04 is to execute these commands :
sudo apt-get remove adium-theme-ubuntu alacarte appmenu-gtk at-spi bamfdaemon banshee banshee-extension-soundmenu banshee-extension-ubuntuonemusicstore baobab binfmt-support bluez-gstreamer bogofilter bogofilter-bdb bogofilter-common branding-ubuntu brasero brasero-cdrkit brasero-common capplets-data checkbox checkbox-gtk cli-common compiz compiz-core compiz-gnome compiz-plugins compiz-plugins-main compizconfig-backend-gconf computer-janitor computer-janitor-gtk dvd+rw-tools empathy empathy-common eog evolution evolution-common evolution-data-server evolution-data-server-common evolution-exchange evolution-indicator evolution-plugins evolution-webcal example-content exiv2 gbrainy gconf-defaults-service gconf-editor gdm-guest-session gedit gedit-common geoclue geoclue-ubuntu-geoip ginn gir1.2-gconf-2.0 gir1.2-panelapplet-3.0 gir1.2-soup-2.4 gnome-about gnome-applets gnome-applets-data gnome-bluetooth gnome-control-center gnome-disk-utility gnome-mag gnome-media gnome-media-common gnome-mime-data gnome-nettool gnome-orca gnome-panel gnome-panel-bonobo gnome-panel-data gnome-power-manager gnome-screensaver gnome-screenshot gnome-search-tool gnome-session gnome-session-canberra gnome-session-common gnome-system-log gnome-system-monitor gnome-terminal gnome-terminal-data gnome-themes-selected gnome-themes-ubuntu gnome-user-share gnome-utils-common growisofs gsettings-desktop-schemas gstreamer0.10-gnonlin gwibber gwibber-service gwibber-service-facebook gwibber-service-identica gwibber-service-twitter indicator-applet indicator-applet-appmenu indicator-applet-complete indicator-applet-session indicator-appmenu indicator-datetime indicator-me indicator-session libappindicator0.1-cil libart-2.0-2 libart2.0-cil libbamf0 libbonoboui2-0 libbonoboui2-common libboost-serialization1.42.0 libbrasero-media1 libcamel1.2-19 libcanberra-pulse libcompizconfig0 libcryptui0 libdconf0 libdecoration0 libdee-1.0-1 libebackend1.2-0 libebook1.2-10 libecal1.2-8 libedata-book1.2-8 libedata-cal1.2-10 libedataserver1.2-14 libedataserverui1.2-11 libegroupwise1.2-13 libevolution libexempi3 libexiv2-10 libfolks-telepathy22 libfolks22 libgail-common libgail-gnome-module libgconf2.0-cil libgdata-common libgdata1.7-cil libgdata11 libgdu-gtk0 libgeoclue0 libgexiv2-0 libgkeyfile1.0-cil libglade2.0-cil libgladeui-1-11 libglew1.5 libglewmx1.5 libglib2.0-bin libglib2.0-cil libglib2.0-data libgmime-2.4-2 libgmime2.4-cil libgnome-mag2 libgnome-media0 libgnome-vfs2.0-cil libgnome-window-settings1 libgnome2-0 libgnome2.24-cil libgnomecanvas2-0 libgnomecanvas2-common libgnomeui-0 libgnomeui-common libgnomevfs2-0 libgnomevfs2-common libgoocanvas-common libgoocanvas3 libgpgme11 libgpod-common libgpod4 libgraphite3 libgsl0ldbl libgtk-sharp-beans-cil libgtk2.0-cil libgtkhtml-editor-common libgtkhtml-editor0 libgtkhtml3.14-19 libgtksourceview2.0-0 libgtksourceview2.0-common libgudev1.0-cil libgweather-common libgweather1 libgwibber1 libhyphen0 liblaunchpad-integration1.0-cil liblircclient0 liblouis-data liblouis2 libmetacity-private0 libmission-control-plugins0 libmono-addins-gui0.2-cil libmono-addins0.2-cil libmono-cairo2.0-cil libmono-corlib2.0-cil libmono-i18n-west2.0-cil libmono-management2.0-cil libmono-posix2.0-cil libmono-security2.0-cil libmono-sharpzip2.84-cil libmono-system2.0-cil libmono-zeroconf1.0-cil libmtp8 libmythes-1.2-0 libndesk-dbus-glib1.0-cil libndesk-dbus1.0-cil libneon27-gnutls libnotify0.4-cil libnux-0.9-0 libnux-0.9-common liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0 libpanel-applet-3-0 libpanel-applet2-0 libprotobuf6 libprotoc6 libpst4 libpth20 libquvi0 libraptor1 librasqal2 librdf0 libreoffice-base-core libreoffice-calc libreoffice-common libreoffice-core libreoffice-draw libreoffice-emailmerge libreoffice-gnome libreoffice-gtk libreoffice-help-en-us libreoffice-impress libreoffice-math libreoffice-style-human libreoffice-writer libsdl1.2debian libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio libstlport4.6ldbl libsyncdaemon-1.0-1 libtaglib2.0-cil libtelepathy-farsight0 libtelepathy-logger2 libtextcat-data libtextcat0 libtotem-plparser17 libubuntuone-1.0-1 libubuntuone1.0-cil libunity-misc0 libunity4 libutouch-geis1 libwmf0.2-7-gtk libzeitgeist-1.0-1 light-themes media-player-info metacity metacity-common mono-2.0-gac mono-csharp-shell mono-gac mono-gmcs mono-runtime mousetweaks nautilus nautilus-data nautilus-sendto nautilus-sendto-empathy nautilus-share notify-osd notify-osd-icons nux-tools obexd-client overlay-scrollbar pitivi plymouth-theme-ubuntu-logo protobuf-compiler pulseaudio-module-bluetooth pulseaudio-module-gconf python-argparse python-brlapi python-configglue python-egenix-mxdatetime python-egenix-mxtools python-farsight python-gnome2 python-gnomecanvas python-gtksourceview2 python-gtkspell python-indicate python-libproxy python-louis python-mako python-markupsafe python-papyon python-protobuf python-pyatspi python-pygoocanvas python-pyinotify python-pyorbit python-rdflib python-speechd python-telepathy python-twisted-names python-ubuntuone-client python-ubuntuone-control-panel python-ubuntuone-storageprotocol python-uno python-wnck rdesktop seahorse shotwell ssh-askpass-gnome telepathy-butterfly telepathy-gabble telepathy-haze telepathy-idle telepathy-logger telepathy-mission-control-5 telepathy-salut tomboy totem totem-common totem-mozilla totem-plugins tsclient ubuntu-artwork ubuntu-desktop ubuntu-docs ubuntu-mono ubuntu-sounds ubuntu-system-service ubuntu-wallpapers ubuntuone-client ubuntuone-client-gnome ubuntuone-control-panel ubuntuone-control-panel-gtk unity unity-asset-pool unity-common unity-place-applications unity-place-files uno-libs3 ure vino whois wodim xfonts-mathml zeitgeist zeitgeist-datahub zeitgeist-extension-fts && sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop

Or just install xubuntu 11.04 to begin with.

---

### Post by Ardghal on 2011-05-04
I have the exact same problem. The same, man!

It all started with trying to enable Emerald after a long time without using it, now window managing is messed up, with brief moments of delicate stability.

Now in the best scenario, I get Compiz disabled, without effects at all, but things work. Or I get Compiz enabled but with a default window border that can't be changed.

If anyone has an idea on how to solve this, please help.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-04
Emerald has to be [_compiled from git_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10758746#post10758746") at the moment for Natty. The present snapshot is compatible, as I understand it. It's possibly going to be repackaged into a .deb by a third party in the near future.

Edit: Notice that the window button behavior is somewhat unpredictable in Unity.

---

### Post by Ardghal on 2011-05-06
> **Copper Bezel said:**
> Emerald has to be [_compiled from git_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10758746#post10758746") at the moment for Natty. The present snapshot is compatible, as I understand it. It's possibly going to be repackaged into a .deb by a third party in the near future.

Edit: Notice that the window button behavior is somewhat unpredictable in Unity.

Noted. Thanks. But this problem, I had before updating to Natty. I wasn't using Unity, just Gnome 2.30. I think it started when I tried to change the default (Metacity?) window borders and enable Emerald. Now I'm stuck with this problem.

I can't even get the old window borders back without a command disabling Compiz, which is not good. :( Now I have a generic black window bar that can't be customized. It seems to belong to Compiz, but not Emerald... where does it come from? O_o

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-06
So there's no change if you change your theme in the Emerald Theme Manager?

Could we see a screenshot?

---

### Post by Ardghal on 2011-05-09
No. Changing the theme in the Emerald theme manager doesn't change it.

There, I attached the screenshots.
One is in Gnome, the other in Unity. As you can see, there's a window border, but I don't know where it's from. Maybe it's a Compiz default? I can click all the Emerald themes I want, but the machine lags for a second (as if it's changing the theme), but then nothing happens. The theme even becomes transparent for inactive windows, so I guess it's configurable; but where?

Note: the Unity screenshot shows default widgets, which happened after logging in and out to take the screenshots... When that happens, I can't change the widgets from the Appearance window; usually, it gets fixed by restarting, but as you can see, that didn't affect the window border.

====================================

Found a solution, although a bit extreme. I removed the .gconf and .gconfd directories in Home. That reset settings like it was a fresh install. The problem was fixed completely. So, whatever the problem is, the solution is somewhere in one of those folders. Gconf-editor might help.

---

