---
title: "9.10 iive CD Crashes a moment after mouse over top menu bar (gnome)"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mwsherman on 2009-10-30
Hi. I'm not sure how to go about getting help for this problem, but I can't find anything in the forums.

Ubuntu 9.10 crashes my PC a moment or so after moving the mouse cursor over the top menu bar in Gnome. I first saw this behavior after upgrading, but also see it when running the live CD, so it's not something wrong with the upgrade or installation. 

It happens a second or two after the mouse makes contact with the bottom of the menu bar, and does not appear to be related to any specific element or icon.

Any ideas what might be causing this or what I can do about the problem? Any info or logs I can share that will give insight? I am not very experienced, so I beg be patient with me :). All I know is that Gnome has supposedly changed quite a bit between 9.04 and 9.10, so I don't think it is unlikely there is some larger issue in Gnome.

Thanks.

---

### Post by nikgare on 2009-10-31
The logs are stored in /var/log, you'll need to be looking in the Xorg log files.
There may be a problem with your graphic card and/or driver, but it should tell you more in the logs.

---

### Post by mwsherman on 2009-10-31
> **nikgare said:**
> The logs are stored in /var/log, you'll need to be looking in the Xorg log files.
There may be a problem with your graphic card and/or driver, but it should tell you more in the logs.

I'm back on 9.04 (which is still causing me problems. The attempted upgrade caused a HUGE meltdown on my PC). If I run the 9.10 live CD, how do I get to the crash logs after rebooting? Thanks. I'll post them here as soon as I know how :)

---

