---
title: ".rar difficulties"
date: 2006-06-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by typebox7000 on 2006-06-25
I have a .rar archive that is password protected.
I have Archive Manager and File-Roller, when double clicking on the file, neither is prompting for the password, rather it displays an error dialogue. 
If I attempt to "extract" it just creates a file folder that is empty.
I do not understand why it is not asking for the password.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-06-25
Have you installed rar support for file roller? The package is "unrar".

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2006-06-25
[QUOTE=kaamos]Have you installed rar support for file roller? The package is "unrar".[/QUOTE]

1. **Double-click** the rar file
2. In the file roller window that pops up, select the file(s) and then click on the "Extract" button from the** tool bar**.
3. Enter password in the second window that pops up. See attached.

---

### Post by typebox7000 on 2006-06-25
[QUOTE=kpkeerthi]1. **Double-click** the rar file
2. In the file roller window that pops up, select the file(s) and then click on the "Extract" button from the** tool bar**.
3. Enter password in the second window that pops up. See attached.[/QUOTE]

I do have rar (unrar) support installed.
I cannot use the extract tab in the File-Roller window because the error prompt supercedes that window.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2006-06-25
Can you show us what the error is? A screenshot may be?

---

### Post by typebox7000 on 2006-06-25
[QUOTE=kpkeerthi]Can you show us what the error is? A screenshot may be?[/QUOTE]

Yeah.
When I try to open it in File-Roller or Archive Manager I get the same result.
The error dialogue you see below, which tells me that it is an incorrect password, which, obviously, it never asks for in the first place. 
When I close the error message, the tool bar you see below stays in the same condition, and I cannot select the extract tab to try what you suggested above.

[IMG]http://img.photobucket.com/albums/v641/4910and11/Random%20stuff/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2006-06-25
Your rar may be corrupt. Run **unrar x <your-rar-file> ** from the terminal and see if it helps.

---

### Post by typebox7000 on 2006-06-25
Unfortunately no, it did not help.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2006-06-25
:confused:

---

### Post by St0neD_JunioR on 2006-07-02
got exactly the same problem. any help ? :confused:  one more question how do i move files via the terminal ?

---

### Post by Furball666 on 2006-08-01
I was having the exact same problems and still cannot get it to work in File Roller however I can get it to work in the terminal

It is just as was stated above
> 
unrar x *.rar 

and then enter the password when asked. And you have to remember to use the correct caps on the filenames as well. If it is capitalized then it must be when you type it as well

---

