---
title: "9.04 has eaten my virtual machine!!"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by geekyhawkes on 2009-04-25
I have just upgraded my vaio laptop from 8.10 to 9.04, whilst this is a definite step forward somehow my Virtual machine seems to have gone.  I cannot even find the launcher in the main menu for VM.  Has the upgrade killed it/uninstalled it, or is it just hidden somewhere and im too stupid to find it?

All help welcome please guys!

---

### Post by linuxuser21 on 2009-04-25
I had the same problem; however logging out and then back in fix it for me.  If that doesn't work for you, then right click on the Applications menu icon > edit menus.  Then it should be under System Tools.  If it isn't there, click on New Item.  (Assuming you are using Virtualbox; however, it still works for whatever application you are using.)  Name it Virtualbox and under Command, put this exactly: VirtualBox.  Make sure to get the capitals right or it won't work.  Push okay and place the launcher where ever you want on the menu.

---

### Post by geekyhawkes on 2009-04-25
Thanks, il give that a go.  At least it seems like i wont have lost the install on my virtual machine!

---

### Post by geekyhawkes on 2009-04-28
Plot thickens!  If i try and run virtualbox then terminal reports that it is not installed.  Has my virtualmachine been completly eaten by the upgrade, and if so how?  Is there any way i can get it back without a full reinstall?

Thanks

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-28
Open nautilus (Places-->Home Folder) and press Ctrl-h the will reveal the hidden directories and files then look for .VIrtualBox, this is where the vm's are located. You may have to reinstall VirtualBox, I use the version downloadable [here]("http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads").

---

### Post by geekyhawkes on 2009-04-28
Cheers guys.  For some reason it was all messed up by the upgrade.  I reinstalled Virtualbox from the sun website and as if by magic my old machine was available.  I cant complain really, this is my first issue since switching entirely to ubuntu in about a year!

---

