---
title: "6.06 reboot and shutdown buttons missing"
date: 2007-03-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ikonia on 2007-03-18
Hi,

using ubuntu 6.06 fully patched.  I am aware of this problem with beryl/compiz and those have never been installed on this laptop.

When I click the logout/power button in the top right hand corner of the gnome desktop I only have the options logout, Switch user, hibernate and lock screen. 

Normally I have a reboot and shutdown button.

I believe this is a problem with custom themes.

1.) could someone confirm this is the problem
2.) could someone explain where within a theme this is stored
3.) How can I re-enable the shutdown and reboot buttons.

thanks for you input.

---

### Post by kevincai96 on 2007-03-18
Here's the thing: the top and bottom are panels. so, if you want to add a button, right click that panel and select "Add to panel..." with the cross icon. Once you're there, select the logout or what ever you need. Voila! They appear!

---

### Post by ikonia on 2007-03-18
I think you've missunderstood

I don't want to add buttons to menu pannels, when you press the "power" button in the top right hand corner of gnome - it pops up a menu saying "lock screen, switch user, hibernate, shutdown and reboot" mine has shutdown and reboot missing, rightc clicking on this menu does nothing

---

### Post by kevincai96 on 2007-03-18
:( I'm sorry. I didn't know that. Anyways, I'm predicting that the setting should be somewhere in the "System" tab. I could be wrong, so don't take my word for it. 
:lolflag:

---

### Post by kevincai96 on 2007-03-18
Also, try checking for updates, even if it's patched. You might find it useful.

---

### Post by ikonia on 2007-03-18
Hi kevincai96,

could you please stop making random comments. I've spelt out that the system is fully patched/up to date - so how can there be any more updates ??

I've also spelt out the issue and suggested potential causes from doing research myself, this is a common issue with Beryl/Comiz, due to the themes, however as I'm not using beryl/compiz I can only assume this is to do with a theme configuration.

If you don't know, or don't understand the question I'd appriciate you not posting random comments so that someone who does understand the issue or has a comment based on the facts can post without taking the thread off topic.

---

### Post by Broken Dwarf on 2007-04-05
I have the same problem with my Edgy. I didn't find any solution yet so I just use 'shutdown -h now' for shutdown and 'shutdown -r now' for rebooting. 
If anybody has the proper solution to that problem please post it.
And for those who would like to ask some questions first: Yes, my system is up-to-date.

---

### Post by wukk on 2007-04-15
I had the same problem and I don't know about 6.06 but on 6.10 this worked for me:

Go to: System -> Administration -> Login Window

On the Local tab under "Menu Bar" the option "Show Actions menu" has to be enabled. It seems to disable itself sometimes if you change the login themes.

Enabling that brought back the missing Restart and Shut down buttons for me...

Hope this helps!

-W

---

### Post by BLTicklemonster on 2007-04-22
Huh. Since an update to Feisty, I click to log out, and I don't have an option to log off, and if I click switch users, I get an error that says 

You do not seem to be logged in on the console.
Starting a new login only works correctly on the console.

I click okay, and I get another error that says

Error while running command.
(gdmflexiserver:12894): Gtk-WARNING **: Ignoring the separator setting


Whats up with that?

---

### Post by mrcreativity on 2007-04-23
> **wukk said:**
> I had the same problem and I don't know about 6.06 but on 6.10 this worked for me:

Go to: System -> Administration -> Login Window

On the Local tab under "Menu Bar" the option "Show Actions menu" has to be enabled. It seems to disable itself sometimes if you change the login themes.

Enabling that brought back the missing Restart and Shut down buttons for me...

Hope this helps!

-W

This worked for me. Thank you.

---

### Post by EnemyUnknown on 2007-07-12
wukk
thanks it worked

---

