---
title: "screen resolution"
date: 2005-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-04-28
I've just installed the NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-7174-pkg1.run driver and everything seemed to go well; when I start up Ubuntu I get that Nvidia logo, but installing this has changed my resolution and to 1280-800 when I used to have it on 1440-900. When I try to go to system>preferences>screen resolution and do the drop-down list, it doesn't even offer me the 1440-900 resolution options anymore. So I checked out my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and it says that in all my depths the mode is 1440-900, even though I'm not able to pick this resolution option. Does anyone know how to get the resolution backt to 1440-900?

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-04-28
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV36 [GeForce FX Go 5700]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-72
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV36 [GeForce FX Go 5700]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-04-28
that's my xorg.conf file above if it helps

---

### Post by RuKK on 2005-04-28
Well, I dont know why its doing it, but I hopefully have a fix for you. I dont know what refresh rate you run, but this should get you running at 60hz. Make your xorg.conf  monitor section look something like this.

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-72
VertRefresh 43-60
Modeline "1440x900"  106.47  1440 1520 1672 1904  900 901 904 932  -HSync  +Vsync
EndSection

You shouldnt have to change anything else. For other refresh rates/resolutions, use the gtf program, as such.

$ gtf 1440 900 60 -x

Lemme know if it works :)

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-04-28
I edit it, but there was no change with reboot and all. When I got to system>preferences>screen resolution, it still only list the basic 640x480, 800x600, 1024x768, 1280x760, 1280x800, but no 1440x900...

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-04-28
oh yeah, I am running at a refresh rate of 60 Hz

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-04-28
I tried editing the xorg.conf in the /usr/share/xresprobe/xorg.conf, where all the settings were set to 1280x800, but that hasn't helped either...

---

### Post by RuKK on 2005-04-28
Really weird.. never seen that NOT work. Even with settings the monitor cant support. Try using the "nv" driver again and see if that clears it up, just as a test to make sure the nvidia driver is the only thing screwing you up.

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-04-30
sorry for not replying in a while to this, I had to reformat my hardrive, but everything is back to working condition. I'm going to try to install the nvidia drivers once more, but this time maybe using a different method, and if I still get the problem I'll prob send an email to nvidia themselves, though I doubt I'll get anything.

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-05-01
how do I switch back to the original nv driver?

---

### Post by royg1234 on 2005-05-01
Did you try using the 855resolution app?  I used it to get widescreen working on my laptop.  You might find a solution by searching the forums for widescreen problems

These pages might help:
[http://www.chzsoft.com.ar/855patch.html](http://www.chzsoft.com.ar/855patch.html)
[http://gulus.usherbrooke.ca/debian/pool/main/8/855resolution/](http://gulus.usherbrooke.ca/debian/pool/main/8/855resolution/)

---

### Post by lucus on 2005-05-01
this problem is weird... i had a similar problem with my toshiba (insert horror music) laptop.
after i installed my screen resolution inside gnome was way too small.... never figured out how to fix it though....

---

### Post by crane on 2005-05-01
[QUOTE=pvphaneuf]how do I switch back to the original nv driver?[/QUOTE]

Edit the xorg.conf file.

find this section:

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200 Ultra]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

just change,
 Driver   "nvidia" to read  Driver "nv"

then ctrl+alt+backspace to restart x server.

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-05-02
I downloaded the 855 patch, but I don't quite understand the installation process, could you clue me in?

---

### Post by pvphaneuf on 2005-05-02
actually, when I checkd out all the res that are supported, the one I'm looking for isn't available... does this mean I can't use the patch?

---

### Post by royg1234 on 2005-05-02
I think 855's actulally in Synaptic (if you have the Starter Guide's repositories), but that's not where I got it.  Sorry, this was a while ago. I think I got it from some Japanese guy's site, and it came with some really good documentation, in addition to Alain Poirier's.

Kenshi Muto.  Pretty sure.  So google "Kenshi Muto 855" or something like that, and get the package, and read the Readme (readme.txt is by Poirier, Muto's is something like "debian readme"--that's the one you want to read).

Hope you find it, and hope this is what you were looking for.  \\:D/

---

### Post by Scheater5 on 2006-10-29
I've had the same problem, except with ATI.  An attempt to use automatix to install the proprietary drivers in 6.06 failed because  my card is about one generation to old (a mobile Radeon, don't remember exactly which one, but if it's important I'll post).  But when I loaded up Edgy, it says the driver is fglxr, which would indicate it's using the proprietary drivers.  However, just like you, the resolution was 1280-800 when it's supposed to be 1440-900.  This was in KDE.  I loaded up Gnome, and things were even more screwry, one of which was a screen resolution of 640-480.  Rebooting back into KDE, and suddenly KDE's resolution is 640-480!!  I don't particullarly care about the proprietary drivers anymore, and if going back to the open-source drivers would fix this I'd be more than happy - if only I knew how!

---

### Post by Scheater5 on 2006-10-29
Problem fixed - mine turned out to be a relatively simple fix.  Turns out Edgy has doesn't recognize my monitor size well if you select "Plug 'n Play" as the monitor type.  I changed it to a "Generic 1440x900," ctrl-alt-backspace to restart X, and it loaded up into the same resolution, but when I went to system settings it now had the option to increase all the way to 1440x900.  As a side note, changing it to a Dell Laptop monitor (I use an Inspiron 9300) gave me the option to increase it to 1080x...well, I don't remember exactly what - but the point is that the solution may be as simple as making sure your monitor is detected correctly.

---

