---
title: "11.10 + gnome 3 looks &quot;wrong&quot;"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by sroberts82 on 2011-10-22
Hi all,
Not being a fan of unity, upon upgrade from 11.04, I have reverted to gnome 3. However, it looks a bit strange compared to the screenshots of gnome 3 on 11.10 that google shows me. 

For example, you can see the gradiant of the top menu is blocky with two shades of black between the bar itself and any contents (the clock/calendar in the zoomed in image).

[IMG]https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-n-5lsLnZ-1A/TqNGVOCU7eI/AAAAAAAAEt4/xVmdjQLNjP8/s208/screenshot2.png[/IMG]

The other thing is the user menu.

[IMG]https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-T4schlsCQPo/TqNGefTkJVI/AAAAAAAAEuA/Av-EjqmvgRs/s720/screenshot.png[/IMG]
 Online I have seen it looking quite funky but here it's a little boring. Is there more I need to install?

One other question, where have my integrated chat/broadcast accounts gone? I know it is still working because I get twitter notifications popping up, but I don't know how to get to the account. The online accounts don't list anything, despite the twitter one being operational.

Also, if this helps:

stephen@batman:~$ echo $DESKTOP_SESSION 
gnome-classic


I hope I can resolve this!

Thanks
Stephen

---

### Post by crdlb on 2011-10-22
The gradient you're seeing is caused by the theme. Ambiance and Radiance don't seem to have been tweaked for gnome-panel. The GNOME theme, Adwaita, is even more broken with the panel, but gnome-themes-standard 3.2.1 will fix that.

The fancy themes you have seen are probably for GNOME Shell, not Classic.

Recent versions of Ubuntu have included the indicator-applet for gnome-panel. The chat integration you're talking about may have been in one of those indicators. That applet has not been ported to gnome-panel-3.x, so you are getting the normal GNOME stuff instead.

---

