---
title: "11.10 gnome desktop top panel looks WRONG!  also text looks strange"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by agingric on 2011-10-19
hello,

recently did a clean install of 11.10.  wanted to try out the gnome desktop, downloaded the appropriate package (gnome) through synaptic.

top panel looks strange.  colors that don't make sense, icons that are pixellated, when i click on icons on the top panel (volume etc.) the box that drops down also looks strange. some letters are malformed.

tried to take a screenshot but that didn't work properly either.  it captured a desktop background, and that's it.  it was not even the desktop background that i am currently using!

when i click the "prefix" box to select ubuntu regarding this post, my choices (xubuntu, kubuntu, etc) appeared in a box in diagonal lines.  this is also unexpected behavior.


running this on a toshiba satellite l655 series laptop.  dual boot with windows 7.

logged out, logged back in using gnome classic and that seemed normal.  

i think the new gnome desktop looks pretty sharp aside from my issues and would like to use it if i can get it to look and behave the way it should.

any suggestions?

thanks!
andy g

---

### Post by qamelian on 2011-10-19
Are you running proprietary ATI drivers, by any chance? The FGLRX drivers for ATI/AMD will cause Gnome-shell to behave the way you describe. The open source drivers don't suffer from this issue.

---

### Post by agingric on 2011-10-19
yes, running proprietary ati drivers.

which open source drivers should i use instead?

thanks!
andy g

---

### Post by qamelian on 2011-10-19
Just deactivate the proprietary drivers in the Additional Drivers item in System Settings and it should automatically revert to the open source drivers which are the default drivers after installing anyway.

---

### Post by agingric on 2011-10-20
thanks for the tip--but--

i did disable the proprietary ati driver.  unfortunately, that did not produce a happy result.  logged in with "gnome" selected, and it looks like "gnome classic"--which is not a terrible thing, but i would like to see gnome in all of its new splendor.  

any other suggestions would be welcome :)  

thanks,
andy

---

### Post by varikonniemi on 2011-10-20
Removing the ati proprietary driver currently destroys your system, at least thats what happened to me and what i was told.

I reinstalled ubuntu to fix it, but supposedly someone on these forums got it working with force reinstall of some packages.

<quote>
OK, I fixed this by running :

 	Code:
 	sudo apt-get install --reinstall libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 
Turns out that flrgx is a dog and leaves mess all over the place.
</quote>

---

