---
title: "Strange Graphical Issue in Gutsy"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Vaelor on 2007-11-05
Hi everyone. I am relatively new to Ubuntu, so bear with me...

I loved Ubuntu when I first started using it, but more and more, I find issues that cause to to be unable to lose my Windows dependency. This is one of them.

I will try to be a bit detailed, I don't know if any/all of this matters. 

I installed Gutsy x86 on a freshly formatted partition. I am using the restricted nVidia Driver. 

I run everything fine and dandy for a week or so, whilst getting Compiz to be snazzy with things like desktop cube, with gears, reflection, and partial transparency. (I have an eVGA 7900GT KO) 

I start wanting to find a torrent client that I like in Linux. Finally, I decide to try old faithful uTorrent; so I install wine, and run uTorrent for the first time in 'buntu. Also during this session, I was working on trying to get my Matlab to install properly ( I finally did it today). 

Now, next day comes, I turn on my computer and boot into Ubuntu to find this random scrolling, extremely thin and light colored horizontal lines zipping up and down on the far left of my screen. They are about an inch long and don't appear in screenshots. I figured it was a simple driver error, so I uninstall the driver and restart. When the computer restarts, then entire desktop is shifted over about two inches so that the shutdown button is on the left... However, everything registers as though it's in normal position. (i.e. when I put my mouse over the top-right of the screen, the shutdown button (which is on the left now) highlights!)

So I manage to re-eneable the driver and restart again. Now, my default resolution is not shown. No 1680x1050. No strange lines though. So I uninstall and restart. Works ok this time (resolution wise), but everything's a little fuzzy and low quality (generic driver). I re-enable the driver, restart. Now, resolution is great! but.. those freaking lines are there again. 

My graphics and monitor are solid in Windows Vista, and have been throughout the process. (Everything else in Windows however is a big-a$$ joke though.

Okay, that's it. Sorry so long, and thanks SO much for reading.

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-11-05
Well it makes it tough for linux (or anyone but microsoft) when the graphics card folks happen to make a windows driver and don't release code for anyone else to use the hardware they bought with anything but a microsoft software product. One may suspect that Microsoft doesn't mind things being this way. The exceptions made so far aren't enough to provide the kind of graphics support I'm sure ubuntu and others would offer if they could. Where limitations exist, people have done their best to work around it and are doing incredibly well. The situation with games is generally a lot worse. I still have to use windows to run my scanner thanks to a similar situation from HP only making a windows driver and not releasing code. That makes windows a $200 and 10 gig scanner driver. How delightful. Sorry for the rant.

It's good you offer some detail. That can make all the difference. 

That all said ;) let's see. 

I don't have Compiz and haven't tried it because a) my graphics card is limited anyway and b) I've noticed it seems to be the root of some quirky issues. So maybe keep some suspicions there.

WINE and uTorrent; I doubt they're relevant.

No idea about Matlab. Tried purging all that (now you know how to install it right) and seeing if you can restore things without it? If so then install it. Perhaps something during one of your earlier efforts inadvertently borked things. 

Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by Vaelor on 2007-11-06
Ok I'll post that file later today. Anyone else have any suggestions? Should I just go back to Feisty for a while maybe? Or just reinstall and see what happens. This is really the first and only really annoying problem I've had with Ubuntu and I'm positive it revolves around the complications due to unreleased driver code, but the bottom line is I'll use the OS that works the best. 

Now, my Vista install freezes every third or fourth session, and it crashes whenever there is motion on the screen coupled with sound (ie almost everything) unless I use my USB headset. So basically in Windows I have sore ears and I get to hit the reset button a lot, and in Ubuntu my left eye is becoming completely immune to noticing motion in my periphery.

Please help! Thanks :)

---

### Post by Vaelor on 2007-11-09
```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GT/GTO]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:5:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"AL2223W"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G71 [GeForce 7900 GT/GTO]"
	Monitor		"AL2223W"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1680x1680"	"1680x1050"	"1600x1200"	"1440x1440"	"1280x1024"	"1280x960"	"1280x800"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by slayer04 on 2007-11-09
how long have you been using compriz fusion as I have it also, its sweet but still unstable so I would guess  thats is were the source of the problem is, If I were you I would try uninstalling it and seeing if the lines are gone if they are great, if not is something else but if the lines are gone reinstall compriz and if the lines come back your going to have to decide on what you like better sweet 3d animations and cube or an inch of lines on the screen

---

### Post by Vaelor on 2007-11-09
Ok, I read what slayer said, and decided to undo one-by-one the things I had changed in Compiz before this problem arose. 

Turns out, after disabling the window previews, the problem went away. Strangely, the fonts seem MUCH sharper and clearer also. 

If the problem is not truly resolved, I'll report back.

---

