---
title: "19.04 Disco Dingo  User Avatar and Login without using password"
date: 2019-08-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dstudio101 on 2019-08-14
I'm a heavy desktop user.  And I'm managing a couple of lubuntu desktop for 'public' use.

I like the new Lubuntu 19.04 Disco Dingo very much because it is way way way much faster than its predecessors.  Like I said, I'm a desktop user so this is a very very nice experience.

--Previous Lubuntu 18.xx boots really slow -- while Lubuntu 19.04 Disco Dingo is very fast even on a fairly new mainstream desktop/laptops -- core i3-i5 with 4GB RAMs and equivalent.

I hit a few snags while configuring my desktops to use the new version 19.04 Disco Dingo -- mainly
[LIST=1]
[*]adding a user avatar 
[*]user can click login without using a password 
[*]configure login wallpaper 
[/LIST]

This is my immediate concern -- as other functions are working fairly as before.  I did not see GUI for configuring the above mentioned -- the previous version has a GUI to configure these.

Please let me know if you have any ways of achieving these.  I can follow instructions upto to using a terminal to tweak config files using text editors...

Thanks,

Ben

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-08-14
Configuration of login screen is done at: /etc/sddm.conf
My configuration is:
```
dmn@Sydney-VM:/etc$ cat sddm.conf
[Autologin]
Session=lxqt.desktop
User=dmn

[Theme]
ThemeDir=/usr/share/sddm/themes
Current=elarun
FacesDir=/usr/share/sddm/faces
```

The autologin should be self-explanatory. Just add in the user(s)
As far as I know, backgrounds are part of a theme.  sddm themes can be installed from Ubuntu Repos. Current= contains the name of the theme to be used.
User icons can be placed in folder indicated by FacesDir= . Each is a file with name like **username.face.icon**. I think they should be 256x256 px PNG file.

That's it.

---

