---
title: "7.10 - Unknown password for default keyring"
date: 2007-10-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by billio on 2007-10-26
Another 7.10 problem

Whenever I start ubuntu the nm-applet requests access to the default keyring.

As I understood it, the password for this should be the same as the login password, but it isn't, my login password is rejected.

I don't recall being asked to set the default keyring password during the installation process for 7.10.

I have tried using keyring manager to reset it it, but as I don't know it in the first place this is impossible.

I click deny when nm-applet request is made and everything seems to work OK, but it's just irritating having to do this every time I start using Ubuntu.

Bill

---

### Post by arkara on 2007-10-26
i think this is the root password that you get asked

---

### Post by billio on 2007-10-28
I logged in as the system administrator and I used the password for that - which I thought was the correct thing.

There isn't a direct login for the root user in Ubuntu - at least that is what I thought. The only way to be root is to use sudo and enter the administrator password. Or is there something else I don't know about ?.

Bill

---

### Post by jhw on 2007-10-30
You can always set a root password by doing
> 
sudo passwd

then you can login to root.

---

### Post by billio on 2007-10-31
I tried re-setting the root password but that doesn't work either. 

It seems I can't reset the keyring password unless I know what it is at present.

Frustrating, but thanks for your ideas.

Bill

---

### Post by billio on 2007-10-31
On further investigation here :

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring-manager/+bugs](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring-manager/+bugs)

I notice this exact problem has been reported as a bug :

Bug #156215 in gnome-keyring-manager (Ubuntu)

Bill

---

