---
title: "How to disable the big bubble notifications in upper right, 12.04"
date: 2014-06-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by AR_Kozz on 2014-06-19
I've searched the forums but I don't know exactly what it's called, so all the results I got are about specific things like email or unrelated things like mouse-hover popups. I want to do away with it entirely.

It is like Günsche in the Unterganger videos, constantly informing me of irrelevant things that I don't care about, including when I am watching full screen video. It has never told me anything useful, not once, ever.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-06-19
See if this can somehow be of any help for you: [How can I customize/disable notification bubbles?]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/13464/how-can-i-customize-disable-notification-bubbles")

---

### Post by AR_Kozz on 2014-06-19
Of the two posts in that thread relevant to 12.04, neither is effective.

The last one, a script which toggles the executability of /usr/lib/notify-osd/notify-osd, might be effective on the dark grey bubbles - I haven't seen one yet - but there is another breed of notification bubble that it has not stopped. It looks like

[[IMG]http://i81.photobucket.com/albums/j224/AR_Kozz/evilerbubble.png[/IMG]](http://s81.photobucket.com/user/AR_Kozz/media/evilerbubble.png.html)

This beige terror mostly brings me news of the trivial actions of Firefox add-ons. But I doubt the add-ons themselves can conjure a pop-up bubble. Is Firefox somehow able to do this? I just need to know who's making that bubble, so I can chop its legs off.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-06-19
Have you by any chances installed GNotifier for Firefox in your system? GNotifier is a small add-on for Firefox that passes in-browser alerts to the default notification system and it might be it what's causing that notification bubble.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-06-19
Disable notifications from the Self Destructing Cookies Add-on located in the extension's preferences.

---

### Post by AR_Kozz on 2014-06-19
Nope, no Gnotifier, and I just verified that /usr/lib/notify-osd/notify-osd is not executable.

Yes, I can disable notification on a case by case basis at least some of the time. But that does not explain how the notifications are still happening. The messenger is dead, how's the message still getting through? There must be another messenger. I'm not gonna be happy until he's dead too. I'm out for blood.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-06-19
The notification system uses notify osd . The pictured notification is generated by the FF add-on. If you want all notifications disabled remove notify osd.

```
sudo apt-get remove notify-osd
```

---

### Post by AR_Kozz on 2014-06-20
That makes no sense. If some notifications are generated directly by add-ons without being passed to notify-osd, how would removing it disable all notifications?

In any case, it doesn't, as I've already explained.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-06-20
This is the package description from synaptic and other users have removed it in the past.
notify-osd

> The Desktop Notifications framework provides a standard way of doing
passive pop-up notifications on the Linux desktop.  These are
designed to notify the user of something without interrupting their
work with a dialog box that they must close.  Passive popups can
automatically disappear after a short period of time.


---

