---
title: "10.04 Has Lost It's Mind"
date: 2012-11-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dwdarkstar on 2012-11-18
hello, I have a 10.04.04 LTS running on an ASUS box flawlessly for the last 3 years.  Last night sitting at the Houston airport before boarding my flight I was using the machine as it ran on battery.  My battery settings are such that if the laptop is closed the screen goes blank but that's it, no shut down or otherwise.  Last night I clicked shut down but closed the lid before the machine had fully shut down as it was time to board the plane.  I mention this because its the last thing that happened before this morning.

Booting up this morning an auto disk check stopped at 70% with an error found in /, no more information given, pressed F to fix error but seemed to reboot with out providing options.  Got to login screen and there is no mouse cursor.  Logged in and mouse cursor appears but there are no menu bars top or bottom, same background with my usual desktop icons but upon opening folders the windows have no borders around them with the standard close, maximize, minimize buttons.

I made a desktop launcher so I can get into terminal and can still access home folder, file system, but no way to access System Preferences to check resolution or create new user.  Logged out my account and logged into Guest account and the desktop is totally empty except for mouse cursor, no menu bars or anything, just purplish background.

I have no idea what's going on but have dual boot with Vista so can still get on internet to type this.  Any thoughts?

---

