---
title: "18.04 LTS - GNOME - Failed to start session"
date: 2018-12-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ubunky2 on 2018-12-10
Greetings,

I've updated my PC some weeks ago from 16.04 LTS to 18.04 LTS and everything seemed fine. Two days ago though I resumed my PC from standby and the login screen (I suppose **gdm3**  - [it looked like this)]("https://i.stack.imgur.com/tavlw.png") wouldn't let me enter the password for my user but instead always say something like '*Login failed*' as if the keyboard would spamming the Return key on the empty password field. Mouse was still working so I tried clicking *"Log in as another user" *though there was no other user available. Didn't work either and just returned to the login screen with the '*Login failed*' error message. I was able to shutdown and restart the PC with the upper right icon though, which I did in the end. That's where my problem started.

After the restart it suddenly showed a completely different login screen (I'm guessing it's **lightdm **based on what I could find out). It looked like this:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]281912[/ATTACH]

When I try to enter my password on this login screen (username is correct), all it says is "*Failed to start session*" all the time. 
That's where I'm stuck. Don't know what I can do to login to my GNOME desktop. I clearly need help. :confused:

I can switch to a virtual console (Ctrl + Alt + F1) and login there without any problem. Even sudo apt-get update && apt-get upgrade works.

Based on tips I got in another forum I already tried the following things:

[LIST=1]
[*]Tried ```
startx
``` in the virtual console which resulted in a black screen with a working mouse cursor. No icons, dock, background, ... 
[*]Deleted the following files from my user's home folder ```
.Xauthority 
.ICEauthority
``` and reboot. Just shows lightdm login screen and *"Failed to start session" *after entering my password. 
[*]On Virtual Console 1: ```
sudo /etc/init.d/lightdm stop
sudo /etc/init.d/lightdm start
startx
``` resulted in black screen with a working mouse cursor just like before 
[*]On Virtual Console 1:
```
 mv ~/.config ~/.config-old
startx
``` resulted in black screen with a working mouse cursor just like before 
[*]Temporarily added a boot parameter **nomodeset **([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters)). Just boots to lightdm login screen and the usual *"Failed to start session" *error. 
[/LIST]

That's where I'm at the moment. I'm desperate and would welcome any help. Please help me get back into my desktop.

---

### Post by ubunky2 on 2018-12-18
In the end the following did the trick:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gnome-session
sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```

Everything is back to normal (gdm3) and I can login with my user credentials. :D

---

### Post by sunze on 2019-07-07
> **ubunky2 said:**
> In the end the following did the trick:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall gnome-session
sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```

Everything is back to normal (gdm3) and I can login with my user credentials. :D

This worked for me too. Thanks!!!

---

