---
title: "~/.XCompose ignored ?"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-16
I'm trying to play with compose key to add symbols for math and logic. Presently, I have created a new file ~/.XCompose, and in that file is


```

  1 include "%L"
  2 
  3 <Multi_key> <a> <asciitilde> : "&#8733;" U221D
  ...

```

I can use the compose key to input defaults like &#601;,ð, and þ, so I know thats working.

I've rebooted the machine, but only the default compose key bindings seem to exist.

I have to admit I borrowed this file from a co-worker, I'd ask him but hes not around at the moment.

---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-28
ok, went back to try to get this to work again. this time I tried adding custom lines directly to /usr/share/X11/locale/en_US.UTF-8/Compose, to no avail.

I just added the line

<Multi_key> <E> <E> : "&#8707;" U2203

at the end of the file, but it did noting ( control+shift+e+e does nothing ). 

I tried this modification with and without the ~/.XCompose present. Neither time worked.

each time I make a modification I log off and then on again.

---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-28
I perhaps should also note that metacity stopped starting up automatically for me so I manually added it to the startup applications. 

I don't know if this is even remotely related.

---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-30
so.. whats going on here ? modifications to both the main config file as well as the ~/.XCompose do nothing.

am I missing something obvious ? 
am I formatting the files incorrectly ?
do the files have the wrong name ?
is my computer looking elsewhere for the config settings ?

---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-30
ah, I see
there is a separate compose config file for each possible keyboard layout

so I might be using a nonstandard layout

---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-30
so how do I figure out which compose file to edit ?
I'm using an apple aluminum keyboard, maybe its different for this ?

---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-30
still no luck

---

### Post by mrule on 2010-07-30
as usual I am an idiot : I ignored the part of the tutorial that said to set environment variables. it all works fine now &#8707;&#8704;.

---

### Post by ShellfishGene on 2013-01-08
So please enlighten a few other idiots. Where is the tutorial? What environment variable to set? Thanks!

---

### Post by Sebastock on 2013-04-28
I think he is talking about this tutorial:[INDENT][https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ComposeKey#Compose_key_sequences](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ComposeKey#Compose_key_sequences)
[/INDENT]
 In order to use your own compose key table, you have to modify the file "~/.gnomerc" to include:[INDENT][FONT=arial black]  export GTK_IM_MODULE="xim"[/FONT]
[/INDENT]
 Now everything works fine for me (13.04). For some reasons, I didn't have to do this modification with the previous version of Ubuntu (12.10).

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2013-04-28
Thread closed. Please do not post in old threads.

---

