---
title: "5.10 Starter Guide"
date: 2005-10-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by the_purulent on 2005-10-18
Any idea when / if the [www.ubuntuguide.org](www.ubuntuguide.org) site will be updated for Breezy?
I have a few buddies who want to shift to nix but I can't be there to install for them.  The guide would be really handy for the updated version.

Thanks!
-Clay

---

### Post by Armin_Fan on 2005-10-18
Many are asking for this, but alot of the 5.04 Starter Guide seems to be the same for 5.10. I have tried the codecs, XMMS, lame, Audcaity, Xine, Flash, gFTP. etc and they work fine.

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2005-10-18
Yeah, A new overlooked thing in 5.10 is the guide built in "System -> Help" has alot of good info like the Hoary guide has. The hoary guide though is still largely applicable, jut a few different version numbers on packages I assume.

---

### Post by Armin_Fan on 2005-10-18
well, I should say u need to find w32codecs somewhere else and I dont know where libdivx4linux is and dont know if we need it. The Totem/Mplayer Firefox plugin is not the same right off the bat as Hoary was, still havent fix that yet but seem to be quite a few posts on it.

---

### Post by detour on 2005-10-18
Haven't tried it personally but there is [Automatix]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=66563")

Its a script with GUI that automates the install of pretty much everything in the guide

---

### Post by the_purulent on 2005-10-18
I got all the codecs up and running (through the various guides here) but I didn't notice the system help option. That should cover everything they need to get the system working :)
Awesome! Thanks guys, I never even knew that was there hehehe

Anything they can't get I should be able to work with remote desktop.

---

