---
title: "10.04 blank login screen after sleep"
date: 2011-02-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-02-08
I have this random problem: If I leave the computer, the screensaver kicks in (I use a blank screen), then it goes to sleep (suspend - S3), and then when I try to power back up and login I get a blank screen with mouse cursor.  No login screen, hard reboot required.
Recommendations?  Is there a way to start the gnome login manually?  Is there a way to safely shut down or restart the computer from such a state?

Same problem [here]("http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1439383").

Also I have noticed that after reboot networking is disabled.
Here are the syslog entries from the time the computer went to sleep.

> Feb  8 13:17:01 mike-linux CRON[23562]: (root) CMD (   cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly)
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux anacron[24691]: Anacron 2.3 started on 2011-02-08
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux anacron[24691]: Normal exit (0 jobs run)
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.890104] CPU0 attaching NULL sched-domain.
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.890115] CPU1 attaching NULL sched-domain.
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.912197] CPU0 attaching sched-domain:
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.912206]  domain 0: span 0-1 level MC
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.912213]   groups: 0 1
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.912226] CPU1 attaching sched-domain:
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.912232]  domain 0: span 0-1 level MC
Feb  8 13:25:37 mike-linux kernel: [52694.912238]   groups: 1 0
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  Sleeping...
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  (eth0): now unmanaged
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  (eth0): device state change: 8 -> 1 (reason 37)
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  (eth0): deactivating device (reason: 37).
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  (eth0): canceled DHCP transaction, dhcp client pid 8950
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <WARN>  check_one_route(): (eth0) error -34 returned from rtnl_route_del(): Sucess#012
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux avahi-daemon[1308]: Withdrawing address record for 192.168.0.100 on eth0.
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux avahi-daemon[1308]: Leaving mDNS multicast group on interface eth0.IPv4 with address 192.168.0.100.
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux avahi-daemon[1308]: Interface eth0.IPv4 no longer relevant for mDNS.
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  (eth0): cleaning up...
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  (eth0): taking down device.
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux avahi-daemon[1308]: Withdrawing address record for xxxx::zxxx:zxxx:zxxx:zxxx on eth0.
Feb  8 13:25:38 mike-linux NetworkManager: <info>  (eth0): carrier now OFF (device state 1)

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-02-08
Have you tried one click, then type your password?

Personally, I turn off the screensaver, and, if I used a screensaver, I would turn off the locking. Those are settings in Preferences/Screensaver and Power Management.

---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-02-08
Thanks, gordintoronto.
What I try is to press the power button (to wake up the computer), then shake the mouse and type in my password whether the screen shows anything or not. 
As you suggest, I've deactivated the screensaver and lock screen.  We'll see how that turns out.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-02-08
Sorry, I had missed that the computer actually suspends. I assume this is a laptop?

---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-02-08
No, it's a desktop.
It's gone to sleep (suspend) a few times now, and am having no problems after disabling the screensaver/lock.  Time will tell...

---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-02-13
It's been long enough now that I can say the problem is solved.  Thanks, gordintoronto, for pointing me in the right direction, haven't had the problem since!

---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-02-18
Well, it's doing it again.
leave the computer> goes to S3 standby> power back on> frozen blank screen >hard reboot.
Who knows what incoming data, messages, etc I might have lost as a result of having to hard boot.  This is unacceptable.  Where's that famous Linux stability I keep hearing about?
How can I possibly troubleshoot something like this?

---

### Post by ghbarratt on 2011-05-28
I'd just like to add that I have had similar issues. 

When I try to get back on/in the computer after it has gone to sleep I sometimes see the login window/dialogue, but sometimes I do not, and then when I try to get back in, I type in my password and I am left looking at a completely black screen except for the mouse cursor. Like I said; sometimes I do not even get the login window/dialogue but I have noticed that in that case I usually can see that the mouse cursor (which is the only thing I can see) changes when I mouse over certain areas of the screen. I get this mouse cursor behavior both before and after logging in. So it is as if the OS is rendering the mouse only, thought the mouse is showing that there are other things there.

Normally the computer wakes up fine from sleep, but sometimes I get this behavior. Even more rarely I get system freezes..

I have tested RAM but it always passes. I have tried swapping and removing it anyways but that does not resolve the issues. I have also tested, removed and swapped hard drives but still get the bad behavior.

I am not going to stop using Ubuntu, but I really wish I could resolve these issues. 

I have a Dell Optiplex 755 SFF

---

### Post by opodaniel on 2011-06-26
Same problem for me on an laptop Acer Travelmate 6292 on Ubuntu 11.04. Is really annoying since I am switching to sleep in order to continue from where I left my computer and restarting the computer will make me loose my work or the conversation I was having.

---

### Post by robbiee on 2011-08-21
I've been having this issue on several HP nc6000 laptops w/ 2GB RAM. Clean Ubuntu 11.04 install and patched up. Issue seems to arise when resuming from sleep. I would rather not disable the screensaver if I can avoid it but I will try that on a couple of them and see what happens. Did anyone ever find the root issue? I'm still new to Linux so if someone could direct me to any logs that might be helpful for troubleshooting this issue I would appreciate it. Thanks in advance.

---

