---
title: "Firefox dual screen issues in 8.10"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bigbudz on 2009-05-08
Im using an nVidia card (GeForce 5200) and have my second display configured as seperate X. I cannot open firefox on the 2nd display when I have a copy running on my primary display... I get an error and have to restart X. Does anyone know of a fix for this?

---

### Post by bigbudz on 2009-05-10
Well, I figured this one out myself. If anyone else is having problems with using firefox with dual screens or launchers in dual screen this should help. This is not difficult at all and you do not have to use any command lines, in fact you cannot in this case, they do not work. 

You cannot run the default profile of firefox on seperate screens at the same time, but if you create a second profile you can have each profile running on a seperate screen or both on the same screen. Attempts to open the same firefox profile on seperate screens will cause X to crash. (I used CTRL-ALT-BACKSPACE to restart it)

Create a second firefox profile: **Hit ALT-F2** when youre on the desktop. This will bring up the Run Application window. **Type the following**;

firefox -no-remote -P

This will bring up the Firefox Profile Manager. The default profile is where all your bookmarks, plugins, etc are. (actual location: ~/mozilla/firefox/xxxxxxxWhatyoucalledyourprofile  the xxxxxxx is generated by your computer to make your profile unique) Also, no need to try the command line firefox -ProfileManager because it doesn't work. 

**Create a new profile** When you're done launch firefox and it should be a clean version with no bookmarks, etc. You can import them if you wish, but I like to keep a seperate set for each display. (see how to launch the second profile on second display below)

Launchers do not work in the second display. If your try to open one it will cause X to crash. It is a bug, #256041 its in 810 and unfortunately its in 904 as well. For now you should not use them or remove them from your second display. Also any changes you make when you edit the menu of the second display will change the menu of your primary display as well. I'm not sure of that is part of the bug but it's good to keep in mind.  [HTML]https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/256041
[/HTML]

To launch your second profile hit ALT-F2 and type; 

firefox -no-remote -P "Whatyoucalledprofile2"

We can also launch firefox on the second screen from a launcher on our primary display. Right click your top panel and 'Add to Panel' then 'Application Launcher' and then choose firefox. Now right click the new launcher and edit properties. The default command is firefox %u. Change it to; 

firefox -no-remote -P "Whatyoucalledprofile2" --display=":0.1"

0.0 is your primary and 0.1 your secondary. 
Now all I need to find or make is a firefox icon like the one on the top panel, but a different color. If anyone has one and would like to post it that would be awesome. 

For some strange reason if profile2 already is up and running in screen2 and I try to open a second copy I get an error, but I can open a link in a new tab or window no problem. Using the command; 

firefox -no-remote -P "default" --display="0.0"

gives me the same behaviour on my primary screen. I don't think you can call firefox using the -P profile option if you already have that profile running. Accessing firefox through the menu still works for opening a second copy if you opened profile2 since last accessing firefox from the menu on your first screen. 
Not a big deal tho, I'm glad it can work this well. If anyone could shed some light on this strange error it would be appreciated.

---

