---
title: "10.04 Edit Menu"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rlambkin on 2010-05-07
I get no action upon selecting "Applications/Edit Menus" or "System/Preferences/Main Menu". I can open alacarte with sudo, but can't save any changes.

---

### Post by okplayer02 on 2010-05-07
you can run alacarte as normal user no need to use sudo 

so try from the command line to run alacarte and see if it works that way, however if it dont work post the error message you are receiving from your terminal.

---

### Post by papajonesy on 2010-05-07
This is my fix for it. Open up a terminal and type:

```
sudo nautilus
```

Once nautilus opens browse to home/<your username>

Then press control+h to show hidden files and folders.

Now browse to /.config/menus

Right click the folder and two files and select properties, then go to the permissions tab. Set the owner as you, not root.

Presto, now you can edit your menu. ;)

---

### Post by rlambkin on 2010-05-11
> **rlambkin said:**
> I get no action upon selecting "Applications/Edit Menus" or "System/Preferences/Main Menu". I can open alacarte with sudo, but can't save any changes.

Got error on alacarte without sudo:
IOError: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '~/.config/menus/applications.menu'
My ~/.config/menus folder is owned by root. No other folder in ~/.config is owned by root. I don't know how it got that way, but is probably the reason I can't use the context click on the Applications menu nor access System/Preferences/Main Menu

I did chown on ~/.config/menus and its files. Now I can open the menu editor from the Systems/Preferences/Main Menu, but cannot edit it. If I try alacarte without sudo, I now get:
IOError: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '/home/rlambkin/.local/share/desktop-directories/Network.directory.undo-0'
Obviously another file that I must chown. How did this all get this way?

---

### Post by meng1usa on 2010-06-21
> **papajonesy said:**
> This is my fix for it. Open up a terminal and type:

```
sudo nautilus
```

Once nautilus opens browse to home/<your username>

Then press control+h to show hidden files and folders.

Now browse to /.config/menus

Right click the folder and two files and select properties, then go to the permissions tab. Set the owner as you, not root.

Presto, now you can edit your menu. ;)

works for me. nice post! thank you a lot!

---

