---
title: "11.04 virtualbox on win7"
date: 2011-07-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ultratek on 2011-07-26
I am using ubuntu 11.04 through virtualbox on win7 with a gtx460
if i install nvidia-current to access the nvidia cp on reboot it locks up.

and there are no drivers in the list when using the additional drivers feature through ubuntu which is why i installed nvidia-current. i just want to see what this unity is about and have full scale resolution supported by virtualbox and my vcard as well as my monitor.

 thanks for any help :)

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-07-26
The whole thing about virtualization is to hide the hardware from the guest operating system. So VirtualBox shows your Ubuntu system standardized hardware and not what is actually installed in your system. Therefor it doesn't make sense to install nVidia drivers inside a VM since VirtualBox will provide your Ubuntu system with some kind of standard graphics.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-07-26
Indeed, a guest OS has access to a virtualised graphics device, not the host machine hardware. If you want 3d accleration in your virtualised Natty, make sure "Enable 3d acceleration" is ticked under Settings -> Display and install guest additions in your guest Ubuntu.

---

### Post by ultratek on 2011-07-26
ok i did some reading and got that all taken care of. so i am using unity now. but i cannot display above 1024.768 on a 1600 x 900 monitor lg

anyone know how to go about solving this. i read about some tricks and xorg.conf and other things but nothing works so far.

---

### Post by ultratek on 2011-07-26
SOLVED: just make sure everyone 3d acceleration is enabled on virtualbox and guest additions are installed then use the host key + F then use host key + G and it goes to full screen and switches to 16:9

thanks to :[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=521600](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=521600) and fryser_d

---

