---
title: "Drive Utility 2.3.01-SDHC series 6 chips"
date: 2010-12-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by npovey on 2010-12-03
This little darling will check the r/w performance of HC memory cards....in some fashion or other.  As [mis-] fortune would have it, I own a failed TRANSCEND 16G SDHC SERIES 6 memory card.  Posting to the HMC-150 video camera users group on the diagnosis.

I really, really need some expert feedback on the interpretation of the analysis generated by the Drive Utility.

Posting attached screen shots of: LS-1 Bad TRANSCEND SDHC
and LS-2  GOOD TRANSCEND SDHC.

TIA for your help, and thanks to Unbuntu for the great utility.

Neale Povey,  McMinnville, OR

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2010-12-05
Please do not e-mail me about this. The lack of documentation is due to it not being written yet. I have nothing to do with the lack of documentation.

However, I don't actually know what the lines denote.

---

### Post by npovey on 2010-12-08
From David Zeuthen, author of the DISK Utility and Red Hat genius:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Hi,

FWIW, many people have asked about the green stuff - basically it is a
visualization of 1000 pseudo-random seeks on the "disk". It's not very
useful for a SSD or Flash media (since there are no arm that needs to
seek in such media) but for a spinning Hard Disk it looks like e.g. this

 [http://people.freedesktop.org/~david/macbook-pro-benchmark.png]("http://people.freedesktop.org/%7Edavid/macbook-pro-benchmark.png")

Basically, the x-axis is the position on the disk while the right y-axis
is the time it took to seek to this position. Here you can almost follow
the walk and see that if you need to walk 100% of the disk then it takes
18ms and if it's 50% it is 9ms.

Thanks,
[COLOR=#888888]David

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thanks to David and Red Hat.
[/COLOR]

---

