---
title: "dual mointor randomly shuts down and locks computer"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by yuckify on 2008-11-07
I have a macbook pro with an external monitor. My laptop has an ati 1600 graphics card. When I use just my external monitor and don't move the mouse over to the laptop screen for about 10 minutes or so my laptop screen will shut down and lock up my computer. Odly enough my external monitor does not shut down respectively and music continues to play despite my computer locking up. The only way to recover is force shutdown or reset x11 by ctrl alt delete key combo. I have been looking up this problem for a while and have not found much information that helps me... I know the problem varies from computer to computer depending on xorg.conf. So if anyone will look through my xorg file and help me, I would much appreciate it.


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[1]" LeftOf "Default Screen"
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "false"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by HyperHacker on 2008-11-07
> **yuckify said:**
> The only way to recover is force shutdown or reset x11 by ctrl alt delete key combo.You mean Ctrl+Alt+Backspace? Do things on the external monitor still update? If music is still playing normally, then it must just be a display problem.

---

### Post by yuckify on 2008-11-14
By display problem do you mean hardware i.e. monitor? There is nothing wrong with the monitor by the way. My graphics card works just fine...nothing wrong with that, not a hardware problem. After I ran the command

sudo aticonfig --initial=dual-head --screen-layout=left

it started giving me trouble about locking up. I noticed under this configuration I am not able to drag windows from one monitor to another... How can I configure it so I can drag windows from one screen to another. Also, I tried the setting where one single screen is stretched across both monitors..That does not work. Because my external monitor is larger than my laptop screen the resolution on my external is much much lower than it can handle. The only way it seems it can be done is that ubuntu recognizes each monitor as separate work spaces....In which case I cannot drag windows between screens...

---

