---
title: "Disabling Gnome SSH key Dialog"
date: 2008-05-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by fu_fish on 2008-05-12
Can anyone please tell me how to disable the graphical dialog that pops up to unlock my ssh keys?  I've tried uninstalling both seahorse and ssh-askpass-gnome, but I still get this dialog box.  All I want to do is stay in my terminal window if I'm sshing from my terminal window.

Thanks!

---

### Post by weztie on 2008-05-15
I too have had this problem, and managed to disable the popups. The popup is generated by gnome-keyring-ask, but I didn't remove the application. I found the solution on the _[GnomeKeyring/Ssh]("http://live.gnome.org/GnomeKeyring/Ssh")_ page. 

What I did was to edit the id_rsa.keystore file in the .ssh subdirectory of my home area. I placed the following line after the line which starts and ends with square brackets.

```
purposes=
```

Next time I ran ssh-add, or ssh'd to a machine I was no longer prompted.

---

### Post by fu_fish on 2008-05-19
> **weztie said:**
> I too have had this problem, and managed to disable the popups. The popup is generated by gnome-keyring-ask, but I didn't remove the application. I found the solution on the _[GnomeKeyring/Ssh]("http://live.gnome.org/GnomeKeyring/Ssh")_ page.

Excellent, thanks for posting that link!  I'm much happier now.

---

### Post by egypt on 2009-04-20
This doesn't work on 8.10 (Intrepid).  There is a comment in this bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/275010](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-keyring/+bug/275010) that describes a couple other workarounds.  The one that worked for me was

1. Add the line "unset SSH_AUTH_SOCK" to ~/.xsessionrc (creating it if it doesn't exist).
2. Run gnome-session-properties and untick "GNOME Keyring Daemon Wrapper".

I've finally gotten rid of the annoying GUI in the middle of my pristine shells.

*relieved sigh*

---

### Post by bkorb on 2012-04-09
It seems the startup for gnome-keyring-daemon has been re-hidden (made to be difficult to find).
> pkill -KILL gnome-keyring-daemonFortunately, it is not process monitored, so it won't be restarted.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-04-09
Old thread closed.

---

