---
title: "12.04 Gnome Classic &quot;Places&quot; menu"
date: 2012-08-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by irishetalon007 on 2012-08-06
I'm using the "gnome classic" desktop, and I'm having a problem with the "Places" panel menu.

After adding a certain amount of bookmarks to nautilus, the Places menu collapses all bookmarks to "Bookmarks...," but the vertical length of the places menu even with the "Bookmarks" uncollapsed is nowhere near even half of my screen height. Is there any way to change the number of bookmarks that can be added to nautilus before they get collapsed in the Places menu?

Sorry if this is confusing. I wanted to post screenshots, but I guess Ubuntu can't take screenshots when a panel menu is open.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-08-06
Open the screen shot tool from Accessories and set a time delay and you will be able to open the menu and take a picture.

---

### Post by irishetalon007 on 2012-08-14
thanks, that was a useful suggestion!

so as you can see in the attached screenshots, in the first one there are 10 items in the Places menu (WHY in the world Home shows up twice is beyond me...).

As soon as I add an eleventh, they get compiled into a single "bookmarks" button which is rather annoying. Is there any way to tweak this?

thanks!

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-08-14
This occurs for me in the Gnome Shell and reason in my case was that I was testing the Marlin File Manager and I had two file managers.   

You can open the main menu application and see if there are two entries checked for files. The entries appear under accessories on my computer.

---

### Post by irishetalon007 on 2013-04-18
Sorry to bump my own thread, but this issue is unsolved.

To clarify: after installing Gnome 3 in Ubuntu 12.04 and running my session with "gnome classic," when clicking the places menu, it collapses all nautilus bookmarked shortcuts to "Bookmarks" WELL before the original Places menu can even fill up the entire vertical screen. If I remove enough of my nautilus shortcuts, the all shortcuts are visible on the main "Places" menu and the "Bookmarks" option disappears.

---

### Post by rrich1974 on 2013-04-18
let me tell you something....
yesterday i have installed gnome shell over my ubuntu 12.04 but i can tell you that is not good as a native gnome 3 distribution like fedora. 
if you really want gnome shell, maybe a good idea will be to use ubuntu gnome. 
otherwise, stick to unity.

---

