---
title: "Gnome menu folder freezes in alacarte"
date: 2011-03-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by MishMich on 2011-03-29
I have a bizarre problem.

I installed Wine, and there was a problem with the way I installed some Adobe Elements 7 plug-ins, so trying to remove everything, finding just uninstalling PSE7 didn't cut it, I removed Wine completely (purge uninstall), deleted everything under .wine, and re-installed, along with other apps, and the plug-ins.  Worked fine.

But before I did that, I noticed that in the 'Other' menu folder, a whole load of unchecked wine apps had been generated - like every MS.office app, only several times.  This was still there, even though I did not re-install it (I was seeing if it worked with EndNote X2 under Wine - which it didn't).

But then I tried editing some of the other menus, and all appear OK except the 'science' menu folder.  This has about 6 astronomy packages in it.  When I try to open that menu in alacarte, it freezes for a couple of minutes.  Then I can check/uncheck an item - but each time I do any action within that menu folder, or access or quit it, alacarte freezes for 2-3 minutes every time.

I have tried to follow various explanations of where the config files might be kept - but cannot find the relevant ones.  I tried doing a reinstall of alacarte, then reinstalled the gnome menus - which helped tidy up a bit, but still found the science menu freezes.

I deleted the unwanted menu items generated by Wine (as well as Ocular, which did the same thing).

Thanks.

---

