---
title: "19.10 - top edge of windows no longer draggable"
date: 2019-11-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Moses_Moore on 2019-11-25
Since upgrading to Xubuntu 19.10 , no longer can I grab the top edge of windows to resize them.  I end up having to drag the entire window away from the bottom edge of the display to make the bottom edge available for dragging.  (at least LAlt-click-drag still works)

How can I restore the grab-the-top-edge window behaviour?  I had it in 19.04.

xubuntu-desktop package is version 2.231

[and, for the forum moderators: "tiling window manager" is one of the suggested tags for this post, but when I use it I get the error "You specified a tag that was too long". ]

---

### Post by vanadium on 2019-11-26
That will depend on the window manager theme you are using. Try changing to another theme: this will allow you to identify if indeed it is the theme having the issue.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2019-11-26
I wouldn't bother trying to restore that functionality since XFCE offers something better: hold left alt and drag with the **right** mouse button. This resizes the window from the corner the pointer is closest to. Works even with windows that have all four corners outside the viewport.

Holger

---

### Post by Moses_Moore on 2019-11-27
I tried the other themes (Adwaita-dark, Greybird, Numix, Raleigh) and it made no difference so I put it back to Adwaita.  Still no grabbing the top edge.
Then I tried the LAlt+RMB to resize windows and that works.   ... after trying that, a mouseover flickered at the top of the window, and I saw that I can grab the top edges of windows now.

Bizarre.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2019-11-27
> hold left alt and drag with the right mouse button Oh wow! I've been using Xubuntu for years and didn't ever find that. Thank you.

I normally use clearlooks, but I also tried adwaita and I get a mouseover on all sides except when the window is maximised. Odd.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2019-11-27
... and to complete the list of little-known XFCE Alt-mouse button tricks: Alt+MMB=put window at the bottom of the stack, Alt+Mouse wheel=zoom (up=in,down=out) (rather useful if I'm not wearing my reading glasses ...). In older versions of XFCE Alt+wheel on the title bar of a window would allow you to turn it transparent. If you turn zoom_desktop to false in the channel xfwm4 in xfconf you get that behaviour back, but you loose the ability to zoom.

Holger

---

