---
title: "Screen resolution for 2 monitor"
date: 2008-12-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pdah on 2008-12-20
Hi everybody,
I'm having ubuntu 8.10 on my laptop which has a widescreen monitor, my resolution on this screen is 1024x768. When I plug my laptop to an LCD monitor which is not widescreen, the resolution is still 1024x768 and I can't change it to another one ( like 1280x1024 which is not widescreen ).
My video card is "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
Can you help me to figure out this one ?
This is the content of my xorg.conf :
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


---

### Post by pdah on 2008-12-20
By the way, I tried to run dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but after configuring the keyboard, it exits. I cannot go to video configuration.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-12-20
To reconfigure video you add the -phigh option

dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

unfortunately I've always used nvidia's x configuration tool to configure dual screen setups (and that wasn't working right last time I tried it in 8.10) so I can't be of help with the configuration

---

### Post by pdah on 2008-12-20
Yes I tried with that command, too. But it doesn't display anything except the backup file notification

---

