---
title: "16.04 Xenial scrollbars"
date: 2016-08-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by coverup1128 on 2016-08-09
I have seen many posts about overlay scrollbars in Xenial, but none answered the question I have.

No matter what setting for scrollbars I choose in the Unity tweak or dconf-editor, I have a thin narrow line instead of a scrollbar in applications such as Terminal or Nautilus. It widens when I point the mouse pointer at the window border.  

In other applications, such as Emacs, with the default scrolling settings, the scrollbar line is thin and very short (typically, I work with large documents), this makes it even harder to see. When set to the legacy setting, this thin narrow line disappears altogether in Emacs, and I cannot even see where I am within the document; this makes navigation through the document unbearable - I must click somewhere on the window edge to see the scrollbar, which takes me away from the paragraph I am editing.  On the other hand, in firefox the scrollbar is reasonably wide and does not change its width.   

Is there any way to have usable scrollbars for all applications which are wide, visible and have constant width? I hardly remember a single user who welcomed this latest `scrollbar innovation'. I don't believe this cannot be changed - Even 14.04 overlay scrollbars were more usable and it was easy to switch to the classic scrollbars if the users did not like them.

If that matters, I use Gnome-flashback (Metacity), but the problem persists even when I switch to Unity. I use the Radiance theme.

Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-08-09
What about gedit and evince? And Synaptic Package Manager (if you have it). How do the scrollbars appear in those applications?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2016-08-09
Until you get it sorted, remember that you can generally use the scrollwheel, or scroll gesture if you're using a touchpad, to scroll up and down in documents. You don't necessarily have to fight with the teeny tiny scrollbars.

---

### Post by coverup1128 on 2016-08-10
Apparently, there is some sort of fix

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/722701/is-it-possible-to-restore-traditional-full-width-scrollbars-15-10](http://askubuntu.com/questions/722701/is-it-possible-to-restore-traditional-full-width-scrollbars-15-10)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/707138/is-it-possible-to-make-the-scrollbars-wider-in-15-10#answer-707156](http://askubuntu.com/questions/707138/is-it-possible-to-make-the-scrollbars-wider-in-15-10#answer-707156)

I tried these suggestions and was able to make scrollbars wider. However I hit another problem in that in some applications scrollbars were disappearing after a short while, and in emacs I still had to click to see the scroll bar. It's a real pain since emacs is one of the main applications I use. Several other applications (such as nautlilus) have no borders, and when the windows overlay firefox or each other, you won't be able to tell one window from another.  Unfortunately, these usability issues are a show stopper for me - for time being I am switching to 14.04 LTS.

---

