---
title: "E17"
date: 2008-02-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by siddartha on 2008-02-22
Hello,

I am a Enlightenment newbie. I tried it years ago, back in the days of early Durons and found it quite slw and heavy. Well, I was coming from WindowMaker, to which I came back. Now, going from Gnome the choice is obvious - Enlightenment is lightning fast and light on the resources. I am using a E17 desktop from their repository for Ubuntu.

The interface is intuitive as I never had any need for a manual and the OsX like interface is amazing. My first complaint was the lack of a system tray. I solved this quickly by getting stalonetray, choosing a place for it and sticking it to the desktop. So far so good.

Made a list of icons/shortcuts on a autohidden bar on the right side. The problem is that the icons don't always react (might be that I clicked on a transparent "cutout" part of the icon?) and that sometimes the bar appears and forgets to disappear - solved by hovering the mouse over the icons. Now, I'm rethinking the need for such functionality as there is the favorites menu which does the exact same thing but not by popping up but by right clicking on the desktop.

First problem: how do I make menus react faster? I have all these options (items) glowing nicely and than I have to wait with the pointer over the chosen one till the submenu is opened. If I get inpatient and click on the item the menu closes. Is there a way to make the submenu be snappy and just pop-up almost instant?

Also there is a list of apps that is searched by the run command while you type the name. This can be useful or just a lot of overhead. Is there a way to control this behaviour? Maybe just to make it a regular run where you type the name and wish for the best?

The application list from where you chose to populate the launcher area is also built up and it's not extremely precise either - some apps are missing. How is this working and how can it be tweaked, maybe my configuration has some problems and I can fix it myself.

One more thing: removable drives. They just pop up. It's excellent. It's great. It's hard to use as the file manager is still rudimentary. I can't find the mount point either in the "modern" /media or in the "classical" /mnt either. Yet, they are mounted that is for sure. Yet, I can't use another file manager to access the files as there is no obvious mount point. Also, I like the idea that the removable drives are autoaligned yet they have no icon. Is there a way to set a icon in advance? For example the main removable drive has it's own device file set up so there is no need to use the drive's signature. It can be done just in relation with the device name.

About automount the removable drives. I can mount them by hand in the obvious place /media and they work no problem. Yet, those automounted by E17 are not set to UTF8 and there are problems with the filename encoding. Where can be this set up?

Cheers,
Sidd

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2008-02-22
I think you are running e16 from the Ubuntu repro Try this link for e17
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=546746](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=546746)

---

### Post by siddartha on 2008-02-22
I have written E17, not E16. From the dunnewind repository which seems to be the official one. I guess that you don't actually have an answer... just a need to increase the beancount.

---

### Post by masterpiga on 2008-06-13
Same problem here. Installed e17 from the repo, anything is (well, quite) fine, but the way mounted media is handled is rather obscure. Anybody can provide some insights? Thanks

---

### Post by siddartha on 2008-06-16
> **masterpiga said:**
> Same problem here. Installed e17 from the repo, anything is (well, quite) fine, but the way mounted media is handled is rather obscure. Anybody can provide some insights? Thanks

Not in this community.

---

