---
title: "Gnome session resets Xorg layout"
date: 2013-02-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DXist on 2013-02-25
Hi!

I have Ubuntu 12.10 system with TwinView dualhead setup. I have correct Xorg.conf generated by nvidia-settings. After I login in GDM my .xinitrc runs:
> 
#!/usr/bin/env bash
~/.xinitrc.awesome &
exec ck-launch-session gnome-session --session=gnome-fallback # ck-launch-session is advised for the dbus stuff to work fine.

The problem is that gnome-session resets my TwinView setup and displays the same on both screens.

The problem occured about a month ago (because of updates I think). I had no problems before.
Is it a bug?

---

### Post by MacBooom on 2013-02-26
Had some troubles myself with dual monitors, constantly wrong screen as primary, then found this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12288993&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12288993&postcount=4)

i solved my problem with:
> 
I had to disable the XrandR plugin for the gnome-settings-daemon because the default mirror setting interferes. I guess the Nvidia gui had been hiding that little issue. First install dconf-editor:
```

sudo apt-get install dconf-editor
```
then open it. Now navigate to org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.xrandr and uncheck the active box for the xrandr plug-in. Your xrandr static configuration should no longer be overwritten when you restart.

Onces i disabled xrandr, my dual monitor setup functions properly and follow xorg.conf

---

### Post by DXist on 2013-02-27
> **MacBooom said:**
> 

Onces i disabled xrandr, my dual monitor setup functions properly and follow xorg.conf

That worked for me. Thank you so much!

---

