---
title: ".rar .iso video??"
date: 2006-03-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-03-16
I have a couple of large folders that are supposed to be videos/DVD's, but who ever encoded them left them in the format of about 40 .rar files in one, and 30 .iso files in another..

On my xbox (with XBMC), you could watch them (for a while) over samba, and the .iso one has always worked (brings you to DVD menu), but now the .rar one doesn't work at all. Supposedly the xbox saw a bunch of .rar files but within the 40 .rar's were two 'special' files that had different color icons, and were able to launch a DVD menu. 

I say supposedly, because I didn't see this for myself, it is my friends testimony. On my PC, the files look the same as they always have:

part01.rar part02.rar part03.rar etc.

Any idea how to watch these? Where to find a special codec etc? I have tried all the major media players (VLC XINE etc). Xine tells me it can't find demux for the file, mplayer says something similar, but plays a distored blinking video.. :-k Totem + VLC give me nothing.. BTW I realize its the codecs that are important, and that the players are basically just frontends, but I tend to get different results with different players, and I've heard VLC comes with some codecs etc. Anyway, none of the above work.

---

### Post by sublime on 2006-03-16
a .rar is a compressed file like zip.  a .iso is a cd image.  you need to extract the files inside into one single file.  usually you can do this just by extracting whats in the first and itll automatically extract whats in all the others.  i knwo this is the case using winrar (a windows utility) however im not sure about the linux equivalent.  you can get it through automatix though and i believe it is called file roller, but im not sure.

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-03-16
Thanks for reply!

I have tried this already, and inside exists only yet another .rar and another .iso. I think they are meant to be executed as they are, as clicking on the first .iso on my xbox launches the dvd menu, and aparently the .rar folder did the same.

There must be some codec on my box that I don't have on my PC, but automatix should have given me everything I would imagine.. :-k

This is really annoying.. I really want to watch this thing

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-03-21
bump

it's been a while, no new ideas.

No one has used this type of media?

---

### Post by scarp on 2006-03-21
Have you tried unrarlib for mplayer?

[http://www.unrarlib.org/](http://www.unrarlib.org/)

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-03-21
News to me!
Thanks scarp I will check into this.
Do you know what it actually does? It looks like just a .rar decompressor, but it also refers to multimedia and Mplayer as well.
If I compile this will it enable Mplayer to encode these files, or maybe play them?

---

### Post by scarp on 2006-03-22
> Do you know what it actually does? It looks like just a .rar decompressor, but it also refers to multimedia and Mplayer as well.
If I compile this will it enable Mplayer to encode these files, or maybe play them?

Im not 100% sure what it really does, cause I have never tried it. But if I understand it correctly, it can access the contents of a .rar-archive without extracting the .rar-files first.

MPlayer uses this to access movie-files that are packed into a .rar-archive. This way you don't need to extract the .rar-files first, and then play the outcome. This is probably what happened on your Xbox (xbmc uses mplayer).

Remember: You need to have all the files in the .rar-archive! Else you dont have the whole movie!

---

