---
title: "X errors with DDD and ptkdb"
date: 2007-02-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by HardKnox on 2007-02-22
I can't seem to get either of these apps to run.  As you can see, both have the same error with "BadValue" and "X_OpenFont".  Can anyone give me an idea as to what is going on? I've searched the forum, but I haven't found anything similar.  Thanks, Blake.

When I run ddd I get the following console output:

_____________________________________________________________________________
[email]blakea@blakea-linux:~/.ddd[/email]$ ddd
X Error of failed request:  BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  45 (X_OpenFont)
  Value in failed request:  0x360002d
  Serial number of failed request:  195
  Current serial number in output stream:  196
Warning: Cannot convert string "-*-helvetica-medium-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*" to type FontStruct
(Annoyed?  Try 'Edit->Preferences->General->Suppress X Warnings'!)

warning: Can't read pathname for load map: Input/output error.

Internal error (Segmentation fault).

Oops!  You have found a bug in DDD.

If you can reproduce this bug, please send a bug report
to <ddd@gnu.org>, giving a subject like

    DDD 3.3.11 (i486-pc-linux-gnu) gets `Segmentation fault' signal

To enable us to fix the bug, you should include the following information:
* What you were doing to get this message.  Report all the facts.
* The contents of the `~/.ddd/log' file as generated by this session.
Please read also the section "Reporting Bugs" in the DDD manual.

We thank you for your support.

Segmentation fault (core dumped)
__________________________________________________________________________________________

When I run perl -d:ptkdb I get this:

___________________________________________________________________________________
blakea@blakea-linux:~/perl_apps$ perl -d:ptkdb oldest_file *
X Error of failed request:  BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  45 (X_OpenFont)
  Value in failed request:  0x2a0005a
  Serial number of failed request:  790
  Current serial number in output stream:  791
_________________________________________________________________________________

---

