---
title: "How to make languages/keyboard setup permanent?"
date: 2009-03-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-03-14
I found another languages in dell mini Ubuntu 8.04, but problem is now this one: after restart the Ubuntu loses my Languages Setup. There are still supported languages listed in panel, but keyboard layout doesn´t recognize them. So i need every time to add some new language in System, or to choice some keyboard layout, and then are my languages again there and keyboard layout is ok. Does anyone know what do i have to do, not to make this each time when i restart my Dell?
I read in some forums that other had problems with this, but no solution. Anyone knows what to do?
Thanks
SOLVED: just needed to erase "us" in xorg.conf file, and replace it with needed codes (de-german, hr-croatian, cs-serbian). Then you can set it up in keyboard gnome setup just as well, and everything works fine...

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-07-12
Ok i am back. I installed ubuntu 9.04, and of course, after restart i have only one keyboard setup (main-german) and can not switch to another language. In 8.04 i fix it in xorg.con, but now there is no "language/keyboard" section. Does anyone knows how to make Ubuntu 9.04 to remember after restart other languages/keyboard outputs? Otherwise, i have to add manually languages after each restart.

Thanks

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-07-12
Ok, found solution here (thanks taylork on mydelllmini forum):
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7602410#post7602410](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7602410#post7602410)

SOLVED!

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-07-12
NOT SOLVED.

So, after restart, there is another Language option in keyboard layout, but as soon i start to type with external keyboard (apple) it dissapears.

Any clue?

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-07-12
So, this is my /etc/x11/xorg.conf

[SIZE="3"][SIZE="1"][I][I][B][I]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	1366 1368
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
[/I][/B][/I][/I][/SIZE][/SIZE]

But in ubuntu 8.04 i had keyboards options-something like this:

Option "XkbLayout" "us"

but now there it is not. Does anyone knows how to make these keyboard adjustments?

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-07-12
SOLVED:

In /etc/default/console-setup i added in: XKBLAYOUT="de" needed  languages. Now external and internal keyboard are working properly.

---

