---
title: "11.04 Not mounting USB and CD player"
date: 2011-09-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by roystreet on 2011-09-30
Hello,
   I was able to install ubuntu with ease, no problems via a CD.  I noticed the other day that when I plug in a thumbdrive, the light on the thumbdrive lights up, but ubuntu doesn't recognize it's there.  I believe I've tried a couple of them with no avail.
    What initially made me notice this was I put a CD in the CD player & it wont mount that either.  It acts as if I haven't placed a CD in the drive.  

    I've looked & looked & can't find any resolution as most posts are about installing ubuntu.  I've used previous versions of ubuntu on this machine with no problem at all.  This is fresh out of the box install with practically nothing installed.

Any Thoughts?

Thanks,
   -roystreet

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2011-09-30
maybe your fstab is messed up....i have no expierience with mounting tho, as i also have never encountered any problems...this is the downside when everything works out-of-the-box i guess...missing on all that expirience

---

### Post by roystreet on 2011-10-01
I appreciate your response...Are there any other thoughts out there?

Anyone know how to change this?...Would it be best to reinstall the OS :( since this a clean install, I wouldn't really be losing anything?

Thanks,
~roystreet

---

### Post by roystreet on 2011-10-01
I just discovered that if I plug my iPhone into it, it will mount the iPhone & I can copy pictures from it to my desktop...So usb works, but when I plug a thumbdrive in, still a no go?  This is very strange

Hmmmm...Any thoughts on this one?

Thanks,
   ~roystreet

---

