---
title: "14.04 boot problem (stalls after splash screen)"
date: 2015-03-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Graham_Ashcroft on 2015-03-07
Hope I'm posting this in the correct place - have been happily running 14.04 LTS for a while but, after downloading a utility from the software centre and, running a tidy up it now won't boot. I can't remember exactly which files it deleted  (think it was generic headers). I have managed to install 12 LTS alongside it and, can see the 14.04 filesystem but, am not sure what I need to check so, would appreciate any pointers. I'm running a Dell Inspiron 1300 and, the 32bit version of Ubuntu. I've also tried booting from Grub in recovery mode and, everything seems to work but, do get a message that lightdm failed to start so, tried starting it via command line without success. I'm fairly sure it's something stupid which I've done to cause this and, if/when solved will leave well alone in future.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-08
If you can boot in recovery mode to a command line then you need to restore whatever was deleted.
Some applications are dependencies on the desktop, so then everything gets deleted. 

If running standard desktop you can try just restoring the entire desktop.

       sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

---

### Post by Graham_Ashcroft on 2015-03-09
Hi, tried running the command but it says "is already the newest version" but tried another reboot and just get the same thing, Ubuntu splash screen displays ok but then just goes to a blank screen with cursor at top left (did also check filesystem etc while in recovery mode and, all comes up as ok).
Is there any sort of recover or repair type command I could try from the command line?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-09
Is this then a video driver issue?
Did you uninstall whatever video driver you had installed?
What video card/chip do you have.

       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
Possible boot options suggested by ubfan1
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710)

---

### Post by Graham_Ashcroft on 2015-03-09
Tried with NOMODESET and, it will boot ok into command line, still get the message about LightDM failed to load so, would seem you are right about it being a video driver issue - used the LSPCI command and, that says it's Intel mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML express graphics (rev 03) - I didn't knowingly uninstall the video driver but looking around the forum 'headers-generic' seem to be related to this and, that's what I think was deleted. I'm looking at this from 10.12 and, can see the 14.04 filesystem so, can I simply copy something from one to the other to get 14.04 working again? Don't know if this is relevant but, just prior to this problem, there was an update that failed but, it had done the same thing a couple of days previously and, that didn't seem to affect anything

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-09
Updates that do not complete cause all sorts of issues.
But Intel really only has one driver and it should work.
Some version do require the extra boot options in place but like nomodeset, see other boot options and try those.

---

### Post by Graham_Ashcroft on 2015-03-10
While I'm willing to have a go, have only been using Ubuntu for less than 12 months so, not sure if I've done this correctly - followed the link in the above post and, tried adding them via Grub after 'quiet splash' i.e. 'acpi_osi=' , acpi_osi= Linux acp_backlight=vendor & acpi_osi= "Linux" but, each time with the same result (just get blank screen with cursor at top left). It also occured to me while in Grub to compare what was in the 14.04 version (which doesn't work) with the 12.04 version (which does work) and, apart from the difference (in partition?) msdos5 in 14.04 and msdos7 in 12.04 - 14.04 has at the start:-
setparms 'ubuntu'

recordfail
load_video
gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
insmod gzio

I did try commenting out (with #) all the above lines with the exception of setparms but, still went to the blank screen - if I use 'nomodeset' it will boot ok into command line so, could it be something to do with starting the GUI?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-03-10
The Intel boot parameters are these, try each but be sure to use your screen size not example:
i915.i915_enable_rc6=1
video=1280x1024-24@60
video=VGA-1:1280x1024-24@60

---

### Post by Graham_Ashcroft on 2015-03-13
Many thanks for your help and, much as I was enjoying our transatlantic conversation, as you said these problems are difficult to resolve so, took the 'nuclear' option and, upgraded the 12.04 install to 14.04, that caused me a whole other set of problems (now resolved thanks to these forums) but, am now going to adopt a very old adage (if you don't know what you're doing, don't f**k with it!) and, not delete anything I didn't create in the first place. So, please close this off as 'PICNIC' (problem in chair, not in computer) I've learned my lesson - I even had to resort using Windows for a day or so and, don't want to have to repeat that!

---

