---
title: "14.04 Missing login prompt after screensaver"
date: 2014-06-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jsgarvin on 2014-06-05
I recently installed 14.04 on a clean partition.   Occasionally,  after the machine wakes from the screensaver,  the login screen is missing the text box where I would enter my password,  which naturally prevents me from being able to login.  This happens about once every 10 to 20 wakes,  but once it happens,  it's stuck.  Waiting for the screensaver to start again and then rewaking the computer doesn't seem to help.   Is this a known bug,  and what can I do to work around it until it's fixed?

Screenshot: [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BxFqH5603QcAU2ktcHBOX25tZm8/edit?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BxFqH5603QcAU2ktcHBOX25tZm8/edit?usp=sharing)

---

### Post by Cbhihe on 2014-06-06
Please give us details about your hardware config and circumstances of your recent install.
(e.g dual boot ? any error at all during install ? other user accounts ? procedure to wake up your machine, etc, etc.) 
It might help us understanding before more help comes your way.
-ced

PS: If you have not done anything yet with your Ubuntu install in the way of config etc, the best solution 
might just be to circumvent the problem, crush your present install and ... install again. 
I did re-installed 4 times before I was content with my env. An install lasts from 20 to 50 min.

---

### Post by Alexander_Wait_Zar on 2014-10-02
I have the same problem.   I find maybe once a week (every 10-20 wakes after the screen-saver activates) that I cannot login with the same symptoms as the other post.   There are no other users on the machine and I run 14.04 exclusively. Not sure what hardware details are relevant?  It is a 16GiB AMD desktop box w/ [AMD/ATI] BeaverCreek [Radeon HD 6530D] integrated GPU/video.   Happy to provide any other info that is requested.   

I can login again after killing X but, obviously, lose my session.  I grep for X with ps and kill the process ID.

This post also seems to be related to this [bug report.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2242771")

---

