---
title: "Firefox 1.5.0.4 upgrade troubles"
date: 2006-06-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Onos on 2006-06-08
Hello!

I recently upgraded to Dapper (6.06) running Gnome from Breezy. I have two users on it, myself and my wife, who runs things in Japanese.

I had Firefox 1.5 running on it, and after the upgrade, I tried to use Nanotube's script to upgrade it to FF 1.5.0.4 - which worked quite nicely as my account has sudo access.

When my wife went to log in, FF would not work well; it started up (appeared on the taskbar) but then died off.

I've tried a variety of things including giving my wife's account sudo rights and trying to run the script via her account, but nothing seems to work.

Anyone got any suggestions?

Respectfully,

Onos

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-06-08
[QUOTE=Onos]
I had Firefox 1.5 running on it, and after the upgrade, I tried to use Nanotube's script to upgrade it to FF 1.5.0.4 - which worked quite nicely as my account has sudo access.[/QUOTE] The script uses *sudo* only to install things. It doesn't mean you have to use *sudo* to start Firefox.

Can you log into your wife's account and post back here output of this terminal command? ```
firefox
```

---

### Post by Onos on 2006-06-08
Hmmm. Some general wierdness....

1) Logged in under wife's account, ran firefox in a terminal:

It spat up some string in Japanese characters which amounted to some sort of error message (unfortunately, I am typing this on my Win XP machine which doesn't have Japanese text input... so transcribing it is not easily done).
atat
2) Figuring I would get the same error in English, I re-logged (back under her account) with the language set to English for that session. FF 1.5.0.4 worked just fine.

Being somewhat baffled, I thought that there was something wacky that happened in the processes that handle the switch off between languages.

I noticed that in the system tray, there was this message:

[I](Big blob of Japanese text)...

"Error: Opening the cache (E:Opening /etc/apt/sources.list - ifstream::ifstream(13 Permission denied), E:The list of sources could not be read.)"[/I]

3) Relogged again to her account, in the Japanese profile, and tried to launch it from terminal, and it simply hung.

Same error message in the system tray also.



I am at a loss... the sources.list thing I am not sure about, as when I did the upgrade to dapper, I used the Update Manager which used the stock official sources by default.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-06-08
That's beyond me. I'm not sure why Firefox would even want to access /etc/apt/sources.list in the first place.

---

### Post by frying_fish on 2006-06-08
They sound like unrelated issues to me, the firefox one is probably because you downloaded the english version, so will need a japanese version (or at least the language files for it) for hers, the sources list issues, well that I don't know, but I don't think its connected.

---

### Post by Onos on 2006-06-08
Also of interest:

Looking back at the spam generated by the script, at the end of it is this:

```

Leaving 'local diversion of /usr/bin/firefox to /usr/bin/firefox.ubuntu'
ln: `/opt/firefox/firefox' symbolic link `/usr/bin/firefox' *(Japanese trs: files already exists)*
```

It is starting to come back now: when I did the original install of Breezy in January, trying to upgrade from FF 1.0.7 to 1.5.0 was nothing short of a nightmare... I think I had to grab the 1.5.0 from a debian source. ](*,)

---

### Post by jgcamp99 on 2006-06-08
This is too easy, all I did was re-enable root to be able to log into gnome. Sudo is a nice security feature, but I prefer to be able to be root/administrator on my computer ! Log into Ubuntu as "root".

After that open a x-terminal session and type in @ the prompt:

"xhost +"

without the quotation marks and press enter. Leave the terminal session open.

Download FF 1.5.0.4 in tarball format from Mozilla's website to your desktop. Unzip it there and copy the entire Firefox folder and overwrite and replace Firefox folder in:

/usr/lib. 

Then back in your terminal session, @ the prompt, type in:

"xhost -"

and press the return or enter key.

Log out, log back in and it's done. Open Firefox and check it out in Help, About Mozilla Firefox, indicates it's 1.5.0.4. Log in as other users to verify the update happened. It even takes you to the Firefox has been updated webpage.

---

### Post by jgcamp99 on 2006-06-08
You know what's also really cool about re-enabling root to log in ? You can set up Firefox to check for automatic updates and do it as root from time to time thru the Firefox Preferences. Then as root, you just have it automatically update it for you. You can also copy files to any part of the directory tree with root. It's powerful to be able to have that, try doing it as the sudo user. Being denied is no way to go thru life and learning Linux.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-06-08
[QUOTE=jgcamp99]You know what's also really cool about re-enabling root to log in ? You can set up Firefox to check for automatic updates and do it as root from time to time thru the Firefox Preferences. Then as root, you just have it automatically update it for you. You can also copy files to any part of the directory tree with root. It's powerful to be able to have that, try doing it as the sudo user. Being denied is no way to go thru life and learning Linux.[/QUOTE] It's a lot easier, actually, to just press Alt-F2 and type ```
gksudo firefox
``` than to log in as root separately and then launch Firefox and then log out.

---

### Post by Rondonjin on 2006-06-08
[QUOTE=jgcamp99]You know what's also really cool about re-enabling root to log in ? You can set up Firefox to check for automatic updates and do it as root from time to time thru the Firefox Preferences. Then as root, you just have it automatically update it for you. You can also copy files to any part of the directory tree with root. It's powerful to be able to have that, try doing it as the sudo user. Being denied is no way to go thru life and learning Linux.[/QUOTE]

In /usr/lib/firefox there's a file called firefox.cfg, the contents of which are:

//
lockPref("app.update.enabled", false);

I changed it to 'true' and ran firefox with sudo. The 'Check for Updates' option is no longer greyed out and it happily goes off looking for an update but comes back empty handed :( 

Wayne

---

### Post by jgcamp99 on 2006-06-08
Rondonjin, Sudo has left me empty handed more than once and I chose not to fight that battle any longer. Change it back to what it was before and try aysiu's method, if it works for you, fine. If it doesn't, follow the steps I outlined. aysiu's method teaches you the sudo way. Mine, you learn a little more about Linux, even understand the OS better as root/administrator. I'm not afraid to be root on my system. I can't screw up Ubuntu no matter how hard I try, it won't let me, it'll let me do things, but in the end, it either works perfectly or nothing happens. In the latter case any new files I copied that don't work, I track and then remove by deleting them or putting them in the trash. No harm, no foul.

---

### Post by Rondonjin on 2006-06-09
[QUOTE=jgcamp99]Rondonjin, Sudo has left me empty handed more than once and I chose not to fight that battle any longer. Change it back to what it was before and try aysiu's method, if it works for you, fine. If it doesn't, follow the steps I outlined. aysiu's method teaches you the sudo way. Mine, you learn a little more about Linux, even understand the OS better as root/administrator. I'm not afraid to be root on my system. I can't screw up Ubuntu no matter how hard I try, it won't let me, it'll let me do things, but in the end, it either works perfectly or nothing happens. In the latter case any new files I copied that don't work, I track and then remove by deleting them or putting them in the trash. No harm, no foul.[/QUOTE]

Don't worry, I know how to use root, I came from Mandrake/Mandriva > Ubuntu Breezy > Fedora Core 5 and now Dapper, but thinking of going back to FC5 because there are so many problems with Dapper with apps not working and the crappy DBCS font rendering :-(

Just I haven't bothered to enable root, not until things start working!

Wayne

---

### Post by Rondonjin on 2006-06-09
[QUOTE=Rondonjin]Don't worry, I know how to use root, I came from Mandrake/Mandriva > Ubuntu Breezy > Fedora Core 5 and now Dapper, but thinking of going back to FC5 because there are so many problems with Dapper with apps not working and the crappy DBCS font rendering :-(

Just I haven't bothered to enable root, not until things start working!

Wayne[/QUOTE]

Forgot to mention that if I want to copy/move files as root I added a shortcut using:

gksu gnome-commander

That assumes you have Gnome-Commander installed of course :-)

If you're really an old die-hard you can make one for Midnight Commander :mrgreen: 

I wouldn't actually login as root but in a terminal type 'su' and give my password and work from there.

Wayne

---

### Post by Stereotypical Rage on 2006-06-09
"sudo -s"
Enter pass.
Logged in as root from there.

This is what I do when I need root privs in a command line. I have not seen it expire on me. I have seen sudo expire.

---

### Post by FredB on 2006-06-09
You don't have to do any tweaking for installing fx 1.5.0.4. It is available in **official** updates.

---

### Post by mannheim on 2006-06-09
Returning to the original theme of the thread, FredB sounds the right note:

> You don't have to do any tweaking for installing fx 1.5.0.4. It is available in official updates.

Absolutely! If firefox 1.5.0.x appears one week, we'll have it in the repositories the next week, most likely. Sure we can install our own mozilla-branded firefox in /opt, or try running firefox with root priveliges, so that we can have version 1.5.0.x one week earlier than the repositories do. But a week later, it may prove to be more trouble than it is worth.

Yes, 1.5.0.4 has closed a few security weaknesses; but how many ubuntu users have had their machines compromised by those weaknesses in the past week on account of staying with 1.5.0.3? I would guess zero. In my own case, I would reckon I am much more likely to compromise my machine by running firefox as root.

---

### Post by FredB on 2006-06-09
> **mannheim]Returning to the original theme of the thread, FredB sounds the right note:

Absolutely! If firefox 1.5.0.x appears one week, we'll have it in the repositories the next week, most likely. Sure we can install our own mozilla-branded firefox in /opt, or try running firefox with root priveliges, so that we can have version 1.5.0.x one week earlier than the repositories do. But a week later, it may prove to be more trouble than it is worth.[/quote]

I am not really using a lot ubuntu branded firefox because I am using self made trunk firefox builds  said:**
> 
Yes, 1.5.0.4 has closed a few security weaknesses; but how many ubuntu users have had their machines compromised by those weaknesses in the past week on account of staying with 1.5.0.3? I would guess zero. In my own case, I would reckon I am much more likely to compromise my machine by running firefox as root.

I do agree. But having the last version could be great in avoid possible threats.

---

### Post by matthew on 2006-06-09
I moved the posts about the merits of sudo vs enabling the root account to this location: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1117654](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1117654)

Now this thread can get back to the issue in the title: Firefox 1.5.0.4 upgrade troubles

---

