---
title: "12.04 Black screen on wake up"
date: 2013-04-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by goldstein2034 on 2013-04-08
Hello everyone, 

I have seen many reports in this issue (rather old) and I want to ask if there is a solution. 

When I leave my laptop closed, even if I set all options (at least all I found) as never to set sleep mode, as I open it I see a blanck screen (with the mouse pointer visible). It is not possible to login or anything. I generally do cntrl alt F1 and restart, but it is a real pain in the ass... I read it comes from problems from the gnome version in Ubuntu 12.04.

Did anybody find a solution for it? 

Thank you for your help, and sorry if I duplicate the issue...

---

### Post by kuifje09 on 2013-04-08
Maybe this can help you.
When my "desktop" freezes I do the following to restart the displaymanager:

CTRL-ALT-PrintScreen-K     all together.

You need to log in afterwards but easier then reboot.

Wow, I now realize on a laptop this key-combination can be hard to use. I am sure it can be reconfigured but cannot find how at the moment.

---

### Post by kuifje09 on 2013-04-08
To redefine the Kill-X keyboard shortcut :  [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1777197.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1777197.html)

But If I am right, there might be some problem with your DPMS setting on your laptob.
You can try reinstall  DPMS   , maybe it helps.
I also have seen people who disabled DPMS. I don't know what you can do best.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-04-09
There might be a micro switch in the hinge that switches of the screen whether you like it or not and that in turn might put Ubuntu into screen saver mode. How long do you wait? It sometimes takes a few seconds for Ubuntu to wake up and give you a log in panel.

Regards.

---

### Post by goldstein2034 on 2013-04-10
Thank you for your help everyone! 

I will try that solution. I never heard of a 4 button combo... xD  

I don't know what is that "DPMS"... could you shed some light into the matter? :)

---

