---
title: "[13.04] Move Unity Launcher to bottom screen"
date: 2013-05-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-23
My two older post (see it [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147698") & [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147537")) as been closed ... so i make a new one just for those who want to know more about it.

I was previously saying :

> If you have an answer for moving the launcher bar on unity, please post it (if you don't have that answer please don't).

As this time, we know several things ;
- Mark did not plane to do it so 'Official Ubuntu' will not do it (unless he change his mind)
- No one have done yet a script for doing it (or a program so stop using tweaking tool for that)
- Unity impact on linux user's (and yes i'm not talking of my mother who  did'nt know that she have unity) is to moving to another distribution  ...

If you wanna discuss about the three point above, please DO NOT DO IT HERE. Make you own subject instead.

For know (and after trying to configure gnome 3), i just decided that i was liking unity exept for that, so i decided to use glx-dock (cairo dock) instead of the original unity dock. 

What I've do :

Install glx-dock and configure it the way I was wanted
remove all application & shortcut of the original dock
go to System Setting -> Appearence - > Behaviour and make sure that your button 'auto-hide the launcher' is 'On'
Choose your way to (not) display the original dock

If you want to use the old dock, you can still click on Super (aka the Windows touch on your keyboard)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-05-23
I would set the reveal sensitivity to super low (or is it high, it's an up is down left is right thing).
That way the unity launcher doesn't pop out every time your mouse glances the side.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2013-05-23
Hi 
ak12.

Could you please pot a screenshot of how your glx dock looks?

Just would like to see it.

Thanks.

---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-24
Hi hansdown,

There is a screenshot :

[IMG]http://img15.hostingpics.net/pics/621650screenshotOfMyLaptop.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by hansdown on 2013-05-24
That looks really nice ak12.

The background is too.

Thanks!

---

### Post by James Wilde on 2013-10-08
Fantastic choice, AK12!  When I saw this picture I immediately went away to find the cairo-dock.  It reminds me so of the Macintosh dock, and using cairo-dock also seems to have changed the default font size.

Just as a matter of interest, where did you get the picture in the background?

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2013-10-08
> **James Wilde said:**
> Fantastic choice, AK12!  When I saw this picture I immediately went away to find the cairo-dock.  It reminds me so of the Macintosh dock, and using cairo-dock also seems to have changed the default font size.

Just as a matter of interest, where did you get the picture in the background?

It's part of the 13.04 default wallpapers. If you don't have 13.04, then they're available here: [http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/ubuntu-13-04-winning-wallpapers-announced](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/03/ubuntu-13-04-winning-wallpapers-announced)

---

### Post by James Wilde on 2013-10-08
Thanks, Zombifier25.  I feel like a n00b, but where does one change the wallpapers?  When I right-click the desktop or go in via System Tools, all I get is one background, the default one.

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2013-10-08
Weird. Though, you're best off starting a new thread about your issue.

---

