---
title: "xorg Blank Screen of Death!"
date: 2008-05-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by sderrick on 2008-05-23
I was running 7.0 for 8 months with never a hitch on booting. 

Recently every now and then on booting I would get a blank screen instead of teh login screen.  Sometimes I could recover by switching to a console(f1-6) and back to the gui(F7).  Or I could just type in my name and password and the desktop would appear.

I upgraded to Hardy Heron and now its happening much more often and sometimes there is no recovery except a power cycle. 

Sometimes the same thing happens when the screen saver turns on.  I don;t hibernate the machine ever.

I'm running on a Latitude 820.  

Any clue as to whats going on?

thanks, Scott

---

### Post by sderrick on 2008-05-23
A work around that has worked so far is to select "Recovery Mode" on bootup and when the option menu to boot to console, fix X etc, comes up, select "Resume Normal Boot:.

Why that works and a regular normal boot doesn't may be a clue as to whats happening.

Scott

---

### Post by pietjanjaap on 2008-05-23
After you use the recovery to fix x, then boot normal, but then you need to install de videocard driver!

The fix only detects your hardware, videocard and monitor, so you can choose all your grafic cards settings.

---

### Post by sderrick on 2008-05-23
> **pietjanjaap said:**
> After you use the recovery to fix x, then boot normal, but then you need to install de videocard driver!

The fix only detects your hardware, videocard and monitor, so you can choose all your grafic cards settings.

But the driver is already installed!  Its a Nvidia Quadro card and uses the standard nv driver.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-23
Does 'fix X' write a new (permanent) configuration file or just use a temporary one? Else you could *make* it permanent.
```
$ sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup0805
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by sderrick on 2008-05-24
I tried "Fix X" from the "Recovery Mode" menu and it created the following xorg.conf file?   

I'm not sure how this can work?

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-05-24
Did you install the Nvidia driver? If so, how did you install it?

---

### Post by sderrick on 2008-05-24
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> Did you install the Nvidia driver? If so, how did you install it?

I'm using the driver that is bundled with Ubuntu, "nv".

Scott

---

### Post by sderrick on 2008-05-24
I just found another problem with the Hardy Upgrade.  My sound isn't working any more if I use the "generic" boot. 

Like the aberent X behavior. If I select the "Recovery Boot" option, and then select "Resume Normal Boot" at the boot menu,  everything is working fine.

There has to be a clue as to whats wrong in the difference b etween the two boot options.

Scott

---

