---
title: "11.10 on Zotac Zbox HD22"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ebmar on 2011-10-26
Hi.
Just installed Kubuntu 11.10 on my Zotac Zbox HD22 celeron version. The gpu is Nvidia ION.
I use the computer on a 55" TV with HDMI at 1080p resolution.
So my problem is this: When I was finished installing, the text in all windows and searchfields are HUGE.
I went and changed the font size to 4 and it's still big.

Also, here's a screenshot as an attachment

Is this a known bug?
How do I fix this?

Please help.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2011-10-26
On the one hand, I've never had *that* happen before!!  You should reload your .iso and start over.

On the other hand, I've never been able to get KDE to scale well on my htpc anyway.  Gnome has always been the best in terms of scaling to the TV.

Incidentally Gnome Shell (Tweak Tool) has an awesome global scaling slider that works wonders.  If I could get HD video to work in Oneiric I'd run with Gnome Shell just because of that.

---

### Post by ebmar on 2011-10-26
I run 1080p mkv with no lag on that ****** computer, I use XBMC.
Also use audio through HDMI which doesn't work "out of the box".

It doesn't matter what kind of window manager I use as long as it doesn't use some kind of accelerated 3d graphics, like compiz or whatever.

I have reinstalled with newly downloaded iso, still the same.

I tried Ubuntu 11.10, but it uses 3d graphics, and that doesn't work well with that computer and xbmc.


I use that computer to surf the web, a music player and XBMC, nothing more.

Any tips, open for other window manager suggestions. Plus if I can make the window manager look fancy.

---

### Post by ebmar on 2011-10-26
Thanks for the tip on Gnome-shell drawkcab, just installed it and it looks beutiful. And it's pretty fast.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2011-10-27
> **ebmar said:**
> Thanks for the tip on Gnome-shell drawkcab, just installed it and it looks beutiful. And it's pretty fast.

Yeah, not bad right?  I'm waiting for this bug to be resolved before I move back to 11.10.

---

