---
title: "7.10 Samba differences between 8.04"
date: 2008-07-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dccrens on 2008-07-22
I have both Gutsy and Hardy machines on my network and I am trying to understand the differences in SAMBA. I also have winxp and vista boxes. On Gutsy it was very straightforward to set up samba. On hardy it seemed to be but I do notice there is a new "group" called "sambashare" in the /etc/group file and I am a member of that group. There is no such group on my Gutsy machine. Should there be?

---

### Post by sawjew on 2008-07-22
The differences will be to do with the change from gnome-vfs to gvfs so no you should not need the sambashare group in Gutsy.

If you wish to you can use the old shares-admin from gutsy to set up your samba shares, it is still installed just not in the menu any longer.

just hit Alt>F2 then enter ```
shares-admin
``` and you can set it up the old way.  I have done this as it is the only way I have found that works to change the workgroup name.  Editing the smb.conf file no longer works in Hardy.

---

### Post by dccrens on 2008-07-22
sawjew

Thanks much!

> **sawjew said:**
> The differences will be to do with the change from gnome-vfs to gvfs so no you should not need the sambashare group in Gutsy.

If you wish to you can use the old shares-admin from gutsy to set up your samba shares, it is still installed just not in the menu any longer.

just hit Alt>F2 then enter ```
shares-admin
``` and you can set it up the old way.  I have done this as it is the only way I have found that works to change the workgroup name.  Editing the smb.conf file no longer works in Hardy.

---

### Post by kirandulo on 2008-07-23
smbclient ok, I can see all shares of Windows clients on my Ubuntu.
I can see, but CANNOT ACCESS Ubuntu shares on Windows clients. trying to access an Ubuntu share, I get an authentication pop-up on Windows, and cannot access anyway.

question: how to share folders on my NTFS devices (and normal /home folders) to other Windows clients in my home network (without any authentication needed)?
- manual configuration? what about smb.conf?
- is there a way on Gnome UI?
- what can be shares-admin used for?

I would prefer manual configuration (I am interested in technical details).

situation: 
Ubuntu Hardy 8.04

smb.conf
```
[global]
    workgroup = WORKGROUP
    security = share
    guest ok = yes
    guest only = yes
    guest account = nobody
[mp3_1]
    comment = music 1
    path = /media/sda2/mp3
    browsable = yes
    read only = yes
[mp3_2]
    comment = music 2
    path = /media/mp3_store/bittorent_download
    browsable = yes
    read only = yes
```
fstab:
```
# /dev/sda8
UUID=xxxx /media/mp3_store reiserfs defaults    0    2
# /dev/sda1
UUID=yyyy /media/sda1 ntfs defaults,umask=007,gid=46   0   1
# /dev/sda2
UUID=zzzz /media/sda2 ntfs defaults,umask=007,gid=46   0   1
```

gid=46 is 'plugdev' group. should user 'nobody' be a member?
or something wrong with umask?
in 'shares-admin' I tried to tick 'nobody'. is it a good idea?

I also tried this:
```
# chmod 755 sda2
```
it is not changing permissions for 'others', it is leaving empty (---)
```
drwxrwx---  1 root plugdev 4096 2008-07-09 12:21 sda1
drwxrwx---  1 root plugdev 4096 2008-07-21 22:51 sda2
```
what am I doing wrong? what is the solution? thanks in advance

---

