---
title: "7.10 won't automount usb flash drive"
date: 2008-01-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by PaperPilot on 2008-01-01
I installed a new, larger drive in my Dell Optiplex GX1, installed 7.04, and then upgraded to 7.10.  When I plug a USB flash drive into the hub, the device won't mount.  I didn't have this problem when running 6.06.  I found posts about a Gnome bug for automounting vfat volumes which can be worked around by removing the use-free option with gconfig-editor.  This didn't work for me.

If I plug in the usb drive before booting, the system comes up with the drive mounted and I can access the data.  Also I had an unmounted flash drive plugged into the hub when I setup my printer and it mounted when I ran the printer setup wizard.  

This problem has me baffled.  Any suggestions?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-01
Have you tried to see if you can mount it by hand from a terminal?  What's the output of this command after you have plugged in your external drive?

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by PaperPilot on 2008-01-01
The command **sudo fdisk -l** gave me:

Disk /dev/sda: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000e0200

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       14311   114953076   83  Linux
/dev/sda2           14312       14593     2265165    5  Extended
/dev/sda5           14312       14593     2265133+  82  Linux swap / Solaris


Hope this helps.

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-01-01
Is it plugged in and power on?  What's the output of this command then?

```
dmesg | tail
```

---

### Post by PaperPilot on 2008-01-01
The hub is plugged in and the LED on the pot in glowing red.

The **dmesg | tail** command gave me:

 dmesg | tail
[  150.972697] Bluetooth: L2CAP ver 2.8
[  150.972716] Bluetooth: L2CAP socket layer initialized
[  151.289037] Bluetooth: RFCOMM socket layer initialized
[  151.289388] Bluetooth: RFCOMM TTY layer initialized
[  151.289400] Bluetooth: RFCOMM ver 1.8
[  156.589191] NET: Registered protocol family 17
[  160.552733] NET: Registered protocol family 10
[  160.554735] lo: Disabled Privacy Extensions
[  170.949341] eth0: no IPv6 routers present
[ 4307.978273] usb 1-2.4: USB disconnect, address 3

---

### Post by dxkrishna on 2008-01-01
I am having the exact same issue.... were you able to resolve it? Quite a newbee to Ubuntu but it Rocks!!!

Please help!

---

### Post by PaperPilot on 2008-01-01
> **dxkrishna said:**
> I am having the exact same issue.... were you able to resolve it? Quite a newbee to Ubuntu but it Rocks!!!

Please help!

I am still having the same problem.  I don't know where to turn either.

Still this is more of  a nuisance.  But it would be handy to have it resolved.

---

### Post by ginbuntu on 2008-01-02
Hi, I have the same problem but with my 4GB pro duo memory card. Ubuntu does mount my 512MB memory card automatically but not the 4GB one. However if does get listed in dmesg when I put it in the memory card reader.

If it also appear in dmesg for you, you should be mounted it manually by using:

sudo mount /dev/sdx1 /media/usb 

asuming /media/usb exist and replace "x" in /dev/sdx with the correct character. That depends on your system configurations. Just look at the last few lines of dmesg to find out. 

Hope you have already solved.

---

### Post by exXP on 2008-01-02
I've just upgraded to 7.10  -  which I think is great  -  except that I'm having the same problem as others on this thread.  I can't mount flash drives or SD cards.  This worked in 7.04.  When I plug in an item I get the message 'Unable to Mount Volume'.  Clicking on 'Details' gives the additional information that it may be due to 'wrong fs type'.  Which doesn't help me very much.  I would certainly like to solve this problem because I don't want to be forced to go back to 7.04, especially since there isn't a down-grading program

---

### Post by arch stanton on 2008-01-02
check this thread re:  USEFREE

I had the same problem ..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=584236](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=584236)

---

### Post by PaperPilot on 2008-01-02
> **arch stanton said:**
> check this thread re:  USEFREE

I had the same problem ..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=584236](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=584236)

Tried that.  Removing **use-free** didn't help.

---

### Post by exXP on 2008-01-02
Since posting my comments, about an hour ago, I found a solution  -  at least one that works for me.  When booting up, I am offered a choice of kernels.  I have been using 2.6.20-14 because it gave me the splash screen during boot-up.  I find that if I use kernel 2.6.22-13 all my flash drives and SD cards work perfectly.  The downside is that now the splash screen is gone and booting up takes almost as long as Windows XP!
Hope this helps others.

---

### Post by PaperPilot on 2008-01-02
> **exXP said:**
> Since posting my comments, about an hour ago, I found a solution  -  at least one that works for me.  When booting up, I am offered a choice of kernels.  I have been using 2.6.20-14 because it gave me the splash screen during boot-up.  I find that if I use kernel 2.6.22-13 all my flash drives and SD cards work perfectly.  The downside is that now the splash screen is gone and booting up takes almost as long as Windows XP!
Hope this helps others.

I am using 2.6.22-14 so changing kernel versions won't help me.  This problem is more complicated that just using the wrong kernel version.

---

### Post by PaperPilot on 2008-01-30
I found that the usb storage module usb-storage was not being added to the kernel during system start up, so I added it to the module file /etc/modules.

This module is not enough for the system to recognize the usb flash drive, but it is necessary to run the drive.

---

### Post by ramonthomas on 2008-03-25
Does anyone know how to fix this error:

[  775.220000] ipw2200: Firmware error detected.  Restarting.
[  776.004000] usb 4-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 14
[  778.560000] usb 4-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 27
[  780.740000] usb 4-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 38
[  781.252000] ipw2200: Firmware error detected.  Restarting.
[  783.448000] usb 4-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 51
[  783.708000] ehci_hcd 0000:00:1d.7: port 4 reset error -110
[  783.708000] hub 4-0:1.0: hub_port_status failed (err = -32)
[  784.180000] ipw2200: Firmware error detected.  Restarting.
[  786.216000] usb 4-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 61

thanks!
Ramon

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2008-03-25
In Brainstorm on the Ubuntu website I posted an idea that this whole process of mounting volumes seriously needed to be looked at and fixed.

If I were to plug any of these devices into OSX or even Windows they would mount properly and I would not have any issues.  They'd simply mount.  No fussing, no fixing text files, nothing.  Just mount and I'd have access to my files.

Under Linux though this type of problem is frequent occurrence.  It really needs to be resolved once and for all and I think that the only way to get it resolved is to actually have someone tear through the code (someone that actually knows what they are doing), to break this whole process out structurally and resolve this once and for all.  The final process should not consist of editing any text file at all, period, nothing.  It should just work.  You plug it in and it works.  We know it is possible because under Windows and OSX it just works.

On to some possible causes.  If a NTFS volume is considered dirty (the flag that says it was unmounted properly isn't set) then you can't get it to mount.  You will need to install the ntfs-3g tools and repair the volume or you will need to connect it to a Windows box and dismount it properly.  This last part is about as annoying as the first option.  Once you get the flag cleared then it should mount properly.  You can also edit the /etc/fstab file and set the "force" parameter to make it force the mount on the NTFS volume.  Please note this does not work on EXT volumes.  Apparently you can't set the "force" parameter.

An example would be below: 

/dev/sdb1 /media/ExtraStorage ntfs-3g defaults,force,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

Your dev and mount point may vary, so check your fstab to identify the proper device and line to modify.

For the EXT2/3 volumes you should attempt a force check of the drive.  You'll need to run a program like gparted to either initiate the check or to find the device so you can issue the check from a terminal window.

It would be something like this:

sudo fsck /dev/sdb1

Even so, not all of this will solve  your problem.  I have had several instances where running these checks and forcing the mount does nothing to help.

This whole process is very weak and I see it all the time in the irc channel and on the boards.  Someone MUST take a serious look at it.  If you want this resolved you should go to the brainstorm.ubuntu.com and vote for those ideas that put pressure to get this made as transparent as possible to the user.  In fact, it should be so transparent that the user doesn't ever have to do anything.

---

