---
title: "11.04 beta 2... still no backlight"
date: 2011-04-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by poodoopealeoaph on 2011-04-15
still no backlighting when installing ubuntu 11.04 beta 2... I have no idea what happened but in the alpha's, everything worked fine but with both of the beta's I haven't been able to get the screen to show any backlighting. I have to shine a flashlight on the screen just to figure out what the desktop looks like. This happens with every distro but xubuntu.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-04-16
I have no backlight, but I also can't boot.

When I put in my live CD (or usb) I get a GRUB screen without backlight. When I press ENTER, nothing happens. When I press 'e' in GRUB, I can see the edit window, but I have tried different commands (nomodeset, noapic, acpi=off) and the only thing I get when I press CTRL+X is the line "booting from command list" or something like that. The CD spins a while, but then every activity stops. Same with the USB: the light flickers a while, but then every activity stops.

I have not tried other *buntu versions.

@poodoopealeoaph: can you install unity on xubuntu without problems?

---

### Post by satet on 2011-04-16
Delete, see next message.

---

### Post by satet on 2011-04-16
I have the sane problem with a Toshiba Satellite A665D-S6059. At least it boots without additional boot options. The 10.10 live disk would only boot with the option acpi = off, but the backlights then worked. That was an unacceptable option because so many important features were then inoperable.

---

### Post by poodoopealeoaph on 2011-04-18
Well, I thought that I didn't have any problems with installing xubuntu 11.04 beta 2 but I tried it again and it happened... I've been desperate to try openSUSE also. So, when I tried to install the new version of that, it also gave me no backlighting. So, I am lead to believe that there is something wrong with the new linux kernel because I've tried all of the new ubuntu distros, the new linux-mint, and all of the openSUSE distros... all with the same result of no backlighting after it begins install.

I did read on an openSUSE thread that choosing nomodset and making grub do nomodset every time you boot will fix the problem because there is some glitch in the new kernel that tries to load an nvidia driver on boot even if you don't have an nvidia card. So, I tried nomodset for Kubuntu 11.04 and it didn't cut the backlight off for the entire install but once it rebooted, it didn't have backlighting again because I haven't figured out how to get nomodset to happen in grub every time you boot...

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-04-18
for setting bot options, see my signature

but I think my problem is worse. setting nomodeset didn't work.

---

### Post by poodoopealeoaph on 2011-04-25
I figured out that the claims that having an Nvidia card in your computer really does work! I accidentally put one of my beta disks in my desktop (which is stuck with windoze for at least the next few weeks) and it booted up to the desktop and gave me backlighting. So... hopefully they fix the glitch that is making things mess up for other video cards but in the case that you have an extra computer that has an nvidia card in it, try out the newer versions with that system.

---

### Post by kridybel on 2011-04-25
The backlight of my laptop does not work with the ubuntu 11.04 LiveCD. It is a recent acer 7715z with intel gma4500m graphic chip.

---

### Post by handy on 2011-04-25
If you are using an Apple Notbook or iMac the following may be of use to you, though I could be misunderstanding your definition of "backlight".

If the backlight you are talking about means the ability to control the brightness of the screen on your Macbook Pro or iMac type display? (quite likely other versions as well)

Then this little piece of code which I have been using for years on my iMac (on Arch) allows me to set the screen brightness on boot, as the iMac's default is far too bright for the comfort of my eyes.

I put the code & the info' about it into a wiki article I wrote roughly 3 years ago, it may help someone here:

[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/IMac_Aluminium#Controlling_the_screen_brightness:](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/IMac_Aluminium#Controlling_the_screen_brightness:)

---

### Post by poodoopealeoaph on 2011-04-25
no I don't mean that I can't control the brightness of the screen. When I say no backlight I mean that there is no light at all coming from the screen. If you shine a bright flashlight on the screen however, you can see that it is starting the system up and showing the live cd desktop.... as for the guy above you though, though you have a nice video card, since it isn't an nvidia card, you probably won't have backlighting until they make a fix... however long that will be.. 

I really hope this whole thing isn't a linux scheme to get people to only buy nvidia...

---

### Post by handy on 2011-04-25
> **poodoopealeoaph said:**
> ...
I really hope this whole thing isn't a linux scheme to get people to only buy nvidia...

I'm sure it isn't. :)

AMD have given an enormous amount of help to the development of the open-source AMD/ATi drivers over roughly the last 18 months. nVidia have given squat.

---

### Post by docmark777 on 2011-04-28
Still no backlight on my acer aspire 5732 z

is this happening to other laptops out there?

Makes it hard to do anything when you cannot see anything on startup

---

### Post by poodoopealeoaph on 2011-04-28
to get this issue to go away you need to get grub to run nomodeset every time you start up the computer... I know it works because I can get it to work on a live boot of every distro but I'm not exactly sure how to get grub to do it every time after a full install... all I know is that you are supposed to hold shift while starting up to configure grub, from what I'm told.

---

### Post by jsebean on 2011-04-28
> **poodoopealeoaph said:**
> to get this issue to go away you need to get grub to run nomodeset every time you start up the computer... I know it works because I can get it to work on a live boot of every distro but I'm not exactly sure how to get grub to do it every time after a full install... all I know is that you are supposed to hold shift while starting up to configure grub, from what I'm told.

I am having this issue with Ubuntu final release, there is no backlight at all and there is no way to turn it on. This fix in my opinion should not be acceptable and the devs should look into improving this right away, I will try this, but its going to be annoying for other users who are not that tech savy. I had no backlight issue with 10.10 and 10.04.

---

### Post by docmark777 on 2011-04-28
Hooking up an external monitor will allow us to see the desktop--so if any of you guys know a way to fix this, please post it and at least those with a second monitor can give it a try.   Ps.  I would need very simple step by step instructions!

---

### Post by fuzzisninja on 2011-04-29
the same has happened to me i just downloaded ubuntu 11.04 today and i have no backlight although everything is saying my backlight is at 100% that i have checked. i have an aspire 5332 dual booted with windows 7.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-04-29
I can install and use the 32-bit version without problem, but the 64-bit version gives no backlight.

---

### Post by docmark777 on 2011-04-29
That didn't work on my aspire

---

### Post by Stryker777 on 2011-05-13
I had to hit shift to get into grub, select a previous version to boot, then once booted, edit /etc/default/grub with the following:
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_backlight=vendor"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi_osi=Linux"

then run:
sudo update-grub

Now I can hit my brightness buttons to get the backlight to come on.

Temp fix but works on my Acer Aspire 5734z

---

