---
title: "12.04 and crippling graphical glitches"
date: 2012-11-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by CinoxFellpyre on 2012-11-09
After the upgrade, my windows have been having massive glitches to the point where I can't read anything, as shown in the attached image.

I'm not sure if it's the graphics card is the problem or not, but I can't upgrade it since it's a laptop.

```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
```That is what I have for a graphics controller.

The problem is fixed when I do a log off or restart.

---

### Post by mexicanseaf00d on 2012-11-12
You could try some of these:


[LIST]
[*]disable some desktop effects, shortcut is by default ALT+SHIFT+F12
[*]change the compositing-type OpenGL/Xrender or some of their options (in Desktop Effects > Advanced)
[*]try a newer driver for your intel card from this ppa - 

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
[/LIST]

Also, they just recently released KDE 4.9.3 with some fixes for intel cards. To upgrade, you have to add this ppa:

```
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:kubuntu-ppa/backports
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```Don't worry about the "backports" part, upgrades seem work really good in KDE and fix quite a lot of bugs with every release.

---

### Post by CinoxFellpyre on 2012-11-12
Brilliant, thank you.

I'm getting that done, and I'm gonna wait a week, if it still doesn't act up I'll consider it solved. :3

---

### Post by CinoxFellpyre on 2012-11-21
Well, it's been a week, and now my start menu is all messed up, as well as the quick launch you get through alt+F2 following the cursor.

The icons are also disappearing randomly, leaving text only.

---

### Post by mexicanseaf00d on 2012-11-22
Did you customize the icon theme? Did it work until now? You could post a question on AskUbuntu as well - [http://askubuntu.com/](http://askubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by CinoxFellpyre on 2012-11-22
Haven't touched the icon theme.

It was ok until now as well.

---

### Post by mexicanseaf00d on 2012-11-22
One more step for troubleshooting could be: move/copy your .kde folder and see if the culprit is somewher in there

---

### Post by CinoxFellpyre on 2012-11-23
Honestly I wouldn't know what I'm looking for.

Plus can't really figure out how to do that.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-11-23
Open a terminal, then at the dollar sign prompt type this:

```

$ mv .kde .kde.old

```

Now log out and log back in.  KDE will build a default desktop for you in a new .kde folder without any customizations.

---

### Post by CinoxFellpyre on 2012-11-26
Good news, it worked.

Bad news, can't redownload my, or any themes.

---

### Post by mexicanseaf00d on 2012-11-26
bizarre
note that some themes must be downloaded manually and put into the config folders

---

### Post by CinoxFellpyre on 2012-11-28
Well I guess it was the server being stupid, but I got it fixed.

Setting it to solved now.

---

