---
title: "[18.04]How to make Ubuntu mount not mounted partition automatically?"
date: 2019-05-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nikt3 on 2019-05-13
Hello Dear Ubuntu community

I have in my PC one HDD on which I have 3 partitions, one ext4 for ubuntu, second ntfs for windows(dual boot), and third just for the data also ntfs so I can use this data on both os.
However this data partition is not automatically mounted at start up. It doesn't show in the Nautilus left shortcut menu and I have to go every time to position "Other Locations" and there just double click on that partition.
I guess it should be possible and easy to make ubuntu do that automatically on the start up.
It's important for me to solve this problem because then I could 1) Make shortcuts on the desktop etc. to that partitions folder, and 2) I could share folders of that partitions on the local network.

Thanks

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-05-14
/etc/fstab is the file that controls which filesystems get mounted at boot, and where.

There is a lot of information available on how to make an entry.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-05-14
Setup the fstab.  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions#Configuring_.2Fetc.2Ffstab](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions#Configuring_.2Fetc.2Ffstab)

Without the fstab mount, it is harder (impossible?) to set the options so the partition access performance isn't 1/3rd the speed it should be.  There is no GUI method for this.

Storage mounted through the fstab appears as local storage.

Sharing NTFS storage over the network brings some permissions challenges. Be prepared to handle those through the mount options too. That is the only way that permissions work with non-Linux file systems.

---

