---
title: "Anyway to change this?"
date: 2010-12-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Mr. ViC on 2010-12-22
So, I've installed a new Vista Theme, just to see how it looked, and I kind of like it.

There's just one problem.

This:

[IMG]http://img.myph.us/fNW.png[/IMG]

The wireless icon and the Shutter one have no problems and fit there fine. The aMSN one and the others are just plain ugly with that white background.

I know I could maybe print some of the taskbar on an image and use it as background.

But is there any other workaround on this?

Thank you. :)

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-12-22
Refresh the gnome panels,

```
killall gnome-panel
```

---

### Post by Mr. ViC on 2010-12-22
Thanks mate, but they still have that ugly background. :P

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-12-22
Have you changed your theme recently??Try restarting your system..

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-12-22
Do those icons actually have transparent backgrounds?

---

### Post by Mr. ViC on 2010-12-22
> **karthick87 said:**
> Have you changed your theme recently??Try restarting your system..

Yes, and restarted it already. :)

> **Grenage said:**
> Do those icons actually have transparent backgrounds?

Yeah, probabbly not... Anyway I can figure out where they are and edit the images?

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-12-22
This would appear to explain it:

[http://www.amsn-project.net/forums/index.php?topic=7107.0](http://www.amsn-project.net/forums/index.php?topic=7107.0)

---

### Post by oarion7 on 2010-12-22
> **Mr. ViC said:**
> Yes, and restarted it already. :)



Yeah, probabbly not... Anyway I can figure out where they are and edit the images?


I think that solution may only pertain to the amsn icon. The other icons indeed are transparent, they are just not showing up properly in GNOME. This has been an issue in the last couple versions of Ubuntu that as far as I know no one has taken seriously enough to fix. It's at the bottom of the priority list for some reason. Sometimes, random icons show up with a color background in the notification area, even if they are transparent files.

If you were to install **gnome-color-chooser** and then run it, then go to the **Panel** tab and at the top change the *normal*, *background* color to **black**, does it change the background of those icons to black? Then they at least look a little better.

The good news is, if that doesn't work, then you have a different problem than I thought, and there may be an easy fix.

EDIT: Actually... the issue may not be anything other than the theme itself. Because the background of those icons isn't white, but a specific gradient that might be generated by the theme for other purposes. If that's indeed the case, the fix could lie in finding the respective images in the theme files. But I'm not sure.

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-12-22
Try changing your theme and see if it helps you..

---

### Post by Mr. ViC on 2010-12-22
First of all, thank you all guys you were really great with me and I really appreciate it, learning something new everyday and I'm even using more Ubuntu than Seven so I guess that's a good thing :P

About the colors, it is fixed. I indeed had to costumize the theme colors, guess it was because of it, it all works now and the icons are great.

Just one more little question :P

As I said, I haven't changed the theme, just the colors. My "Start" button is from windows:

[img]http://img.myph.us/QQl.png[/img]

See it there?

I would like to replace it with something better, so, do any of you guys have any idea where it is located?

Thanks again! :P

---

### Post by Mr. ViC on 2010-12-23
Bump. :)

---

### Post by Mr. ViC on 2010-12-25
One last bump here... C'mon guys it's Xmas. :p

---

### Post by Mr. ViC on 2010-12-27
Got it solved.

Thanks for who helped.

---

