---
title: "TV Time"
date: 2005-03-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Leebobs on 2005-03-20
I'm trying to get TVTime working in HH, it downloads and install's itself correctly, then when I run it, a black box appears on screen and then disappears immediatly - FIXED Thanks guys

Ok, I can now get into TV time... and I am trying to get it to tune on either one of my two installed TV Cards  ](*,) Firstly, does anyone know how I can select a TV card to tune from?

Anyone got any ideas?

Thanks

Leebobs

---

### Post by leech on 2005-03-21
What video card do you have, and is it set up properly?  I know TV Time had issues with the Matrox Parhelia when I had one of those.  Though the program works flawlessly with my nVidia 6800GT.

Leech

---

### Post by Leebobs on 2005-03-21
I'm using an ATi 9800 Pro with the latest closed source drivers... although I may well have set them up wrong, I'm quite new at this!

I'm going to try going back too the Ubuntu drivers...

Leebobs

---

### Post by Joeb on 2005-03-21
It must be something between your card and TVTime.  I am running it flawlessly using an old bttv card.  Is it possible that you don't have right drivers?  Also, you might try opening a terminal and running it from there by typing "tvtime" (without the quotes) and see if any error messages are displayed.

Joeb

---

### Post by snop on 2005-03-21
[QUOTE=Leebobs]I'm trying to get TVTime working in HH, it downloads and install's itself correctly, then when I run it, a black box appears on screen and then disappears immediatly - Anyone got any ideas?

Thanks

Leebobs[/QUOTE]

Did tvtime worked on warthy ? I does for my (on my warthy machine). There are no error messages ? Try to run tvtime from console and see if there are any error messages (most of times tvtime may complain about permissions).

By the way, did you already configured bttv module ? TvTime needs a tv card, not just a graphics card.

Bye

SnOp

---

### Post by gylf on 2005-03-21
start up a terminal and type "tvtime"
see what the output is and post back
edit: whoops, guess I should have read the previous two posts before re-re-suggesting that :)
also, are you using the "fglrx" driver or the default "ati" driver?

---

### Post by leech on 2005-03-21
I found this on tvtime's website.  

> 1. tvtime not starting when using the Radeon FireGL drivers

With the Radeon FireGL drivers, the user has the option of having OpenGL use an overlay surface, giving 3D graphics without tearing, or video overlay surfaces for multimedia players. This can be set in the Device section for the fglrx of your /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 using:

    Option  "VideoOverlay"       

or

    Option  "OpenGLOverlay"      

To use tvtime, you MUST select VideoOverlay instead of OpenGLOverlay. The tvtime bug report on this is bug 787142

Leech

---

### Post by gylf on 2005-03-21
[QUOTE=leech]I found this on tvtime's website.  

Leech[/QUOTE]

That's why I asked which driver he was using.  

If it is the fglrx driver, run fglrxconfig and copy/paste the device section of the generated XF86Config-4 file in to the xorg.conf file. (that overlay line will be generated by fglrxconfig)

---

### Post by leech on 2005-03-21
Yeah, I asked the same question for the same reason :D

Leech

---

### Post by emperor on 2005-03-23
With the latest update this evening from the repo, tvtime is now broke.
At least in the past few days I could run it as root and get enough CPU time to see a smooth video. But not it does not work right when logged in as root either. Only gets about 3% CPU cycles and Xorg does not go up either. Drops frames now! Even with sysctl set to freq=1024.

It's not really a tvtime issue but is most likely a kernel/xorg problem.

HELP!!!

I also have an SAA7133 based board made by Asus.
Graphics card is ATI 9600PRO

---

### Post by c_dog on 2005-03-23
Still works just fine in i386 and the new amd64 versions here with a  Phillips SAA7133 on a Nvidia 6600GT here.

---

### Post by emperor on 2005-03-23
xawtv does not work properly either on my system.
I am using the fglrx driver and OpenGL and 3D rendering is working.

I am beginning to think there is a problem with the rtc or the fglrx driver in Hoary!

running tvtime  from a terminal and a commandline option, it shows tvtime dropping frames every about 100ms. So the high resolution timers don't seem to be working.

---

### Post by emperor on 2005-03-24
As a temporary work around, I installed the mplayerTV package.
Mplayer doesn't drop frames using XV like tvtime and xawtv does right now.
I hope someone else will confirm this problem soon so it can get fixed!

---

### Post by Leebobs on 2005-03-26
Hmm... I did a re-install of 5.04 and it seems to work now! Obviously it was the ATi drivers  ](*,)

I do get a bit of frame dropping though  :-k and loads in DVD playback...

---

### Post by emperor on 2005-03-26
DVD framedrops can be caused by DMA being off on the dvd drive.
Check using "hdparm"  For example: hdparm /dev/hdc
Use: the -d1 option to turn DMA on.

---

### Post by Leebobs on 2005-03-28
EDIT: I fixed the DVD frame drops, thanks to emperor for being a legend

Ok, I can now get into TV time... and I am trying to get it to tune on either one of my two installed TV Cards  ](*,) Firstly, does anyone know how I can select a TV card to tune from?

---

### Post by emperor on 2005-03-28
tvtime only works with v4l compatible cards.
To set tvtime to a particular card permanently, use "tvtime-configure".
tvtime-configure writes directly to the tvtime xml config file.
Usually the v4l tvcards will map to /dev/video0 or /dev/video1, the default is /dev/video0.

use: 
 **-d, --device=NAME**   video4linux device to use (defaults to */dev/video0*).  For example to change to /dev/video1, do the following:

tvtime-configure -d /dev/video1

see [http://www.linuxmanpages.com/man1/tvtime-configure.1.php](http://www.linuxmanpages.com/man1/tvtime-configure.1.php)

If the cards are not automaticly being detected by the kernel drivers, then you most likely do not have a v4l compatible card. What kind of tvcards are installed?

---

### Post by Leebobs on 2005-03-29
[QUOTE=emperor]tvtime only works with v4l compatible cards.
To set tvtime to a particular card permanently, use "tvtime-configure".
tvtime-configure writes directly to the tvtime xml config file.
Usually the v4l tvcards will map to /dev/video0 or /dev/video1, the default is /dev/video0.

use: 
 **-d, --device=NAME**   video4linux device to use (defaults to */dev/video0*).  For example to change to /dev/video1, do the following:

tvtime-configure -d /dev/video1

see [http://www.linuxmanpages.com/man1/tvtime-configure.1.php](http://www.linuxmanpages.com/man1/tvtime-configure.1.php)

If the cards are not automaticly being detected by the kernel drivers, then you most likely do not have a v4l compatible card. What kind of tvcards are installed?[/QUOTE]

I have on Analog card based on the bt848 Chipset and a Nebula Electronics DigiTV DVB Card that is recognised as being based on the bt878 Chipset.

I know that Nebula released information to [http://www.linuxtv.org/](http://www.linuxtv.org/) from [http://www.nebula-electronics.co.uk/support/developers.asp](http://www.nebula-electronics.co.uk/support/developers.asp)
But I have no idea how to get this working with TV Time.

So I put my old card in, its an MM100 something, i'll take it out and have a look after work

---

### Post by emperor on 2005-03-29
from xterm, use "lspci" to see if your card is detected and also check using "dmesg" (dmesg | less)

The drivers at this site are included with the 2.6 kernel.
[http://linux.bytesex.org/v4l2/drivers.html](http://linux.bytesex.org/v4l2/drivers.html)

You might download the bttv driver, untar and use grep to search for your card.
[http://dl.bytesex.org/releases/](http://dl.bytesex.org/releases/)

Many and perhaps most  bt878 card are supported.

Worest case, you might have buy another supported card, but they are cheap <= $40, used even less!

---

### Post by tonym on 2005-09-25
I've recently got my Nebula DigiTV card working on Breezy.

Load module dvb-bt8xx and it works fine with Kaffeine at least.

---

