---
title: "11.04 classic desktop switches to fullscreen too easily"
date: 2011-05-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bcz on 2011-05-07
I upgraded to 11.04 recently

I run 2 monitors, 1800x1200 and 1720x1180 approx (not exactly sure, but they are different)

I like to have many windows open on both screens.

The system keeps switching windows to fullscreen mode when I want to be able to see 5 or 6 partial windows on each screen.

It seems that if I align the edge of a window to the top of the screen, it switches to fullscreen mode, which is the last thing I want it to do.

Funnily enough, if I move a window to the edge of the screen, I want to be able to see the other windows on that screen.  If I want fullscreen mode I hit the fullscreen icon;  otherwise I want the size to stay the same.  I dont want the window manager ever to arbitrarily give me fullscreen mode.

How can I stop this unwanted behaviour which is new to 11.04 ?

I have to admit that for my purposes the classic desktop is head and shoulders better than the default 11.04 desktop, but how did the release process manage to trash the earlier release's excellent desktop.  Was Beta feedback totally ignored ?  Rhetorical question, but hopefully someone up there listens.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-05-07
There is a setting for the full screen gesture somewhere in the maze of CCSM. I remember it was under the 'Window Management' section. Hope that puts you on the right track.

---

### Post by JRV on 2011-05-07
> **mikewhatever said:**
> There is a setting for the full screen gesture somewhere in the maze of CCSM. I remember it was under the 'Window Management' section. Hope that puts you on the right track.

Uncheck "Grid" under "Window Management".

---

