---
title: "9.04 can't boot w/o monitor attached"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rocket777 on 2009-05-31
I have my monitor turned off and the system won't reboot totally. It stops with a dialog saying 

> ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode

I want to boot it up and use remote desktop.

I got this working before I upgraded to 9.04 but that technique doesn't work now. I had modified xorg.conf with manual resolutions.

How can I do this in 9.04?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-05-31
You basically can't boot Ubuntu to a desktop because of bulletproof X. You can boot to a command prompt is you stop gdm from starting, then starting X when you need it by typing:

```
startx
```

at the prompt. You can run any gui program remotely using ssh. On your main computer, assuming it is running Ubuntu open an Application-->Accessories-->Terminal and type:

```
ssh -X username@remotecomputer
```

You have to have openssh-server installed on the remote computer.

---

### Post by rocket777 on 2009-05-31
Thanks for the answer!

Bulletproof X?

Another feature that shoots ubuntu in the foot!

This reminds me of something I used to hear years ago by the developer gods of the old DEC/VMS system,

Why would anyone want to do that???

Well, maybe I want a desktop system that acts like a power saving server most of the time. I have its monitor on a switch box  between a windows system and this ubuntu system. Guess what, windows let's me boot up w/o this monitor switched over to it. In fact, I don't even want to plug in a mouse or keyboard all the time. 

Sounds like someone wasn't thinking. I guess my workaround is to waste energy and leave the thing running all the time.:( So, if any X bulletproofer is listening, If your office is getting hot, it's just me with my ubuntu system that's dodging your bullets.

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2009-05-31
Yes but as the previous post said. You can disable GDM and start X at when you choose.

I believe the idea behind it is to save resources from outputting to a non existent screen.

The set up already suggested is how I run my server.

---

### Post by rocket777 on 2009-05-31
> **Sub101 said:**
> Yes but as the previous post said. You can disable GDM and start X at when you choose.

I believe the idea behind it is to save resources from outputting to a non existent screen.

The set up already suggested is how I run my server.

The suggested solution using ssh would require a X-client on my windows laptop. And VNC is a much cleaner solution - and I'm already using it to control a few other servers. Some things simply don't work the same (or at all) when run using an x client over ssh.

I also need to boot remotely as well, using wake on lan. 

But I also want to use this system as a video player when the monitor IS attached - via a switch box. 

And disabling the desktop sounds too scary. I already messed up a few things and had to reinstall 3 times. This killed my entire weekend. I was able to get all this done out of the box with, of all things, my windows 2000 system. But that system is too old now and xp and up have that phone home problem. 

I'm already disabling enough other things that upgrades become real painful (I already disable DHCP - need static IP, disable firewall for my SMB out, and the WOL wasn't an out of the box setup either) . AFter all, I thought I nailed this monitor issue once and for all in 8.10 (with obscure xorg.conf commands).

What is needed is to have an option that simply says, ignore when no monitor is hooked up. Use whatever resolution was last used so that remote desktop will work. If monitor is attached, then do the usual. It's not really rocket science :(

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2009-06-01
> **rocket777 said:**
> The suggested solution using ssh would require a X-client on my windows laptop. And VNC is a much cleaner solution - and I'm already using it to control a few other servers. Some things simply don't work the same (or at all) when run using an x client over ssh.



You **CAN** VNC into a box that does not start GDM. 

Im going to maintain that the best way to have a headless server is without loading the GDM. However in the interests of trying to find a solution you may be happy with, I find that adding a Graphics card can allow the system to boot without a monitor attached. This may not work for all though.

---

### Post by rocket777 on 2009-06-01
> **Sub101 said:**
> You **CAN** VNC into a box that does not start GDM. 

Im going to maintain that the best way to have a headless server is without loading the GDM. However in the interests of trying to find a solution you may be happy with, I find that adding a Graphics card can allow the system to boot without a monitor attached. This may not work for all though.

Well, this is what I am trying to do. My MB has a built in graphics setup, it says it's an intel gma3100 (its an asus p5kpl-cm w/e7400 c2duo). I want the graphics output to go out to the bit bucket, until I switch over to this system. And then I want to see exactly what the display would show if a monitor had been attached all along.

I just don't want to have to run over and switch it if I'm booting remotely via WOL, only to switch it right back after reboot. 

Besides, it puts up a display anyway, and the 1024x768 I use (so vnc works better) isn't much different than what it sets it to just to display a dialog that seems to have no exit plan - all I could do was hit control-alt-delete and force a reboot.

If there's a way to get this to work w/o disabling the GDM then that's what I'm looking for. In 8.10 I copyied/pasted some config setup and that worked. I'd be ok if there was a similar setup that worked in 9.04.

I'm not alone on this. I see there are several other posts that also complain about this. I posted this again since no solution had been found in those other posts.

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2009-06-01
I still do not understand why GDM can not be turned off. But as I can not offer any other solution another user may offer something more. 

Incidentally, I know you can buy (or make) something to plug into the monitor socket which makes the computer think a monitor is attached. I can not find the link at the moment tho, and it may not suit your needs at all.

---

