---
title: "Can't edit mp3 tags on windows rw partition"
date: 2008-04-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mastarna on 2008-04-18
Hi everybody,

I have a beautiful unbutu 7.10 (waiting for 8.04) installed on a quite old laptop. Everything works fine, I'm not a geek but a decade linux user. I got an odd problem though: I mount two win partitions on boot. For both I set fstab to mount them with ntfs-3g rw,users,uid='user',umask=0 0 1 (user's my name)
Now I can rw properly on those, but I cannot edit mp3 tags of files I keep on one of them. Any program I use for that (nautilus, quod libet, exaile, ecc...) says I got no permissions.
If I ls -la /media everything user owned and user group.

Anyone knows what's the trick about?

Thx.

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-04-18
Will have to run some diagnostics. From your music players, try exporting some playlist to a file in the directory which contains your music files. e.g. in exaile, File -> Export playlist. This will bring out the hesitation music players that are running as "user" to write in the directory.

Since you can rw on the folder, try copying a music file, say x.mp3 to plist.m3u. Now export a playlist to this file i.e. overwrite plist.m3u by the newly exported playlist. Does it give the same error?

---

### Post by mastarna on 2008-04-18
The fact is that I cannot edit mp3 tags even with the normal nautilus file properties. Even though I tried what you suggested but no result.

I think this is due to my fstab and mtab config

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-04-19
It cannot be "**no result**". Either the music player gave an error on exporting the playlist, or it didn't. If it did not give an error, either it successfully saved the playlist file, or it just kept silent even after it could not save the playlist file.

If it could not save for whatever reason, what did you observe that made you say that "**I can rw properly on those**"? Can you create a txt file? A directory?

---

### Post by mastarna on 2008-04-20
Thx bingoUV,
so I'm more precise: the playlist is saved in a file playlist.m3u in /media/sda2 (where I can read & write files normally, so as create directories). But the player cannot load it back, saying "bad format or damaged file". Maybe it's the reason why I can rw *.mp3 but not edit their tags.
Any idea?
Thx

my /etcfstab:
-------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=d4fd9bd9-3c92-46ea-915c-2bfaa6259979 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro,data=writeback 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=5C7E68DB4A887D2B /media/sda1 ntfs-3g user,rw,uid=mastarna,gid=mastarna 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=4E70C96770C9567D /media/sda2 ntfs-3g user,rw,uid=mastarna,gid=mastarna 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=0a5b938a-dab9-4a56-aaa1-03861f9efae3 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
-------------------


my /etc/mtab:
-------------------
/dev/sda3 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro,data=writeback 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 fuseblk rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,default_permissions,blksize=4096 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/sda2 fuseblk rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,default_permissions,blksize=4096 0 0
securityfs /sys/kernel/security securityfs rw 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 iso9660 ro,nosuid,nodev,user=andrea 0 0
-------------------

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-04-20
Can you view the m3u file, in say, gedit? Does this file exist? Is it empty? What are the permissions on this newly created m3u file, if it was created at all?

I am just verifying the writability to the partition by the music player.

---

### Post by mastarna on 2008-04-20
> **bingoUV said:**
> Can you view the m3u file, in say, gedit? Does this file exist? Is it empty? What are the permissions on this newly created m3u file, if it was created at all?

I am just verifying the writability to the partition by the music player.

OK, the file exists, but it's empty (0 kb and nothing contained if opened in gedit)... so the music player cannot write into it, but it created it...
I don't understand

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-04-20
can you unmount and mount the partition again? Reboot if you are not sure how to do it. Does the file still exist after mounting again?

I also suspect the health of the NTFS filesystem. Since you use NTFS, I assume you also have a windows installation on the machine. Did you boot into windows recently?
You can fix it by ntfsfix (in package ntfsprogs) and booting into windows. This will force windows to properly check the filesystem.

---

### Post by mastarna on 2008-04-20
> **bingoUV said:**
> can you unmount and mount the partition again? Reboot if you are not sure how to do it. Does the file still exist after mounting again?

I umount and re-mount /dev/sda1 but no way of editing tags

> **bingoUV said:**
> Did you boot into windows recently?
You can fix it by ntfsfix (in package ntfsprogs) and booting into windows. This will force windows to properly check the filesystem.

I'll try to check ntfs, but I can tell you I booted in WinXP just yesterday...
...the only way is to copy on my ext3 the mp3s and edit... but there must be something wrong with my ntfs.
I just ntfsfixed. I'll reboot in windows and let you know...

---

### Post by mastarna on 2008-04-20
So,  I checked ntfs and fixed it, reboot winXP which rechecked, back to linux but the problem's still there. I don't know what else to do.

---

