---
title: "10.04 can't keep up with mouse clicks"
date: 2010-12-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by StudioDave on 2010-12-04
I'm trying to solve an annoying problem. I run Ardour2, a Linux DAW, under Ubuntu 10.04 (32-bit) on a desktop system with a 2.4 GHz CPU and 4G RAM. The mouse is a Logitech USB optical mouse. The problem is simple - if I do a rapid series of clicks on a button (any button) the program ignores all but the last click. The same program shows no such behavior under the same system on my laptop, nor does it show such behavior on my 64 Studio (Debian) installation. On both those systems the program keeps up with the mouse clicks, regardless how fast I click. Thus, I'm reasonably certain the problem isn't in Ardour. In fact, I find a lot of messages regarding poor mouse performance in recent Ubuntu, but I find no description of a problem quite like mine.

I'll try anything to fix the problem, so feel free to suggest any possible repair.

Btw, 10.04 is wonderful in most other respects. The rt kernel performs very well, and I'm pretty happy with the system. Now if I can just fix this farking mouse issue... :)

Any ideas, anyone ?

TIA,

dp

---

### Post by tom4everitt on 2010-12-04
Just a thought: I don't know if you heard about the allegedly 'amazing' responsibility patch that was pretty hyped a few weeks ago? It's suppose to do wonders to responsibility in certain situations (I haven't tried it myself yet). I'm not sure if mouse clicks is one of them, but it could be worth a try I guess.  

[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/11/alternative-to-200-lines-kernel-patch.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/11/alternative-to-200-lines-kernel-patch.html)

---

