---
title: "Trying to get my video working..."
date: 2006-02-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Binny45 on 2006-02-17
Good Day all

First time poster (and Ubuntu user) here.

I've managed to get the OS up and running so far, however my video is VERY wavy and my resolution is way off.

The motherboard I'm using is an ECS P4M800-M Socket 478 (not to be confused with ECS P4M800-M7 Socket 775) with onboard sound, lan and video.  The board has a VIA chipset.

I do have video enough to get this message posted, however I was wondering where I might get drivers to fix this and if possible maybe some directions (and guidance) as to installation of said drivers and general use of Ubuntu.

Any and all help with this is GREATLY appreciated.

Regards

---

### Post by gibson on 2006-02-17
What chipset is your video card, and what monitor do you have?

Could you post the contents of your xorg.conf file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf)

If you have used windows successfully, can you get the required refreshrate and resolution from there - will help a lot to get the best settings for your hardware.

---

### Post by Binny45 on 2006-02-17
Howdy! Thanks for the response.

The video chipset is VIA S3 .

Here's the contents of that file you requested (sorry for sounding like such a newb, but I am one afterall hehe)

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video"
	Driver		"via"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Philips 150S"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video"
	Monitor		"Philips 150S"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by gibson on 2006-02-17
First of all, welcome to ubuntu

ok - here is what i can think you can do....

backup xorg.conf

> cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup

then

> sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

then change the following lines

> 
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Philips 150S"
    Option "DPMS"
EndSection


to

> 
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Philips 150S"
    HorizSync   31-60
    VertRefresh 56-75
    Option "DPMS"
EndSection



nb - i am using the information from an xorg file posted here ([http://xoomer.virgilio.it/ondeb/xorg.conf](http://xoomer.virgilio.it/ondeb/xorg.conf)) as this fella seems to have the same monitor as you.

then CTRL-ALT-F1 and login then type

> sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

try this and see if it sorts your refresh rate problems out then we can discuss your res settings afterwards.

happy ubuntuing

---

### Post by Binny45 on 2006-02-17
Hmmm, still no dice.

Is Ubuntu supposed to be this difficult to setup?

Is there anything else that can be done?

Should I be looking at a different type of Linux? (What's Kubuntu like? What's the difference between Ubuntu and Kubuntu?)

So many questions.....:(

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-02-17
You could try the vesa driver.

Do another backup
```
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.via_backup
```
and then
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xorg-common
```
and choose "vesa" as the driver and follow the rest of the promts.Then do the same as before
> 
then CTRL-ALT-F1 and login then type
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

Hope that helps. It should not be this difficult. :( A case of bad luck with hardware I guess..

Anyway, if you some point are left without a graphical desktop (you get an error or something), don't panic. You can press ctrl+alt+F1 to log in to the console and restore the backup file with
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.via_backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Good luck!

EDIT: was being unclear

---

### Post by Binny45 on 2006-02-17
Still no luck :(

I don't know what this could be.  I hate being a Newb :p

---

### Post by gibson on 2006-02-18
Is the problem still the same or different.   could you explain in more detail.


After putting the new settings inro xorg.conf have you tried going to system settings and adjusting the screen resolution?

all the best

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-02-18
I don't think kubuntu will help you, because kubuntu is the same as ubuntu, only it uses the K Destop Environment --> KDE, while ubuntu uses gnome.

The X-server is what serves up your video for the desktop environment, and seems to be the broken link.

You might find another linux distro that uses a different X-Server, but if you are a newer user, I'd stick with ubuntu, and dual-boot until this is sorted out. Ubuntu is always up to date with stable packages.

---

### Post by Shutdownrunner on 2006-02-18
[QUOTE=Binny45]

I've managed to get the OS up and running so far, however my video is VERY wavy and my resolution is way off.

Regards[/QUOTE]
Wavy and way off are not too precise expressions:) But ok. 

First of all check what your horizontal sync and vertical refresh are under windows. Just press that little button on your monitor and this information should be somewhere in osd. Then update your xorg accordingly. If this doesn't help then you can always try (IN GNOME) Preferences->Screen resolution(I don't use GNOME in English so I'm just guessing what it's called in English). There you can choose resolution and refresh rate. It can also be done somehow using combinations of CTRL,ALT+sth, but setting it with gnome app should do. If this still doesn't help then we'll try to find something else;)

---

### Post by Binny45 on 2006-02-18
Thanks for the posts guys, I really do appreciate your efforts and your patience.

Ok, tried going under system -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution. 
Under there it only lists 640 X 480 as the resolution and 60 hz as the freq.  When I try to change the settings, nothing else shows up.

The screen itself is wavy, not to the point where I can't see what's going on (I'm typing this on the computer itself), but it's enough to drive you to distraction.

Is there a site somewhere with drivers for these boards and chipsets? (ECS PM800-M  socket 478, VIA S3 chipset)

---

### Post by Shutdownrunner on 2006-02-18
Well, then. Post the contents of your /var/log/Xorg.0.log. This should explain what is wrong.

---

### Post by scoop on 2006-02-28
Similar issues detailed at:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=779296#post779296](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=779296#post779296)

---

### Post by dwoods on 2006-04-21
I had the this same problem with the S3 Unichrome, even after a fresh install of Dapper 6.06.  The resolution was stuck at 640x480.  Before I attempted to fall back to the vesa driver,or look for another via driver from openchrome, I downloaded all the updates (the baloon kept popping up in the corner and bugging me to do so).  I rebooted when prompted, and the display manager came up in 2048x1024.  Worked for me and saved me some time screwing around :)

---

### Post by ec2 on 2006-04-21
maybe you should sheck your refresh rate. If it's 87, than it's wavy and sucks. Make sure it's 85 Hz, not 87Hz!

---

