---
title: "22.04 with MATE - 4K Display Scaling Forgetting to Apply Itself Upon Reboot"
date: 2022-04-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2022-04-26
Hi guys,

I have a laptop with a 4K display and I'm having some issues on Ubuntu 22.04 w/ MATE with the display scaling.  If I play around with the scaling settings, I can get everything to look as it's supposed to - usually by going to the display settings and setting it to **200% scaling** or **auto-detect**.  In MATE-Tweak, it seems to also work well with the HiDPI stting set to **Auto-Detect** or **HiDPI**.

However, after I reboot the computer, all the settings seem to go out the window.  I've been trying both the seemingly static settings (like hard setting 200% instead of auto-detect, or hard setting HiDPI instead of auto-detect) and then when they produced inconsistent results I tried setting both to auto-detect which also produces inconsistent results.

Sometimes the font size doesn't seem to change back, and so I had to set my "desktop" font yesterday from 11pt down to 5pt so it would not be comically large.  Today after a reboot, it was unreadably small so I ended up changing back to 11pt.

Yesterday before my last shutdown, the desktop interface looked normal.  After a reboot, here's how it came back today:
[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/cXxnz5CCEL/Vyl7RqkB.png[/IMG]

[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/qDRsqUUpAH/P9bJBvtT.png[/IMG]

[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/cXxnz5CCEL/jwRU6QHK.png[/IMG]

The fix today was to go into the display settings, and toggle it from **auto-detect **back to **100%**, which then resulted in this tiny stuff:

[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/DnDUkVFytG/ZiFlIA9o.png[/IMG]

Then after toggling it back to **auto-detect**, everything popped back to normal (almost, except the font that looked good yesterday on desktop icons was now too small).

[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/qDRsqUUpAH/prJHOZ5P.png[/IMG]

[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/qDRsqUUpAH/TejpgGRk.png[/IMG]


After all this toggling and adjustment, everything looks normal again.  But after rebooting, it's gonna do the exact same thing and the solution will once again be to go toggle settings away and back to what they're already set to.  This isn't an issue specific to auto-detect mode, I started trying auto-detect mode because I thought maybe it would have some logic to correct the error.  I see the same issue if I manually set it to 200%.  I have to toggle to 100% and back to 200% every reboot before things look normal, and sometimes the font sizes don't seem to change and sometimes they do.

Display scaling on MATE was buggy for me in 20.04 too but it was usually just some specific applications not working, I've never experienced this kind of desktop level inconsistency before.

Also - this issue is not specific to the fact I am running Compiz, display scaling behaved strangely with Marco too.

Is this a known issue that might be fixed, or does anyone know of a workaround?  In all other respects, 22.04 is working much better on my hardware (my laptop runs cooler and the GPU performs better - like it does in Windows - on 20.04 I had to run with the "noacpi" flag in my kernel so the thermal regulation and stuff was all screwy) so I'd really like to stick with 22.04 but this display scaling stuff that has to be tinkered with every reboot is quite annoying.

I'd appreciate any suggestions anyone has! :)

---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2022-04-26
Just to illustrate this a bit further, I just turned my laptop back on after turning it off, and after toggling the display scaling from auto-select back to 100% and back to auto-select, I had to go reduce my desktop font size back from 11pt (which looked normal before) to 4pt to make it look normal.  I am sure that sometime in the future that will become microscopic and I'll have to toggle back to 11pt.

[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/cXxnz5CCEL/5xJUFP40.png[/IMG]

[IMG]https://iota.lt/d/fZYTqB328N/CxEuQoge.png[/IMG]

---

