---
title: "10.10 often fails to hibernate"
date: 2010-10-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by surfer on 2010-10-22
i have ubuntu 10.10 running on an ibm thinkpad T43p.

when i try to hibernate, this fails very often. sometimes i just get back a login screen (as if i had locked the screen) after about a minute of harddisk activity, sometimes the screen goes black but discs and fans keep running.

and - yes - sometimes it just works as it should.

i have a huge amount of free swap space. that can not be the issue.

any suggestions?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-10-22
It could be related to your graphics card, I had pretty much the same experience with my desktop machine that had Ati graphics card & used the fglrx drivers. (and based on logs the graphics drivers were indeed te problem, they just couldn't get the card to sleep, and when they did it didn't always wake up at all)

If youtr problems are caused by the same reason then I must say that I never found any way to fix it, the problem only disappeared when the open source Radeon driver started supporting my graphics card and I started using that instead of fglrx.

---

### Post by surfer on 2010-10-22
ideed, this is my graphics card:
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc M24GL [Mobility FireGL V3200] (rev 80)
```

i don't know what driver i'm using... ever since /etc/X11/xorg.conf has disappeared, i am somewhat lost with my X11 settings. the files in /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/ don't yet mean much to me...

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-10-22
> **surfer said:**
> ideed, this is my graphics card:
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc M24GL [Mobility FireGL V3200] (rev 80)
```

i don't know what driver i'm using... ever since /etc/X11/xorg.conf has disappeared, i am somewhat lost with my X11 settings. the files in /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/ don't yet mean much to me...

If you go to System/Administration/Hardware Drivers (or something like that :D) you'll see the fglrx driver there if you are using it. If you aren't using it you are on the Radeon driver which Ubuntu uses by default.

Whichever one you are now using, check if the other driver supports your card and try that.

---

### Post by surfer on 2010-10-22
"System/Administration/Additional Drivers" it is!

...no proprietary drivers found.

---

