---
title: "10.04 , how do I fix this graphics &quot;issue&quot;?"
date: 2010-09-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by brad1138 on 2010-09-04
I like to set my panels larger than default and change their color, but when I upgraded to 10.04, the graphics behind some of the "items" on the panels retain the default color scheme. I know it isn't a big deal but it bugs me. I just created this user acct to show the prob without messing with my main login.

My solution was to use Avant Window Navigator and not use panels at all, but I would like to fix the actual prob.

Thanks,
Brad

[IMG]http://i544.photobucket.com/albums/hh359/brad3d/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by BrockStrongo on 2010-09-04
I might be wrong here, but it looks like the icons on the bottom panel are the problem. Those icons for the weather applet and workspace switcher don't have the transparent backgrounds that many other icons have. I will try with another icon set and post the results here.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-09-04
That definitely seems to be a theme issue. I also faced issues like that. Some gtk themes seem to work perfectly well while the others don't. Try with a different theme I suggest.

---

### Post by brad1138 on 2010-09-04
> **BrockStrongo said:**
> I might be wrong here, but it looks like the icons on the bottom panel are the problem. Those icons for the weather applet and workspace switcher don't have the transparent backgrounds that many other icons have. I will try with another icon set and post the results here.

Thanks, but if you look it is also behind the "item" on the left showing the open chrome window. That is definitely not a "third party" item. You would think it wouldn't have the issue.  

sikander3786, thanks, I have tried most of the themes Ubuntu offers and they all did the same thing. 

Brad

---

### Post by BrockStrongo on 2010-09-04
I tried different icon themes, but none seem to make any difference, I did try different GTK themes like Sikander3786 suggested and it seemed to have worked, all the icons appear on transparent backgrounds and the minimized windows are transparent in the panel, with the exception of the active one. Workspace switcher however is not transparent. 
  The screenshot is of the clearlooks theme, and in the bottom left you can see a chrome window that is minimized to the bar, beside it is the active window.
   I hope this is somewhat helpful. If not, then my apologies.

---

### Post by brad1138 on 2010-09-04
> **BrockStrongo said:**
> I tried different icon themes, but none seem to make any difference, I did try different GTK themes like Sikander3786 suggested and it seemed to have worked, all the icons appear on transparent backgrounds and the minimized windows are transparent in the panel, with the exception of the active one. Workspace switcher however is not transparent. 
  The screenshot is of the clearlooks theme, and in the bottom left you can see a chrome window that is minimized to the bar, beside it is the active window.
   I hope this is somewhat helpful. If not, then my apologies.

I guess I don't understand what a "GTK" theme is, how do I install those?

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2010-09-05
I don't think the workspace windows are meant to be transparent.
It doesn't use your panel background.
The background colours come from your theme.
So whatever theme you use you will have a colored background to the workspace switcher.

You can make the background of applets that use the panel background, transparent by 
going to the gtkrc of your theme and putting a hash mark in front of the line
```
bg_pixmap[NORMAL] = "panel_bg.png"
```
but this still won't affect the workspace switcher.

---

### Post by BrockStrongo on 2010-09-06
> **brad1138 said:**
> I guess I don't understand what a "GTK" theme is, how do I install those?

Here is a post that explains what gtk, metacity, emerald etc... mean. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=533405](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=533405)
Check out the pre-installed themes under system--preference-appearance, or download your own, or download emerald
hope this helps

---

