---
title: "squidguard doesn't work"
date: 2006-01-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rubenjavier on 2006-01-26
Hi, I've ben using Squid as a http proxy for some time now and this week I tried something new and installed squidguard too to be able of using black lists, sources lists, time, etc.
the thing is that the squidguard package installs without a problem, but after I put the next line in squid.conf and try to make -k reconfigure, squid stops and can't make it work until I delete or coment the line:

redirect_program /usr/bin/squidGuard -c /etc/squid/squidGuard.conf

thats the direction of the squidguard executable and the second half of the sentence is the direction where i put my squidguard.conf file, the file is autogenerated by the webmin-squidguard and its very basic...
I cant see what is wrong with this (thats the command that shoul be used inside squid.conf to use squidguard as a redirector program)
maybe the squid package for ubuntu has some problem with the manual direction of the squidguard.conf file, in the squidguard page they said that such a problem exist in versions 2.2, but the ubuntu package is 2.5 stable10
my squid.conf is standart just with a http_port 8989
why squidguard doesn't run????
thanks in advance

---

### Post by miig on 2006-03-20
I have the same problem, even with the following /etc/squid/squidGuard.conf :

```

dbhome /var/lib/chastity/db
logdir /var/log/squid

     acl {
         default {
             pass all
         }
     }

```
squid doesn't work (as if there was no connection), until I comment 

```

redirect_program /usr/bin/squidGuard -c /etc/squid/squidGuard.conf

```
in the /etc/squid/squid.conf

---

### Post by rubenjavier on 2006-03-25
Same thing here yet...
I think I'll give it a try to the new versions of squid and squidguard... the problem is that they are only for dapper and I can't upgrade the proxy machine to a unstable version just yet.. so I'll have to wait a little
If anyone has done some testing with the new versions of squid and squidguard under dapper please let me know
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by miig on 2006-03-28
I gived up to use squidguard and begin to use a simple filter of url using regular expression.

I ve added  on the squid.conf file 

```

acl games url_regex       -i "xxxx"
http_access deny games

```


where xxxx is the path to a file with words or urls that I want to deny access

for example: in my case the students use a lot a webgame named "ogame.com.pt". I have forbidden "ogame" word on urls so even using google as a "proxy" to access it they get access denied.

---

### Post by T.M on 2006-03-28
What happens when you debug the squidguard.conf

echo "http://foo/bar 10.0.0.1/- - GET" | /usr/bin/squidGuard -c /etc/squid/squidGuard.conf -d

I am currently at a debian server so hope the paths are correct with ubuntu.

You should also check that the proxy-user (the user which run squid)  has user rights to 

dbhome /var/lib/chastity/ 

For example i changed user rights to my dbhome:

chown -R proxy.proxy /var/lib/squidquard/db

---

### Post by Applebear786 on 2006-04-08
not working for me either.  have been playing w/ squidguard.conf and squid.conf for about two hours, referring to multiple how-to guides.  i thought it was just me until i came here and saw your posts.  i am able to edit squidguard.conf and squid.conf files, but do not understand ownership & permissions so can't do much more.  am about to give up.

---

