---
title: "Twinview Overlay on TV-Out problem"
date: 2006-08-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ruudvanleeuwen on 2006-08-04
Hello all,

I have an NVidia FX5900XT card with drivers installed properly (XGL/Compiz works). I connected a television to the TV-OUT connection. Now, I want to show full screen movies on my television, while still being able to do other things using my monitor. Using Windows (I switched last week), I could use something like "Overlay" for this. In Ubuntu, I thought I could do this by editing the xorg.conf file as follows:

```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV35 [GeForce FX 5900]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Option		"RenderAccel"		"true"
	Option 		"TwinView" 		"true"
	Option 		"TwinViewOrientation" 	"RightOf"
	Option 		"TVOutFormat" 		"COMPOSITE"
	Option 		"TVStandard" 		"PAL-B"
	Option 		"SecondMonitorHorizSync" "30-50"
	Option 		"SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "60"
	Option 		"MetaModes" "CRT-0: 1280x1024,TV-0: 1024x768 @1280x1024;1024x768,1024x768;800x600,800x600;640x480,640x480;  512x384,512x384"
EndSection

```

Looks pretty good to me. When restarting X, however, the television is indeed located "right of" the monitor. However, both resolutions are at 800x600!!!

What is going on? If I replace "RightOf" with "Clone", everything works fine, but that is not what I want.

Maybe there is a different way of doing what I want?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by mcpish on 2006-08-04
I have a setup working exactly the way you've described that you want, with the independant monitor and tv (ie. watch movies while using the desktop at the same time) running at different resolutions.  I have an Nvidia GeForce 6200.  My Desktop runs at 1280 X 1024 while the TV is set to 1024 X 768.  I also use nvidia-settings to configure the TV to overscan by a setting of "14".  This xorg file assumes that you are using an NTSC TV (North American standard).

I also have written a little script to be used along with my xorg.conf file which calls mplayer and displays the video that you want to play on the tv **only** (not on the monitor).  You use it by simply typing "tv <videofile>", so for example you'd type "tv lordoftherings.avi" and that would play the video on your tv in full-screen while leaving your desktop unaltered.  Here's a copy of the script, make it executable and put it in /usr/bin  You can even give it a little delay (if your tv is in another room) by uncommenting the "sleep 30" line.  This will give a 30 second delay after you type the command to get to your TV before it starts playing.  You can also use this script and create an assocition on your desktop.  So for instance you could "right click" a video file and choose either to play it with your video player on your monitor, or play on the "tv" by having an associated option that points to this script (i.e. associate with /usr/bin/tv)

> 
#!/bin/sh
#sleep 30
DISPLAY=:0.1 mplayer -fs -monitoraspect 1.33 "$@"

Save this script as "tv"


Here is a copy of my xorg.conf file.  Only difference is I have my TV as "leftof' but you can change to that "rightof" if you prefer that.

> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Resolution"		"800"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device[0]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	screen 0
	Option "RenderAccel" "On"
	Option "Accel" "On"
EndSection

Section "Device" 
   Driver          "nvidia" 
   Identifier      "Device[1]" 
   Screen 1 
   Option          "TVOutFormat" "Composite" #or S-VIDEO etc 
   Option          "TVStandard" "NTSC-M" #or NTSC etc 
   Option          "ConnectedMonitor" "TV" 
   Option 	   "TVOverScan" "1.0"
   BusID           "PCI:1:0:0" #adjust using 'lspci' or cat /proc/pci 
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor[0]" #CRT
	Option		"DPMS"
	Option "VertRefresh" "75"
EndSection

Section "Monitor" 
   	Identifier "Monitor[1]" #TV 
    	HorizSync 60 
    	VertRefresh 30-150 
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen[0]"
	Device		"Device[0]"
	Monitor		"Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen" 
   Device "Device[1]" 
   Identifier "Screen[1]" 
   Monitor "Monitor[1]" 
   DefaultDepth 24 
       SubSection "Display" 
               Depth 24 
               Modes "1024x768" 
       EndSubSection    
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout" 
   Identifier  "Simple Layout" 
       Screen 0 "Screen[0]" 
       Screen 1 "Screen[1]" LeftOf "Screen[0]" 
   InputDevice "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer" 
   InputDevice "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard" 
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

