---
title: "11.04 and emesene2"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mrkazoodle on 2011-05-01
Hi

I use Ubuntu 11.04 in the Ubuntu Classic session mode because I hate Unity.
Unity is build to be used with the global/app menu which I dislike [_[COLOR="Blue"]because[/COLOR]_]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fitts%27_law") my screen is big enough not to maximize all my windows and thus there is often a rather large distance between my windows and the global/app menu.
I do like the ideas of[LIST]
[*]putting the menu bar in the title bar of applications (like Photoshop)
[*]grouping the menu into a single button which resides in the toolbar (like the old [[COLOR="Blue"]_Compact Menu 2_[/COLOR]]("https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/compact-menu-2/") add-on for firefox did or their new firefox menu, but by using such a menus we lose the advantage of standardization)
[/LIST]
I also like the old gnome menu better:[LIST]
[*]I don't have to move the mouse all over my screen, scroll or click multiple times to start a program.
[*]If I would want to type the program's name there is already alt+f2, which gives suggestions which you can select using your keyboard (and don't have to switch to your mouse).
[*]Why would I want to install a new program every single time I open the dash? I don't, so I don't need to those recommended programs. That's what the Ubuntu Software Center is for.
[/LIST]

**However I still have some problems.**

1) Quitting emesene
If I close the emesene window it remains active, but hidden in the new applications indicator applet menu. In which I don't get an option to quit the program when I right click its entry. So how are you supposed to quit programs like emesene?

2) Hidden Programs
In the 'old' days you could see if an application was running without having to dig into a menu (one could ask oneself the question: "in what way is this an improvement?") so I tried to put them back in the notification(/systray) area. I tried [[COLOR="Blue"]_this_[/COLOR]]("http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/how-to-re-enable-notification-area.html"), but it didn't work for emesene. (It appears to be working for deluge, vlc,.. but I didn't test their behaviour before I applied the tweak)

If you have solutions to these problems I'll be glad to hear them.

---

### Post by dagjo on 2011-05-16
For emesene if you click on the envelope in the notification zone it should appear. 

If you do not have the envelope icon, right click on the dashboard>>add to the dashboard and chose "notification applet" (or something like that, i use it in french) and it should appear.

---

