---
title: "[SOLVED] Found Solutions for Nvidia resolution driver Ibex Issues!"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-01
hi there, well, as most nvidia users Ibex won't work right for me, in resolution and such. I understand I'm not allowed to copy paste from another site, so I'll link you, because I don't see the point of rewriting what already worked for me. Is a comprehensive guide to MOST nvidia Ibex Issues. the "Problem 2" solution worked for me with a little variation that I will describe. Hopefully this will work for you and we will stop flooding the support categories. With no further delay, here it is: 

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html")

My fix for "Problem 2":
Seems like the new X in ibex won't work with nvidia and the xorg.conf right, so do as instructed in the link. 

> nvidia-settings segmentation fault.In the nvidia-settings menu (System->Administration->NVIDIA X Server Settings), if I click “Save to X Configuration File” (in the “X Server Display Configurations” page), the window closes. This was not the behavior in Ubuntu 8.04. If I open the menu from the command line, then clicking “Save to X Configuration File” will print “Segmentation fault” before the window closes. This happens whether or not I use sudo when executing nvidia-settings.

Solution

I heard that the new X.Org was going to rely less on the xorg.conf file, but it still exits. I can still apply my desired changes by clicking “Apply”, so I personally do not have any problems. I am wondering if the segfault is a bug.

I renamed my xorg.conf file to something radically different: xorg_conf_backup.txt Then, when I had nvidia-settings save to xorg file, it asked where it was. I just pointed it to the same location (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) and had it make a new one. That seemed to make it stick. It seems unhappy in having to deal with existing xorg files.

But when I tried to make nvidia settings to make a new one, it would return an error. So this is what I did:

1. Get the drivers working (as instructed)
2. Get nvidia-settings working (as instructed)
3. Rename (backup) xorg.conf
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg_restore.txt
```
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg_backup.txt
```

xorg_restore is our foolproof backup
xorg_backup is  the renamed xorg we will temper with to try to fix the resolution.
4. Go to System>Administration>nvidia X server settings and choose your resolution. then Click "save to X configuration file" it will ask where is xorg.config. Click the Preview button. Copy ALL the preview content. (be careful, xorg.conf is a very sensitive file so be sure yo copy it right)
5. open renamed Xorg.conf
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg_backup.txt
```
6.erase all the content and paste the preview nvidia gave you. I should work fine for your monitor, since is generated by your driver.
Save and close.
7. rename the file back to xorg.conf
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg_backup.txt /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
8. Reboot

In case it doesn't works, you just have to replace the xorg.conf we made with a copy of your original, however, your problem will be there still.
like this:
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg_backup.txt
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg_restore.txt /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg_backup.txt
```

this should undo everything we have done.

A few last words.
I did this and worked, yet I'm quite a beginner, and though i'm certain this is a non invasive procedure and is backed up properly i warn you, messing with xorg.conf is dangerous. so be careful. Also, I'm just starting to use bash, so, I understand well everything I did, and I'm certain that there are ways to do it quicker. maybe using *~ or cd. But i decided to play it safe, to reduce the messing up chances. I just wanted to hopefully help a bit. Good luck to all of you troubleshooting nvidia drivers in ibex, and I hope you succeed as I did. Thank you for reading, hopefuly this helped.
See ya! 
:guitar:

---

### Post by DJ_Peng on 2008-11-01
Actually Alberto Milone, the developer of Envy, has said he's going to [get the beta drivers packaged]("http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?p=292") for Intrepid users as soon as he can.

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2008-11-01
It's best when running gui applications with super user privileges with gksu rather than sudo.

So your line here:
**sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg_backup.txt**

Is better done thus:
**gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg_backup.txt**

It's a good habit to get into, there is a bit of a difference between sudo and gksu, and as it's 3:30am here I forgot exactly why you should use gksu instead of sudo for running GUIs with super user privileges.

Good post by the way, that gave me another way of fixing it up :D

---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-01
yeah, but drivers is not the problem. In hardy I had similar Issues, solved by editing Xorg.... and I used envy. The problem is the bug in X server setting with this new X. so.... the drivers won't solve much.

---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2008-11-01
At this link [http://nxadm.wordpress.com/2008/10/31/bug-ubuntu-810-and-older-nvidia-video-cards/](http://nxadm.wordpress.com/2008/10/31/bug-ubuntu-810-and-older-nvidia-video-cards/) I found this:

"Easy fix: get the new beta driver released yesterday by Nvidia. It solved all my problems :). Go to their forum and you will find the new drivers on top of the page (sticky posts). Just follow their instructions to install it (you will need to install linux-headers-generic).(Then wait until Ubuntu and Nvidia fix the problem.)"

I'll be trying it out myself soon but thought I'd share first.

---

### Post by evilkastel on 2008-11-01
hehe... about time they solved it. still I don't need to get beta drivers since i'm ok for now... maybe for jaunty ;)

---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2008-11-01
> **Tim_Olaguna said:**
> At this link [http://nxadm.wordpress.com/2008/10/31/bug-ubuntu-810-and-older-nvidia-video-cards/](http://nxadm.wordpress.com/2008/10/31/bug-ubuntu-810-and-older-nvidia-video-cards/) I found this:

"Easy fix: get the new beta driver released yesterday by Nvidia. It solved all my problems :). Go to their forum and you will find the new drivers on top of the page (sticky posts). Just follow their instructions to install it (you will need to install linux-headers-generic).(Then wait until Ubuntu and Nvidia fix the problem.)"

I'll be trying it out myself soon but thought I'd share first.

Well, I went to the Nvidia site and found some information which seemed promising.  I even downloaded what seemed to be the suggested driver.  But when I went back to double-check some directions I found the information no longer available.  And no, I could find no information in their forums as the earlier post suggested.  

This is all very frustrating.

---

### Post by claudio_99 on 2008-11-02
The packages linked on the nvidia forum linked from [http://nxadm.wordpress.com](http://nxadm.wordpress.com) post are still there:
[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.09/](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.09/)
[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/96.43.09/](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/96.43.09/)

C.

---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2008-11-02
> **claudio_99 said:**
> The packages linked on the nvidia forum linked from [http://nxadm.wordpress.com](http://nxadm.wordpress.com) post are still there:
[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.09/](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/96.43.09/)
[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/96.43.09/](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/96.43.09/)

C.

Thanks, Claudio_99.  Most helpful!

---

