---
title: "9.10 CompizConfig Fascism and Place Windows"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by deymious on 2009-11-02
CompizConfig will not allow me to disable certain plugins, like move, resize, or,  most annoyingly, place windows.

I do not want to excruciatingly code a rule for the placement of each window... I just want to turn the wretched thing off so that I can put the windows where I want them, close them, and allow my underlying window manager to remember where they were when they're reopened. This was not a problem in 9.04.

Has anyone been able to turn off these 'plugin's? I would like to keep the compiz effects, but I'll happily tear the whole thing out if it won't listen to me, just like I did Ubuntu's 'Network Manager'.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-11-02
Using the term Fascism in any post is going to limit getting any help. Compiz offers a lot of possibilities and there are 1000s of videos on the net on how to get it to do what you want.

---

### Post by deymious on 2009-11-02
I agree, but I couldn't edit the title after it was posted, so there is my first reaction, like it or leave it.

Thank you (?) for the suggestion to view videos. I am not sure how this relates to the bug in fusion checkbox.

Added bonus, unearthed this locked dev thread that tells you how to fix this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1280562&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1280562&page=3)

Apparently compizconfig reveals settings we aren't supposed to change... and things like animations are considered necessary, as in we, the users, the ones with root, can't turn them off using the interface we're given.

Dangerous territory. I hope Ubuntu, in the bid to look and operate more like Windoze, does not emulate its mistakes as well.

---

