---
title: "9.10 broke my cron firefox launch"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-02
Hey everyone,

So, I have a kiosk with a very simple cron script to make sure that firefox is open. If firefox is not open, it will then open it.

This script has been working fine in 9.04, but now that I am on 910, it refuses to open firefox. If I run the script manually, it works fine, but in the event it is launched from cron, firefox just doesn't open.

```

#!/bin/bash
if [ "$(ps aux | grep "firefox" | grep -v grep)" == "" ]
then 
        firefox &
fi

```

Edit: Clarification

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-03
If anyone could help me out with this, I would really appreciate it. I keep thinking it might be some sort of permission issue, but I am at a loss. Any ideas?

---

### Post by yeleek on 2009-11-03
interesting - nothing wrong with that script.

Is cron even starting the script do you know? i.e. is it an issue re executing the script rather than executing ff?

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-03
Cron does appear to be starting. To test, I added a line for debugging.

```

if [ "$(ps aux | grep "firefox" | grep -v grep)" == "" ]
then
        date >>  /home/kiosk/Desktop/test
        firefox &
fi

```

I have been tailing the test file and it is updated every minute.

My cron entry is as follows
```

* * * * * /home/kiosk/ssh_tunnel.sh

```

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-04
Could it be something to do with having to state the display to launch on? Frankly, I am grasping at straws...

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-05
I also tried setting my cron entry to
```

* * * * * DISPLAY=:0.0 /home/kiosk/ssh_tunnel.sh

```

Still no go.

The annoying part is that this works fine if I run the script manually. Any other ideas?

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-11-05
Try:

```
*/1 * * * *  <username> /home/kiosk/ssh_tunnel.sh
```

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-05
My cron entry now reads
```

*/1 * * * * kiosk /home/kiosk/ssh_tunnel.sh

```

Now, the test file isn't getting updated at all, so it appears the script isn't being run.

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-05
Same thing with
```

*/1 * * * * root /home/kiosk/ssh_tunnel.sh

```

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-05
What I really can't figure out is why this would work perfectly in 9.04, but be broken in 9.10...

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-11-05
Is this running it's own crontab or did you add it to /etc/crontab?

What happens if you drop the file extension .sh?

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-05
Dropping the .sh extension didn't seem to make any difference.

I am adding it to cron via 'crontab -e'.

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-05
Is there any way for me to debug cron that might help?

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2009-11-09
Come on, I know there is at least one Linux Guru out there who has an answer for me. Please?

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-11
I have problems with cron/anacron, too. I've googled the issue for a while and I have found the chkconfig command: (I had to install it first: sudo apt-get install chkconfig)
```
chkconfig --list | grep cron
anacron                   0:off  1:off  2:off  3:off  4:off  5:off  6:off
cron                      0:off  1:off  2:off  3:off  4:off  5:off  6:off
```
I have read some of them should be 'on'. The thing is I don't know what I'm supposed to do to turn them 'on'.

---

### Post by dustin.kerber on 2010-02-09
I just wanted to pop in and say that it appears one of the recent updates fixed my issues. Thanks for your help, all!

---

