---
title: "Shifty"
date: 2005-10-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by qalimas on 2005-10-13
I have a 21" monitor, and an nVidia 5200 card, now I set my resolution to 1600x1200, and it gets shifty, as in the screen shakes.  The only refresh rate avaliable is 60.

Any help on making it work right? :(  Dare I say, it worked in Windows last year.

---

### Post by darkmatter on 2005-10-13
[QUOTE=qalimas]I have a 21" monitor, and an nVidia 5200 card, now I set my resolution to 1600x1200, and it gets shifty, as in the screen shakes.  The only refresh rate avaliable is 60.

Any help on making it work right? :(  Dare I say, it worked in Windows last year.[/QUOTE]

That is because the refresh rate.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Have your monitor specs handy. When asked for the refresh rates, manually enter the one's for your monitors horizontal and vertical sync (use the 'Advanced" option)

Finish the dialog and restart x with Ctrl+Alt+Backspace.

That will most likely fix the problem.

---

### Post by qalimas on 2005-10-13
I don't know my monitors specs, it's a no name and I was given to me, I don't have any books, I'll look for serial numbers and whatnot on Google though and try.  Thanks ^^

Edit: Found the specs, did what you said, and it works wonderfully, thank you ^^

---

### Post by webbie180 on 2005-10-14
I have a screen with blinking tiny stars all over even thou I have the correct Vert and Horiz values for my monitor.  Was working well under Hoary but not now under Breezy.  Can anyone help me, Pse?

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"LCD"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	31-60
	VertRefresh	60-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"LCD"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

