---
title: "11.04 login screen"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by SafiyaMalik on 2011-05-10
After noticing that Unity(Ubuntu) was on the slow side I went to the login screen and selected Ubuntu Classic. Unfortunately the next day I did the same thing but this time selected something like 'KDE Plasma' or so which I thought somehow must have been installed during the upgrade. It started to boot with that Kubuntu look but after I logged in the screen was black. I tried some keystroke commands to see if something would change e.g. alt + Tab and saw a notice saying 'no windows to change' or something similar.

As a mac user I thought i could perform a clean install then switch it back through the GUI, but the install options from the pen drive ISO were limited to 1. erase then install 2. Install side by side 3. Other partition options or so. If there is an option that I'm unaware of to keep files & apps in place whilst installing perhaps you could let me know how to make that happen. Other than that If you knew the code to bring up the "login Screen" -under system settings- so I could find my way back to Ubuntu Classic I'd be very grateful. [-o<

Thanks very much!
Safiya

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-10
Why don't you just choose "Ubuntu Classic" at the login screen after you noticed that "KDE Plasma" doesn't work!?

The command to get the "Login Screen" settings GUI is "gdmsetup".

Greetings.

---

### Post by SafiyaMalik on 2011-05-11
Thanks so much!
Had to try to hundreds of keystroke combos before I could enter anything. FYI the lucky combo is Alt + F2 in case someone else wants to see the pretty graphics of KDE and get stuck with a black screen instead. Cheers again. **La-La-Love the demi-gods of the open-sores community!**

---

