---
title: "Using &quot;extra&quot; keys on xfce with Logitech keyboard"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pdwerryhouse on 2011-10-17
Hi all,

After upgrading to Oneiric, I've just started using xfce, because I can't stand Unity or Gnome 3. I've got one small issue however.

My keyboard (a Logitech Internet Navigator Keyboard) has a few extra buttons, notably Stop, Play, Skip and Back buttons for controlling a media player. Under Gnome 2, these buttons would control Rhythmbox (whether it was in focus or not).

Now they don't work at all. I'm sure I could probably throw together a nasty hack involving xmodmap and some shell scripts, but I'm wondering if there is a "correct" way to do this in XFCE?

I've already set the keyboard to "Logitech Internet Navigator" in the Keyboard settings.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-17
The default music player in Xubuntu (oneric) is gmusicbrowser. It provides a FIFO mechanism so that commands can be sent to the music player (documented in 'man gmusicbrowser'). 

You could create a script like:
```
#!/bin/bash

case $1 in
	1) echo Stop > ~/.config/gmusicbrowser/gmusicbrowser.fifo
		;;
	2) echo PlayPause > ~/.config/gmusicbrowser/gmusicbrowser.fifo
		;;
	3) echo NextSong > ~/.config/gmusicbrowser/gmusicbrowser.fifo
		;;
	4) echo PrevSong > ~/.config/gmusicbrowser/gmusicbrowser.fifo
		;;
	*)
		;;
esac

```
...and then assign the keystrokes using SettingsManager->Keyboard->Application Shortcuts so that:

Stop = /home/gm 1
Play = /home/gm 2
Skip = /home/gm 3
Back = /home/gm 4

where gm is the name of the script.

EDIT: Another solution exists here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11325883&postcount=14]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11325883&postcount=14"), but it involves enabling gnome services.

---

### Post by iamnotthemessiah on 2011-10-18
i would like to know how to do this in banshee cos i cant stand gmusicbrowser

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-18
@iamnotthemessiah, I don't and never have used banshee, but the man page says its possible: [http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/oneiric/en/man1/banshee.1.html]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/oneiric/en/man1/banshee.1.html"). So try this:
```
#!/bin/bash

case $1 in
	1) banshee --stop
		;;
	2) banshee --play
		;;
	3) banshee --next
		;;
	4) banshee --previous
		;;
	*)
		;;
esac
```

---

### Post by TREESofRIGHTEOUSNESS on 2011-10-18
Isn't there an overall type of command for this?
that you can set to your XF86(whatever-key)?
I had to manually insert some stuff to make a custom Volume control key
(amixer -q sset Master 1+ && amixer -q sset PCM 1+) instead of something like RaiseVolume, or whatever.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-10-18
Have a look at: [http://wiki.xfce.org/faq#keyboard]("http://wiki.xfce.org/faq#keyboard") - section "Is it possible to use Media keys in the Shortcut Editor?".

Basically, in a terminal window, type:
```
xev | grep keycode
```
...and an input window will open, but that's not important. Look at the terminal window and press one of your multimedia keys. If you get a response like:
> state 0x10, [COLOR="Red"]keycode 71[/COLOR] (keysym 0xffc2, F5), same_screen YES,
...then the key is being recognized by the system. The important part is the part in red ("keycode xxx").

Edit and/or create a **~/.Xmodmap** file in your home directory to look something like:
```

 keycode 162 = XF86AudioPlay
 keycode 164 = XF86AudioStop
 keycode 160 = XF86AudioMute
 keycode 144 = XF86AudioPrev
 keycode 153 = XF86AudioNext
 keycode 176 = XF86AudioRaiseVolume
 keycode 174 = XF86AudioLowerVolume
 keycode 237 = XF86AudioMedia
 keycode 230 = XF86Favorites
 keycode 236 = XF86Mail
 keycode 178 = XF86WWW
```
...but substitute the keycode values for the ones generated by the previous (xev | grep keycode) exercise.

To enable this new keymapping, type:
```
xmodmap ~/.Xmodmap
```
...at the terminal window or to make it permanent add that command to **~/.xprofile** (manke sure that you make ~/.xprofile executable)

In theory this is how it should work. Unfortunately, I don't have a multimedia keyboard to test it out.

---

