---
title: "8.10 Release new install probs!"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by w2drh on 2008-10-30
I just downloaded and burned ISO of 8.10 release. It took a long time to install. Now it does load. It says it auto connected to network. However, it has not and will not access internet. when shutting down it goes just so far and freezes. These are the same probs I found with the beta. ALL other releases work just fine on the machine! Did they just push crap out of the door to get a release? HELP???? PLEQAS!!!
Thanks!
Dave:(:

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-30
> **w2drh said:**
> I just downloaded and burned ISO of 8.10 release. It took a long time to install. Now it does load. It says it auto connected to network. However, it has not and will not access internet. when shutting down it goes just so far and freezes. These are the same probs I found with the beta. ALL other releases work just fine on the machine! Did they just push crap out of the door to get a release? HELP???? PLEQAS!!!
Thanks!
Dave:(:

Hi and welcome, I am sure they do not just push releases out. :)
Could you give us some system specs?
Did you check the cd for errors before installation and also do a checksum on the hashes 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)
Hashes 
```
ea6d44667ea3fd435954d6e1f0e89122 *ubuntu-8.10-alternate-amd64.iso
f9e0494e91abb2de4929ef6e957f7753 *ubuntu-8.10-alternate-i386.iso
f9cdb7e9ad85263dde17f8fc81a6305b *ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64.iso
24ea1163ea6c9f5dae77de8c49ee7c03 *ubuntu-8.10-desktop-i386.iso
e3028a105a083339be8e5af5afbe7444 *ubuntu-8.10-server-amd64.iso
a2ec9975a91e1228c8292ed9799dc302 *ubuntu-8.10-server-i386.iso
2796c696ab368415a30fddc8278e08b0 *wubi.exe

```

---

### Post by iToy16 on 2008-10-30
i had a problems when i upgraded from Hardy to Ibex RC

after upgrade my system got REALLY slow...

but after a clean install everything got back to normal...

btw im a Ubuntu n00b...

what are the "cheksum" for..?

---

### Post by Spikius on 2008-10-30
> **iToy16 said:**
> i had a problems when i upgraded from Hardy to Ibex RC

after upgrade my system got REALLY slow...

but after a clean install everything got back to normal...

btw im a Ubuntu n00b...

what are the "cheksum" for..?

To check that youv downloaded everything correctly. With no errors

---

### Post by Awperator on 2008-10-30
> **iToy16 said:**
> i had a problems when i upgraded from Hardy to Ibex RC

after upgrade my system got REALLY slow...

but after a clean install everything got back to normal...

btw im a Ubuntu n00b...

what are the "cheksum" for..?

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Checksum](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Checksum)

basically what Spikus said

---

### Post by HansGong on 2008-10-30
This is the damn worst release I have ever seen!! It crashs too frequency

---

### Post by GreatBunzinni on 2008-10-31
> **HansGong said:**
> This is the damn worst release I have ever seen!! It crashs too frequency

I have to say that my experience has been the complete opposite. This has been the very first Ubuntu upgrade that not only went flawlessly but also finished without needing a single tweak. The video mode was exactly what the doctor ordered, sound works perfectly as does networking, even though it is a wifi connection from a network card that needs proprietary drivers. That is commendable, as this upgrade involved the complete replacement of a desktop environment. Really impressive.

The only problems that I can point out so far are KDE4 being rather inferior when compared to KDE3 and GTK apps not using a KDE theme. Other than that it was smooth sailing from start to finish.

---

### Post by igotnoluck on 2008-10-31
This is a good release. the only tweak i had to do is the wireless card. other then that, the system works fine + couple of bugs are fixed :)

---

### Post by Boss_scout on 2008-10-31
I am very new to Ubuntu and have been trying out 8.04 on a dual boot with vista. I have found over the 6 or so weeks i have had Ubuntu I have gradually migrated completly to it. I did an upgrade to 8.10 last night and everything went very well. Everything appears to work (though time will tell) apart from the scanning function on my multifunctional printer (MP610) which I did not get working in 8.04 so I cannot blame 8.10 for that. 
I like what I have seen in 8.10 and am now at the point where i do not want to load vista and am doing everything in Ubuntu.

Many thanks to all involved.

---

### Post by georgefrankly on 2008-10-31
I have also encountered a strange bug in after I upgraded to Intrepid from Hardy...
Everything seems to work fine, except when I go to open a file browser from the "places" menu, instead of opening the file-browser, it opens the folder in Amarok.  This seems like a really bizarre sort of bug, but I was wondering if anyone else had encountered anything similar, or had any idea how to fix it?  perhaps the file browser didn't update correctly?

Thanks!

---

### Post by coldbluesteel on 2008-10-31
I just upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10.

Seems ok except whenever I open a terminal I just get a white box.

Also sub-menus are just white boxes.

And the "X" in the upper right of Firefox and other programs (except terminal) is a circle and doesn't do anything when you click on it.

Help? I NEED my terminal.

---

### Post by jonnyrockets on 2008-10-31
been using ubuntu since edgy. 

i have a strange problem, i did a fresh install of 8.10. i checked the hash (md5sum) of the iso i downloaded and its proper. 

install went fine, and I get to the login screen fine. 

if i attempt to login, some things lockup. here is what i can tell

1). the mouse is free to move around
2). keyboard is completely locked up. to go into more detail, after logging in, i kept toggling caps lock, just to see if i could pinpoint where the lockup occured. i can toggle caps lock for about 7 seconds before it stays on/off permanently. 
3). i cannot ctrl-alt-f1 to get to a command prompt. 
4). i rebooted and took a look at /var/log/messages, and also piped the output of dmesg to a txt file and didn't see anything out of the ordinary. 


help please! :-/

---

### Post by jonnyrockets on 2008-10-31
ok did some investigating, and the freeze after login is very common apparently. 

i don't know what the ubuntu folk were thinking this time, but compiz comes all enabled by default, regardless of whether or not you have drivers available. it is now a very common break to many intel and ati chipsets. 

to fix this, i logged using the terminal option and typed: 

sudo apt-get remove compiz, compiz-core

---

### Post by gare on 2008-10-31
> **overdrank said:**
> Hi and welcome, I am sure they do not just push releases out. :)
Could you give us some system specs?
Did you check the cd for errors before installation and also do a checksum on the hashes 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)
Hashes 
```
ea6d44667ea3fd435954d6e1f0e89122 *ubuntu-8.10-alternate-amd64.iso
f9e0494e91abb2de4929ef6e957f7753 *ubuntu-8.10-alternate-i386.iso
f9cdb7e9ad85263dde17f8fc81a6305b *ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64.iso
24ea1163ea6c9f5dae77de8c49ee7c03 *ubuntu-8.10-desktop-i386.iso
e3028a105a083339be8e5af5afbe7444 *ubuntu-8.10-server-amd64.iso
a2ec9975a91e1228c8292ed9799dc302 *ubuntu-8.10-server-i386.iso
2796c696ab368415a30fddc8278e08b0 *wubi.exe

```


Thank you for posting these hashes. Could you by chance share where you got them from? 

I do not see them on:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes) 

That page appears immutable.  Perhaps someone will update it soon?

Thanks again.

---

### Post by alicemoon on 2008-11-01
my thanks too for sharing the hashes - help pages on the wiki do not show 8.10 hases as far as I could see -

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-11-01
> **gare said:**
> Thank you for posting these hashes. Could you by chance share where you got them from? 

I do not see them on:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes) 

That page appears immutable.  Perhaps someone will update it soon?

Thanks again.

I found them here after a search 
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/)

---

### Post by beerguzzler on 2008-11-01
Having lost SPDIF sound in Hardy I did a fresh install with Intrepid today. Got sound back but I have issues with the Nvidia restricted drivers. In Hardy I managed to get it setup for 720p and everything was sweet for running media files.

Now I get the odd flickering line when watching dvds or media files from the hard drive. The configuration file wasn't saving. using the 177 recommended driver so switched back to 173 so at least now my screen resolution stays as 1280/720 when I boot up, With 177 it kept defaulting to 1980/1080

I'll still use Ubuntu as my main OS for normal pc work, browsing, emails etc, but gotta go back to vista for the HPTC stuff.

---

