---
title: "10.04 taking me to the login console and not graphical login"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mcsekar on 2010-05-01
Hi
I just installed 10.04, and its taking me to the console login, rather than the graphical login.
When I tried the live cd, the graphical environment was good. But after installation, I dont get the graphical login :(, so that I can get into the desktop. 

I have a ATI Mobility Radeon X1400 card on ThinkPad T60. Everything was working on 8.10, and I decided to install 10.04 and now it doesnt work.
Please help.

---

### Post by amir.khosroshahi on 2010-05-01
Same issue for me on my Dell 6400 with ATI Mobility Radeon X1400.

After upgrading from 9.10 to 10.04, the system halts on the boot screen after grub showing a black screen with some strange graphical patterns on the top.

Of course this happens only when I boot with the new 2.6.32 kernel. With this kernel version it doesn't boot even in recovery mode. But the system boots in the old 2.6.31 kernel which is remnant of the Jaunty era.

---

### Post by mcsekar on 2010-05-01
I re-installed and used ext3 file system this time. Moreover, I asked it to login automatically without asking for password. Its working properly now. :P The first time I installed it (and this is when it wouldnt boot into the graphical login) I had used ext4 file system, and forced for a password challenge.
Maybe the gurus here can tell why it did not work the first time, but worked the second time with those changes. :confused:

---

### Post by baekgaard on 2010-05-01
Pretty strange...

I experienced almost the same here. I had a machine with 9.04 on, but decided to do a fresh install of 10.04 instead of upgrading, to save a bit of time. 

However, once installed from the CD, I was presented with a garbled screen and a seemingly non-responsive system upon boot. I was, however, sometimes able to hold down shift during boot and select the recovery (non-graphical) mode. This allowed me to login to a shell with network access etc, so I made sure I had all the latest packages installed.

After a bit of google'ing (and based on some experienced I had yesterday with a T40), I tried adding the two parameters below, if I recall correctly

```
radeon.modeset=0 radeon.new_pll=0
```

to the boot line. You can do this from within grub, in case your system is not able to progress in any way after grub.

This allowed me to boot without a garbled screen, but then I only got the (non graphical) login prompt. I could login, though, and even if the network was not running -- indicating the "runlevel" was somehow wrong -- I could type startx and be presented with a proper X/gnome session. So the X subsystem was working as it should when invoked manually.

I think there are actually two errors here: One is the screen becoming garbled/display corruption, the other that it does not start the X and gnome subsystems.

The first problem, related to display corruption is likely not isolated to Ubuntu; there appear to be problems with radeon drivers in 2.6.32 elsewhere also (e.g. FC12).

I played around for a while to see if I could find any obvious reasons. I didn't, but since I had been able to upgrade a T40 yesterday from 9.10 to 10.04, I decided to install first 9.10 and then upgrade to 10.04, just to see if that would be different -- I did that upgrade using the alternate CD. 

Lo and behold; it worked without a snatch. Screen looks good, even the splash.

So my T60 is working now (currently without the additional radeon parameters), but I'm a bit worried if it may still boot incorrectly again at some point, since I never figured out the root cause.


-- Per.

---

