---
title: "11.04 stuck in Classic mode"
date: 2011-07-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bratas1 on 2011-07-01
Ok not sure what is up or how to get it back, the  desktop is stuck in classic mode. I want to continue testing with Unity, i think the classic mode is like gnome.

i was/am considering switching all my home systems to Ubuntu and want to see if the wife can get accustom to Linux.

New user btw, so please bare with me.

FYI I think the wife can get used to Unity since it reminds her of an Android

---

### Post by steinerd on 2011-07-01
Log out of your current session.  At the login screen select your username then, at the bottom of the screen select the ubuntu desktop.

Hope this helped.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-07-01
classic is Gnome, and so is Ubuntu Desktop, Unity is just a shell which sits on top of Gnome.

you can change it from login screen at the bottom.

---

### Post by bratas1 on 2011-07-01
i have tried that alrdy it stays like it is selected for classic

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-07-01
I am not actually using Unity anymore and am back to 10.10

however try this from terminal:

unity &> /dev/null & disown

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-01
> **bratas1 said:**
> Ok not sure what is up or how to get it back, the  desktop is stuck in classic mode. I want to continue testing with Unity, i think the classic mode is like gnome.

i was/am considering switching all my home systems to Ubuntu and want to see if the wife can get accustom to Linux.

New user btw, so please bare with me.

FYI I think the wife can get used to Unity since it reminds her of an Android
Hi, if you were running unity it sounds like you had an update to your video driver, I would check that and if it was updated, go back to using the older driver. If you have not run unity at all put this command in a terminal 
```
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
```
and post the outcome  here by clicking on new reply and click # and paste the information between the brackets.

---

### Post by bratas1 on 2011-07-02
i ended up just re-installing

---

