---
title: "11.10 - Keyboard Shortcut Issue"
date: 2012-03-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by wbest on 2012-03-16
First: Yes, I checked in **System Settings > Keyboard > Shortcuts**.

So here's my problem. On my old install, I had terminal bound to Super+t, and got used to using it to open a new terminal. So I went to **Keyboard > Shortcuts** and reset it when I had to do a fresh install recently. However, on 11.10, Super+t is bound to Trash, so whenever I try to open a new terminal, it opens trash instead. It seems to be some sort of dominant shortcut I can't override (at least not in the **System Settings**). Does anybody know how I can unbind Super+t to trash? I haven't really seen anything online that doesn't simply tell me to use  **System .Settings > Keyboard > Shortcuts**.

Thanks

---

### Post by clarenceweaver on 2012-03-16
Don't know how to unbind Super t but Ctrl-Alt-T will open a terminal

---

### Post by ameno on 2012-03-25
it is worse in 12.04. i cant get the windows/super/mod4 key working without a second modifier key. e.g. <Control><Super>t works, but <Super>t does not.
that's especially interesting because the windows key works without a problem for the window manager shortcuts (see xfce settings/window manager/keyboard).

i also tried setting <super_l> and <mod4> manually in the xfce4-settings-editor. that editor might also be able to override the trash shortcut in 11.10. i have not found it there though.

---

### Post by tgmayfield on 2012-04-21
Same problem with mod4-t opening trash instead of terminal set in keyboard shortcuts editor. I'm on 11.10 using the stock (unity) window manager.

---

### Post by cyprys on 2012-04-21
There's more (please, confirm if you can, I'm using 12.04 but I guess it works the same for 11.10).

"System settings -> Keyboard -> Shortcuts":

1. Most shortcuts under Launchers section don't work when set with Super as the only modifier (e.g. Super+T doesn't work as a terminal launcher but Ctrl+Super+T does) and some don't work at all when Super is used as any modifier (e.g. Super+E or Ctrl+Super+E doesn't work as a home folder opener but Ctrl+E or Ctrl+Alt+E does).

2. No shortcut under Navigation section works properly when used with Super as the only modifier as it changes the workspace or moves the window to the correct workspace but doesn't stop the action (workspace switcher indicator displays in the middle of the screen and doesn't close unless you press Esc therefore it prevents the user from using any other shortcut immediately after switching workspaces).

3. The following shortcuts under System section don't work at all: Show the run command prompt, Show the activities overview. Lock screen doesn't work if Super is used as a modifier (alone or in combination with Ctrl/Alt/Shift).

4. Turn on-screen keyboard on or off shrotcut under Universal Access section doesn't work when using Super as any modifier.

5. There's no way to overwrite Super+T shortcut, Dash uses it to open the Trash, period. The same regards Super+S to activate workspace switcher and Super+1/2/3/... to run applications stuck to the Dash bar under the Dash Home button.

The same issues probably apply to some other shortcuts I don't use.

---

