---
title: "new 11.04: How can I get gnome back?"
date: 2011-06-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-25
I BTed 11.04 32bit DTS from ubuntu.com and installed on my Thinkpad X60s and after a fuss got my /home ported over, but I&#472;e grown to hate the GUI, which I believe is called unity. I desperately want to switch back to good old gnome since I am fedup with trying to get this GUI to work, and to stop getting new unwelcome surprises all the time.

I can even cut and paste with <ctl> c and <ctl> v.

I was told there a way to do it at logon but it doesn work for me, there is no place to select classic.

I finally found synaptic, though, so can I DL and install all the gnome stuff from synaptic and then make it my default GUI?

If I install 11.04 on another computer can I pre-select gnome so I dont have all these problems?

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-06-25
could just use Xubuntu

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-06-25
> **bliffle said:**
> I BTed 11.04 32bit DTS from ubuntu.com and installed on my Thinkpad X60s and after a fuss got my /home ported over, but I&#472;e grown to hate the GUI, which I believe is called unity. I desperately want to switch back to good old gnome since I am fedup with trying to get this GUI to work, and to stop getting new unwelcome surprises all the time.

I can even cut and paste with <ctl> c and <ctl> v.

I was told there a way to do it at logon but it doesn work for me, there is no place to select classic.

I finally found synaptic, though, so can I DL and install all the gnome stuff from synaptic and then make it my default GUI?

If I install 11.04 on another computer can I pre-select gnome so I dont have all these problems?

at login screen as soon as you enter your name a menu with options at bottom of screen will appear.

choose the ubuntu classic from options

[http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/](http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/)

---

### Post by JM68 on 2011-06-25
This Unity stuff is something more than huge downgrade! It's major downgrade from Gnome2. I'm sad to say this but I must dump Ubuntu for this. Ubuntu is no good anymore. Unity really sucks - sorry about bad language but thats the most civilized way to say that this Unity is just "peace of ****".

Hope that we will see Native Gnome instead of this peace of **** unity. Just dump this unity stuff. It's totally no good at all. This is why I run Linux Mint 11 now. I had to dump Ubuntu.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-06-25
> **JM68 said:**
> This Unity stuff is something more than huge downgrade! It's major downgrade from Gnome2. I'm sad to say this but I must dump Ubuntu for this. Ubuntu is no good anymore. Unity really sucks - sorry about bad language but thats the most civilized way to say that this Unity is just "peace of ****".

Hope that we will see Native Gnome instead of this peace of **** unity. Just dump this unity stuff. It's totally no good at all. This is why I run Linux Mint 11 now. I had to dump Ubuntu.

Unity is not mandatory. (people often confuse mandatory with default)

You can change it to whatever GDM you want, from login or by installing additional like KDE.

it is all choice, if you dont like unity then dont use it. You can still use 11.04 without it

If you use mint you still have the option to choose whether you use KDE, Gnome etc...its all choice whatever distro you use...you can use Unity in Linux mint if you want to

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-25
¨at login screen as soon as you enter your name a menu with options at bottom of screen will appear.¨

Doesnt happen.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-06-25
> **JM68 said:**
> This Unity stuff is something more than huge downgrade! It's major downgrade from Gnome2. I'm sad to say this but I must dump Ubuntu for this. Ubuntu is no good anymore. Unity really sucks - sorry about bad language but thats the most civilized way to say that this Unity is just "peace of ****".

Hope that we will see Native Gnome instead of this peace of **** unity. Just dump this unity stuff. It's totally no good at all. This is why I run Linux Mint 11 now. I had to dump Ubuntu.

Good luck with Mint , Gnome 2 is done and most distros that use it will be moving to Gnome 3 Ubuntu chose Unity instead of the Gnome shell.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-06-25
> **bliffle said:**
> ¨at login screen as soon as you enter your name a menu with options at bottom of screen will appear.¨

Doesnt happen.


[http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/](http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/)

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2011-06-25
At login screen enter or select your name and press ENTER. You should then see options before you enter your password.

---

### Post by steinerd on 2011-06-25
If you would like to try Gnome3 then here is a quick how-to, just remember there is currently no way to get back to unity that I can figure out.

[http://shallows.bounceme.net/tiki-index.php?page=Gnome3&structure=Ubuntu+Help&page_ref_id=4](http://shallows.bounceme.net/tiki-index.php?page=Gnome3&structure=Ubuntu+Help&page_ref_id=4)

That is a site that I have thrown together with various how-to's I have used to build my systems.

If you just want to get back to 2.32 then at the gdm login screen select your username then down on the bottom select "ubuntu classic".

hope this helps....

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-27
> **ubume2 said:**
> At login screen enter or select your name and press ENTER. You should then see options before you enter your password.

No, I don´t get the option display at any time.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-27
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> [http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/](http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/)

I finally figured it out from that ´scottlinux.com´ site. So now I have the old gnome layout.

But I still have funky response from an apostrophe or quote (I have to double them). Could I have gotten the wrong keyboard layout somehow at install time?

---

### Post by mrbison on 2011-06-28
> **JM68 said:**
>  This is why I run Linux Mint 11 now. I had to dump Ubuntu.

Ditto. I couldn't stand unity so I switched to Mint 11 and I couldn't be happier. I only wish ubuntu would drop unity.

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2011-06-28
I stick with Classic Ubuntu. Don't have your problem, but have plenty of screen freezes, etc with Unity.  11.04 should be considered an Alpha release.  10.04 and 10.10 are my work horses.

---

### Post by EroomOllor on 2011-06-28
while i have experienced frustration at the problems I have (and continue to have) on the upgrade to 11.04 ,  i recall that i'm interested in gnu/linux to learn and work together. 
 
similar problems to mine at: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1750539](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1750539)
 
reinstalling gnome-panel was not the magic button for me.
 
i do need to sort this as I have invested a good few weekends into building (compiling)  some software (that other people have developed under GPL !) - and now I can't 'see' it. It's down there somewhere, lemme take another look!! (remember Big Lebowski?)
 
I am using a 7 year old loptop though...
 
I'm not complaining. I read the resignation letter of the man who created Fink and that was enough to remind me that all GPL work is appreciated.
 
When I get my system back I;ll post how I did it...!

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-29
Part of me would like to use unity because it looks like I´d gain screen realestate using unity, but the interaction mysteries are daunting.

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2011-06-29
> **haqking said:**
> choose the ubuntu classic from options

[http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/](http://scottlinux.com/2011/03/05/ubuntu-11-04-change-from-unity-to-classic-gnome/)

[s]Down the page on above URL: refers to changing default screen 
Menu--System Settings Login Screen--change default to Classic.  

I've had mixed results doing that, but worth a try if you haven't done it already.[/s]
Edit: I can't get this method to work at all. I even tried changing the desktop and automatic login, and it did not work.

---

### Post by crustydusty on 2011-06-29
this an edit I had posted a possible solution for getting unity back. I posted it before I rebooted and when i did reboot it totally screwed my desktop environment.  If you saw this post before I edited it please disregard my bad info sorry bout that.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-06-30
Now I´m really annoyed!

Usually I have no problems installing a new Ubuntu, but this time it´s a big mess. Here´s what´&#347;  happened:

I wanted to simply replace the old 10.x system I had on my X60s, so I bought a new HDD upon which to build the new system (it is my custom to build on a new HDD and then put away the old HDD as backup/archive). When I realized that I´d lose my /home I backed that up to another fresh HDD). Then I partition copied the Ubuntu and XP partitions to the new HDD and installed the 11.04 then copied the /home to the new HDD.

The 11.04 booted up OK and I got the new GUI and had access to my /home BUT the GUI was different in that it had less screen clutter and was harder to get around at first, and it had some KB peculiarities: apostrophe and quote don´t display and jumble text, and <ctl>c and <ctl>v don´t cut/paste. 

After a few days of mucking around in the GUI I decided to go back to clunky old gnome, which I finally managed to do after working past the fact that I didn´t get a chance to choose ¨classic¨ at boottime.

But now I have the worst of both worlds: clunky gnome instead of obscure unity, and I still have this apostrophe/quote problem.

---

### Post by bootedguy on 2011-06-30
Under system, go to Login Screen.  You can change to Classic there, and then restart.

---

### Post by pattigranda on 2011-06-30
@haqking, Thanks for clearing that up, I was under the impression that ubuntu changed GDMs permanently

---

### Post by bliffle on 2011-07-09
I ran for a week or two with gnome and then started to run into problems: while running firefox (5.0) my screen would go gray and the computer became unresponsive and the disc access LED would go on very steady. Eventually the only way I could restart was to disconnect and pull out the laptop battery.

I thought that maybe it was a FF problem, so I installed ´chromium´, but it went gray when I attempted to import the FF bookmarks, and then it all became  unusable.

I had been starting to have that problem under 10.10, too, so I decided the problem was either gnome or Firefox, but since this is the new FF 5.0 I decided to blame gnome.

So I reverted from ´ubuntu classic´ to ´ubuntu´ at startup, so I´m running under unity and FF 5.0 now.

All things considered I´d rather run ´unity´ if ´gnome´ is going to end in the near future. Besides, I get some screen realestate back with unity.

---

