---
title: "never afraid of power interruption?"
date: 2010-11-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by c2h2 on 2010-11-30
Hi guys, 

I have got 100 ubuntu atom powered desktops running at a remote site where power generated by diesel.

Power interruption is unpredictable and people will cut diesel when done. (i.e. no one will take care of turning off ubuntu)

But, they only play movies, presentation from their server. (99% are read only work).

I would like to have set them auto reboot when powers on in bios. BUT Problem is ubuntu checks disks most of the times. and if there is disk writing when power cuts files will get corrupted. (for example writing to /var/log/messages)

Is there anyway to solve/avoid this problem? So ubuntu works like your mobile phone, power on = boot OS and working, power off = just off.

thanks a lot guys!

---

### Post by The Fiddler on 2010-11-30
Depending on how much memory those systems have, try mounting /tmp and /var/log as tmpfs. This will reduce the amount of writes done on a typical session and reduce the chance of an interrupted write. Note that interrupted writes will not cause file corruption on a journaled filesystem like ext3 or ext4.

However, I think you might be approaching this problem from the wrong angle. I would look into using the readonly bootcd image which already does everything you need. If writeable storage is necessary, you can always mount a secondary writeable partition.

This is quite easy to setup. I used to have an Ubuntu USB stick that worked exactly like this for demonstration purposes.

---

### Post by c2h2 on 2010-12-01
Thanks for the replay.

Does that mean you can install everything ready and make the harddisk into a image? 

What software would you suggest? thanks!

---

