---
title: "11.10: Does System Monitor show CPU utilisation for each processor?"
date: 2012-04-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-21
I ask this question because the output from System Monitor differs between my two 11.10 Ubuntu installations. One is an Intel Core 2 Duo system; it shows a graph of CPU utilisation for each processor. The other is an AMD X2 configuration: System Monitor shows just a single CPU utilisation graph.

Is this expected behaviour?

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-04-21
Gnome-system-monitor shows a separate graph for each CPU core. Unless you are running a different system monitor, you should see two graphs.

Open a terminal and run "gnome-system-monitor" to make sure you are running Gnome monitor.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-21
Gnome-system-monitor shows only a single process  utilisation  trace. I'll try to attach a couple of screen shots

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-04-21
Some programs show only one total graph, but you are using the right program. I have Athlon X2 on one of my machines and gnome-system-monitor does show two graphs.

What do you see on the "System" tab. You should also go to the terminal and type the command:
```
cat /proc/cpuinfo
```
it should show you information about your CPU.

---

### Post by dbombtek on 2012-04-21
I have only ever gotten one to show up.

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2012-04-21
> **XEtedBear said:**
> I ask this question because the output from System Monitor differs between my two 11.10 Ubuntu installations. One is an Intel Core 2 Duo system; it shows a graph of CPU utilisation for each processor. The other is an AMD X2 configuration: System Monitor shows just a single CPU utilisation graph.

Is this expected behaviour?
What is the exact model number of your CPU ?

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-22
> **Bobhuber said:**
> What is the exact model number of your CPU ?

Hmmm, that's a good question. Ideally I should strip the heat sink and fan off it, clean it up and read what's printed on the case - but I don't want to do that right now. So I ran CPU-Z - see one attachment. 

Wow, that's interesting: the information for the second core is greyed out. Wikipedia says 'Manchester' core is an X2 with one core disabled.....

On the other hand, Windows Task Manager shows 2, different, CPU utilisation graphs - see second attachment.

Now I'm realy confused!

Sorry, I seem to have uploaded 2 copies of the task Manager window. Trying to correct....

Ah! Now I have read ALL the wikipedia page and think I have correctly identified the CPU; I beleive it to be ADA3800DAA5BV

---

### Post by BobDolman on 2012-04-22
Linux distribution Ubuntu comes in different CPU architectures, make sure you download and install the right one; in your case AMD 64 bit. Go to the link I provided to download the right one. Good Luck! 
[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download)

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-22
Wow, I'm not sure I follow this  - are you saying that because I have a 64-bit capable AMD processor, I have to install the 64-bit version of Linux? But I've been running the i386-bit architecture version, in various flavours/distributions, (Fedora, OpenSUSE, Mint...) for the past 7 years, since I first installed Linux, without an obvious architecture-related problem.

I'm not sure that a 2 GB RAM system has enough resource to warrant the use of a 64-bit op. sys, does it? And I certainly don't want to go out and buy expensive legacy DDR RAM in 1 GB sticks (assuming they are available), just to exploit the maximum RAM supported on my motherboard.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-04-22
This has nothing to do with the architecture, your CPU is perfectly capable of running both 32-bit and 64-bit OS. With 2GB of RAM, I would stay on 32-bit. I am pretty sure your Windows is 32-bit too.

From what I understand, the CPU is in fact dual-core and Windows seems to recognize that. To check the CPU number under Linux, you have to use the command that I gave you:

```
cat /proc/cpuinfo
```
you can also give
```
uname -a
```
to see exactly which kernel you are running. Post the output of those two commands so we can see if the problem is with Gnome-system-monitor or the kernel or perhaps some place else.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-22
Nah, sorry, I just don't believe that it's necessary to install AMD64 arch. just to exploit the X2 AMD architecure and fully utilise the 2 cores I have in my CPU. All of the internet info I have looked at in the past 30 minutes or so tells me 32 bit Linux, known as i386 architecture, will run correctly, in 32-bit mode, on my 64-bit dual core AMD processor.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-04-22
> **XEtedBear said:**
> Nah, sorry, I just don't believe that it's necessary to install AMD64 arch. just to exploit the X2 AMD architecure and fully utilise the 2 cores I have in my CPU. All of the internet info I have looked at in the past 30 minutes or so tells me 32 bit Linux, known as i386 architecture, will run correctly, in 32-bit mode, on my 64-bit dual core AMD processor.

You are absolutely correct.

Check my earlier post.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-22
Oops, sorry, I overlooked your previous recommendation  - got side-tracked on to something else. the output from  the cat command is interesting - and confirms my suspicions:

cat /proc/cpuinfo;


processor	: 0
vendor_id	: AuthenticAMD
cpu family	: 15
model		: 43
model name	: AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 3800+
stepping	: 1
cpu MHz		: 2042.931
cache size	: 512 KB
physical id	: 0
siblings	: 1
core id		: 0
cpu cores	: 1
apicid		: 0
initial apicid	: 0
fdiv_bug	: no
hlt_bug		: no
f00f_bug	: no
coma_bug	: no
fpu		: yes
fpu_exception	: yes
cpuid level	: 1
wp		: yes
flags		: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt lm 3dnowext 3dnow pni lahf_lm cmp_legacy
bogomips	: 4085.86
clflush size	: 64
cache_alignment	: 64
address sizes	: 40 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
power management: ts fid vid ttp


The output from  uname -a is as expected:

Linux Advent 3.0.0-17-generic #30-Ubuntu SMP Thu Mar 8 17:34:21 UTC 2012 i686 athlon i386 GNU/Linux



Could this behaviour (Linux kernel apparently seeing only 1 core, yet the same CPU installed on a similar vintage ASUS motherboard shows 2 cores; and Windows seeing 2 cores) be related to the kernel options I am using?

I have had to set 'noapic', 'nolapic' and 'acpi=off' in order for the system to boot. I have found no other acpi setting with which the system will run correctly. 

{Choosing the string 'Windows XP' for acpi_os_name has the most entertaining results which required 19 hours of non-stop trial and error discovery to recover from. I can most thoroughly recommend it - to never be used).

---

### Post by BobDolman on 2012-04-22
No I'm suggesting you should try the AMD version (32/64-bit) instead of an Intel (i386). I'm running currently Ubuntu (AMD) on an Intel processor and it works  indeed perfectly but that doesn't mean it will work for every computer  with different hardware. I'm sorry if I'm mistaking, but this seems to be the  most logical reason.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-04-22
> **BobDolman said:**
> No I'm suggesting you should try the AMD version (32/64-bit) instead of an Intel (i386). I'm running currently Ubuntu (AMD) on an Intel processor and it works  indeed perfectly but that doesn't mean it will work for every computer  with different hardware. I'm sorry if I'm mistaking, but this seems to be the  most logical reason.

You are mistaken. Intel i386 is just the name of the standard, Intel came up with it first and they named it first. All AMD CPUs support i386 standard, there is no other 32-bit standard. On the other hand, AMD came up with the 64-bit standard, so the name is AMD64. Intel sometimes calls it EMT64, but it is the same thing. All 32-bit OS use i386 (or i486, i586, i686) and all 64-bit OS use AMD64 regardless of whether the CPU is Intel or AMD.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-04-22
> **XEtedBear said:**
> 
Could this behaviour (Linux kernel apparently seeing only 1 core, yet the same CPU installed on a similar vintage ASUS motherboard shows 2 cores; and Windows seeing 2 cores) be related to the kernel options I am using?

I have had to set 'noapic', 'nolapic' and 'acpi=off' in order for the system to boot. I have found no other acpi setting with which the system will run correctly. 

{Choosing the string 'Windows XP' for acpi_os_name has the most entertaining results which required 19 hours of non-stop trial and error discovery to recover from. I can most thoroughly recommend it - to never be used).

This is apparently some conflict with the motherboard BIOS and the Kernel, I have heard of older motherboards not always following the ACPI standards, but I have not experienced it myself. I did some searching with Google and found people with similar problems on the older kernels. Usually an update would eventually solve the problem.

If you can, try booting 11.04 or 12.04 (still Beta) and use the option to "Try without changes". See if the older or newer kernel give the same problem. You may be able to also solve the issue with BIOS setting and/or Grub options like "noacpi", however, I don't know enough about those to be of real help.

Ideally 12.04 will work fine and then you can just install that, it will be a final release next week.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-23
> **3Miro said:**
> This is apparently some conflict with the motherboard BIOS and the Kernel, I have heard of older motherboards not always following the ACPI standards, but I have not experienced it myself. I did some searching with Google and found people with similar problems on the older kernels. Usually an update would eventually solve the problem.

If you can, try booting 11.04 or 12.04 (still Beta) and use the option to "Try without changes". See if the older or newer kernel give the same problem. You may be able to also solve the issue with BIOS setting and/or Grub options like "noacpi", however, I don't know enough about those to be of real help.

Ideally 12.04 will work fine and then you can just install that, it will be a final release next week.


I have the feeling that we are now zeroing in on the correct explanation of why System Monitor only shows a single CPU Utilisation trace - the kernel has been lead to deteremine there is only 1 core. It is begining to look probable that this is an ACPI issue within both or either the BIOS or the fundamental design of this Abit A8V mobo, such that the kernel will run only when 'acpi=off' (the same thing as kernel option  'noacpi' that you suggest).

My reading surrounding this topic suggests that the ACPI implementation defects within Abit could be overcome by some lengthy kernel changes and trial and error recoding of certain drivers - tasks which I could complete with the same likelihood of flying to Mars and back after a geting up to a reasonable velocity on my mountain bike....

If anybody else reading this has a deeper understanding of the settings for acpi at boot time in the kernel, I would be grateful for advice.

What is quite ironic is that I installed the Abit A8V  mobo in this system about 6 months ago after upgrading my earlier ASUS A8V mobo from single core to dual core AMD CPU and finding that the system was subject to unpredictable system freezes.I now suspect that they too were acpi issues, but I never understood enough at the time to know how to change these at boot time.  But at least I had both cores running (until freeze) on the ASUS mobo. It might be time to revert...

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-04-23
This (potentially  final) post is for the information of others who walk this way: I have finally found a combination of kernel options which allow my Abit A8V + AMD 64 X2 system to run Ubuntu 11.10, using both cores, in a stable mode.

These options are 'noapic', 'lapic' and 'acpi=off'

The system has been running in this mode, with 3 applications open and completed a compile of Audacity 2.0.0 without the previous symptoms of a kernel freeze, or applications suddenly dying.

---

