---
title: "[7.04] X broken after nvidia-glx-new and nvidia-settings"
date: 2007-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ge0ffrey on 2007-05-01
I just installed ubuntu 7.04.
At some point it already asked me to use the non-open nivdia drivers and I said yes.
All worked fine, except the resolution would only go up to 1024*7xx, while I want 1280*1024.

In an attempt to fix that... I managed to break the X, here's what I did:
- Open synaptic
- See that nvidia-glx is installed
- Install nvidia-glx-new (I got a Gforce 6700 something - probably nivdia-glx was fine, but why isn't there just one package that auto detects this stuff?), it removes nvidia-glx
- reboot
- install nvida-settings
- reboot
- Ubuntu boot breaks, I get an ugly command line
- Use apt-get to remove nvidia-settings, nvidia-glx-new and get nvidia-glx
- Keeps breaking with something like "nvidia kernel module wants version 1.0-9755 and X module is version 1.0-9631" as the X log.
- Tried a number of different combo's, with apt-get update and apt-get upgrade and stuff too.
Tried removing all nvidia-*, but the boot keeps breaking.

There's definitely something rotten in dependencies of nvidia-settings as far as I can see.
1) How do I fix my boot?
2) And after that is done... how do I fix my resolution?
(optional: 3) In which version will the resolution just work out-of-the-box?)

Thanks for any and all help :)

---

### Post by Theimon on 2007-05-05
First of all, get rid of all nvidia stuff
```
sudo aptitude remove --purge nvidia-*
```
Then install the new nvidia-glx
```
sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx-new
```

Do not install nvidia-settings separately, it comes with the glx package. If it doesn't show up in the apps applet, open up a terminal and enter ```
nvidia-settings
```.

Also when you did all that, at the terminal again enter ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Answer all those questions, hit the spacebar at the resolutions you want to use, make sure you got the right sync rates in there as well. It will back up your xorg.conf file and replace with the one you just made. Restart the X server or reboot your system.
Good luck.

---

### Post by ge0ffrey on 2007-05-05
Thanks, but after running that dpkg-reconfigure (and answered a lot of questions I am very unsure of the answers - is there any way to make ubuntu answer like it did on the install?),
I got this warning on reboot:

Failed to load "wfb"
Failed to load nvidia kernel module

---

### Post by Nythain on 2007-05-05
whats your /etc/X11/xorg.conf look like???

---

### Post by Theimon on 2007-05-05
Ok, that error only applies to the 9755 version.
Remove nvidia-glx-new and install nvidia-glx, that's version 9631. The wfb module is there to support the 8800 gpu series, but it's useless when you don't have that kind of card. The 9631 should work.
Just follow the steps above. You probably won't need to edit the xorg.conf just now. Just install the driver first and reboot.

---

### Post by ge0ffrey on 2007-05-06
I just rebooted and it just works now,
I didn't need to get nvidia-glx instead.

I also managed to open nvidia-settings through the console and it a lot nicer to configure things (why isn't it integrated with the screen resolution dialog like on windows?).

Thanks for all your help :)

However... I 'll wait with recommending ubuntu 7.04 to friends till the following 2 issues are fixed:
- Resolutions like 1600*1400 and 1280*1024 should be pickable by default in screen resolution.
- nivdia-settings should be openable through the menu's, preferable in the screen resolution menu.

---

### Post by Theimon on 2007-05-06
I don't know if that's really fair. With a bit of editing you can change both problems, so why wouldn't you recommend Ubuntu to your friends? I always had to customize my Windows when I installed it on my computer, took me 2 days to  get what I want, installing and customizing Ubuntu takes me close to 1 hour.......now you tell me......

---

### Post by ge0ffrey on 2007-05-07
I 've just found out that "ubuntu-generic" doesn't start up, but "ubuntu-386" does.
I haven't tested their recovery modes yet.
I am unsure what the difference between those 2 boots are - and why there is a need to make 2 different anyway?
I do have a processor with a double core though and the processor now shows up as a single graph in the monitor window, while before the x probs, there were 2 graphs?

As for the problems with the resolution. It's nice that ubuntu 7 has improved a lot over the older versions, I am writing this out of ubuntu and I wouldn't do that if I didn't believe in it. It's just that not supporting 1280*1024 out of the box is a major issue to me. Is there any issue tracker (JIRA?) where we can vote for it? :)

---

### Post by ge0ffrey on 2007-06-02
A couple of days ago I installed an update and again ubuntu's X didn't want to start up...
purging nvidia and reconfiguring xorg doesn't seem to work.

I gave up for now, I might reinstall ubuntu later.

---

