---
title: "14.04 Unity -&gt; Installed/Uninstalled Gnome -&gt; Totally jacked up"
date: 2014-06-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by derekcentrico on 2014-06-10
I had issues once Gnome installed.  So, I uninstalled it using advice at:  [http://askubuntu.com/questions/462163/uninstall-gnome-completly-from-ubuntu-14-04-lts](http://askubuntu.com/questions/462163/uninstall-gnome-completly-from-ubuntu-14-04-lts)

Now, Unity behaves very, very weirdly.

My Chrome Hangouts extension tiles in one place and is unreadable because new messages are frozen on top of each other and won't drag or widen.

My Chrome browser starts extremely small and I have to widen it both vertically and horizontally to even see it.

Apps look strange.  Things appear sluggish.  Behavior just is odd.

Any advice on restoring the original feel and operations of 14.04 default Unity?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-06-11
You can try the following command. ```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```
If the message/output includes the following all the Ubuntu desktop packages are installed and if not you will be prompted to install packages. ```

Reading package lists... DoneBuilding dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 reinstalled, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 3,758 B of archives.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used. 

``` I have not used the method you posted to remove Gnome sessions.

---

### Post by vanadium on 2014-06-11
The least pain will probably be a re-install, where you opt not to wipe the drive. Then, the system files are reinstalled, but user config data and other data stays untouched.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-06-11
> [COLOR=#000000]The least pain will probably be a re-install, where you opt not to wipe the drive. Then, the system files are reinstalled, but user config data and other data stays untouched.[/COLOR]

When trying to remove a Gnome PPA this was the best solution for me.

---

### Post by derekcentrico on 2014-06-14
Okay, so I haven't done the complete wipe yet as I'm avoiding it.  Ubuntu Tweak has helped fixed the desktop issue.  The only remaining issue is that tiling of popups is all out of whack.  i cannot drag them or dock elsewhere.

I'm attaching a screenshot to show what's messed up.  This example is with Google Hangouts.  It used to let me tile it along the bottom and new window would open in a row.  Now, they are stuck on eachother and will not move.  Essentially, messaging is now impossible.

The windows would tile on the bottom from right to left natively.  It all broke after trying gnome.  :-(

Anyone know how to reset this positioning stuff so i can get it back to normal operations?  Again, this appears to be my last portion of broken issues so I'd hate to format just for that.

---

