---
title: "8.04-  desktop themes and screenlets"
date: 2008-06-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by 4me on 2008-06-28
i am assuming i need help with both

i do not download these into the right place.  

can someone please help the man who cant walk and chew gum with some simple step by step instructions on how to get these things into the right place.

ie- 'click download' then either 'open'(in that case 'with what') or save(in that case to 'where).

then do this, then that.  TY in advance......and yes i am that BAD.:confused:

---

### Post by Spaceman9 on 2008-06-28
You can download and install Gnome themes from Synaptic. Boot Synaptic and Search for gnome themes. Click on gnome-themes and on gnome-themes-extras and on gnome-art.

Also if you click on Sections (below the left panel) and then on GNOME Desktop Environment (in the left panel) you'll fine different gnome icons.

Also you can get more themes and icons at the Gnome site [http://art.gnome.org/](http://art.gnome.org/) site and at Gnome-Look.org [http://www.gnome-look.org/](http://www.gnome-look.org/)

---

### Post by 4me on 2008-06-29
thanks spaceman.


i got the ones out of the synaptic package manager.

and i am happy with a background that i got.

however, my problem is something so silly as to not even be able to find it in the search function.

when i go to art.gnome or gnome-look and click on the 'download'---- i get it......but i can NEVER get it to where it belongs.  ie- it is sitting in front of me, but i cant 'extract' it to the proper place.

i dont know whether to 'open' or 'save' and then dont know how to go from there.......yes, that dumb and that computer illiterate.

---

### Post by Spaceman9 on 2008-06-29
First boot up the file manager. In your home folder create a new folder called Gnome Art or whatever you want to call it. In that folder create 2 more folders. You could call one Gnome Themes and the other Gnome Icons. 

Move the files you downloaded to the appropriate folder. Now, lets say you have a gnome theme you've downloaded you you've moved it to the Gnome Themes folder. Right click on the desktop, then click on  Change Desktop Background. After the window pops up click on Theme then click on Install.

Navigate to Gnome Art, Gnome Themes and double click on the theme you want to install. That   should install it.

If it doesn't install boot your file browser, navigate to the folder the theme file is in and right click on it. Then click on Extract Here. This will create a new folder with the name of the theme.

Go back to the Theme installer and click on install. Navigate to the Gnome Themes folder again. Click on the folder that has the themes name. You're looking for a file that will install the theme at this point. If you don't find a file there should be a text file telling you how to install the theme.

Some of the themes and icons you'll find at gnome-look are not packaged for automatic install by the Theme Installer in Gnome. With those you'd look for install instructions in the file you download but sometimes the instructions are online on the same page the theme is on and sometimes there are no instructions provided by the person that created the theme or icons. 

If a theme or icons need to be installed manually you can often do that at the command line, unless the person has only finished part of the theme and then you need to use a file browser with root privileges to move the artwork to the right folders. 

To get root privileges with Nuatilus press Alt and F2 at the same time. A window should open that says Run Application. Then type gksudo nuatilus and click on Run.

---

