---
title: "14.04, Firefox 40 upgrade. TED no longer works"
date: 2015-08-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rogerw05465 on 2015-08-15
Good morning. I took the recently suggested Firefox 40 upgrade. Now TED talks do not play.

I have add-on checked to update automagically, but something has shifted. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2015-08-15
So, it it just the TED talks web site, or do you have problems with video on other web sites?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2015-08-15
Do you get "Error #2032"?
That's what I get to, although I only tried Yed yesterday so can't say how the previous version of Firefox behaved.

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2015-08-15
I see the same behaviour with TED Talks. I have FF40 and it works with BBC and Youtube though.
Tried it with Ghostery, Adblock and Privacy Badger disabled still wouldn't 0 play TED Talk videos

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2015-08-15
I don't know whether TED talks are promptly available on YouTube, but I tried one TED video on YouTube using Firefox 40 and it played. I don't have any sort of Flash installed.

The TED site itself has a download option as well.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2015-08-15
The TEST web site download option button doesn't download - it tries to play. 
It actually plays succesfully if flashblock is disabled. If flashblock is enabled then clicking the F symbol gives a black page.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-08-15
I had never heard of Ted Talks but just tried it.  If I left-click any of the links to a video all I see is a small red info box saying the video is playing, but it's not playing, and nothing happens or shows.

If, however, I right-click the link and choose "open link in new tab", that is exactly what happens; it starts and plays properly in that new tab.  I have never seen that behaviour before on a site, but I wonder if that is what is happening in your system using FF40.

PS: I have not yet updated to FF 40; still on 39.0.3, and I do still use flashblock rather than "Ask to activate" as the latter allows all flash instances on a page to play; flashblock allows only the one you specifically click on to play, and it was active on the TedTalks pages I looked at.

In spite of my use of FF39.0.3, it may still be worth trying the right-click trick to see if it works in FF40 as well,

EDIT:
I have just updated to FF40 and tried the site again; the right click is still the only way I can get the videos to work.

PPS: I forgot to mention that I am using freshplayer in order to get the most recent version of pepperflash working in FF.  It seems to work fine on all sites I have tried so far, but I have no idea if it is having any effect on this problem for you.

---

