---
title: "5.1 i386 freezes after login (brown screen)"
date: 2006-03-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gravity-1 on 2006-03-26
Hi all,

I am totally new to ubuntu and pretty new to linux. I tried installing 5.10 amd64 and ran into this same problem. I figured it might be the 64 bit install so I tried the i386 install and got the same thing.

The install goes through totally fine (sort of) and I get to the login screen. I type in login and password and the start up sound plays and I get a brown screen with a pointer. I can move the mouse pointer but that's it. Ctrl-alt-F1 doesn't work. Nothing works. I basically have to hard reset and boot back into windows or mess with ubuntu recovery.

Here is more info anyone who wants to help might need.

AMD64 x2 4400
2GB pqi turbo pc3200 ram
Aopen nvidia 7800 gt (slightly overclocked)
2 160 gb sata 3g hdd's  (1 has windows xp pro on it, the other is partitioned partly as ntfs for data backup, the rest is ext3 and swap for ubuntu)
Epox nforce4 sli motherboard
2 plextor sata 1.5g dvd burners (1 712-sa and the other 716-sa)

A few other notes:

I choose 1920 x 1200 as my res for the X server, I don't think that is a prob though as I assume it will only try the highest capable.

(this is the sort of) I did get some errors on install, the only one I was able to write down, and there were several of these that were similar; 

Assertion failed! qc->flags & ATA_QCFLAG_ACTIVE drivers/scsi/libata-core.c, ata_qc_complete line [3082]   (or something like that)

Grub works fine on the mbr, I can boot into windows, and boot into ubuntu but like I said, I just get a brown screen after login.

I'm guessing my real problem is either with the sata drives or the graphics card. I tried a fix that I thought would help ([http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074)  method2) but I couldn't complete it since I didn't have the nvidia installer.

Any help is greatly appreciated. I don't want to give up on ubuntu or linux but I haven't had much luck so far. (last distro I used was fedora core 3 and I had a nightmare install with grub not going in right)](*,) 

Thanks in advance.
grav

---

### Post by dalrd on 2006-03-26
I have the exact same problem!

I think it has something to do with the video card, mine is NVIDIA 6800xt. It could also be a problem with GNOME. If nothing works, I will try to install kubuntu.
I tried to install the NVIDIA driver the simple way (running it from the shell), but it always fails. I will try to install the driver by the instruction in post: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074). 
I will tell you if it works.

You wrote that you had some errors. I can’t remember having errors at all, can you write were exactly those errors occurred and what caused them.

Also, It looks like this problem isn’t common. I searched the internet for a long time and couldn’t find anything on it. If anyone had this problem or know how to solve it please help us.

Thanks for the help.
Matan  

P.S.
I am not a native English speaker, so please excuse me for any English mistakes.

---

### Post by fdimmling on 2006-03-27
[QUOTE=dalrd]
Also, It looks like this problem isn’t common. I searched the internet for a long time and couldn’t find anything on it. If anyone had this problem or know how to solve it please help us.
[/QUOTE]

My wife has the same problem on her Acer Travelmate 291LCi. It might be related to some recent update, because it had never occured until a few weeks before. 

Friedrich

---

### Post by gravity-1 on 2006-03-27
> You wrote that you had some errors. I can’t remember having errors at all, can you write were exactly those errors occurred and what caused them.

I was able to write down 1 of the errors, which actually occurred several times.

This was the onscreen info:

Assertion failed! qc->flags & ATA_QCFLAG_ACTIVE drivers/scsi/libata-core.c, ata_qc_complete line [3082] (or something like that)

It occurred during the install, after I booted from the cd and went through partitioning and all that, then reboot and it loads the packages and whatever else it does, these errors appeared at the last blue screen before reboot and login. I'm not sure what exact step that is, I just know it was the last step and the errors kept popping up once it hit about 75%. 

Then it went to the login screen and you know what happens after that. If those errors turn out to be critical, maybe they are in a log somewhere or I can try a clean install again and see if they come up. I will write all of them down if I can.

Thanks for the replies

---

### Post by dalrd on 2006-03-28
Hi, it's me again.

I did method 1 form the post: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074) and it all works fine now.

I hope you have Internet, if not this should be the first thing to install.

Apparently the problem is caused by some drivers issue. Just install the NVIDIA driver and this problem will be history.

If there is anyway that I can help let me know,
Matan.

---

### Post by gravity-1 on 2006-03-29
Awesome, thanks a lot for your help Matan.

I guess I was on the right track with that post, I just implemented the wrong method. 

It took me a little bit but I figured out how to do all the stuff in METHOD 1 and like you said, works fine now. Thanks again. I look forward to my ubuntu experience.

-Adam

---

