---
title: "10.04 cups don't start"
date: 2010-11-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by roi_danton on 2010-11-15
Hi all,
On my system cups don't start automatically. Yes, there's a cups file in /etc/init.d/ and yes, there's a link to this file in rc2.d.
"sudo service cups start" starts the service correctly but I MUST run this command systematically before print.
Could you help me to understand the problem and correct it ?

Thanks for your help,
Philippe

---

### Post by roi_danton on 2010-11-16
Is there anybody here who can help to trace what happened (or not happened) in the system start ?

---

### Post by roi_danton on 2010-11-17
I don't understand why nobody cares about this issue. It's the same in the french forum : no response. :(

I am new to ubuntu (some months) and I must start manually CUPS each time I boot my PC.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-11-17
[1] The first thing you should look at is if the following file is empty: /etc/network/interfaces
It should have the following content:
> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
[2] If that's not the issue then create a little script that will force a start on every boot:

Create a script:
```
gksu gedit /etc/network/if-up.d/cups
```With this content:
```
#!/bin/sh
service cups restart
```Save the file and make it executable:
```
sudo chmod +x /etc/network/if-up.d/cups
```

---

### Post by nss0000 on 2010-11-17
Happens to everyone. This sort of CUPS crappola will go on for weeks ... then on some random update be automagically **fixed** for your system. You can't "force" it to work.

When the bug gets crushed by Ubuntu-gawds then you will benefit. Not until. Don't even worry about it. As I remember it took a full YEAR for the temp-probe to be enabled in x64-U_8.04LTS  on my Asus M2N mobo. 

Ubuntu works when/how/as it wants to. Sit back -- enjoy it. You can't do a damm thing about it. 

> **roi_danton said:**
> Hi all,
On my system cups don't start automatically. Yes, there's a cups file in /etc/init.d/ and yes, there's a link to this file in rc2.d.
"sudo service cups start" starts the service correctly but I MUST run this command systematically before print.
Could you help me to understand the problem and correct it ?

Thanks for your help,
Philippe

---

### Post by roi_danton on 2010-11-18
Big thanks to you Morbius1. It works fine.

I've noticed that in Ubuntu 10.10, the start method for cups changed. No cups file in /etc/rc2.d, but the /etc/init.d/cups link goes to /lib/init/upstart_job.
No problem with cups start on my Ubuntu 10.10 laptop

---

