---
title: "10.10 Title-bar not Showing in Gnome"
date: 2010-10-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Vbitz on 2010-10-03
I have a Hp Mini 210 and just upgraded to 10.10 using update-manager -d, ever since I updated i can no longer see the window borders and all apps maxamise, this is using the latest version of Gnome, this may be a issue with unity not working as it should

---

### Post by Merthod on 2010-10-03
Don't know whether this works in 10.10 but have you tried Alt+F2 and running "metacity --replace" (without quotes)?

This should reload metacity.

---

### Post by nilarimogard on 2010-10-04
> **Vbitz said:**
> I have a Hp Mini 210 and just upgraded to 10.10 using update-manager -d, ever since I updated i can no longer see the window borders and all apps maxamise, this is using the latest version of Gnome, this may be a issue with unity not working as it should

Is that the Netbook Edition? If so, that's how it works: no window titlebar for maximized windows so you'll gain some vertical space. The window title should be on the top panel along with close-minimize-maximize buttons.

---

### Post by Vbitz on 2010-10-05
First post after me: No that did not work
Second post after me: Yes but i am using gnome
I have fixed it by removing a package and using gconf-editor

---

### Post by therieb on 2010-10-10
I'm also having this problem on an Asus 1005.  I don't mind not having the title bar, but the close window and minimise buttons aren't showing up anywhere.  Is there a way to stop Maverick from maximising every window it opens? Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by archithcr on 2010-10-10
Hi

I have a similar problem with my 1005HA. The window title bar works great when i boot into a netbook remix session. but when i switch to the desktop session, the min, max and resize buttons disappear.

I checked Compiz settings and the Window Decoration plugin is enabled. Should it be disabled or enabled? Or does that have nothing to do with this?

Thanks all

---

### Post by D00mM4r1n3 on 2010-10-10
I've run into this problem as well and would appreciate any help in fixing it. No titlebar for running programs appears in the top panel.

---

### Post by nilarimogard on 2010-10-13
> **D00mM4r1n3 said:**
> I've run into this problem as well and would appreciate any help in fixing it. No titlebar for running programs appears in the top panel.

If you're using Ubuntu Desktop (and not netbook), press ALT + F2 and enter:
```
metacity --replace
```

if you're using Compiz, also run this:
```
compiz --replace
```

---

