---
title: "8.10: Login Name display onpanel, shutdown on logout menu"
date: 2009-12-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rnsc on 2009-12-29
My panel used to have the user name displayed in the upper right.  The log-out icon brought up a list of all users in the system to switch, logout, and shutdown.

A few weeks ago (no known change other than updates) it changed.  Now my name is not displayed, and the logout button is larger, and brings up a dialog with "logout" or "switch user" (No shutdown).

Other accounts on the system still have the old behavior. 

Where is this controlled?  I cannot find it!  I need the "shutdown" and username display.

Thank you.

---

### Post by jonest1 on 2009-12-29
You may have accidentally removed the applet.  If so, then the indicator-applet-session needs to be added to the panel.  Bear in mind, that I do not have an 8.10 machine available.

Right-click on the panel and select 'Add to Panel' and click on 'Indicator Applet Session' in the list and finally press Add.

You can then move it around to where you want it.  You may want to right-click on it and choose 'Lock to Panel' as well.

---

### Post by rnsc on 2009-12-30
We are making progress, but not there yet.

There is no 'Indicator Applet Session' offered in the list, however there is a "User Switcher, which adds the desired display of the user name in the panel and a list of users to switch to when clicked on.

However,

[1]  "Shutdown" does not appear in the menu.  I have been through all of the administrative and preferences menus.  I don't see anything that might control this.  I have looked at "Preferences" from the user switcher and there is nothing there either.

Any ideas as to how I can re-enable the presence of "shutdown" ?

[2]   What is this larger (about 2x) shutdown button that appeared when I "inadvertently" deleted the "User Switcher" ?  When I right click on it, there is no indication of its name.

[3]   It occurs to me that this might have changed when I started using LTSP.  However the change did not occur to other accounts, so this seems not likely to be related.

Thanks for the help.

--Ray

---

