---
title: "10.04 Black Tooltps and other areas"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by XanTrax on 2010-05-07
Its really hard to explain in the subject field but take a look at the picture.

Basically, the tooltips in Eclipse show up as big black blobs.  I thought it was Java and rolled it back, didnt help.

I also have noticed this in other areas, eg: Inside Pidgin where it displays "You have new mail!" is all blacked out.

I have to post a picture from my phone because I cant get a screen shot of it for whatever reason.

Any help would be great.  Thanks!

---

### Post by XanTrax on 2010-05-07
Heres another example from Pidgin

---

### Post by XanTrax on 2010-05-07
Fixed:

System -> Preferences -> Appearance -> Themes Tab -> Customize -> Colors Tab -> Tooltip setting 

Changed it from black to white

---

### Post by Mr. Matt on 2010-05-07
Thank you!  This has been bugging me for days and I finally decided to look into it.

I needed to restart Eclipse for the changes to take effect.

---

### Post by XanTrax on 2010-05-07
> **Mr. Matt said:**
> Thank you!  This has been bugging me for days and I finally decided to look into it.

I needed to restart Eclipse for the changes to take effect.

No problem :D.  It was bugging the hell out of me too when I upgraded to 10.04.  I thought it may have been the new nVidia driver which otherwise was working for me perfectly.

---

### Post by motosauro on 2010-05-31
> **XanTrax said:**
> No problem :D.  It was bugging the hell out of me too when I upgraded to 10.04.  I thought it may have been the new nVidia driver which otherwise was working for me perfectly.

Thanks :)
It was driving me mad too.

---

### Post by squidy123 on 2010-06-24
Thanks for this post! I thought first that it would be a problem with Java! [-(

---

