---
title: "11.04 / Unity - How to customize app / folder menus"
date: 2011-05-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by elf23 on 2011-05-05
I was wondering if anyone knows a way to change the number of icons which appear in the Applications menu and the Files & Folders menu (the menus which pop up when you click those buttons in the launcher)?

At the moment I can see at most 6 favourite folder icons, for example, and any more than that cannot be displayed (it just says "see X more results..."). I'd find it much more convenient if it would simply display two rows of 6 icons each.

Does anyone know if it's possible to configure it to have that behaviour?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Ropes on 2011-05-05
> **elf23 said:**
> I was wondering if anyone knows a way to change the number of icons which appear in the Applications menu and the Files & Folders menu (the menus which pop up when you click those buttons in the launcher)?
At the moment I can see at most 6 favourite folder icons, for example, and any more than that cannot be displayed (it just says "see X more results..."). I'd find it much more convenient if it would simply display two rows of 6 icons each.
Does anyone know if it's possible to configure it to have that behaviour?
Thanks!

Good question, on top of this I'd like to ask if there's any way to shrink the icons or move them to the right side of the screen?  I have dual monitors and it's anoying having the menu in my left monitor since it's smaller...
Thanks.

---

### Post by brett- on 2011-05-08
Damn good questions!  With no answers!  Does this mean living with the lame launcher on the left side of the desk top?

---

### Post by sonnenwende93 on 2011-05-08
Unity can only be on the left side of the desktop, but you can change the icon size from compizconfig settings manager (CCSM). It's under the Unity Plugin settings.

---

### Post by brett- on 2011-05-09
Thanks for that info, I will stop looking.  Ubuntu 11.04 is pure sh*t!

---

### Post by ArinSky on 2011-05-13
Its a bit annoying that you can't move it, I agree... however I like the idea. win+# to hotkey 10 apps is nice, especially since I used to forget all my old hotkeys for programs before.

If you don't like the bar, you could always just use gnome-panel instead and use cario-dock for your panel. You can move that around freely and its close to the same thing... just easier to make menu items for xD.

i actually just decided to put in a button that runs gnome-panel on first click, and kills it on second click xD so i can hit it to bring up the panel if I'm lost trying to find something... its only had to happen once though, since the search function works very well.

---

### Post by ArinSky on 2011-05-13
wait a minute....

the real settings are in compizconfig under "Desktop"... I just found it on accident.

The Unity config setting lets you change what side the launcher is on, what behavior it dissapears on, which key you press to reveal (the start of the hotkeys), and a few other hotkeys. There is also an experimental panel where you can change more behaviors, icon size, opacity and the like.

It still doesn't seem to have a way to easily change the applications or files listed... all I can find is a daemon that does it. I'll keep lookin' tho.

You could also follow the steps here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10741859&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10741859&postcount=5)
and make your own launcher, then just add in all the things you want to it.

---

### Post by anthonyvo on 2011-05-21
To move the icons, click and drag up and down to "loosen" them. Then release. Then click on the icon again to drag it to where you want.

To add an app's icon where you want it, click on the Ubuntu icon at the top and type the name of the application you want (don't hit enter.) Then click and drag that icon over to the launcher to the position/spot you want.

I'll record a quick video (after I install desktop recorder) to demonstrate it.

-Anthony

---

### Post by anthonyvo on 2011-05-22
Here's the video file (I'll upload to Youtube later if anyone has trouble with ogv):
[http://anthonymendez.s3.amazonaws.com/videos/unity-launcher-icons.ogv](http://anthonymendez.s3.amazonaws.com/videos/unity-launcher-icons.ogv)

-Anthony

---

### Post by anthonyvo on 2011-05-22
Playing with the launcher a little more, I realized that the "up and down" is not necessary to move the icon. Just drag it off to the right to pull it from the launcher and drop it in another spot.
[http://anthonymendez.s3.amazonaws.com/videos/unity-icon-move.ogv](http://anthonymendez.s3.amazonaws.com/videos/unity-icon-move.ogv)

---

### Post by raysa on 2011-06-17
This works fine for Linux apps, but not for those running under Wine - if you drag a Wine app icon to the launcher bar it doesn't stay there. 
Any fix for this?

---

