---
title: "Low Resolution on Nvidia 260.19.06"
date: 2011-03-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Cruisergeek on 2011-03-04
I can't seem to pass 1360x768 on my nvidia 9400 gt 512mb ram.  The current driver is 260.19.36 and I've installed the recommended current found under additional drivers however I am still limited in resolution.  How do I bump it up to my previously used (Windows 7) 1680x1050?

ubuntu 10.10 desktop x64

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-04
Try following this guide, the xrandr way:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#Adding%20undetected%20resolutions](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#Adding%20undetected%20resolutions)

But it may be necessary to set up a xorg.conf with specific driver options, if the xrandr way doesn't work.

---

### Post by Cruisergeek on 2011-03-05
I've tried xrandr and it couldn't detect the gamma.  I tried the nvidia drivers and then downgraded to lync (10.4) and tried there and nothing.  Now im on hardy heron (8.04.4) and I've tried envyng and none of those drivers worked.  I stopped gdm and installed the nvidia drivers and they seem to provide 1280x800 which is akward however the graphic effects have begun working.  Through looking at the xorg.o.log I found that the edid is not pulling anything and my xorg.conf is all default data.  Doesn't even list the name of my driver.  Hw do I use xrandr to manually enter my monitor options without being able to detect gamma?  I just want to be able to use a lot of graphic effects on 1680x1050 in the end with this thing.  I will post my xorg.conf shortly.

Comp specs:
Quad core 2.33 ghz penryn
6Gb ram
750gb hd (100 win, 100 ubuntu 8.04, 550 ntfs share)
Nvidia 9400gt 512 mb video
Onboard sound

---

### Post by Cruisergeek on 2011-03-05
xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by Cruisergeek on 2011-03-05
Solved!  I switched from VGA to DVI.  Seems that Linux should be the most accepting for the VGA type technology considering Linux is so open sourced however I think the Nvidia Drivers canceled out the EDID detected data.  Now I have 1680x1050 Native.
Just as FYI I had Ubuntu 8.04 and chose the Upgrade option in the update manager to Ubuntu 10.4.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-05
Ok then, if it works now, good! However, your xorg.conf doesn't list the "nvidia" driver, it could be that you instead run the open source "nouveau" driver currently, check with the following command if that is the case:
```
lshw -c video
```
To set up your xorg.conf for the nvidia driver, you can use this command:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --add-argb-glx-visuals --no-logo --force-generate
```
And there seems to be a regular issue of the nvidia driver to get the correct monitor specs, there is a common stated workaround to add some options to the xorg.conf, seemingly to the "Device" section, however I don't know if that works:
```
Option "IgnoreEDID" "TRUE"
Option "UseEDID" "FALSE"
Option "UseEDIDFreqs" "FALSE"
Option "UseEDIDDpi" "FALSE"
Option "ModeValidation" "NoEdidModes"

```
And it may be also necessary to specify the monitor specs in the "Monitor" section, like this (those are mine):```

    HorizSync       30.0 - 107.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 120.0
```
See here on how to get those values:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10416353&postcount=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10416353&postcount=8)

---

### Post by Suikoden on 2011-03-06
im having the exact same problem. the resolution is stuck on 800x600 with my nvidia 240 gpu. ive tried xrandr, but it failed. i cant establish a x.org file either, becuase it doesnt exit. CRTC 262 kept showing up. Ive even tried using ppa to install nvidia file. I went onto nvidia website to install the driver for linux, but it says the file cant open, because the coding cant be detected. i'm stuck..can someone please please please please help me

---

### Post by Cruisergeek on 2011-03-07
First suikoden you should start a new thread as this one has been solved however if you'd like I'll help you on the new thread if you send me a link to it.  Then let's get some info from you suikoden.  Which type of ubuntu are you trying to run, Ubuntu, kubuntu, something else?  What version is it? What architecture is it? By x.org are you referring to the xorg.conf file or are you actualy referring to x.org which I don't even know if that is a file or not.  Last please drop your xorg.conf data in here or if you don't have that file then let us know again.  Finally what is that crtc error you mentioned before and when does it occur?

---

