---
title: "10.10 cannot detect monitor"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by scsa1fan on 2010-10-11
upgraded to ubuntu 10.10. now my monitor is not detected by the OS. tried pressing the detect monitors button but it does nothing and cannot change resolution(1024x768(4:3) or the refresh rate(currently at 0)?

in 10.04, the monitor was called "dell 15"".

---

### Post by mgmiller on 2010-10-13
This is not much help, but I just did an upgrade of 32 bit 10.04  to 10.10 and I have the same problem.  I am stuck at 1360 x 768  instead of 1920 x 1080 and the monitor detect says "unknown" instead of the samsung it used to say.  I have an ATI 9600 AGP video card.

---

### Post by ga2re2t on 2010-11-09
Having the same problem here :(
Best I can get is 1440 x 900 instead of 1680 x 1050. The monitor is not being detected. It worked fine in 10.04. I have an ATI Radeon HD 4200 video card and a HP Compaq LA2205wg monitor. Video is output from a HDMI socket on PC and connected via an adapter to DVI on the monitor.

During upgrade, I did not update Grub (was mentioned as a possible issue somewhere, though I can't see why). Somebody else mentioned that dodgy cables could be the issue, but again I can't see why since it worked before the upgrade.

Edit: initially wrote that my previous resolution value was 1920 x 1080, but in fact it was 1680 x 1050

---

### Post by ga2re2t on 2010-11-09
OK, things are looking better.
I went to System -> Preferences -> ATI Catalyst Control Center (Administrative), and then played about with 
Display Manager -> Display Monitor (1) -> HDTV 

Forcing HDTV modes to be enabled didn't work because my monitor isn't HDTV, but once I disabled them again I got the option for 1680 x 1050 :)

I haven't rebooted yet, so fingers crossed.

(obviously, the above only applies to those with ATI cards)

---

### Post by breNTx22 on 2010-11-09
First of all, Make sure you have all of your drivers installed. With that being said, I'm messing around with the display settings (Trying to set up tri-display) and sometimes the software can be picky. I know if I try to go through ubuntu (as opposed to the Display Driver Software) it will prompt me and tell me to go through Nvidia control panel (or ATI control center for some).

---

### Post by Fayce66 on 2010-11-11
Same problem here, I was running WinXP with 3 screens and no problem, I decided to go for Linux few days ago and just installed 10.10 but Ubuntu cannot detect my other 2 monitors (and I am passing all the other issues)

I have a **Nvidia NVS Quadro 440** and installed the Nvidia driver version 260.19.06 coming with the Update Manager.

In X Server Display Configuration, I tried 'Detect Displays' but nothing happens...

I tried earlier to download and install the latest Nvidia driver for Linux (260.19.12 directly from Nvidia website) but it crashed my system and I add to reinstall everything.

Ubuntu looks nice but there are so many issues that I am about to give up and just use it in a VM.

---

### Post by scsa1fan on 2010-11-11
recently saw an update in update manager to X org server for a intel display driver but was no help

---

