---
title: "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM"
date: 2007-03-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2007-03-06
Hey dudes!

I just bought a new Ibm thinkpad T3 and I am just loving it!
 

The only thing that I consider and issue is my video card.

My video card is an My video card is an  Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM


I would like to run beryl with it. 

I installed beryl and it seems to working "ok" but I would like to install the proper driver just to  be sure that I am getting top performance.

Any ideas as to where I can find the driver?
what IS the driver?

---

### Post by seldenthuis on 2007-03-06
The driver for the Intel 945GM is i810, which Ubuntu should use by default. To get the best performance with Beryl, make sure you add the line
```

Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"

```
to your xorg.conf and check /var/log/Xorg.0.log to see if Xorg detects the correct amount of VideoRAM. If not, specify it yourself.

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2007-03-07
which part of the X.org file do I add that to?

---

### Post by seldenthuis on 2007-03-07
It should look something like this:
```

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM"
    Driver      "i810"
    BusID      "PCI:1:0:0"    (Don't change this if it's different!)
    Option      "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
    VideoRAM 131072    (For 128MB)
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2007-03-07
kk thanks I'll try that.

How do I know how much video ram I have?

---

### Post by shakyone on 2007-04-04
You have the same amount shown in his xorg.conf file. ~128MB or 128x1024=131072, as shown.  It took me a try or two to figure it out.

---

### Post by Linux&amp;Lizards on 2007-04-05
Oh ok,
Thanks for that tidbit

---

### Post by cosmiccharles on 2007-10-26
I have a Dell Inspiron E1505 and it also has a Intel Mobile 945GM. I just installed Gusty Gibbon and I used compiz. It seems to work but when I run other 3D programs or video games I get an error message that says I need to install specific drivers for 3D acceleration. Some video games and 3D programs do run without the error messages but they run choppy and they seem to flicker and blink. You can see the desktop in between the flickering. This also happens when my screen saver comes on. I did not want to try changing anything in my xorg until I got some feedback because I am a newbie and know the xorg may just lock up and mess everything up for me. Anyone know what I should do? 

** This is what my xorg.conf reads**:

xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection#

---

