---
title: "I need to force a screen resolution"
date: 2011-09-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Fred2040 on 2011-09-03
I Really need some help please, my monitor is a old model.. and the only one :D
I'm working with Xubuntu, and propietary drivers to nvidia geoforce4 (version 96)... Everything is fine and I know because, this configuration isn't new for me.
The trouble is my monitor resolution, I can't change it.. I mean, I tried with a friend's Monitor and is working fine, I can see differents resolutions.. I think that my old monitor can't be recognize at all. 
For that reason I changed the file  "/etc/X11/xorg.conf", adding new resolutions.. puff... and nothing... 
Both nvidia software and default screen resolution still working as if it had not made &#8203;&#8203;changes
So, how can I force the screen resolution?
Any Idea please?

:confused::confused::confused::confused::):)

my apologies my english is poor

Best Regards

+============================+

Graphics Processor:    GeForce4 MX 4000
VBIOS Version:       04.18.20.36.04
NVIDIA Driver Version:  96.43.17

---

### Post by hhh on 2011-09-03
You're using Nvidia proprietary drivers? In a terminal, run...```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

The settings are under "X Server Display Configuration". Change them, clcik the "Apply" button, then "Save to X configuration file", don't merge with the old file.

If you don't have nvidia-settings, install it via Synaptic.

---

### Post by Fred2040 on 2011-09-03
Sorry for the inconvenience, but I still unchanged.
 Manually enter the resolutions, but still I can not change the resolution.
 The screen does not fit, I can see only partially ...
 Thank you for your patience ...

[IMG]http://i1217.photobucket.com/albums/dd383/Fred2040/Nvidia.jpg[/IMG]

Configuration 

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Fri Apr  9 11:51:21 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 MX 4000"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    16
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "640x480 @1024x768 +0+0; 320x240 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by hhh on 2011-09-04
Yes, so in that nvidia-settings window, what are the available options under the button "Resolution: Auto"?

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-09-04
..with Hsync 33 Khz there can't be other (larger) options.
For 800x600 @ 60 hz you would already need 38 khz.
You have to edit the Vrefresh and Hsync values to the needs of your monitor,
so which monitor model do you run?

---

### Post by Fred2040 on 2011-09-04
> **hhh said:**
> Yes, so in that nvidia-settings window, what are the available options under the button "Resolution: Auto"?

I appreciate your help, Yes indeed, it was my mistake, I chose the option AUTO then everything works fine!
I'm Happy now
sir, Thank You so Much

[IMG]http://i1217.photobucket.com/albums/dd383/Fred2040/Nvidia2.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by hhh on 2011-09-04
Good deal, you're welcome.

---

