---
title: "2.5GB memory limitation on Ubuntu 7.10, 64bit w/AMD processor"
date: 2007-12-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by sf_basilix on 2007-12-28
Hello,

I am trying to figure out why my computer which has 2 Dual Core AMD cpu's and 8GB of memory is only showing 2.5GB of available memory in top?  Is there something that I need to enable for Ubuntu to see all the memory?  I have downloaded the 64bit version online just yesterday and have updated the system with all available patches.

Just an FYI, I had Vista 64bit installed not long ago and it saw all the memory, so I don't think there are any memory problems...

Any help is greatly appreciated,
Thanks!

---

### Post by fanofcc on 2007-12-28
i think u should check your distro.may be our Ubuntu can't detect more than 2,5 gb Ram???
[IMG]http://i230.photobucket.com/albums/ee234/fanofcc/ahhyes.gif[/IMG]

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2007-12-28
Can you post the output of the following commands?
```

cat /proc/meminfo
uname -a

```

---

### Post by sf_basilix on 2007-12-28
many thanks for all your replies!  Here is the output as requested:

$ cat /proc/meminfo

> 
MemTotal:      2582648 kB
MemFree:       2141992 kB
Buffers:         10520 kB
Cached:         241508 kB
SwapCached:          0 kB
Active:         227256 kB
Inactive:       167008 kB 
HighTotal:     1702784 kB
HighFree:      1302096 kB
LowTotal:       879864 kB
LowFree:        839896 kB
SwapTotal:     7558540 kB
SwapFree:      7558540 kB
Dirty:             108 kB
Writeback:           0 kB 
AnonPages:      142244 kB
Mapped:          56836 kB
Slab:            18988 kB
SReclaimable:     9232 kB
SUnreclaim:       9756 kB
PageTables:       1856 kB
NFS_Unstable:        0 kB
Bounce:              0 kB 
CommitLimit:   8849864 kB
Committed_AS:   494608 kB
VmallocTotal:   114680 kB
VmallocUsed:     47088 kB
VmallocChunk:    65012 kB


$ uname -a 

> 
Linux workstation1 2.6.22-14-generic #1 SMP Tue Dec 18 08:02:57 UTC 2007 i686 GNU/Linux

I also supplied this as I found this in another board:

 python -c "import sys; print sys.maxint"
> 
2147483647


For some reason, I do not think this is running 64 bit mode despite the fact that I downloaded it as such.  I think I'm going to redownload the 64bit version again and try it once more.

I wish there was an easy command to run to find out if it's 64 or 32 bit mode.  Solaris offers a command for this, but I cannot seem to find one for ubuntu.

Did I assume correctly that this is running 32 bit mode?

---

### Post by eldaria on 2007-12-28
Well I'm not 100% sure, but I tried to run the uname-a on my server that is running 64 bit, and got this output:
```
Linux lnx1 2.6.15-27-amd64-server #1 SMP Sat Sep 16 02:04:37 UTC 2006 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

So from looking on your output, it looks like you are running the i686 kernel, instead of the x86_64 kernel.

---

### Post by Half-Left on 2007-12-28
The 64bit kernel should have 64Gb memory enabled, your running generic kernel.

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2007-12-28
uname -a is exactly the command that you are looking for. It shows that you are not running 64 bit. What is the procedure you used to install 64 bit? Did the system have 32 bit ubuntu installed earlier and you tried to upgrade it, or install 64 bit packages on top of 32 bit installation? Or was it a complete reinstall?

---

### Post by sf_basilix on 2007-12-28
I had downloaded the 64 bit ISO last night and installed it on a new hard drive.  I chose defaults for everything.  I just redownloaded another 64 bit iso (AMD) and confirmed it was named as such and am reinstalling now.  I think there might have been a copy problem on the site I downloaded it from last night.  I will post again what happens after this install.

Just to check - am I supposed to select advanced install and check off 64 bit somewhere during the install process?

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2007-12-28
No need to check off anything, but do a complete install by formatting earlier install. i.e. do not preserve data on the drive you install it on. Backup data else where. Choosing defaults for everything when installing from 64 bit ISO should be fine.

---

### Post by sf_basilix on 2007-12-29
That was it!  I re-downloaded another copy and it installed fine this time.  uname -a reports x86_64 and it sees the full memory amount.  Not sure what happened on the download, but all is well now.

Thanks everyone!

---

