---
title: "11.10 : Impossible to set a GTK3 theme :-("
date: 2011-11-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DDZ on 2011-11-30
[FONT="Times New Roman"]Hello everybody !


I updated from Lubuntu 11.04 to Lubuntu 11.10 yesterday and I want to set a theme to GTK3 apps.

I tried :

- Making a "gtk-3.0" folder in ~/.config, then creating a "settings.ini" text file with following contents:

```
[Settings]
gtk-theme-name = Ambiance
```

- Setting the GTK3 theme through dconf-editor or this command line :

```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface gtk-theme Ambiance
```

- Installing gnome-tweak-tool (and all gnome3 dependencies :roll:) and run it to change the GTK3 theme.

Nothing changes ! GTK3 apps are still shown no themed ! :(
Of course, gtk3-engines-unico is installed.


Anyone can help me, please ?
Thank you in advance and have a nice day ! :)
[/FONT]

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-11-30
Note that Gnome3 settings tools only change stuff in gconf, which is part of Gnome and not LXDE. In order to change the LXDE theme, you need to either use an LXDE tool (which really only works for GTK2) or select a spacial GTK2 theme with GTK3 support or manually set .config/gtk-3.0.

What I did was to remove the .config/gtk-3.0 and then replace it with a sym-link:
```
ln -s /usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0 ~/.config/gtk-3.0
```
Then things work fine for me.

---

### Post by DDZ on 2011-11-30
> **3Miro said:**
> What I did was to remove the .config/gtk-3.0 and then replace it with a sym-link:
```
ln -s /usr/share/themes/Ambiance/gtk-3.0 ~/.config/gtk-3.0
```
Then things work fine for me.
I didn't think about this, many thanks ! :cool:

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-11-30
> **DDZ said:**
> I didn't think about this, many thanks ! :cool:

Did it work? If so, then mark the thread as [Solved] so it can help other people.

---

### Post by DDZ on 2011-12-01
> **3Miro said:**
> Did it work?
Yes, thank you ! :)

> **3Miro said:**
> If so, then mark the thread as [Solved] so it can help other people.
I didn't saw how to do this -> fixed.

---

