---
title: "10.10 Much Slower than 10.4"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by r3faat1 on 2010-10-10
Today I upgraded to 10.10 distribution using Update Manager from 10.4.
Compared to 10.4(Pretty fast), Ubuntu 10.10 is much slower. 
I am not sure why, I haven't done any testing.
But I can defiantly notice the performance loss. 

Huge amount of people are looking for speed, therefore I think that should be their main priority.  Thats just my opinion. 

Also, It Feels pretty stable so thats good atleast.

My Spec(If anyone is interested) -
Amd Athlon 64 X2 Dual Core
Radeon HD 2600 Graphic Card
4 GB Ram

---

### Post by dnewkirk on 2010-10-11
I can't say that 10.10 is any slower than 10.04 in general; in fact, it's slightly faster in running a variety of perl/python scripts that I use for data processing. The only area where I see things slow is during updates, when it can take 20-30 seconds to unpack each update. I'm not sure if this is an issue with dpkg or simply due to the fact that I'm using XFS as my filesystem. I saw similar issues when messing around with btrfs on a test install with the beta.

---

### Post by verdenhoff on 2010-10-11
same problem here!
ubuntu 10.10 is noticeably slower than 10.04,
i normally open a lot of programs at the same time, ubuntu 10.04 had no problem with it, but 10.10 becomes slower.
i  am running a gnome screensaver called ElectricSheep, it was working  fine and smoothly on ubuntu 10.04 but now its so jumpy and not as high  resolution as it was.
also when I open windows xp in virtualbox, 10.10 becomes much slower than 10.04.
i don't know if i have to downgrade (if possible!) or is there any solution

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2010-10-11
Just the opposite here , but have a much newer video driver in 10.10.  :confused:

---

### Post by alokmenon on 2010-10-11
Wierd. I was using Lucid till the Maverick Beta came out which was when I fresh installed the beta. Just today, I clean installed Maverick Final and I can really see the reduction in boot time and also do not feel any performance loss.

---

### Post by wad4ever on 2010-10-11
My compiz was nice and smooth in 10.04, but with 10.10 it's jerky and dropping animation frames. (Wobbly windows also now has problems with my dual monitor configuration, but that's another issue.)

---

### Post by AoSteve on 2010-10-11
I had that issue when I first installed 10.10.  I started a while back with the 10.4 minimal install and said what the heck and just did the entire upgrade through the network update.   

The result was gnome being slow as Moses doing a lot of things; including bootup.    Not to mention the slow responses and bad gl performance of screen savers.   However, once I purged gnome and when through the reinstall with the updated repo's; all was good.   Now it seems like the system is a bit more responsive.   I also removed my video drivers and X and reinstalled them.   Not sure if this has much to do with anything of your problems guys; but that seemed to fix the problems for me.

---

### Post by jjakspaw6 on 2010-10-11
Slow and upgrade over the net... seem to go hand in hand.... I upgraded from karmic (first to lucid then to maverick)... Now im about to try a full install from CD.... but I think I'll probably end up reinstalling karmic if I still have issues with wireless, video and slow response....

---

### Post by r3faat1 on 2010-10-12
I guess its slower for some people and faster for others.

Maybe if we do a clean installation, it will be faster and more responsive. 

Also I noticed more hang ups when running multiple applications, which didn't happen in 10.4. 

But other than those 2, I've got no more complaints.
It's great so far.

---

### Post by mbgaski on 2010-10-12
It sounds like some of you may have somehow went from a particular video driver to another.  Possibly from Nvidia binary to Noveau?  

The fact that some of you mention Compiz in particular kinda throws up a red flag there.

FWIW, so far I haven't noticed any major slowdowns, but I am limited to my laptop.  Upgrade went absolutely smooth there - running 32bit 10.04 with no PPA's.  My desktop/everyday machine which runs 64-bit Ubuntu with a significant amount of PPA's in use - it basically self imploded on upgrade and I'm going to have to rebuild it this coming weekend :( (technically it still boots and is semi-usable, but there are a ton of errors on boot and some programs like VirtualBox are locking up a lot).

---

### Post by rajamohan on 2010-10-15
Software installation is much slower compared to earlier versions, I found there are lot of preparing and installing action for each debs downloaded, I specifically watched a 100mb download is much faster than installing the same, much irritating to watch the progress bar moving pixel by pixel, there might be some major change in installing process, also I noted that the apt-get gets corrupt very often compared to the earlier version , I need to type apt-get install -f, more time, 

the +ve point are many the system is more stable, faster response, quick usb mounting, the changes to eyes are minimum but there are huge changes in the performance, if u have 10.04 IMHO recommend to update to 10.10 there are no other issues other than slower software installation process.:)

---

### Post by wilsonpenha on 2010-11-01
p { margin-bottom: 0.21cm; }  I've done to upgrade my Ubuntu 10.10 and I just realized how bad it is, very slow, and many video problem, and every hit to anywhere make it slow like a hell,

Well nobody has provide a good solution, then I decide to dig, and I installed the ubuntu-tweak application, and I did purge/cleanup configs/packages/kernel 

Then I discover that the upgrade didn't clean out the ubuntu 10.04 kernel image, so it was conflicting with 10.10, even my startup splash was showing 10.10, from this point everything start to work well

By just upgrading it , ubuntu 10.10 got slow like a hell, after this cleanup it improved considerably, and now I can work .

But one thing is truth, 10.04 is faster than 10.10, but I believe it can be improved and soon will be faster as 10.04 or even more.

That is my experience with ubuntu 10.10 upgrade

---

### Post by naarkhoo on 2011-03-24
I also confirm that its much slower than 10.4, (both booting and installation) furthermore in terms of network, (( wireless and ssh )) it sucks, since I am spending 2 days to fix it and still ssh by an internal ip doesn't work

---

