---
title: "14.04 Flashback Compiz Window Manager Problems"
date: 2015-07-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2015-07-28
Hello,

I'm having window manager problems in 14.04 Flasback Compiz sessions.  The window manager
very frequently dumps the part of the window that has the minimize and maximize buttons on it.
I can get it back easily by clicking twice on the window on the taskbar to minimize and maximize
the top window.  While this really doesn't affect my work to much it's a very undesirable characteristic
which I hope will get fixed.  I've noticed this behavior in 12.04 and previous distros.  I've basically
learned to ignore it.  If there's anything I can do on my end to make it more stable, please let me know.

Thanks, Hannibal

---

### Post by ssreddy555 on 2015-08-19
Try compiz --replace in Terminal.

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2015-08-20
In the flashback compiz session you are using the gtk-window-decorator to
draw the titlebar so you should only need to run ...
```
gtk-window-decorator --replace &
```

You can see this in ccsm where the Window Decoration plugin is enabled in the flashback compiz session.
In the Ubuntu session the unity plugin draws the window decorations and the Window Decoration plugin conflicts and is disabled.

---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2015-08-22
> **CantankRus said:**
> In the flashback compiz session you are using the gtk-window-decorator to
draw the titlebar so you should only need to run ...
```
gtk-window-decorator --replace &
```

You can see this in ccsm where the Window Decoration plugin is enabled in the flashback compiz session.
In the Ubuntu session the unity plugin draws the window decorations and the Window Decoration plugin conflicts and is disabled.

This seemed to work well enough with most apps; but completely stripped the window decoration from firefow, which seems a little buggy right now.

Thanks, Hannibal

---

