---
title: ".desktop open in Mplayer in Kubuntu Feisty"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by _Agrajag_ on 2007-05-31
Hello,

I've set my father up with Kubuntu Feisty and somehow (in the process of trying to watch a DVD?) he has made it so that when he clicks on a .desktop file (like home in the system menu) Mplayer launches and tries to play it.

I'm a gnome user, and am trying to fix it remotely via VNC as we are seperated geographically.  I know how to change the association for the .desktop type by left clicking and choosing open with, but I don't know what the association should be.

Any help would be much appreciated.

Thanks,

Agrajag

---

### Post by cookies on 2007-05-31
I dunno how it is GNOME, but in KDE, if no applications are selected to open the .desktop, it opens normally, try that, remove all applications and see if it helps.

---

### Post by _Agrajag_ on 2007-06-01
> **cookies said:**
> I dunno how it is GNOME, but in KDE, if no applications are selected to open the .desktop, it opens normally, try that, remove all applications and see if it helps.

I right clicked on the .desktop file and clicked open with in the hopes that I could remove mplayer as an option as you suggested, however it does not indicate what applications are currently assigned to the .desktop extension so I can not remove it.  When I choose open with it just gives me a list of applications I can open the file with.

---

### Post by _Agrajag_ on 2007-06-02
bump

---

### Post by _Agrajag_ on 2007-06-03
bump

---

### Post by bunker on 2007-06-04
In kcontrol, go to KDE Components -> File Associations.  Search for .desktop; the 'application preference' list should be empty.

---

