---
title: "9.04 and VMware Workstation"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by svenole on 2009-05-04
I've been running VMware Worstation for a long time on my Dell laptop. After I upgraded to 9.04 something very annoying happened. I  use compiz features including work spaces (cube). The problem with 9.04 is that VMware Workstation in full screen mode follows when you shift workspace. This is very annoying for me since I am moving to and from my Windows XP virtual machine a lot. Now I have to go out of full screen mode every time I want to move to another workspace. Any clues? I am running the latest version of VMware Workstation.

---

### Post by indomiti on 2009-05-07
I have the exact same problem after upgrading to 9.04..

---

### Post by indomiti on 2009-05-12
My vmware crashes sometimes, and when starting it again it asks about locking keyboard or something, if i dont click Yes it wont allow me to focus the vmware guest os. After accepting i cant use some of my keyboard buttons in X any longer (crtl, alt, shift etc), but they work in vmware..

Sometimes it just ***** up the keyboard without crashing, then i have to restart my machine to get ctrl alt and shift keys to work in X again, but they still work in vmware.. I had this problem before in Ubuntu 7.x if i remember correctly, then it dissapeard in 8.x, and after this upgrade its back. Great Success.

Im going to leave Ubuntu.

---

### Post by svenole on 2009-05-12
i do experience the same thing. after using vmware workstation for some time, suddenly shift, cntrl, and big letters does not work anymore. everything is fine in vmware. as far as i remember though, this was also a problem in 8.10 and earlier releases. it is very annoying since you have to stop vmware workstation and log out and in again to make this work. i do not have to restart the system.

---

### Post by llambiel on 2009-05-19
You don't need to logoff, just type setxkbmap in a terminal, this will enable back the shift key

---

### Post by int2ag0n on 2009-08-28
Hi guys.

Did you find a solution in the shift workspace problem?
The only thing that worked for me was to set Visual Effects to None in Appearance Preferences in Gnome. Any other ideas without setting to None the Visual Effects , because without them the gui suckz.

i forgot to mention that the problem appeared when i upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04.

---

