---
title: "10.04 - Customization issues"
date: 2010-05-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by temporos on 2010-05-20
I would like to customize several things in 10.04, but Lucid won't let me do it the same way I could in 9.10.  Help on any of these would be appreciated...

[LIST=1]
[*]I want to remove the notifier icon for mail, messaging, and broadcast.  Instead, I wish to have a notifier for Empathy only.  Preferably like the one in 9.10 where it was like the System Tray icon for Pidgin in Windows.
[*]I can't unlock or move any of the panels.  The "lock to panel" is greyed-out on all of the icons, and I can't click it.
[*]That heart icon in the Firefox toolbar just won't go away.  I've tried customizing the toolbar to remove it, but it reappears once I quit Firefox.
[/LIST]
That's it for now, I think.  Again, any help would be appreciated.  I'm kind of a newb in Linux, so keep that in-mind.  Thanks. :)

---

### Post by Pipps on 2010-06-06
I second this request within Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.04.

I also would like to have the choice as to whether I suffer the reduced screen 'real-estate' of a panel bar, or not. I would like to just remove my panel altogether.

There must surely be a simple way of modifying this within gconf-editor?

Help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by FallFromGrace on 2010-08-06
Found some documentation that might help you two:

_From Community Documentation_
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuNetbookEdition/ConvertGnomeSession](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuNetbookEdition/ConvertGnomeSession)

_A more explanatory explanation_
[http://maketecheasier.com/unlock-gnome-panel-in-ubuntu-netbook-edition-une/2010/04/25](http://maketecheasier.com/unlock-gnome-panel-in-ubuntu-netbook-edition-une/2010/04/25)

Haven't tried this myself, but I hope that helps.

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-08-06
I solved my first issue by going into the Synaptic Package Manager and removing the following packages:
[list][*]indicator-me
[*]indicator-messages
[*]evolution-indicator
[/list]
I also completely uninstalled (using the Ubuntu Software Centre):
[list][*]Empathy
[*]Evolution
[*]Gwibber
[/list]
My third problem was solved by ditching Firefox and installing Chromium.

Currently, I use Chromium and Pidgin instead of the Ubuntu defaults (Firefox and Empathy).  They seem to work much better and be much more feature-rich.

My second problem is still unsolved.

---

### Post by denham2010 on 2010-08-07
The UNE panel can be modified by directly editing the config file for it, but you need to know exactly what you are looking for to do it. Not for the faint hearted.

You can customise a standard Gnome session to look like UNE, with full cusomisable ability (I believe the links in the earlier post show you how to do this).

Personally, I ended up deleting UNE and just having a standard 10.04 install on my netbook.

I too did not like the fact that so much was locked down. I don't use evolution or social networking, so why should I have those panel applets forced upon me? (way to windows/apple...ish for my liking - what happened to user freedom in UNE?) so I have ditched it completely.

Actually, there are a few things going on with Ubuntu lately that I am not very impressed with.

Watching the 10.10 release closely, and sizing up other distros, just in case.........

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-08-07
just replace the gnome-panel with something else, xfce4-panel works great & you can use some gnome applets, awn is also a nice replacement option.

i've done all kinds of things to my remix.

i still have xfce4-panel, i just added tint2 this evening, it's work in progress. ;)

---

### Post by Upkeep on 2010-08-07
It is a bit annoying isn't it?  One thing I have noticed is that if you opt for a Ubuntu Netbook Edition 2D session at log-in instead of the default Ubuntu Netbook Edition session, the top and bottom panels are present and can be edited.

Editing the panels seems to crash the session to the desktop, but a quick re-start and all is well again

Upkeep

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-08-08
> **Upkeep said:**
> It is a bit annoying isn't it?
Yes.

> **Upkeep said:**
> ... Ubuntu Netbook Edition 2D session at log-in instead of the default Ubuntu Netbook Edition session...
I noticed this option while tinkering a few days ago.  What do "2D" and "3D" (default UNE) mean (aside from the obvious, dimensional analogies)?

---

### Post by Upkeep on 2010-08-09
I think that's pretty much it. The 2D session is for netbooks like my HP2133 Mini Note, with really feeble graphics capabilities. That said, it runs the standard UNR just fine.
 
 
 
Upkeep

---

### Post by andymorton on 2010-08-09
> **pipps said:**
> i second this request within ubuntu netbook edition 10.04.

I also would like to have the choice as to whether i suffer the reduced screen 'real-estate' of a panel bar, or not. I would like to just remove my panel altogether.

There must surely be a simple way of modifying this within gconf-editor?

Help would be much appreciated.

+1

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-08-09
> **andymorton said:**
> +1

My issue wasn't with the UNE desktop style (which I actually *like*).  My beef is that I can't customize anything in the Gnome panel.  All the normal right-click options such as "Move," "Lock to Panel," etc. are greyed-out.

That said, after removing the really horrible indicator applet packages that were included (e-mail, messaging, and social networking), I really like the new Gnome panel **in a standard Gnome session**.  I hate the UNE non-customizable panel like poison.

---

### Post by bodleya on 2010-08-09
yeah, totally agreed, It doesnt make any sense, 9 had the panel totally customizable, I just got [B]10.04 yesterday and already considering  going back to 9
[/B]

---

### Post by Lutin on 2010-08-10
> **temporos said:**
> I would like to customize several things in 10.04, but Lucid won't let me do it the same way I could in 9.10.  Help on any of these would be appreciated...


[*]That heart icon in the Firefox toolbar just won't go away.  I've tried customizing the toolbar to remove it, but it reappears once I quit Firefox.


This is actually a Firefox Add-on. Just go to Tools, Add-ons and disable it.

Thinking of going to the standard Gnome desktop myself. Don't like having stuff forced on me.

---

### Post by Pipps on 2010-10-04
> **FallFromGrace said:**
> ...
_A more explanatory explanation_
[http://maketecheasier.com/unlock-gnome-panel-in-ubuntu-netbook-edition-une/2010/04/25](http://maketecheasier.com/unlock-gnome-panel-in-ubuntu-netbook-edition-une/2010/04/25)

Haven't tried this myself, but I hope that helps.

This has just saved the day again! Thank you! :)

---

### Post by neltnerb on 2010-12-16
> **Lutin said:**
> This is actually a Firefox Add-on. Just go to Tools, Add-ons and disable it.

Thinking of going to the standard Gnome desktop myself. Don't like having stuff forced on me.

Dear lord, thank you so much for this. I have been trying to remove this stupid button for almost a year! It's so irritating that when I try to click on the menu bar or the home button, I sometimes misclick and now a page that I never wanted to see again is in my favorites =P

I would love to see this comment included in some sort of firefox fixing howto...

Brian

---

