---
title: "Can't Get Picasa to see separate partition"
date: 2007-05-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by eeefresh on 2007-05-26
I currently have my hard drive partitioned like this:

sda1 - XP partition
sda 2 - Ubuntu
sda3 - swap
sda4 - shared files/storage (ext3 formatted)

I have my home folder and all my personal data on sda4.  I read that its good to set up your files on a different partition sot hat you won't lose them when you upgrade Ubuntu.  However, Picasa, which is running on sda2, can't see my sda4 partition, which holds all my pictures.  When I try to add folders for Picasa to scan, it only sees sda2.  

Does anyone know how to make Picasa see/scan another partition?

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-05-26
s> da4 - shared files/storage (ext3 formatted) is mounted on startup and can you see the files in nautilus.

Post your fstab by : opening a term and input : **gksudo gedit /etc/fstab** and copy and paste here.

---

### Post by eeefresh on 2007-05-26
Yes, I can access the files from Nautilus.  My sda4 "Shared" partition is mounted at startup.

Here's my fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=7326ab42-f946-4c55-806b-5129f78fc9ac / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=421C9B75E07FB76E /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=007b9a9a-b1b8-417c-a6d5-53c19bacab40 /media/sda4 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=82bf7b96-b215-4380-bb8d-f1d38fabad5c none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

/dev/sda4        /home           ext3    defaults        0       2

---

### Post by eeefresh on 2007-05-26
AHA!  I just figured it out, and it was user error.  I was looking for a whole other partition under the "Add folders to Picasa" menu.  What I didn't know was that the sda4 partition shows up in the "media" folder under the root menu.

---

