---
title: "12.04 + ATI + triple monitor question"
date: 2013-06-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Roccor on 2013-06-10
Ok so prior to installing the Official catalyst drivers from ATI's website I was able to use all three displays successfully.  After installing Catalyst, using it's Display Manager to arrange them and rebooted as instructed two of my screens (the secondary and tertiary) are white.  The primary lcd has four bars up top, four bars on bottom (all like taskbars).. the clock, logout/reboot button have been copied all across the top.. right now there's like 5 'system trays' being displayed along with 8 grey bars below the top one.

This is using a Gnome Classic desktop... so aside from removing Catalyst.. what might be causing this or how can I fix it?  Is there a version of the ATI drivers that works best with 12.04?  I googled prior to installing friday but found nothing for known issues.

Thanks

---

### Post by Roccor on 2013-06-10
Ok removed all fglrx items... rebooted and it seems to be a Gnome Classic issue now.  All the erroneous  bars and 'taskbar' buttons are still being duplicated.  But using Gnome3 everything looks ok.  I guess reinstalling or removing then reinstalling Gnome-Shell might fix?

---

### Post by Roccor on 2013-06-11
so this is def Gnome and ATI related.  Installed FGLRX via Additional Drivers and reoboted.  Cinnamon is all kinda of corrupted visually and crashes.  So does Gnome and Gnome Classic.  Fugly Unity works though.

---

### Post by Roccor on 2013-06-12
Man you guys are full of helpful tips.

As a note.. this morning I swapped out the radeon HD 6850 and replaced it with a GTX 560Ti.. after installing the Nvidia drivers and rebooting Cinnamon did the same thing.  So it's def not hardware related or even specific driver related.  Not sure what's going on aside from Cinnamon does not like any graphics driver outside teh defaults.

---

