---
title: "12.04 upgrade - complete dummy question"
date: 2012-04-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by afeathers on 2012-04-30
Hello

Update manager is offering me an update to Ubuntu 12.04 (not xubuntu). I know this is a ridiculous question but should it specify xubuntu in that message? If I click yes, will I end up with xubuntu or "normal" ubuntu?

Thanks and apologies

Albert

---

### Post by TheMTtakeover on 2012-04-30
> **afeathers said:**
> Hello
 
Update manager is offering me an update to Ubuntu 12.04 (not xubuntu). I know this is a ridiculous question but should it specify xubuntu in that message? If I click yes, will I end up with xubuntu or "normal" ubuntu?
 
Thanks and apologies
 
Albert
 
I've never used xubuntu but I would assume that it is NOT going to switch you to Unity. You can wait for someone else to come along to be sure though.

---

### Post by ccrs8 on 2012-04-30
I just upgraded all three of my Xubuntu 11.10 machines - you will stay on Xubuntu.

---

### Post by mips on 2012-04-30
It will stay on Xubuntu.

---

### Post by afeathers on 2012-05-01
Thanks everyone, will take a deep breath!

Albert

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-05-01
Please mark the thread 'solved'.

In case the upgrade goes bad you might find some help in the link in my signature.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2012-05-01
> **afeathers said:**
> Thanks everyone, will take a deep breath!
 
AlbertAlbert, don't feel badly. That's a definite oversight by the devs that it says Ubuntu and not Xubuntu as being offered for the upgrade. Fortunately it is just a typo and not a system issue, but most people would have had that same reservation if they did not  know the upgrade would stick to Xubuntu.

---

