---
title: "10.04: On &quot;Logout&quot; goes to blank screen"
date: 2010-06-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jbocean on 2010-06-02
When there is one user, and that person "Logs Out" instead of going to a screen where another user can choose to Log In - the computer goes to a blank screen; No mouse movements, mouse clicks or keys will reactivate. I have to reboot the whole computer.

Is there a way to get the computer to go to a 'switch user screen' when one user chooses to log out?

---

### Post by lacis_alfredo on 2010-06-06
Hi,

I have same issue - black screen after logging out.

MORE INFORMATION:

Ctrl-Alt-F1... F12 do *NOT* work.  

FYI, I've been using RedHat since 2000, now Ubuntu since 6.04, so I have some years of administering my family's Ubuntu systems.

---

### Post by jbocean on 2010-06-07
Here's how I figured it out!
I had already installed "Ubuntu Tweak" when I installed Lucid

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu.html]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/04/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu.html")

Apps >> System Tools >> Ubuntu Tweak >> Advanced Power Mgmt 

I then UN-checked: 
a) "Enable Lock Screen when Blank Screen activates"
b) "Lock screen on hibernate"
c) "Lock screen on suspend"

Hope that works for you too.

---

### Post by Aloon on 2010-06-27
I tried the ubuntu-tweak method. Thanks for the heads up about that great app !

Unfortunately it did not help my blank screen on logout blues ...

---

### Post by SoftwareExplorer on 2010-06-28
I believe I have the same problem. To cause this problem, I just have to :
Start the computer
Login to user 1 (lets say 'bjorn' in this case)
Switch to user 2 (lets says 'mary' in this case) from the menu in the upper right corner and login.
Log out of the 'mary' user, and BAM, I'm stuck with a black screen. The keyboard numlock doesn't respond when I press the numlock key. It doesn't seem to respond to Ctrl+Alt+F[1-12] keys. If I do Ctrl+Alt+SysRq+k it inconsistently gets me out of it. It always gets me out of it if I ssh into the computer and do 'sudo killall Xorg'.
I tried to reproduce the issue on a fresh install with old settings and I still had the problem. I tried with a fresh install with new settings and it doesn't seem to happen so far after a few hours of use.

Aloon and lacis_alfredo, does it sound like I have the same problem?

---

### Post by dean_the_great on 2011-01-16
Bump.

I have the same problem, does anyone know a solution?

---

### Post by real.aussie on 2011-01-16
I can't believe that there is no solution to this critical problem - are 'Black Ops' developers from a well known company adding bugs to Linux covertly?

At our house we consistently need to log several users on & off as they work & communicate.  So typically we have been power-cycling (=BAD!) the PC so that different people can log in.

This is still happening and is bad, bad, bad.

---

