---
title: "12.04 Unity custom shortcuts stopped working"
date: 2013-07-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ubume2 on 2013-07-04
I set up custom shortcuts as I have always in System>>Keyboard>>Shortcuts

For my app shortcuts I  have used  Alt f (an example for firefox) Alt t for thunderbird, Alt g gedit, etc......

The problem seems to be in using only the Alt key plus a letter.  I tried switching to Control Alt f (for firefox) and it worked.  

These had been working in Unity until now.  They still work in Gnome and Gnome Classic.


Any ideas how to fix this?  Besides Gnome and Gnome classic in 12.04, my procedure still works in 13.04 Unity and Gnome.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-07-05
I think it's a bug in 12.04, probably could search one out
(if you or whoever happens to find one,  link here, maybe can be fixed in 12.04, maybe not.

Anyway it's not that one can't  set & use such shortcuts, Alt+<a letter>, it's that it only works in the initial session set. After that it fails & won't work again  until unset & reset.
For Ex. you said you reset FF to something else. If you now went back to Alt+f it should again work work till you log out or restart. 
 
You could try opening ccsm > unity plugin > Behavior > Key to Show Hud & if not using Hud then disable it altogether. 
(edit > nothing
If you are using Hud then that's a bit of an issue, you'd need to find another key for Hud or forget about Alt+<a letter>

---

### Post by ubume2 on 2013-07-05
> **mc4man said:**
> I think it's a bug in 12.04, probably could search one out

You could try opening ccsm > unity plugin > Behavior > Key to Show Hud & if not using Hud then disable it altogether. 
(edit > nothing
If you are using Hud then that's a bit of an issue, you'd need to find another key for Hud or forget about Alt+<a letter>

I deleted the HUD key and now I have my shortcuts.  Now I have new hope for Unity!

Many thanks mc4man! :)

Edit: I've reassigned HUD to Alt L.  After using Gnome Classic for a while, and having tried Gnome and not caring for it, I think maybe Canonical has found its niche.  I am actually beginning to like "Unity".

---

