---
title: "12.04 Desktop Settings not being saved"
date: 2012-05-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bravo sierra echo on 2012-05-12
Afternoon all,

Just done a clean, fresh install of Kubuntu 12.04 and been setting it up the way I like it.

Just one issue - the Desktop Settings (right-click on the desktop and click desktop settings) don't seem to save.  I set it up how I want it, and if I restart (or log out and back in) the settings have reset to their defaults and any widgets I put on there have disappeared.

This only happens in the desktop settings - all the other settings save properly as they should.

Help?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-05-12
Try renaming $HOME/.kde to $HOME/.kde.old, then rebooting.  Now KDE will rebuild its configuration files from scratch.  Make some simple change to test your desktop settings and see if that fixes the problem.

---

### Post by flemur13013 on 2012-05-12
Dunno if its related, but my settings for colors, etc, typically never take or change back, and the "startup apps" list incorrectly shows nothing under Gnome, but it's populated under Cinnamon. I use fluxbox, and some of the gnome settings, like the dark grey text on a slightly darker ugly purple background, seem to be unchangeable other than to use apps that are less coupled to gnome (thunar instead of nautilus, etc).

---

### Post by bravo sierra echo on 2012-05-12
Thanks for the replies, but I have figured it out!

The config file is ~/.kde/share/config/plasma-desktoprc.  I renamed that, changed the settings and now it keeps them - that file must have been corrupted somehow.

---

