---
title: "ubu 11.1 Where did bar with programs running go?"
date: 2012-02-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by indianajo on 2012-02-14
I just upgreaded from ubuntu 8.1 I've been using since it was new.  There used to be a bar on the bottom that showed all the programs running. You could switch between them by clicking, or more important, closing the excess ones by right clicking if something happened and a whole bunch of something got started.  I've been having trouble with the "firefox" and "home" buttons not responding, sometimes because it was too busy to recognize my click, sometimes because it already had such program loading up. The only way to see the excess it alt-tab, and that doesn't point out which one I am closing. Also it is very slow to come up.   
When I click on ubuntu software center my system gets veeerrry slow and won't keep up with typing, mouse clicks or scrolls.  What is that and why does it use so much resources.  Why, when I told it to update in the beginning, did it stop updating because I hadn't diddled the mouse for 10 minutes?  I did find how to turn the screen lockout off, but not how to restart the initial update. I thought clicking it today might restart the update, but it just flogged the disk drive for 20 minutes and almost locked the human interface up without a progress bar on the ubuntu sw center.. 
Thanks

---

### Post by indianajo on 2012-02-15
Well krytarik from Berlin responded to the other guy that complained, nuncio.bitis, and he posted this link [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1923013](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1923013)
Thanks. At least it tells us where we are, which is perplexed.  
Unfortunately alt-tabbing between 3 to 20 windows open is extremely primitive and annoying on 11.1. to an 8.1 user.  It worked great on ubuntu 8.1. Now Alt tabbing gets you the screen order 1,2,3,1,2,3,1,2,3 unless you look very carefully at the tiny icons and use 2 or 3 alt tab clicks. Also you can't do it with the mouse anymore. If I am looking at 3 pages of a schematic diagram, sometimes I want to look at them in order 1,3,1,3,2,3,1 etc.    If there are 2 of us complaining in 2 hours, I would hope somebody would write a little program to put that function back on.  Pardon me, I'm too stupid.  I couldn't get past page 1 of the visual basic tutorial where you put a word on the screen with basic.  The display would just sit there.  What I might do, at great trouble, is write an HTML page to tile 3 jpgs various ways.  However, I would have to use cng or perl or some script to pick up which 3 jpgs you wanted to look at upon opening firefox- which would probably take me 2 or 3 months to figure out. 
I have looked at the graphics programs on ubuntu software center, and it appears there is no standard recommended program for doing this. I used to use a tiny program under windows 95, paintshoppro3, which was small enough you could run several copies  on a 16 meg memory machine without overloading it. But when I tried to run it under WINE on Ubuntu 8.1, it crashed the 8.1 operating system and I had to wipe the hard disk clean and totally reinstall op system and data. SO on 8.1 I would run many copies of image viewer, and switch between them with the task bar at the bottom and the mouse.  
Will not be posting this "solved".

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-02-15
Perhaps you should install 11.04. That will be supported until October 2012, I believe. Then you will have the option to log in to Ubuntu Classic mode as well as Unity. Switching between the two might ease the pain of getting used to the new way of doing things.

Please understand two things:

1) This different look and way of working in Ubuntu is not going to go away. In fact the Unity interface is being refined and developed all the time. It will be part of 12.04 and that is an LTS release with support for 5 years for both desktop and server.

So, the look is not going to be reversed. The name Unity was chosen because it is intended for it to be the unifying look of Ubuntu across a variety of computer devices, even in TVs.

Read what the man himself says about it all:

[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2011/10]("http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2011/10")

[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2012/01]("http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2012/01")

[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2011/08]("http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/date/2011/08")

2) Some us participate on these forums regularly. So, we have been hearing moans and complaints about this for almost a year. As if we can do anything about it.

Some even want changes made to 12.04 when all the decisions about 12.04 were made months ago and nobody asked me what I wanted. As they say: Ubuntu is not a democracy. Some just cannot understand that this forum is not the Canonical complaints department. Do we have anything to complain about when we got Ubuntu without paying for it?

So I say, enough is enough. I hope you understand.

Regards.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-02-16
There may be help for the ability to switch quickly and easily between open windows and applications at least.  I installed a little application called Tint2 from the repos.  Add it to startup if necessary.  It has a .conf file if you want to get rid of the clock for instance, or adjust the width.

---

### Post by indianajo on 2012-02-16
Okay, thanks for the tint2 link.  Will look for that program.  11.1 is missing all kinds of mouse clicks and return entries to start programs,  11.1 gets behind on text entry in the Alt-D firefox box, so I am reinstalling Ubuntu 8.1 today.  Would download ubuntu 8.4 or 9.0 if it was available but can't find it.  The main reason I upgraded was that I got worried about Firefox not having up to date encryption on https screens. I don't need cloud computing, I don't have a cell phone, or any picture producing device. My cars don't have a computer and the diesel one drives without a battery installed.  I don't use facebook or any service that requires my real birthdate to participate. So the main advantages of 11.1 are lost on me. Thanks for listening.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2012-02-16
. So the main advantages of 11.1 are lost on me.[/QUOTE]


Same Here My Friend:confused:

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-02-17
I would use caution installing anything that is past EOL(end of life).  In addition to not supporting recent hardware, security patches - if they're available at all - are via PPA.  Installing 10.04 which will be supported for a while yet might be a good choice.  It looks like 12.04 is going to be a good stable release but it'll still have Unity as the default.  Perhaps install 10.04 now and install 12.04 with Xfce or Cinnamon or another alternative desktop after 12.04 has been released for a couple months and the major post-release bugs have been squashed.

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2012-02-18
I, too, was dismayed by the post-10.10 default user interface, which I think is widely misunderstood. I'm hardly an expert - my knowledge of the subject has only been gained in the last few days, as some of my own dismayed, wtf posts attest.

BUT, extensive changes are not as obligatory as they at first appear. [grahammechanical]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1087323")'s "Quit whining, Crybaby, that's just the way it is, deal or GTFO" attitude is totally unjustified by the facts.

The Gnome people did an extremely poor job of retaining backwards compatibility (and Canonical made no attempt to explain this to users as far as I know)  for command line usage and scripts by changing the command line interface to the programs that tweak gnome, and failing to leave in the old programs, or new versions to translate the old commands, but much, probably all (although I haven't found it all yet), of the old functionality is still there. You'll just have to learn the new nomenclature and rewrite your scripts. Yes, that sucks, and no, it didn't have to be that way. Even MS does better than that. All my old MS-DOS 3.2 batch files still work. The advent of Command.exe did not cause command.com to be exiled to the  archive heap of dead software. Last I looked, it was still a part of  Windows. So all the people making apologies for the Gnome bunch along the line of "It had to be that way" are, imo, full of it.  But, still, this is an inconvenience, a severe inconvenience for those of us who have spent a lot of time writing custom scripts, but not a showstopper.

And Canonical demonstrated a certain amount of thoughtless contempt for the existing user base by making the new gui the default, with no mention in the installation procedure that I recall, that it would install a radical new user interface or that that the old interface has NOT dissapeared and that you DO have a choice. The changes themselves aren't so bad, once you understand how to opt out. Attached is a screenshot of the Oneiric I'm running as I type this. I'm about half way to restoring the interface I like. This is NOT using Mate, but simply out of the box Gnome 3 - Ubuntu, 32 bit, Oneiric. I installed Mate and tried it a bit. I may fiddle with it some more, but at the moment, tweaking the gnome 3 based interface looks more promising to me. I still have 10.10 bootable on another partition. When and if I get this Oneiric installation about the way I want it, I'll probably back it up and then wipe it out and start over with the mini iso minimal installation and build it back up to get a cleaner, leaner version, without the traces of my mistakes and false starts and without the installed by default programs I have no use for.

In summary, it looks to me like Canonical's sins were mainly poor communication about what they had done, so that many people have the quite understandable misconception that they are stuck with that hideous default interface. You aren't. At the log in screen there is a little icon to the right of where you enter your password. Click on it before logging in and you get several choices. Whichever one you check will remain the default until you change it again. One of them gives you the interface that I'm using now, and is the basis of the screenshot attached. I won't swear about the name, and I would have to reboot to check, but I think it is something like "gnome classic, no fancy whirling icons or other razzle-dazzle bs intended to impress morons", or if that isn't the name it should be. It won't look exactly like my screenshot because I've started tweaking. But the difference between the screenshot and what you get when you log in that way should give you an idea of the kind of range of what's possible. As you can see, I've changed the background of my gnome panels, added the hide buttons, put in a second top panel that I haven't populated yet, and added a few launchers, some custom. Most to the point, THE BOTTOM PANEL (TASK BAR OR WHATEVER YOU WANT TO CALL IT) IS THERE. I'm still working on finding where they hid all the theme customization stuff and the show desktop button.

The only real TECHNICAL screwups that I can see are the Gnome people's mistakes, not Canonical's, and I've worked around half of them and expect to find my way around the rest. Canonical could have chosen to fork Gnome but that would have diverted a lot of their human resources from their main job, so ultimately, I think they probably did the right thing in going with Gnome 3. They just should have explained things better.

P.S., If anybody cares, I used to be LewRockwellFAN before I lost my password. D**n Seagate hard drives. Yeah, I shoulda backed up more often.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-02-19
Dreamer Fithp Apprentice, I think you have the right attitude.  Don't bi*ch and moan, do something about it.  If you don't know about it, check out ```
extensions.gnome.org
```.  
There is an extension for one-click-to-the-desktop among other useful bits.  Here are a couple things I've found to bring back functionality in Gnome 3.  They may have to downloaded.  


[LIST]
[*]gnome-systems-tools.  This brings back GUI settings for users and groups.
[*]system-config-printer-gnome.  This brings back the old style printer setup and configuration.  I find this useful for changing printer defaults like print quality and paper source.
[/LIST]
Webupd8 has a .ppa for gnome extensions but I don't know that it works with Precise yet.  Extensions and gnome-tweak-tools go a good ways toward making gnome shell usable in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2012-02-20
Thanks. That site won't open for me for some reason. I get a page with a blue at the top grading to white at the bottom background with a logo and a few links at the top but below that nothing but:

Loading page... please wait.

Which remains unchanged no matter how long I leave it up. I tried adding it to the white list of my flash blocker but it didn't seem to make any difference. I've bookmarked it and will try it again once a day. Looks interesting.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-02-20
You need to allow scripts on that page or you will see nothing except what you described. You can also get some extensions via ppa. [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/10/official-gnome-shell-extensions.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/10/official-gnome-shell-extensions.html)

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2012-02-20
Thanks, Frogs Hair. That is what I suspected, which is why I whitelisted it in the Flash Block extension of Fire Fox. Now I've tried it with Flash Block completely disabled. That is the only scrpt blocking extension I have ATM and javascript is enabled in Fire Fox preferences. Darned if I know what the problem is. I'm getting discouraged. My color vision is non-standard (color blindness is a misnomer for many, I think most, people like me. The standard pseudoisochromatic dot test has patterns that normal people see easily and I don't and ALSO patterns I see easily and normal people don't - think about that a bit and you'll see why I say color blind is a misnomer in cases of this sort) and I'm fairly nearsighted. I'm not crying "oh, poor pitiful me!" - these are fairly minor problems - but they are an example of why the ability to customize the UI is important to some of us. I spent some time tweaking my themes, never totally to my satisfaction but well enough, and wrote a script to toggle between a moderately acceptable theme that worked tolerably with almost all websites and programs (clearlooks, slightly modified) and a theme that usually worked much better for me but wasn't as consistent and sometimes didn't work at all (high contrast inverse, slightly modified). Now that script doesn't work and even setting manually I don't have as much control as I used to. I also wrote a script that toggles fonts between 10 and 20 for analogous reasons that I have managed to rewrite so it works. I have other scripts, having nothing to do with appearance, that no longer work. I've made progress, but it is painfully slow work recreating all this stuff and wondering how long it will work before they break it again and if it is really worth the effort. I'm not quite as optimistic as I was when I posted earlier in this thread. I'm sure I can get where I want to go, if not with this version, maybe the next. But I'm increasingly unsure that it is worth the effort. Maybe I should just stick with my working Maverick for now and spend the time this is costing me on learning some other distro entirely. I've always been a bit curious about Debian, Slack, and various BSDs for other reasons. I'm also wondering if I should spend some time researching whether some other distro places more emphasis on backwards compatibility with respect to the command line so I can write scripts I can assume are likely to continue working. Anyway, good luck to all who continue to try. I may or may not stay with it. I'm having doubts it is worth the effort.

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2012-02-26
I have to add, since I closed that last post on a pessimistic note, that I'm pretty happy with Mate right now. It's not a drop in and forget it replacement. A few programs have new names and reside in new directories, but the changes are predictable and follow a pattern. So getting my scripts working again has been pretty simple. About the only problem I've had with it is the print-screen key isn't working to take a screen shot yet. It is not a one horse show as some rather hysterically strident hate-mate poster claimed in another thread and I expect it to prosper. At any rate, for now, it works for me. I haven't spent near as much time getting it to work as I spent trying to make gnome 3 gnome classic work and it already works a lot better.:D:D

---

