---
title: "12.04 Sound problems"
date: 2012-07-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-07-09
I am surprised that a major new release of the O.S. fails to provide continous, clear-quality sound.

I've tried different interfaces - Unity, gnome-panel (with and without effects), Cinnamon & Mate with the same results. After booting the computer, I get sound for varying time periods - 10 mins to a couple of hours. At some point it disappears and, to get it back, requires a re-boot (not login/logout).

While I have sound, if watching a video via Movie Player or VLC or via Firefox, after a few minutes, I get lots of noise. Pausing and unpausing the video solves the problem for a few minutes. Then, the situation repeats.

I used 10.10 until recently and started 12.04 with a fresh new install. I am very disappointed with the sound issue. I have tried every suggested solution I have had time to find in this forum and others but the problem remains.

Am I alone or are there others suffering the same fate?

Any assistance in getting the sound problems resolved would be appreciated.

Pablo

---

### Post by jmfal on 2012-07-09
Installing ubuntu-restricted-extras should help with the choppy sound.

You can find it in the software center, synaptics or in the terminal

```
 sudo apt-get install ubuntu-rstricted-extras    
```

You might need to restart, and check that you sound is not muted.

---

### Post by pabloikba on 2012-07-09
> **jmfal said:**
> Installing ubuntu-restricted-extras should help with the choppy sound.

You can find it in the software center, synaptics or in the terminal

```
 sudo apt-get install ubuntu-rstricted-extras    
```

You might need to restart, and check that you sound is not muted.

THanks for the reply but they are already installed and the problem is continuing. 

BTW - your Code has an error - "rstricted" is misspelled - should be "restricted"

---

