---
title: "12.10 Slow Login (First Login Only)"
date: 2013-05-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bingorabbit on 2013-05-09
Hello All,

I'm an ubuntu user for quiet long time, I own Dell Inspiron n5110, with 2 Graphics Cards, Nvidia GeForce GT 525M and Intel HD Integrated Graphics Card, I have bumblebee installed and working fine. I have also Compiz Config Setting Manager installed and set and working just fine.

When I first installed the system everything was just ok, but after a couple of months, the system boots in quiet long time, this is actually not the problem, as I have a couple of servers (Web, Database) running so I think this causes the delay.

**The problem is that the first login after a reboot/system start always take long time till unity appears and the desktop is available for use. **This happens for the first login only and then it's just fine if I logged out and then logged in again, it's really fast then.

I tried resetting unity and compiz but had no improvements at all.

Any help will be really appreciated.

Thanks in Advance!

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2013-05-09
What programs are automatically started? Did you try to create another user and see if the problem is the same?

---

### Post by bingorabbit on 2013-05-09
Thanks a lot for your reply.

The programs that are automatically started applications:
[LIST]
[*]Bluetooth Manager
[*]Gnome Setting Daemon
[*]GPG Password Agent
[*]GSettings Data Conversion
[*]Mount Helper
[*]Network
[*]PolicyKit Authentication Agent
[*]PulseAudio Sound System
[*]Screensaver
[*]Secret Storage Service
[*]SSH Key Agent
[*]Zeitgeist Datahub
[/LIST]

I tried adding another user, it's a bit faster, but not as when I relogin after an initial login.

---

### Post by cecilieaux on 2013-06-22
I have the same problem in 12.04 LTS, but it's not just the first time. Even when I log out, it's slow as molasses before Unity appears.

I pruned my startup programs to: Autokey, Classic Menu Indicator, Dropbox, Weather Indicator. I have used these for a long time and my system logged in just fine after I installed them.

I'm thinking it may be Unity, because when I try without Unity it seems marginally faster.

---

