---
title: "14.04 classic gnome, remove icons?"
date: 2014-05-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by disgruntledminion on 2014-05-30
As the title says I'm using 14.04 and installed the Gnome classic desktop. I'm trying to remove one of the quick launch icons I accidentally placed (beside Applications and Places at the top). When I right click on the icon the only options I get are for Launch and Properties. Going to Properties and removing information doesn't allow saving. I read about the topic on an older version of Ubuntu that said to alt-right click. When I do this I get the options (grayed out) Minimize, Maximize, Move, Resize, (not grayed) Always on top, Always visible on this workspace, Only on this workspace, Move to another workspace. Also tried dragging and dropping but that only creates another shortcut. Does anyone know how to remove icons in the new version?

---

### Post by disgruntledminion on 2014-05-30
Update, I tried to drag the icon to the trash and got the error for no such file or directory. I opened Terminal and navigated to /home/(user)/.config/gnome-panel/launchers and the icon does not appear under ls but it still displays at the top.

---

### Post by disgruntledminion on 2014-05-30
Another update: I right clicked the icon and went to Properties. I changed the target to a random file. It then showed in Terminal when doing ls. I did a rm for it, logged out and back in, and the icon is finally gone. Seems like a lot of hassle for misplacing an icon, but at least it's gone now.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-05-30
Please wait 24 hours to bump your thread and include new information at that time.  In the Flashback Session Alt + Right Click or Super/Windows Key + Alt + Right Click allows the addition, removal or movement of panel items. Gnome Classic is a Gnome Shell session .

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2014-05-30
What is the output of:

```
echo $DESKTOP_SESSION
```

---

