---
title: ".Trash on removable media"
date: 2011-03-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Jagoly on 2011-03-28
OK, this is just beyond me. Why on earth are .Trash folders created in USB's? This is by far one of the worst things I have found in ubuntu so far. Today I created a ramdisk on my laptop, and found that it creats .Trash-1000 folders containing anything I delete. This is apparent for USB's as well. Why is this still not fixable? There are threads on this forum dating back to 2005 complaining about this. Absolutely horrible. Nautilus needs an update.

Don't tell me to use SHIFT-DEL, the fact is that I shouldn't have to. Put this in Natty.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-03-28
Um, use Shift+Del? Also, if you eject the flash drive before you remove it, Nautilus will ask you if you'd like to empty the trash. This is the preferred method of removing media, because it ensures that you're not interrupting a write process.

---

### Post by aaaaalex on 2011-03-28
I am very happy that trash folders are created on USB Media. I have several USB disks. If you don't want a file to be trashed, then delete it.

---

### Post by Jagoly on 2011-03-28
You told me to use shift+del... grrrr...

My point is this though. I shouldn't have to. I don't want trash on usb's or ramdisks full stop. My younger brother (13) uses linux mint (refuses to leave, because mint is green) and is not as tech-savvyv as me. More importantly, my even younger brother (7) uses ubuntu. He doesn't want to have to press shift-del on anything on a usb. He gets very frustrated when trying to put a flash game on the usb for one of his friends only to find he has no space.

I am not saying that the feature should be removed. for larger drives, it's very good. For thumb drives not so much. It just bewilders me that it isn't optional.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-03-28
An option might be nice, yeah. I don't make any use of the trash bin on my flash drives, myself. One thing to consider, though, is that UMS is UMS; a two-gig flash drive, an eight-gig SD card, an iPod, and a terrabyte external HD all look exactly the same to the operating system when mounted as volumes.

Did you add the Delete command to your right-click menu? I've always used that in place of Shift+Del. Actually, I didn't know about the latter until you mentioned it (thanks for the tip!) = )

---

### Post by aaaaalex on 2011-03-28
Look. You are trashing something - it goes to the trash bin. Software works as it should. 

If you want to delete something then delete it and it will not go to the trash bin. 

What you want is a software that guesses when you want to delete a file and when you want to trash it. I doubt you would be happy with a software like that. I certainly would not.  

Copper Brezel is pointing you in the right direction: If you want to be able to delete a file without pushing the shift key, add the delete command to your right click menu.

---

### Post by Jagoly on 2011-03-29
I do. But what if I want to use the delete key?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-03-29
> **Jagoly said:**
> I do. But what if I want to use the delete key?

Like Copper Bezel said in the first answer to this thread, use **Shift+Del** if you want to delete a file immediately instead of just trashing it.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-03-29
I wonder if there's some way to change the keyboard shortcut?

---

### Post by aaaaalex on 2011-03-29
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1473788]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1473788")

---

