---
title: "14.04 unity- spread window - hotcorners"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by doja on 2014-04-20
Dear all,
by the personalization of the 14.04 I found some bug by trying to use
the hotcornes via tweaks.

Trying assign and using the left bottom corner with the functionality "window spread"
or "spread all windows" leads to frozing my computer. Only hard switch
of helps.

Have you found the same problem?

doja

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-04-20
Works ok here.
Did you use scale plugin in **compizconfig-settings-manager** or some other tweak tool to set the hot corner?
Does the Super+w shortcut initiate scale?

---

### Post by doja on 2014-04-20
I actually instaled "Unity Tweak Tool 0.0.6". But nothing else, in exception for kaffeine and maybe some other small crap, but nothing for the system.
Tweaks is one of the first thing I do by new installation.
 
The hot corner for the functionality "show workspaces" is working fine.

I have a lenovo B590:
[http://www.cyberport.de/lenovo-b590-mbx2uge---i3-3120m-4gb-320gb-notebook-mattes-display-dos-1C30-3J5_1695.html](http://www.cyberport.de/lenovo-b590-mbx2uge---i3-3120m-4gb-320gb-notebook-mattes-display-dos-1C30-3J5_1695.html)

Maybe I have to change something somwhere and than it will works again

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-04-20
I can enable using unity tweak on 14.04

If the  Super+w shortcut doesn't initiate scale windows spread,
install compizconfig-settings-manager(ccsm) and check the scale plugin is enabled.
```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```
Plugin is under window management in ccsm.

---

### Post by doja on 2014-04-20
Somewhere there is the problem.
I installed what you send me.
I think this is the same what I already used.
I didn't know the Super+w shortcut, but
when I tried it, all menue-bars of opened windows
 including the lancher and the ubuntu top line disappeared
 so  that hard restart was neccessary.

After the installation of
compizconfig-settings-manager
I could not find in all the menues
under window managment nothing that calls
ccsm or something like plugin's

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-04-20
Is this a fresh install or upgrade?

ccsm is an abbreviation of **c**ompiz**c**onfig-**s**ettings-**m**anager.
ccsm can be used to start compizconfig-settings-manager in the dash or terminal.
You don't have the scale plugin in ccsm?
[ATTACH=CONFIG]252301[/ATTACH]

I can set the hot corner in ccsm
[ATTACH=CONFIG]252304[/ATTACH]

[SIZE=3]or[/SIZE]

unity-tweak-tool
[ATTACH=CONFIG]252303[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by doja on 2014-04-21
so I tried what I could, thanks for helping.
First I have a fresh install using the final 14.04.

Second, now I opened the ccsm (didn't know it is 
a separate program, but after opening it, I
remembred Iknow the application).

Third, even when I did what you showed me in the images
the problem is still there.

---

### Post by grumblebum2 on 2014-04-21
This terminal command will set compiz back to defaults (you will lose any changes you made to compiz)...
```
dconf reset -f /org/compiz/
```
Run the command then log out and back in.

With at least 1 window open, try the **Super+w** shortcut...should be enabled by default.

Open ccsm and check scale is enabled and set a hot corner in the scale > bindings tab.

---

### Post by doja on 2014-04-21
bingo,
the reset helped, now it is working fine.
But actually I didn't do anything unusual or special after the install.
I don't know what caused this behaviour. 

Thanks grumblebum2

---

