---
title: "Can't change host name successfully or access network panel"
date: 2006-03-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dan4444 on 2006-03-10
Let me give you a little background on my issue. It all started when I mistakenly cleared out the host name from the hosts tab of the networking panel. Guess I assumed that the hosts were actually external hosts set up for me to connect to, but obviously I was wrong.

Now, everytime I launch the network panel it attempts to start up (shows this as a status only in it's minimized taskbar location) but then exits without showing any error message. Also, whenever I try to run a command through sudo, I get the message "sudo: unable to lookup  via gethostbyname()". 

I have tried everything I could find so far on the forums, most memorably: 
- booting into single user mode and editing the top line of my /etc/hosts file
- also from single user mode, running hostname to assign a new hostname (it seemed to run successfully, as it generated no errors)

I am still in the same place though - can't get into Networking panel and I still get that same error when running anything through sudo

Anyone know what I should try next?

Oh yeah, and here are the contents of my /etc/hosts file:


127.0.0.1 localhost.localdomain localhost dantop 

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1 ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts


Thanks,

Dan

---

### Post by amohanty on 2006-03-11
Can you post the contents of the following files:
 /etc/hostname
/etc/resolv.conf
/etc/network/interfaces

AM

---

### Post by dan4444 on 2006-03-11
Well, from your last post I ended up checking out the hostname file and there was nothing in it, so after searching the net for what should be in that file (couldn't be anymore bonehead, hunh?), I booted into single user mode and added in my hostname. That seems to have fixed both of my problems (no network panel and the error on sudo). 

Here are the curent contents of those files you requested though, in case there are other loose ends I might be missing.

Thanks for your help.

Dan

--------------------------

<contents of /etc/hostname>
(was empty before my last change)

dantop

--------------------------

<contents of /etc/resolv.conf>

; generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

; Use a local caching nameserver controlled by NetworkManager



nameserver 127.0.0.1

--------------------------

<contents of /etc/network/interfaces>

# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# This is a list of hotpluggable network interfaces.
# They will be activated automatically by the hotplug subsystem.
mapping hotplug
	script grep
	map eth1

# The primary network interface
iface eth1 inet dhcp
	# wireless-* options are implemented by the wireless-tools package
	wireless-mode managed
	wireless-essid any



iface eth0 inet dhcp



auto eth1

auto eth0

---

### Post by amohanty on 2006-03-12
well.. everything looks good, so you should be good to go.

AM

---

