---
title: "[SOLVED] How do i upgrade to glib 2.12"
date: 2006-07-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by saul_2110 on 2006-07-18
Hi. I'm trying to install gtk+ but it requires glib 2.12. Ubuntu dapper got glib 2.10 and even though I installed glib 2.12, the installer of gtk respond]s saying although glib 2.12 was found, glib 2.10 was also found and it recommends to uninstall the latter version. 
How do i do this?

---

### Post by JoWilly on 2006-07-18
Gtk is already installed (libgtk2 2.8.18 ).

What are you trying to do ? Do you need a special version of gtk ?

---

### Post by saul_2110 on 2006-07-19
The problem is couldn't compile a program (the gtk code generated by Glade) because gcc couldn't find the "gtk/gtk.h" include, neithere "gdk/gdk.h".
As a solution I thought of installing the most recent version which led me to the first question.

Do you know how to compile correctly? I reinstalled Ubuntu and found out that the option `pkg-config --cflags --libs gtk+-2.0` doesn't work (which according to the gtk home page, is the way to obtain the libs and includes needed).

---

### Post by Delkster on 2006-07-19
For compiling programs from source, having the run-time library itself isn't enough. You need the corresponding development packages, in this case probably libgtk2.0-dev (and possibly others, but that's where the basic gtk functionality is and where for example gtk.h resides).

---

### Post by saul_2110 on 2006-08-02
Hey **Delkster**! I finally was able to compile the programs with gtk. And as I promised, I'm here to fill in =).
It turns out it had been me all the time causing the error... my "newbiness" came out inadvertedly. The problem was that when I used the instruction 

`pkg-config --cflags gtk+-2.0`

I used it incorrectly... when directly on the terminal I put the inverse sigle tilde when I shouldn't have...
When I noticed it... it all worked out O.K. Silly me ;P

---

