---
title: "can only get 800x600 resolution"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-05-10
Hi. I have resently dist-upgrade from 7.10 to 8.04. I tried to install nvidias propratary drives, but it i was not amazied, so i uninstalled them. But now i only get 800x600 resolution :(

xorg.conf look like this:
_________________________________________
 xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "se"
        Option          "XkbVariant"    "se"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection
______________________________________

In 7.10 I could choise gfx and monitors from desktop, but in 8.04 I can't find it.  The only thing i find know is "screen resolution" and max is 800x600 :(

I have tried to config with "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg", and "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg"

but nothing help.

My gfx worked fine before i tried proretarian nvidia-drivers, but when i change back, i get problem. I can ssh to the computer from another computer, so it why i can do little, bt my keybord on the computer doesent work.

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-05-10
Is there a reason you don't want to use the proprietary drivers?  You'd probably have more luck with them.

---

### Post by feizex on 2008-05-10
Hi, I had this too. Screen locked at 800x600. No settings in xorg.conf and missing X86config file. I fixed it, but I fluked it. BTW, I am very new to linux, so I'm not sure if I am using correct terminology.

Here's what I did.

I opened /etc/X11/xorg.conf

I pasted something like the following in the screen section, just before the end of the section.

SubSection "Display"
Depth 32
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection

When I rebooted, it ran xwindows with /etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe
To tell this I telnet'd to the machine and ran "ps -ef |grep x". I did this because I was trying to get on via VNC and couldn't.

Since I could not get on via VNC, I went to the console of the machine. Now I am not sure why it did this, but it showed me a window saying that it had booted with low screen resolution. I presume it was because it did not like the setting I pasted in. It asked me to choose monitor and video card. I chose Generic 1280x1024 monitor and NV Geforce 3 video card. After saving settings it booted into   gnome. At this point I still had my old resolution and couldn't change it higher. I looked in xorg.conf and it had all the resolution settings now, so I rebooted. When I did, somehow it chose 1600x1200 resolution, so I changed it down to 1024x768. It is all good now.

:guitar:

Regards,
Feizex.

---

### Post by PhatKat on 2008-05-11
Hi i am using integrated VIA graphics with my K8M800 mobo :P Now my problem is: everything works fine and dandy in Gutsy but once i run Hardy i only get 800 x 600 resolution max :( I am thinking of upgrading to Hardy but holding back until i get help at least getting 1024 x 768 on Hardy. Also for those running AGP GPUs : what are you using that works fine with Hardy may i ask? Thinking of getting 2nd hand cheap AGP cards ^^

---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-05-11
Thanx.

I gave up. I installed the propretarian driver again. If I have the NV-propretary drives activated and run a move. The whole screen resatt to a low resolution then i look at the movie with  totem, and the when you comeback to the desktop, It doesn't change back afterward, so i dont want that ****. I throu away Totem instead.


 It's strange that u no longer can configure graphics card or monitor thrue desktop anymore. In the 7.10 you could configure under System somewhere, but i can't find it in 8.04? Does anyone know what configur-application has for name?

/azyx

---

### Post by ShanaVar on 2008-05-11
It's still there under Pref-> Screen Resolution. 
Else you might try to install nvidia-settings package from synaptics - there you also can set resolution etc.

Greetings

---

### Post by skyjacker on 2008-05-11
Try the following: Restart and at the Grub menu, restart in "Recovery" mode. Type the following in Terminal. ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` Select "vesa" driver and press "enter whenever you don't know the answer to a question. Check to see if the resolution(s) you need are listed with an (X) to the left. If they are when the end of the items is displayed, type ```
Reboot
``` When the system is restarted, you should be able to choose the resolution you need from the resolution drop down list. Hope this helps...

---

### Post by PhatKat on 2008-05-12
> **skyjacker said:**
> Try the following: Restart and at the Grub menu, restart in "Recovery" mode. Type the following in Terminal. ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` Select "vesa" driver and press "enter whenever you don't know the answer to a question. Check to see if the resolution(s) you need are listed with an (X) to the left. If they are when the end of the items is displayed, type ```
Reboot
``` When the system is restarted, you should be able to choose the resolution you need from the resolution drop down list. Hope this helps...

Hi thanks for your response :popcorn: Now can we try this using Hardy live CD to test the waters or do we have to have a full blown 8.04 on HDD to see if this works?

---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-05-18
> **ShanaVar said:**
> It's still there under Pref-> Screen Resolution. 
Else you might try to install nvidia-settings package from synaptics - there you also can set resolution etc.

Greetings

For instance, u can not choose screen-types under Pref->Screen Resolution och configure a second screen and also choose gfx-driver. I think it was under System-> administartion -> ?? something like "screenS and driver" or sometning. for intance (I don't have 7.10 on any machine now), u could say 1940x1200 in the "screens and driver" and 1600x1200 under "Screen resolution" and then only see a part of the desktop, and when u move the mouse-pointer to the edges of the screen, the deskop moves so u could see the rest of the desktop.

/Cheers

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2008-05-18
If you have the nvidia proprietary driver installed, open a terminal and type:

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

and you can configure the screen with the options you want.  You have to have the proprietary driver installed first, however.

---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-05-19
> **skyjacker said:**
> Try the following: Restart and at the Grub menu, restart in "Recovery" mode. Type the following in Terminal. ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` Select "vesa" driver and press "enter whenever you don't know the answer to a question. Check to see if the resolution(s) you need are listed with an (X) to the left. If they are when the end of the items is displayed, type ```
Reboot
``` When the system is restarted, you should be able to choose the resolution you need from the resolution drop down list. Hope this helps...

When I run sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg in the terminal I ONLY CAN CONFIGURE MOUSE AND KEYBORD. NO QUSTIONS ON SCREEN OR RESOULTION !

Why?

---

### Post by pietjanjaap on 2008-05-19
boot in safe mode,
choose last option,
reboot,
install video drivers.

---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-06-13
When I activate nvidia-propratarien drives, X-server don't start. I have-to try an old xorg.conf file from gutsy.

I know for a while ago, and try to activate nvidias propretarian drives, it was wrong propretarian, it doesent work on GeForce4 Ti 4200. only newer...

Can It be that Ubuntu give me propretarian drives that are for newer card? I dont remember where I find the info about this.

/Cheers

---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-06-13
When I activate nvidia-propratarien drives, X-server don't start. I have-to try an old xorg.conf file from gutsy.

I know for a while ago, and try to activate nvidias propretarian drives, it was wrong propretarian, it doesent work on GeForce4 Ti 4200. only newer...

Can It be that Ubuntu give me propretarian drives that are for newer card? I dont remember where I find the info about this.

/Cheers

---

### Post by cocopuffz on 2008-06-13
assuming you have the proper drivers installed...

try gksudo displayconfig-gtk

it will open up a gui for the xorg file to set up your monitor. Go autodetect. it might go plug and play but with the right resolutions and modes being added to your xorg.

---

