---
title: "Display Resolution Trouble"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by deamon_knight on 2009-04-26
I have just upgraded (clean install) one of my systems that was running Intrepid Xubuntu to Jaunty Xubuntu. In intrepid everything worked well, and for the most part Jaunty looks to be working properly. However, the default screen resolution is 1024x768. I can change this in the display manger to 1240x1028. This is the resolution I want and it worked in intrepid, it defaults back to 1024x768 after a reboot. Xorg.conf is blank, totally empty.

I tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg and this filled xorg.conf with the notes and sections, but those just remained empty, i.e. "Section "Monitor" End section", and so on.

I backed up this xorg.conf and tried to copy some info from another system I have hooked to the same monitor with a KVM. now Xorg.conf says:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "Daewoo 719BF"
	HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
	VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Default Screen"
	Device         "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth    24
	Option         "TwinView" "0"
	Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
	Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024 +0+0"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection "

But i still have the same problem. Any advice on how to go from here. 

Also, what do people suggest you save from a system before a wipe & upgrade? I try home folders, /etcs/fstab & /etcs/modules so I don't have to reseach everythin I did 6mo. ago. I guess I should have saved xorg.conf too!

---

### Post by ljerabek on 2009-04-26
I have an Nvidia and had the same issue this should work:

If you can enter X with low graphics mode.

Open firefox and goto [http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us]("http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us")

Download the Linux driver for your card.

// For example my driver installer was NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.29-pkg1.run

Save the file to /home/{username}/fileyoudownloaded.run

After downloading it you will need to logoff of the box (x windows):

Now on the keyboard press Ctrl + Alt + F1

Logon using the console.

Type sudo -s

Enter your password this will give you a root prompt.

// If you have gnome ( this will stop X )
/etc/init.d/gdm stop

// If you have kde ( this will stop X )
/etc/init.d/kdm stop

cd  /home/{username}

chmod 777 fileyoudownloaded.run

./fileyoudownloaded.run

follow the install guide... say yes to everything. It will ask if it should update your xorg.conf say yes.

// If you have gnome ( this will start X )
/etc/init.d/gdm start

// If you have kde ( this will start X )
/etc/init.d/kdm start

---

### Post by ljerabek on 2009-04-26
If your lucky you can go to System->Administration->Hardware Drivers

There may be a restricted driver you can install which could resolve your problem. It didn't work for me in Jaunty tho.

Let me know.

---

### Post by scootre on 2009-04-26
I've spent four hours on this little gem.

Install 9.04, do not pass go, do not collect $200.

I have found the odd thread here pointing to a bug relating to Intel chips. I'm using an Nvidia card that was running fine on 8.x.

I've managed to fix this problem for all of tens seconds.  I installed the Nvidia restricted driver for my card, rebooted and then watched the thing boot into the proper res:  1650x1080.

Then after a very short time the screen went black and then back to 640x480.

I bet the Windoze folk reading all the hype about how good Linux is will last about 3 seconds with this new feature.

---

### Post by deamon_knight on 2009-04-26
Well, thats why installed on my backup/backup/backup unit. Usually I'll wait a month or so, every new release has a shakedown period.

This is on an ATI card on an OLD P2 400MHz, even so Xubuntu runs surprisingly well, and this wouldn't be a problem as long as I NEVER turn the machine off. Hope someone figures this out.

---

### Post by scootre on 2009-04-27
I've installed a different version of the nvidia third party driver and now it is staying at the res I want.  So far.

Don't get your hopes up though.

So far I have had 3 fatal errors come up doing menial things.

I've also tried to add the Synaptic package manager only to have it freeze while installing.  So I go back to the add/remove packages app and now synaptic ain't there at all - so no adding or removing.

This is reminiscent of Mandriva... it it's hey day it was great.  Then one day the much anticipated latest version came out and... wheels fell off.

I've wasted half of my day off on this.  I hate Jaunty.

---

### Post by scootre on 2009-04-27
Nope... after 2 more reboots my gfx have gone to hell.

And so too can Jaunty.  It sucks.

And before anyone bites...,yes I'm all for diving in and tweaking.  But this is a supposed mature distro.  I shouldn't have to dive in and tweak or rather FIX sinmple bloody problems for 4 - 6 hours before I can even get running on this thing.  My system has been the same one in use since Ubuntu 6.x and all versions between.

---

