---
title: "Problems With Gnome Disk Mounter Applet"
date: 2007-06-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by andrewsomething on 2007-06-26
I like having a clean desktop, so I've disabled mounted drives from showing up on the desktop through gconfig. I mount, unmount, and view drives and removable media in Nautilus. I recently decided to try the Dick Mounter applet for the Gnome bar. When I added it to the panel it never showed up. But if I left clicked in enough spots I could eventually find where it is supposed to be. I would have the option to remove it from the panel. I decided to leave it and see what happened.

Two days latter, it appeared after a reboot and functioned perfectly. After logging out and back in to the account it was gone again. It has yet to reappear after a number of reboots and logins.

System moniter shows it to be running. 

This problem has had no effect on my ability to mount, unmount, and view the contents of my drives, partitions, and removable media.

Any one know what the hell is going on? The few hours that it was usable, I found it nice to have....

I've searched the forum and have not found a satisfactory answer but have found numerous complaints of the same problem.

Here is my fstab:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=61591180-679a-4a56-80d0-81ec4801dbf1 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=e00a007e-99c0-4620-ae73-5f5f8bc0b96d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/OS ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

Screen Shot 1 - Shows no dick mounter on gnome bar
Screen Shot 2 - Shows disk mounter applet is running
Screen Shot 3 - Shows hard drives visible and able to be mounted in nautilus

---

### Post by andrewsomething on 2007-06-27
So 15 hours after I posted this, I boot up my computer and it's working. I log out to see if it will continue, and guess what. It's gone. I reboot, nope, not there this time...

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by andrewsomething on 2007-06-27
I am very shamelessly bumping my own post...

I can't think of any other information that might be helpful. I'm really stumped...

Can someone atleast point me in the right direction?

---

### Post by andrewsomething on 2007-07-02
Don't think I actually changed any thing, but now the applet will show up reliably on start up. It has not once shown up after loging out and than loging back in....

Anyone?

---

### Post by jongkind on 2007-07-04
I've the same problem, and I didn't find a solution

---

### Post by iamajd on 2007-08-04
I was experiencing this frustrating problem on a Toshiba Notebook... but I applied some updates recently (including a hald update) and now the problem is gone.  The Disk Mounter applet seems to always work now regardless of logging out and back in or switching users.

---

### Post by joegiampaoli on 2007-10-10
I have the same problem, I had it working when I created my account but stupid me created an extra bar, deleted it from the old one and then it's when all this started happening, it only pops up when rebooting, but log out and back in, and it's gone.....:confused:

---

