---
title: "11.10 w/Gnome Fallback: network icon disappears when mobile broadband is connected"
date: 2012-01-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Shamus on 2012-01-10
I think I've found a bug but I want to mention it here in the forum first to see what people have to say before I go and report it officially.

Fresh install of Ubuntu 11.10, Gnome Session Fallback is installed (and I'm logged in using it). The notifications applet works fine for volume, battery state, bluetooth. The network icon works as expected for wireless (wifi) and ethernet. However, when I enable Mobile Broadband and connect using a Huawei USB stick (Globe Tattoo from Globe Telecom, Philippines), as soon as I connect to the network the network icon disappears. There's still a space in the notification applet where the network icon should be, and if I mouse over that space I still get its functionality: I can see available networks, disconnect and reconnect, right-click and get connection information or edit connections, etc. There's just no icon there any more. This does not happen when I log in using Unity, so it may be a bug in Gnome Session Fallback rather than Ubuntu 11.10. I haven't tried it in other versions of Ubuntu as I can't easily download their ISOs over this slow 2G connection (3G doesn't appear to be available where I live.) 

The icon is there when I'm not connected, the animated icon is there while it's connecting, then it vanishes as soon as the "Connection Established" popup notification appears.

I just noticed this bug as I normally connect to the Internet via our wifi router and ADSL and just use mobile broadband as a back-up when there's an issue with our telco as there is now.

My computer is a Dell Inspiron 6400 notebook with an Intel video chip, Intel Core Duo 2GHz CPU, 4 gigs of DDR2 RAM, 120 gig SATA hard drive, external USB mouse, external USB 750 gig Western Digital hard drive: pretty generic, slightly older hardware.

By the way, I followed [these instructions]("http://deviceguru.com/ubuntu-11-10-without-shell-shock/") for installing Gnome Fallback and doing a few other tweaks to Gnome and my desktop, (Personally, I don't really mind Unity that much though I find it mildly annoying the way the icons on the left disappear and reappear depending on whether a program is full-screen or not, and I really dislike the lack of a taskbar showing open tasks (programs), but Unity is something that I could in time get used to. However, I share my computer with my wife who's a "power user' but not a techhead, so I needed to make the desktop look and feel more like Windows for her.)

---

### Post by lavezarez on 2012-05-04
I'm using Lubuntu 12.04, and the network connection icon also disappears when I connect to my mobile broadband.

A bug is filed here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/936421?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-meta/+bug/936421?comments=all)

---

