---
title: ".deb package question"
date: 2006-06-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by prash@linuxitarian on 2006-06-24
Hi!,
  I have been using Ubuntu for about five months and am very impressed with it! I consider myself as a novice linux user. This post is more of a question than a problem (was just wondering if I was thinking stupid!)...

Consider a package such as "octave". Isn't it theortically possible to include all the dependencies in a octave.tar.gz (or some other extension) file and download the entire package...I am thinking something similar to the windows .exe file. It would be simple to maintain a local copy of the file without having to worry about all the dependencies. 

I understand that such a method would be very redundant but it would probably benefit the end user more. I could do a proof of concept, but I leave that for some other time and to someone else.

Thanks for any suggestions and comments.

---

### Post by Briquet on 2006-06-24
I agree with you, the easier the deb packaging gets the more linux users will feedback developers about their software, is good for both sides.

---

### Post by lamego on 2006-06-24
That would mean that any application which depends on a graphical lib would need to include it. Like there are some graphical libs like gtk/gnome which use several megas. You would turn a lot of aplications which actually use a few Kilobytes to a lot of megabytes.
The updates instead of taking minutes and a few megabytes would take hours and eventually gigas.
Anyway if you install applications from ubuntu repositories you don't need to care about dependencies, APT takes care of them without any intervention from the user.

---

### Post by Briquet on 2006-06-24
And what about an esier deb packaging?, maybe a program that replaces the packing job of developers, so they'll have more time for doing some more important stuffs

---

### Post by prash@linuxitarian on 2006-06-24
[QUOTE=lamego]That would mean that any application which depends on a graphical lib would need to include it. Like there are some graphical libs like gtk/gnome which use several megas. You would turn a lot of aplications which actually use a few Kilobytes to a lot of megabytes.
The updates instead of taking minutes and a few megabytes would take hours and eventually gigas.
Anyway if you install applications from ubuntu repositories you don't need to care about dependencies, APT takes care of them without any intervention from the user.[/QUOTE]
Good point!

  But I was thinking more along the lines of packaging that could be done this way...those which do not take 'gigs' of space. For those that do take 'gigs' we could always turn to apt :). 

Even when the dependencies ARE packaged as I mentioned before, apt would STILL be used to install the packages (internally through some script?)....Also, I think maintaining repositories would be ALOT easier, as one would just have to keep track of the packages they are interested in instead of having to keep track of a whole lot of dependencies along with it.....

For small packages where this could be done, I think it would be a more convinient option....For the larger packages as suggested by you...we could have both alternatives....I think that leaving such an issue to user discretion would be more beneficial?..... Please feel to mercilessly critique....

---

### Post by prash@linuxitarian on 2006-06-24
Thanks for the comments everybody...keep it coming.....!!!

---

### Post by prash@linuxitarian on 2006-06-24
[QUOTE=Briquet]And what about an esier deb packaging?, maybe a program that replaces the packing job of developers, so they'll have more time for doing some more important stuffs[/QUOTE]
I agree with that...I think fedora has such a system (not quite sure). But such a feature would certainly be of great help...

---

