---
title: "xorg problem"
date: 2005-06-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bkristan on 2005-06-23
I have a box running kubuntu Hoary Hedgehog, and I'm using it as a mythtv box. It was working great for several weeks, and then all of a sudden this morning it started to have problems. When I turn it on, it displays the text part of the boot procedure, but then when it tries to load X it first goes black, and then blue (no nvidia splash screen anymore). When I do a ps aux, X is taking up 85-95% of the cpu.

I can't find any error messages in /var/log/Xorg.0.log, or in dmesg output.

I swapped the video card for another one that I know is working, and got the same problem.

I can run mythfrontend on another machine, and connect to the problem box with no trouble.

I tried re-installing xorg-common and xorg-server, as well as the nvidia drivers (version 1.0.7174).

There was an error message about nvagp not running because agpgart was already running (or something like that), so I tried adding agpgart and via_agp to the /etc/hotplug/blacklist file - got rid of the message, but didn't solve the problem.

I also tried changing the NvAGP line in xorg.conf from 1 to 0.

Any other suggestions? If it isn't a bad video card, could the motherboard be bad?

Thanks!

---

### Post by dejitarob on 2005-06-23
How did you go about reinstalling xorg and nvidia drivers? What does your xorg.conf look like?

---

### Post by bkristan on 2005-06-25
Thanks for the response - I reinstalled xorg using synaptic. I tried the same with the nvidia drivers. Also, since my original post I saw some threads about a bug in the 7XXX series drivers. I tried downloading a 6XXX series driver from nvidia's web site and installed it, but got the same problem. I uninstalled, and reinstalled the ubuntu packages, so I'm back where I started. Does it mean anything that I can see boot messages until X starts? Can I assume it's not hardware?

Another strange symptom I noticed... I have kdm set up to log into the mythtv user account with just a carriage return. Apparently I logged in this way accidentally, because I heard the kde startup sound play, even though all I could see was the blue screen.

Here's my xorg.conf . Thanks again for any help you can give me! I'm out of ideas.


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "unix/:7100"                    # local font server
        # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "dbe"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "record"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "v4l"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "keyboard"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "ATI Remote"
        Driver          "mouse"
#       Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
#       Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "card0"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "TVStandard"    "NTSC-M"
        Option          "TVOutFormat"   "COMPOSITE"
        Option          "TVOverScan"    "0.5"
        Option          "RenderAccel"   "false"
        Option          "NvAGP"         "1"
# If MythTV problems persist, try NvAGP 0 to disable agp.
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "tv0"
#       Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-50
        VertRefresh     60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "card0"
        Monitor         "tv0"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "ATI Remote" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

### Post by bkristan on 2005-06-25
Well, it's working again. I used dexconf to generate a new xorg.conf file, which worked. I then added back the lines for the ati remote, and now everything's fine again. I diffed the working file and the broken one, and the lines that were left out of the working file were:

<       Option          "TVStandard"    "NTSC-M"
<       Option          "TVOutFormat"   "COMPOSITE"
<       Option          "TVOverScan"    "0.5"
<       Option          "RenderAccel"   "false"
<       Option          "NvAGP"         "1"

I tried "RenderAccel" "0", and "NvAGP" "0" earlier, and neither one helped. Any theories about why omitting these lines would help (and why they worked before)?

Anyway, we're happily using our MythTV box again!

---

### Post by siman on 2007-03-26
on edgy with mythtv from the repos with a geforce 7600 I had to do something similiar:

I commented out this option

[quote]
< Option "NvAGP" "1"

---

### Post by siman on 2007-03-26
on edgy with mythtv from the repos with a geforce 7600 I had to do something similiar:

I commented out this option

```

Option "NvAGP" "1"

```

and now my xorg cpu usage is back to normal

---

