---
title: "[16.04 LTS] How to disable WiFi and bluetooth on startup?"
date: 2016-07-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by prahladyeri on 2016-07-29
I'm  running Ubuntu MATE 16.04 and I want that when I login to my desktop,  both bluetooth and WIFI should be off by default (though the icons  should be available in system tray so that I can switch them on whenever  I want).


  For bluetooth, I've tried adding *rfkill block bluetooth* to my */etc/rc.local* but it ain't working. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-07-29
I do not know how to do it in Ubuntu Mate but in Ubuntu Unity I would open the Edit connections dialog and under the General tab I would untick the box labeled "Automatically connect to this network when it is available. There must be something similar in Ubuntu Mate.

Regards

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-07-29
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2309922&highlight=informal+tips+daw](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2309922&highlight=informal+tips+daw)

Scroll down to the section describing creating "*.override" files corresponding to the "*.conf" files in /etc/init 
You won't be able to activate stuff easily, but they will be disabled at boot.  

For disabling wifi, I'm not entirely sure.  Somebody else will know.  It might be wpa_supplicant in /etc/init.d which you could temporarily sudo mv to a sudo created directory (mkdir) like /etc/init_d_disabled/  but messing with those driver files in init.d can be problematic when it comes time for upgrades or removals of stuff.  But it does work for some things.  Also check the "session startup" settings in the system preferences window thingy. I'm not exactly sure what it's called in MATE.  But if anything is set to auto-start, you can probably disable those.  Also there is possibly a folder:  /etc/xdg/autostart/ containing *.desktop files  ... those applications are triggered from those desktop files on startup.  

Some of them can be moved elsewhere and back if you have root privileges or use sudo.  

I just use the physical switch on my laptop to disable wifi.  On some computers it's on the front/side facing the user.  On other hardware, it's on the top beyond the keyboard just below the screen.  And on yet other computers, it's a function key combo (fn+otherkey).  If you haven't already, it's worth it to check what your computer has.  

My desktop/tower computer I just opened up and physically disconnected the power from the wifi chip.  It's very delicate, but that worked.  It might not be a good idea though, because some electronics can be damaged if they get control signals while the power signals are absent.  But I can't afford internet access at home anyhow, and the chips are removeable and replaceable in my system.  

Anyways, I hope this is helpful.  
I hope others will step in and add some insights and solutions.

---

