---
title: "Kde freeze in karmic"
date: 2010-03-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-03-02
Hi Guys
I have dual dektop environments namely KDE and Gnome. The problem is that my KDE freezes every time I login.But Gnome is robust as ever. I disabled my Compiz as well as my Cairo dock but it did not solve my problem. I even tried one cycle of Mem test and booted in older kernel but freezing still persist in KDE.


Please guide me in this issue

---

### Post by Kubunteando on 2010-03-02
What version of KDE you use?

Which graphic card and which drivers for the graphic card?

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-03-02
> **Kubunteando said:**
> What version of KDE you use?

Which graphic card and which drivers for the graphic card?

Hi
Thanks for your reply.How to know that, Is there any way to know the version of KDE and graphic card version

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-03-03
Hi Guys
I found out KDE version is 4.3.5
The graphic card on the other hand is ```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 0c)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)

```
Please help me guys

---

### Post by Kubunteando on 2010-03-03
Intel has the worst graphic driver (if we exclude VIA)
What is the version of the driver? Can you check the version of your package xserver-xorg-video-intel?

Do you have enabled the KDE 3D effects?
I would try to disable them.

Can you still switch to a terminal (CTRL+F1) or is the whole system freezing?

Can you post your file: /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-03-03
> **Kubunteando said:**
> Intel has the worst graphic driver (if we exclude VIA)

Wrong. (Unless you're using an deprecated version) Intel has the best support, so far, especially with Karmic Koala and Lucid Lynx alpha.  

(Mandriva appears to still be using a deprecated version)

Maybe Windows Intel support sux, but Ubuntu Intel support rocks!

Nvidia has been a hassle, because you're required to use proprietary blobs, or it will be crippled.

---

### Post by Kubunteando on 2010-03-04
Not willing to start a big discussion on this. But as an owner of a Intel X3100 the driver support I can tell that sucks big time.
It hangs randomly the computer plus it is slow during the time it does not make your computer hang (I use KDE not Gnome).

Clarkdale GPU crashes even with new Intel drivers. 
Plus there are issues reported in Lucid with old hardware.

Here you have a few links to check:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1412722](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1412722)

[http://insidesocal.com/click/2010/03/ubuntu-lucid-alpha-3---massive.html](http://insidesocal.com/click/2010/03/ubuntu-lucid-alpha-3---massive.html)

Am I wrong? Well, I don't think so. It is not only me who speaks up. The users do in the forums and reviews speak by themselves.

The driver is as crappy as it can be (with the only exception of VIA drivers, but that debate is different because VIA drivers could be considered more as malware)
And for some reason even more crappy with KDE.

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-03-05
Hi
1) The version of Xserver xorg video intel driver is 2:2.9.0-1 Ubuntu2.Well I think I am having the latest version. 
Please note that I've been using KDE in my Ubuntu for past 2 years and was upgrading every six months witout much glitches

2) I've not enabled 3D effects in my KDE

3) /etc/X11/xorgconf is as follows```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
#	Driver		"synaptics"
#	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
#	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
#	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
#	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	"DontZap"	"False"
EndSection

```

4) The whole system is freezing, Well I have Gnome in my machine which is robust

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-03-12
Hi Guys of KDE
Any help will be appreciated.....

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-03-12
i could not run kde desktop on my laptop with intel graphics, it did great on one with nvidia graphics.

both laptops did well with gnome desktop with affects and all.

---

### Post by Kubunteando on 2010-03-13
I have been checking this on the net and more people has the issue, but none has given a clear solution.

So to put a bit more light into the problem I would suggest:

1- after the freeze try to get the file .xsession-errors from the user home folder of the user you use to log in. So if you have to power down and up the system after the freeze then boot on recovery mode and copy the file. If you boot in graphical mode the log will be overwritten and the information lost. You can post in this thread the file.

2- try the alpha 3 from Kubuntu which uses the Intel 2,10 driver 
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-3/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/releases/lucid/alpha-3/)
Try to see if it work fine.
The bad thing here is that it seems Ubuntu has decided to use in Lucid the same 2.9.1 almost same in Karmic 2.9 version because 2.10 was giving problems with certain hardware.

Are you using Kubuntu or are you installing Ubuntu and then KDE?

---

### Post by freakfun on 2010-03-24
I have (had) the same random freezes with two different machine and distros, only common thing was the use of KDE 4.x and the processor brand:

Machine 1 (old): Athlon X2 4200+ with Nvidia 7600GS and Suse 11.2 64 bit
Machine 2 (new): Athlon II X4 630 with Ati 4670 and Kubuntu 9.10 Karmic 32 bit

Both machines frozen completely, sometimes after 10 minutes and sometimes after 2 hours and more, and I had to hard reset because ctrl+alt+backspace, ctrl+alt+del and any other keys combination did not work.
I'll try see the file .xsession-errors, but does someone have any idea on which other logs to control?
Ciao everybody!
Christian

---

### Post by freakfun on 2010-03-24
> **freakfun said:**
> 
I'll try see the file .xsession-errors, but does someone have any idea on which other logs to control?
And, in fact, two freezes this evening, and two files .xsession-errors saved, but they are really different.
I have to repeat myself: where should I look?
Thanks
Christian

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2010-03-24
> **freakfun said:**
> And, in fact, two freezes this evening, and two files .xsession-errors saved, but they are really different.
I have to repeat myself: where should I look?
Thanks
Christian

It sounds like an Xorg freeze; in my experience, xorg freezes rarely leave useful log information anywhere, but if there were useful log info, it'd be in /var/log/Xorg.0.log (or /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old after you restart and begin a new X session).

I had a developer walk me through how to get a backtrace of the intel drivers after I reported a bug on an i845 freeze with KDE; but that info is really only useful to developers.

I encourage you to file a bug report, it will probably ultimately get sent upstream to freedesktop.org, and will probably require a bit of effort from you to see through, but in the grand scheme of things it may help a lot of users.

See this page to get started:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-03-25
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> It sounds like an Xorg freeze; in my experience, xorg freezes rarely leave useful log information anywhere, but if there were useful log info, it'd be in /var/log/Xorg.0.log (or /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old after you restart and begin a new X session).

I had a developer walk me through how to get a backtrace of the intel drivers after I reported a bug on an i845 freeze with KDE; but that info is really only useful to developers.

I encourage you to file a bug report, it will probably ultimately get sent upstream to freedesktop.org, and will probably require a bit of effort from you to see through, but in the grand scheme of things it may help a lot of users.

See this page to get started:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)

Hi
Thanks for your information. I will look into it

---

### Post by GnuSense on 2010-05-05
Another data point, I'm having freezes, but only with Gnome.  I installed Lucid Kubuntu and added gnome & xfce with apt-get.  I also have Intel graphics:

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

Doesn't much matter to me because this hard drive is soon going in to a box with Nvidia graphics.

---

