---
title: "18.04.2 LTS Kubuntu - KDE media player autoplay question"
date: 2019-07-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by csacelaris on 2019-07-08
Hello,

I'm new to the forum so if this incorrectly posted I apologize. I searched here and elsewhere for an answer to this topic and didn't find any enlightenment so I was hoping for some help.

I have Kubuntu 18.04.2 LTS installed and am trying to figure out how to control the media player widget. Currently if I have something playing and I suspend my computer when I open it back up again it will automatically start playing whatever it was at the login screen. I can't seem to find any settings where I can control this behavior and was wondering if I'm just missing them or, if not, if there's someway to change this?

Thanks for any info.

Cheers

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-07-08
I never suspend my KDE machine, so I've not seen the behaviour you describe. However, there's a "pause media players when suspending" option in the power management settings. If that doesn't keep the media player paused on resume, I'd imagine that's a bug.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-07-08
I use SMPlayer + mpv on my Kubuntu machines. I never have this issue if the player is minimized before suspending.

---

### Post by csacelaris on 2019-07-08
> **CatKiller said:**
> I never suspend my KDE machine, so I've not seen the behaviour you describe. However, there's a "pause media players when suspending" option in the power management settings. If that doesn't keep the media player paused on resume, I'd imagine that's a bug.

Thank you that was exactly what I was looking for apparently. It was checked to be enabled and disabling it resulted in it not autoplaying when the machine comes out of suspend.

---

