---
title: "7.10 twinview madness"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bondik on 2007-10-19
Hi,
  Nvidia's twinview single desktop over 2 LCDs makes me crazy. I have notebook LCD (1280x800) and external LCD over DVI (1280x1024). Settings "right of".  Everything worked perfectly until I upgraded from feisty...

  I consider this to be NVIDIA's new  bug (or feature ? ) in new drivers, but maybe someone did solve following problem:

  One big desktop is created but with "dead zone" on my ntb and each window on maximization spread over whole desktop instead spreading only on "sub-screen". This is totally different behavior as opposed to feisty fawn and totally annoying.

[-o<

---

### Post by OoooMatron on 2007-10-19
I don't have any problem like this at all.

I always do the xorg config manually and i just add option "twinview" true or something like that and everything works perfectly.

---

### Post by unf on 2007-10-19
Have you got XGL enabled?

---

### Post by bondik on 2007-10-19
Yep, I am running with compiz enabled. I also did manual configuration (reused one from feisty). I am attaching current config, maybe I did something wrong. 

Are you sure that your windows are really maximized only on one physical screen ?

---

### Post by bondik on 2007-10-22
Well, googling I found that to force compiz-fusion to maximize windows only on physical screen I need to uncheck Detect Outputs in General Settings of Advanced Compiz-Fusion and to specify Ouputs manually. Kind of weird, still the dead zone affects desktop (icons, panels). Anybody know the way to make it work like in Feisty ? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by BlackShift on 2007-11-17
I had the same problem. It turned out I still had Xgl installed, still from experimenting with compiz in Feisty. Uninstalling Xgl and everything was OK (took me some days to figure out though..).

---

