---
title: "16.04: &quot;mini-volume panel&quot; doesn't go away"
date: 2016-05-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by antonio66 on 2016-05-19
On Lubuntu 16.04, when I click on the volume icon for to increase/decrease the volume, then the "mini-volume panel" doesn't go away after that I click the touch of the mouse; why does it happen?

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-05-19
I find that if you click again on the icon it will go away. Otherwise, it won't (as you observed). You can also just use the mouse wheel to change the volume when the mouse pointer is on the volume icon. When you turn the mouse wheel, the level shows in a tool tip that goes away when you move off the icon.

---

### Post by antonio66 on 2016-05-19
Ok, thank you for this useful  information. But I want that the "mini-volume panel" goes away when I click the touch of the mouse at any point of the desktop (and not only when the mouse pointer is on the volume icon). Is it possible? With Lubuntu 14.04 it happened...

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-05-19
> **antonio66 said:**
> Ok, thank you for this useful  information. But I want that, when I click the touch of the mouse on the desktop, the "mini-volume panel" goes away. Is it possible? With Lubuntu 14.04 it happens...

I agree with you on how it should work, and whether this new behavior is by design, or just another bug I can't tell you. I am pretty sure there is not a setting you can change to fix this. 

You could also file a bug report. You can read about that here:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Bugs](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/Bugs)

---

### Post by antonio66 on 2016-05-20
Ok, thank you, I sent a bug report. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1583833](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxpanel/+bug/1583833)

---

