---
title: "12.04 LTS Administration Menu?"
date: 2012-06-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by VcDeveloper on 2012-06-05
Hi,

Just installed 12.04 LTS, Awesome!  How do you include a Menu for Administration Apps just like the classic?  Where do I find "Edit Menu"?

Thanks!...

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-06-06
All the system configuration stuffs are now stored in one unified tool - System Settings. You can find it in the Dash or click on the Power button on the top right.

For Edit Menu, install alacarte.
```
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends alacarte
```

---

### Post by karthikesh on 2012-06-13
Is it possible to restrict the installed applications that show up in the Dash. For ex., if we don't want the user to play the Solitaire game which is already installed in the system, then how to restrict access to it?

---

### Post by karthikesh on 2012-06-22
can anyone help with my above query please ?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-06-22
> **karthikesh said:**
> can anyone help with my above query please ?

if you have an app that you don't want displayed in the unity* Dash or applications menu then open it's .desktop & add this line
```
NoDisplay=true
```

Here there are 2 .desktops in /usr/share/applications, sol.desktop & freecell.desktop, screen

---

### Post by Lee_Bo on 2012-06-22
> **mc4man said:**
> if you have an app that you don't want displayed in the unity* Dash or applications menu then open it's .desktop & add this line
```
NoDisplay=true
```

Here there are 2 .desktops in /usr/share/applications, sol.desktop & freecell.desktop, screen

I just tried that and it worked perfectly.  Thanks.

---

