---
title: "14.04 Pointing devices in Plasma Active"
date: 2014-01-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by doomOo7 on 2014-01-29
Hello,

Wanted to try the latest 14.04 Kubuntu Plasma Active on my computer, an hybrid ASUS Transformer Book TX300CA-C4025P.

However : 
- There is no mouse
- The touchscreen doesn't work.

They don't work either in the stable release.
This overall makes for a poor experience, since I can only login. I tried LiveCD and then installing, and every week I go on a tty to make a dist-upgrade with the hope it solves something, but it's been about a month and it doesn't xD.

I don't think my computer's faulty because I run Debian Jessie on a daily basis and these two points work perfectly (even if it's not quite useful in Debian).

However I also tried the WeeTab - ExoPC version provided on Plasma Active website, and here it works, however I get about 50 crashes par minute (mainly KWin) which makes it completely unusable.

Help, anyone ?  ^_^

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-29
All 14.04 support request should be posted in the [***Ubuntu+1 sub-forum.***]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=427") I am not moving this there as your issue does not sound specific to 14.04 as it is happening in stable releases also. 

Support requests regarding other OSs should be posted in [***Other OS/Distro Support***]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=401")  or on the forum of the OS.

14.04 is still testing and not a good place to start with Ubuntu. My suggestion is that you install a stable version, i.e. 12.04 LTS, see what problems you have, then post support requests in the regular forums to try and fix them. Try and stick to one issue a thread.

Good luck. ;)

---

