---
title: "10.10 boots to terminal"
date: 2011-01-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Daltyn6 on 2011-01-24
When i start up my laptop with ubuntu 10.10 it lets me log in as usual but then takes me to the terminal. i was reading up about stuff on other sites and found i am running on level 2 not sure how i got it there but i dont want to be at that level.

---

### Post by Yougo on 2011-01-24
is this a fresh install, or is this an existing install?

did it work ok before?
did you install something or change settings?

do you see your desktop image with a terminal without title bar in the top left corner, or do you have a black screen with white text?

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2011-01-24
it almost sounds as though you have got a minal 'server' type of instal?

have a hunt for how to have a GUI auto start for a server install and you should find a solution - I know that I did this for a server I was 'supporting' as the other users didn't like getting a 'black screen' that just had a loggin prompt on it.

Alternatively, try re-installing the desktop... something like

```

sudo apt-get install gnome-desktop

```

should do the trick, and put it on automatically, although depending on the spec of your laptop (is it old or new) you may want a more lightweight desktop environment such as Xde

David

---

### Post by Daltyn6 on 2011-01-24
Its a fresh install on my laptop but I installed the desktop version

---

### Post by Yougo on 2011-01-24
at this point it could be anything. concluding OP has server edition installed is a bit quick no?

from the info we have, i can't even tell if he just logged in with terminal session or if he's looking at a tty terminal.

in the first case, he just needs to log out and log in using another gdm session, say choose 'Desktop Edition' 
in the latter, something is causing x to crash or not load.

or he could have downloaded and installed the server edition

@Daltyn6, 
unless more info is supplied about what hardware and software you have there, and what you did that caused the malfunction, we can't really do anything here...






/edit:
do you see you desktop picture with a terminal in the top left, and you have a mouse, or is it just a black screen with white text?

---

### Post by Daltyn6 on 2011-01-24
It has the login image in the background and its a small white box in the top left with black text

---

### Post by Yougo on 2011-01-25
i think you may have selected the terminal session at log in

when you are at the login screen, you select your name.
at the bottom of the screen, options appear. select another session: 

[IMG]http://lh5.ggpht.com/_1QSDkzYY2vc/S9234m5NlhI/AAAAAAAAA8c/fwakLqtt3U0/s288/Desk%201_003.png[/IMG]

it should be called something like 'default' or 'gnome' or 'desktop edition'

then, type your password and log in.
did this work?

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2011-01-25
> **Yougo said:**
> at this point it could be anything. concluding OP has server edition installed is a bit quick no?

Not exactly what I meant, but I see your point. I only thought that it may be possible to create a 'terminal session only' type of install by accident, then simply suggested that if this was a possibility looking for how to add a desktop to a server may yeald the desired result.

Otherwise I guess installing the 'gnome desktop' would have revealed a message of 'gnome desktop, latest version already installed' or similar?

which would have also helped work out where the problem lied, as it was the OP said he had installed the desktop version, so the rest of my post was possibly irrelevant, but was added as a potential direction to go for help.

I guess I could have made myself clearer though.


And eliminating one thing definitively must help a little (if only a little).

But no harm done, seems that you have hit the correct solution. It wasn't something that I thought was possible to have happen on a fresh install - especially the desktop version. I thought it always defaulted to a GUI, and you had to select out for something else.

David

ps. the ubuntu logo is the circle of friends, so please don't take this post (or any of my others) to ever be meant in anything other as trying to be helpfull - possibly often wrong, but nontheless I'm giving it my best shot to give back to the community.

---

### Post by Daltyn6 on 2011-01-25
thank you yougo for the help not sure how it got changed to recovery terminal but it is solved thanks everyone for there help in resolving the new guys issues.

---

### Post by Yougo on 2011-01-25
Glad i could help ;-)
 
could you please edit the topic title to start with '[solved]'? 
that way others with the same problem can search and see this solution worked.

happy ubuntuing,
Yougo

---

