---
title: "14.04[Dell LATITUDE D531][ATI Radeon Xpress X1270]Propietary Drivers broke resolution"
date: 2016-04-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by xandernardo on 2016-04-02
First of all hi there all, I'm not a common forums user, but in this case I had no options left to fix the issue I have, as all I tried before didn't help at all.

I'm working on the latest Xubuntu 14.04 LTS release on a [Dell LATITUDE D531]("http://www.linlap.com/dell_latitude_d531"), which worked perfectly fine, but trying to squeeze all the power of the machine, I had the "brilliant" idea of trying to install ATI propietary drivers to make the system as smooth as possible, which started this nightmare.

I used some ATI .deb from the AMD website (can't remember it right now, as I'm not in that computer right now). It said it was bad builded but I didn't hestitate to doom myself.

After that, even after deleting it and trying to use again the Open Source drivers, the system refused to detect the Laptop monitor resolutions, and I'm stuck with a blurry mess which, even if I can work with it, it's not helping my eyes health at all.

I tried using [xorg-edgers]("https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa"), trying to force resolutions creating xorg config files and xrandr, without any luck (xrandr doesn't detect well the max resolution for the monitor, so I can't force the resolution I know I can use).

With all this said, all that I want is a way to make xubuntu re-detect the monitor available resolutions as it did with a fresh install, and use that one.

In the worst-case, I can force the resolution my co-worker is using right now with the same laptop with any means recommended here, if for any reasons it reachs that state.

Nothing more, thanks in advance for reading this, and see you later.

---

