---
title: "12.04 LTS - various issues after updates to fresh install."
date: 2013-10-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Salda007 on 2013-10-11
Hey everyone,

After using 12.04 LTS on Wubi since it was released last year, I finally switched over to setting up a proper partition and did a fresh install of 12.04 LTS a couple weeks ago.  After installing, the Update Manager pulled down a list of something like 85 updates (which had also been queued on the Wubi install, but I'd ignored).  After installing these updates, I've found a number of bugs regarding the themes and overall look of the desktop, the +-vol buttons and the touchpad-disable function on my keyboard have been disabled, and I've encountered freezing issues and high CPU usage in FireFox.

Regarding the themes and display issues:

[This is a screencap]("http://i25.photobucket.com/albums/c69/Salda007/Ubuntu%20Issues/FirefoxLook-old_zpsf831b332.png") of Firefox off my Wubi install, showing how it used to look (and did after the fresh install).  I'm using the included Radiance theme, and the folder icons on the bookmarks toolbar match those used in the file browser.  This is what I'd like to get back to.

[This is a screencap]("http://i25.photobucket.com/albums/c69/Salda007/Ubuntu%20Issues/FirefoxLook-current_zps50682511.png") of what FireFox looks like now.  The browser background is a different color gray, and the folder icons are different.  Pidign shows a similar color change, but I don't have a screencap of that.

That screenshot also hints at the display issues, but [this one]("http://i25.photobucket.com/albums/c69/Salda007/Ubuntu%20Issues/BrokenThemes_zps74ee47f7.png") shows it better.  I have the computer set to use the lighter "Radiance" theme, but the only thing that changes is the title bar of non-maximized windows.  Everything else remains the same dark look as the Ambiance theme.  Attempting to switch to either of the High Contrast themes gives no change at all.  It's also now showing the File/Edit/View/etc. menu on some windows (gedit, for example), in addition to showing them on the global bar at the top of the page.

I tried to do a bit of troubleshooting on the themes, and managed to teach it a new trick.  Now I get a few seconds of [completely scrambled screen]("http://i25.photobucket.com/albums/c69/Salda007/Ubuntu%20Issues/Scrambledscreenonlogin_zps77715093.png") after logging in.  It reverts to normal after about 3-4 seconds, but I'm guessing it shouldn't be doing that at all.

Regarding the keyboard issues:

Since updating, the +vol/-vol/mute hotkeys (accessed through Fn + F11, F12, and a dedicated key, respectively) no longer function. Xev is showing that it's still recognizing keycode 121 (keysym 0x1008ff12, XF86AudioMute), keycode 123 (keysym 0x1008ff13, XF86AudioRaiseVolume), and keycode 122 (keysym 0x1008ff11, XF86AudioLowerVolume), it's just not responding to them.  Similarly, attempting to disable the touchpad via Fn + F3 is recognized as keycode 199 (keysym 0x1008ffa9, XF86TouchpadToggle), and even turns on the touchpad-disabled light on the computer, but does not actually disable the touchpad.  The screen brightness and keyboard backlight function keys work correctly.

Regarding Firefox freezing:

The main reason I switched from Wubi to a dedicated install was to get away from the slowdown issues caused by the NTFS driver it uses.  However, since switching, I've had a number of occasions where Firefox has frozen hard enough to cause the computer to become unresponsive even to point where the mouse doesn't respond.  I've had top show Firefox spiking well over 60% CPU usage, and even up to 100% usage, during the course of ordinary browsing.  It's currently hovering around 7-15% usage while I'm typing this, and I'm getting frequent minor halts as I'm typing.  This is not behavior I've seen before, and I'm wondering what might be causing it.  I use Firefox heavily for work, and having it randomly lock to the point of requiring a restart is entirely unacceptable.  I've also seen compiz occasionally show high usage.

So, basically, something (or several somethings) in the pile of updates caused a bunch of problems.  I'd do a complete reisntall, except there's no guarantee that the problems won't return the first time I try to install updates again.  Does anyone have any idea what might be causing even some of these problems?  Any help is appreciated!  Thanks!

Edit to add: I'm using 12.04 LTS 64-bit on a Dell XPS laptop with an i7-2630QM CPU and 6GB of memory.  The other partition (with the Wubi install) has the default Dell install of Windows 7 Home Premium.

---

### Post by maestrobwh1 on 2013-10-12
Firefox issue: do you have any addons?  I have had addons do this and I when I disabled them, all then re enabled them one at a time, identifying the errant one.  

This is a suggestion: Install Ubuntu Tweak (ppa is easy to find) and use that to try to reset your theme or you can go here for alternatives: [http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/04/things-to-tweak-after-installing-ubuntu.html)

I actually installed gnome-tweak-tool as well and it seems to work with Unity.  (shows up in Dash as "advanced settings.")

---

