---
title: "8.10 Missing &quot;Print to PDF&quot;"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jonzski on 2008-11-01
Greetings all,

I am rather new to Ubuntu and Linux.  I am trying to make the switch from Windows.  I started with 8.04 and just made the upgrade to 8.10.  There are a few things I can already see I need to work on, and one thing that I have not seen posted is anyone losing the "Print to PDF" print queue.  Again, I am sorry if this is a rather simple fix.  But i am unsure what program, or setting or what ever I am supposed to look for. If anyone can help I would be greatly appreciated.

Jon

---

### Post by tvtech on 2008-11-01
cups pdf
 

it was native in 8.04 you just have to install the print directory and it will print to a folder called pdf in your home folder

okay so they made it easier all you do is hit print select print to file and select pdf name your doc and away you go it shows up in your home folder  this will work in firefox you may have to enable cups pdf for other print related devices it will show up as a virtual printer.  also there are pdf print programs that are cross platform and free. 

there is a script somewhere to change where it saves too but I can't remember where

your going to want to search for something called cups-pdf  it should be in the ubuntu documentation, and multiple mentions in the forums.

---

### Post by chrisby on 2008-11-01
1. make a folder called "PDF" in home or it won't print

2. go to the terminal and run:
```
sudo apt-get install cups-pdf
```

happy printing!

---

### Post by brycesteiner on 2008-11-02
"all you do is hit print select print to file and select pdf name your doc and away you go it shows up in your home folder"

Quite easy now to choose which you want.

---

### Post by chrisby on 2008-11-02
> **brycesteiner said:**
> "all you do is hit print select print to file and select pdf name your doc and away you go it shows up in your home folder"

Quite easy now to choose which you want.

That method works, but lacks the GUI control of the pdf printer.  For example, you can't control the DPI.

---

### Post by jonzski on 2008-11-02
@chrisby,

Thanks, thats what I wanted.  And thanks to everyone else who replied.

---

### Post by Vock on 2009-01-27
Thanks, was looking for this too.

---

### Post by EvilMonki on 2009-02-07
> **chrisby said:**
> 1. make a folder called "PDF" in home or it won't print

2. go to the terminal and run:
```
sudo apt-get install cups-pdf
```

happy printing!

Something I was missing was the "PDF" folder. Thanks!

---

### Post by Rallg on 2009-02-08
This should be considered a bug. Nothing in the printer setup panels says anything about needing to create a PDF folder in the user's Home directory, nothing in the panels offers the user a choice of where the printed documents should go, and nothing in the "failed" message says why.

Look, when I connect a hardware printer, I don't expect it to fail if I don't tell it where I want to put the finished pages. It doesn't need to know, or it has a default location to put the prints.

---

### Post by zika on 2009-02-08
in Intrepid (at least 64-bit without cups-pdf installed) there is no need for PDF directory. just File->Print->print to file->select between .ps and .pdf and select in which directory to put the file. thank You for mentioning this, now that I tried this I can get rid of PDF_download extension in Firefox ... ;)

---

### Post by bornakke on 2009-03-11
Just to save other newbees time - the folder has to have the name PDF and not pdf or Pdf ;)

---

### Post by egatux on 2009-04-06
thank's zika, i never follow this tutorial before and now im feel so happy(thanks so much).It's the best forum i ever seen.... cayoooo.....ubuntu!!!

---

