---
title: ".desktop script password"
date: 2013-09-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gear64 on 2013-09-29
I have a script to mount 3 sshfs shares.  It works from xfce .desktop, or terminal in either environment, but not from kde .desktop.  The shares require a password.  I know I could use keys, but for this case I want to use passwords.  In terminal I get a password prompt sequentially for each share as the line is executed.  Upon providing the last password I can go to file manager and access my shares.  With xfce .desktop I automatically get 3 sequential password dialogs.  Upon providing the final password I can go to file manager and see shares.  With kde .desktop the script executes with no dialogs and no shares are mounted.  If I test in terminal I get three password prompts.  Upon providing last password shares are mounted.  Going back to .desktop I find execute in terminal.  This behaves much like default settings.  I see terminal flash up for a second then close.  No shares mounted.  I go back to advanced settings, check remain open after completion.  Now terminal stays open, I get the 3 prompts.  I asssume the passwords are going through because I get the next password prompt without error.  Providing the wrong password does generate an error, or using the advanced settings to change the user provides a connection reset error from the server.  However when I get the 3 sequential prompts and provide the correct password each time, the terminal "hangs" after the last prompt. Presumably because I told it not to close after completion, but the shares aren't created.  After force closing the terminal no shares are created.  Any thoughts on specific issue?  Any thoughts on differences between how xfce handles .desktop files vs how kde handles .desktop files in general?

---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2013-09-30
You can have SSH ask you for the password graphically. I believe this is what you're looking for:
[http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/83986/tell-ssh-to-use-a-graphical-prompt-for-key-passphrase](http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/83986/tell-ssh-to-use-a-graphical-prompt-for-key-passphrase)

---

### Post by gear64 on 2013-09-30
Thanks for the reply Kirk.  I found similar posts, but found them confusing.  I ended up perceiving this as only for a key pair protected by a passphrase, rather than just a password.  Still not sure if it handles both cases or just the keypair protected by passphrase.  I ended up resolving by combining the elements of two other solutions I found through google:

#!/bin/bash
password=`kdialog --password "Password"`
if [ $? = 0 ]; then
    echo $password | sshfs user@server:/mnt/folder1 /media/folder1 -o password_stdin
    echo $password | sshfs user@server:/mnt/folder2 /media/folder2 -o password_stdin
    echo $password | sshfs user@server:/mnt/folder3 /media/folder3 -o password_stdin
    else
    ""
fi

---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2013-09-30
Yeah, that'll do the trick.  I thought about suggesting Zenity, but suggesting using SSH Askpass seemed like a better initial solution.  I'm glad you got everything working!

---

