---
title: "12.04 Gnome Panel - Move Application Launchers"
date: 2013-01-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by BFG on 2013-01-09
Q. How to move launchers along the panel - to space them out?

I'm just setting up a user account on a fresh install of 12.04.1
with Gnome classic.  In the top panel, Commonly used apps are added, by dragging a launcher up to the panel (as per the old "add to panel" method).  They are present, but are crammed next to the menu, and crammed next to each other.  To me it looks messy and could be easier to use. 

In 11.04, I could move the launchers freely across the panel bar.  Does anyone know how to do this in 12.04?

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-01-09
Alt + right click

---

### Post by BFG on 2013-01-11
Unfortunately Alt+right click, you can only move the launcher a limited way.  So, I have 6 app launchers, all crammed together. Alt+Right click gives the move option, but all I can do is shuffle its position within the 6.  I can't move them way out along the bar.

With 11.04, I could move the launcher anywhere in the width of the whole screen, and choose a totally custom position.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-01-11
> **BFG said:**
> Unfortunately Alt+right click, you can only move the launcher a limited way.  So, I have 6 app launchers, all crammed together. Alt+Right click gives the move option, but all I can do is shuffle its position within the 6.  I can't move them way out along the bar.

With 11.04, I could move the launcher anywhere in the width of the whole screen, and choose a totally custom position.

Yep, not exactly like gnome2.  Gnome3 has limitations.  Far right, far left and center.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-01-11
Gnome Classic was created for those who liked the Gnome 2 desktop look and won't be improved upon. You might want to give XFCE4 a try and you can do this without having to install the Xubuntu desktop.   
```
sudo apt-get install xfce4
``````
sudo apt-get install xfce-goodies
```

This makes it easy to remove from the synaptic package manager if you don't like it. Though XFCE is not my main DE I enjoy using it and find it superior to Gnome Classic. XFCE also Looks very nice with minimal effort.

---

