---
title: "12.04 everything has become bigger, black strip, flashing cursor"
date: 2017-03-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tarzanofnazareth on 2017-03-21
Hey does anybody here know what hashappened? I opened my computer this morning. Normal. I opened it justnow everything is, well, bigger. All the icons on the desktop aremuch bigger, the desktop doesn't fit on the screen, there is a bigblack strip going across the bottom of the desktop. When I openprograms, the window's do not have minimise/maximise/close buttons,the pointer is constantly flashing and disappearing and all buttinsin the program are bigger too. Same with web.


I have checked the resolution – Ionly have 2 options and it is on the highest. Other than these itseems to be working ok eg. Programmesare all there and open, I canaccess the internet etc


So, what is happening? What can I do toget it looking and behaving as it should?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-03-21
Sounds like the video card or power supply is dying.  Try replacing them.
For troubleshooting, I'd create a live-boot flash drive with 14.04.5 and boot it - does the problem still exist? It is very likely a HW issue.

Support for 12.04.5 ends in about a month, so really any software issues aren't worth working on.  

Get fully patched and migrated to 14.04.1 or 14.04.5. Other 14.04.(2-4) releases are not supported since last August.  If you can, 16.04.1 would be the best migration based on the longest available support from today.

Review the following link [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases) for specific details about which releases are supported for how long.

After you move to a newer LTS, see if the issue remains.

There is 1 other option to retain minimal support. Pay Canonical, but I doubt they'd do that for an individual.

---

