---
title: "10.10: Firefox 3.6.13: Can't browse photos within site"
date: 2010-12-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-12-25
I have a difficulty trying to browse photos from within a specific web-site. 

When I try it, Firefox presents the first image of the set as I would expect from previous experience. Each image has a thumbnail 'navigation bar' to show the other images available. However when I try to show the second and subsequent images Firefox presents a window that has the controls one would expect when watching a video (back, forward, play, pause). The title bar for this windows  - at the specific web-site - says: "largepic.asp (application/x-mplayer2 Object)-Mozilla Firefox. 

FF is unable to successfully load any of the subsequent images after the first.

However, if I make a copy of the URL, displayed below the window title bar, and paste this into a new Firefox (tabbed) window, then everything works as one would expect.

I am using Noscript, but even if I temporarily allow all scripts, I do not get correct operation within the embedded window.

This behaviour is not exhibited by Epiphany (or by FF under Windows/XP), so I guess it is my configuration that is causing the problem, but I cannot figure out what is the cause.

btw the web-site of interest is [www.pistonheads.com](www.pistonheads.com) - choose a subject from the Classified section of the site.

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-12-25
Have you installed flash plugin for firefox??

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-12-28
> **karthick87 said:**
> Have you installed flash plugin for firefox??

<Tools><Add-ons><Plug-Ins> shows my Firefox has Flash version 10.1 r102

---

