---
title: "8.04: Multi screen setup questions"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bernroth on 2008-05-13
Hello!
For a new workstation I would like to configure three screens but I have some troubles to get everything working.
Current environment:
nVidia NVS 440 graphica card and three widescreen displays on a core 2 duo CPU, Ubuntu 8.04 64bit
The two widescreen displays should run in as TwinView (normal workspace) and the 3rd screen as a seperate X-Screen (used for full screen vmware of the old notebook windows installation).

I am using the nVidia binary driver and have set up the x-server using the nVidia configuration tool.

Unforetunately, I missed the bottom-bar ("taskbar") and when using compiz desktop cube, only the 4:3 part of the screen was working well, the remaining right-side screen was somehow shifted. BTW: Rotating the desktop cube showed the taskbar on the cube.

I have read some forum discussions where they recommended the use of xserver-xgl together with compiz. After installing the TwinView screens are working but the 3rd screen is empty/black but mouse works with the X-cross mouse pointer... Unfortunately the nVidia tool does not work anymore and complains about not having used the nVidia x-server binary.

Now I would like to ask you:

- What is the recommended setup to get everything working?
- I think there may be some issues with the window decorator. Where can I configure which screen uses which decorator?
- If I remove xserver-xgl, how can I solve the issue with the 3rd screen not showing the bar
- I noticed that the menus were showing quite slow and the mouse-click was not accepted. Why?

I'm quite new to Ubuntu and would really like to use it to replce my old windows notebook :)

Thank you and best regards,

Bernhard

---

### Post by imnotryan on 2008-05-26
I have the same issue with slow-loading menus.  The delay only exists on my primary display and not the secondary. :(

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-05-27
Xgl isn't a good solution; it doesn't play nicely with dual screen, and has been largely made irrelevant by driver improvements.

I'm not sure about the rest of your problems; your mixed twinview/separate X setup is outside of my experience.

---

