---
title: ".xauthentication problems? dont know what that is"
date: 2006-08-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by offramp13 on 2006-08-20
Ok so, i recently installed compiz and cgwd and all that jazz and it was working fine. Then one day (today actualy) i rebooted my computer, upon startup i get some message about the .xauthority or something. So i did the ol' startx command, and of course x started. but now all of my fanciful wobbly effects are gone. Now i was thinking to my self "i should just reinstall compiz" so i go to open synaptic and guess what, it gives me a .xauthority error. so im just wondering what .xauthority is, and how to fix my problem. The weirdest thing is if i do ```
sudo synaptic
``` it then it starts.

---

### Post by Bourlotieris on 2006-08-20
Have you read that article:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

It sounds like this might be the problem.

---

### Post by peabody on 2006-08-20
~/.Xauthority governs who can connect to your xserver.  Basically the display is a server and the apps are clients to this display.  It should "just work" with your user account, but on occasion certain things screw this up.  The fact that root can connect but your user can't is suspicous.

Type "$ ls -l ~/.Xauthority" in a terminal.  What are the permisions, user and group?

It's hard to guess what could be causing it.  Has the hostname of your computer change recently?

---

### Post by offramp13 on 2006-08-20
thanks for the help, but i reformatted last night, considering it takes 10 minute. Thanks though, i will keep it in mind for the future.

---

