---
title: ".dmrc?"
date: 2005-12-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Doomed_Tupperware on 2005-12-16
When I login, it says that my HOME$/.dmrc file has incorrect permissions, and should have 644 permissions and be owned by user. I changed the permissions to this, and it still gives me the same error message.

---

### Post by bartong on 2005-12-26
[QUOTE=Doomed_Tupperware]When I login, it says that my HOME$/.dmrc file has incorrect permissions, and should have 644 permissions and be owned by user. I changed the permissions to this, and it still gives me the same error message.[/QUOTE]
I have the exact same error, and I changed the permissions same as you, but still have the error.  It doesn't seem to affect my use of the computer once I've logged in, but it is slightly annoying (one more button to click when logging in).

Anyone have any ideas how to fix this?

---

### Post by PhilOSparta on 2005-12-26
While changing permissions for samba file sharing, a HOWTO indicated that I should change persissions on my user directory to 777.   That caused your same error to happen on my system.   On another thread I found that you should change your user directory to 755.   i.e.    sudo chmod 755 /home/<user>  where user is your user name.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by oxEz on 2005-12-26
I anwsered to someone else regarding that .dmrc file. (I also had this problem on Gentoo with GNOME 2.12).

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=396235#post396235]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=396235#post396235")

---

### Post by bartong on 2005-12-27
Thanks for the help.

For other users with this problem who find this thread, the trick is to change the file in question's permissions to 644 (if they are not that already), and then change the enclosing directory (typically home/<user>) to have the permissions 700.

This fixed it for me.  I then had to go and re-add my home folder as a shared folder in the Shared Folders application, but this inadvertantly solved another problem that I had posted about here:  [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=107058](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=107058)

Hope someone else finds this useful!

---

### Post by esmith818 on 2006-01-26
[QUOTE=bartong]I have the exact same error, and I changed the permissions same as you, but still have the error.  It doesn't seem to affect my use of the computer once I've logged in, but it is slightly annoying (one more button to click when logging in).

Anyone have any ideas how to fix this?[/QUOTE]

;-) How long must one lurk before posting? Will anyone trust a guy on his first post? I'll give it a go anyway:

I recently had this same problem. I see most answers involving changing permissions to 700 which works, but is technically incorrect. 

My solution was to log on as a different user (one without a .dmrc error at login), open up a Terminal session, and do a "ls -la" in the home directory of logged in user to see permissions for all files, including the hidden ones. 

I then opened a second Terminal session, navigated to the home directory of the user with the.dmrc error, and proceeded to chmod ALL hidden files (those beginning with a period) to match permission of similar file in current user directory (1st Terminal session). I made these changes as root ("sudo" -- although I prefer to "su" after assiging a password to the root user to skip typing sudo on every line!).

Logging back in as "problem" user is no longer a problem and original security settings of user's home files are back to normal as opposed to the "700 band-aid" solution originally offered.

---

### Post by trash on 2006-01-27
What caused it?
I just upgraded a clean install that i hadn't touched in a couple of weeks and that i've made no changes to. Quite a pain to fix if you're a single user with no root passwd.. i opted for the chmod 700 bandaide fix lol

---

