---
title: "11.04 - panel and app launcher sidebar not loading upon login."
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Josh.Baker on 2011-04-29
I just updated from 10.10 to 11.04 about an hour ago and I've already managed to crash it. (currently running from my old 10.04 Live CD)
the first restart from the update worked fine. i had a look around and tried to orientate myself to the new dash etc.
this is where the problem comes in.
All i did was open the control center and have a look at the new Unity and Gnome 3 settings etc.
My computer froze and so i had to force shutdown and restart.

I then discover my two main problems.
 - the new grub menu/splash screen is displaying at too high a frequency for my monitor to display (if i wait long enough it loads 11.04's login screen by default.)
- upon login, all i can see is my desktop background and my cairo dock from 10.10 but nothing else. (no panel or app launcher side bar)

If anyone could give me an explanation of what's happened, help or a way to fix, it would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by puthre on 2011-04-29
I have exactly the same problem. No sidebar and no panel. Desktop icons are there. I've tryied changing settings (enabling and disabling opengl)  by lauching ccsm from a terminal but they are still not showing up.

---

### Post by puthre on 2011-04-29
It seems to be thae same problem as [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1700843](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1700843)
Launching unity --reset from a terminal fixed the problem for me.

---

### Post by Josh.Baker on 2011-04-29
> **puthre said:**
> It seems to be thae same problem as [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1700843](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1700843)
Launching unity --reset from a terminal fixed the problem for me.

ok, sweet. its a bit late now tho. -.-
i wiped my hard drive and installed from my 10.04 disc. just going to update to the new release slowly from there. -.- 
Didn't have any blank discs or re-writables handy. -.- :mad::shock:

Any idea on the grub displaying at an out of range frequency?

---

