---
title: "X server wont load!!!"
date: 2006-12-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
Hey folks,
   So I have quite the issue right now. I installed Nvidia drivers for my geforce 6800 gt. It went well, I used a script that was online to take care of it, it was basically a point and click and I think i found the script in these forums. 

Anyway, I adjusted the resolution to 1280 x 1024, my lcds native resolution. It mentioned how some things wernt set up in the config file to properly display everything, yet it still worked fine. 

So I rebooted my machine, this is hours after I was working on a final paper of mine, and of course, now the xserver wont boot and whats worse, it takes me to a blank screen where I cannot do a single thing..

This paper is quite important, while I do have most of it saved in windows, which I am running in right now, i am still missing a big portion. 

Thank you for any help you can provide.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-12-11
Boot into recovery mode from GRUB menu and at the prompt, reconfigure your X again!

```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
startx
```
If X is running now, then reboot to normal mode.

```
shutdown -r now
```

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
Well, I have never really fooled around with the xserver configuration...is this an automatic process or will I be looking for something specific?

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
OK,
  So I used the dpkg-rconfigure xserver-xorg. It seemed to have worked, once I selected the color depth 24bit, it closed out without saying good bye or anything, but i didnt seem to find any error message...
   so I go type startx this is the error that I get:

(EE) NVIDIA (0): Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module!
(EE) NVIDIA (0): ***Aborting***
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration

Fatal Server error:
no screens found
XIO: fatal IO error 104 (connection reset by peer) on X server ":0.0" after 0 requests (0 known processed) with 0 events remaining


...now what do I do? I think this is the same error I was getting before

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-12-11
You need to edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf and replace the "nvidia" with "nv" in the Driver section...

```
nano -w /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
When you are done, press <Ctrl>x to save and exit...

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
Taurus,
  That worked out great. Thank you so much for your help, ill be keeping these notes on hand for the future, i am sure i will mess up again.

 Do you happen to know why this happened in the first place?

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-12-11
How did you install that nvidia driver anyway?  Here is a guide...

[http://albertomilone.com/driver_edgy.html](http://albertomilone.com/driver_edgy.html)
(I assume you are using Edgy, 6.10, right?)

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
Well, at first I used a script which actually is the same as the link you just provided.

Now the lastest attempt to install nvidia was to use apt-get to retrieve the file, then use
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

....it seems to be working just fine, althought I am not ENTIRELY sure if the latest nvidia drivers are installed.

It seems like the graphics are still sluggish, however I havnt had the time to install a game or the like to really test it out, im just basing my findings on a somewhat choppy Totem Movie Player 2

I am using 6.10 edgy yes.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-12-11
Did you remember to either restart X, <Ctrl><Alt>Backspace, or reboot?  You should see a white nVidia logo before the GUI login screen...

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
I seen that nvidia logo when I used the script from the site you provided, but I havnt seen it since.

Also, I followed that sites direction to make sure nvidia was updated, I restarted, everything seems fine (though no nvidia logo) and as I logged in the machine said there was updates for glx and restricted modules. Im not sure what this means....maybe xorg.conf wasnt configured properly? I went in there to change from nvidia to nv, maybe it hasnt changed back

*edit* actually i just looked at the xorg.conf, The driver does still say "nv" and also on the top it states the config files was generated by the nvidia-xconfig

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-12-11
You need to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and replace the "nv" with "nvidia" for the Driver...

Then, restart X.

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
makes sense, Ill do just that....I just hope the x server can start up again if I do that. Ill keep you posted

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-11
It works perfectly now as far as I can tell...performance seemed to have made a huge jump....

although I am not exactly sure on how to really test this, I wont be able to install any games until finals are over with, but It seems just fine now.

Thank you for your help Taurus

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-12-11
You're welcome and good luck with the finals.  Better study hard.

---

### Post by Capslock118 on 2006-12-12
OK, so one last thing I need to resolve.

Its been working fine, HOWEVER, I finally tweaked xorg.conf to support my MX700 mouse (7 buttons), that worked great to, everything seemed to be running fine..

then what turned out to be mplayer crashing, I couldnt do anything, even shut down linux, so i resorted to what I always do in windows, press the restart button...

...then all of a sudden now xserver wont boot, and now it has to YET AGAIN have to do with nvidia kernel not loading properly...I thought I fixed this.

Anyway I am now using nv again till I can really get down to working on this (probably on thursday).

Any help would be appreciated, though I will be going through [http://albertomilone.com/driver_edgy.html](http://albertomilone.com/driver_edgy.html) walk through again to see if it helps.

---

