---
title: ".pdf to .jpeg"
date: 2006-04-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ko16736 on 2006-04-03
I need some quick help. I need someone to tell me the simplest way I can convert a .pdf file to a .jpeg file. GIMP won't open a pdf file apparently.

Opening '/home/torrey/HelmetTemplate.pdf' failed:
Plug-In could not open image

Hmmpf...

---

### Post by stuporglue on 2006-04-04
You can install netpbm and use pdftopnm, and then pnmtojpeg. They are command line programs, but they should work well.

---

### Post by amunimanghi on 2006-04-04
did you try to rename it to as a .jpg. 

ie: picture.pdf     right click => rename          picture.jpg

---

### Post by art on 2006-04-04
apt-get install imagemagick
On the command line type
convert file.pdf file.jpg

---

### Post by mvaniersel on 2006-04-05
[QUOTE=amunimanghi]did you try to rename it to as a .jpg. 

ie: picture.pdf     right click => rename          picture.jpg[/QUOTE]
You're kidding right? This definitely doesn't work.

---

### Post by AndrewCaul on 2006-04-05
[QUOTE=amunimanghi]did you try to rename it to as a .jpg. 

ie: picture.pdf     right click => rename          picture.jpg[/QUOTE]
I don't think the original poster wanted to rename it. :)

---

### Post by airtonix on 2007-02-05
> **art said:**
> apt-get install imagemagick
On the command line type
convert file.pdf file.jpg

That is exactly what the man ordered. woooohoooo

can you say one click conversion of adelaide metro timetables to a usbable format for rockbox ipod video? (well might be mouth of marbles buuuuutt....wooohooo)

:guitar:

ahem, serious now.

---

### Post by octoberdan on 2007-12-18
> **airtonix said:**
> That is exactly what the man ordered. woooohoooo

can you say one click conversion of adelaide metro timetables to a usbable format for rockbox ipod video? (well might be mouth of marbles buuuuutt....wooohooo)

:guitar:

ahem, serious now.

Fantastic use! I installed cups-pdf, turned my school schedule into a pdf, and then turned that into an image so I could post in on myspace.

---

### Post by Dixon Bainbridge on 2007-12-18
> **ko16736 said:**
> I need some quick help. I need someone to tell me the simplest way I can convert a .pdf file to a .jpeg file. GIMP won't open a pdf file apparently.

Opening '/home/torrey/HelmetTemplate.pdf' failed:
Plug-In could not open image

Hmmpf...

[www.zamzar.com](www.zamzar.com)

---

