---
title: "11.10 64bit Ubuntu3D Not working after reboot?"
date: 2012-02-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Jpeir20 on 2012-02-29
I'm new around these linux parts...
Decided it was time to give it a try and Ubuntu seemed good enough.

So after i installed it fresh to another partition.
Ran the update manager
Removed Nouveau and installed the NVIDIA Drivers from the website.

I reboot back to find that.
Dash home is no longer transparent.
The workstation switcher thing when you press CTRL+ALT+Arrow keys
Is just a grey box. and a few other things

I double checked what it was running and it was running Ubuntu2D
No matter if i select "Ubuntu" from the login screen.

It's the smallest issue. But i like to keep things looking nice.

I had belief that it was just the NVIDIA drivers and i should just get Nouveau back. But i wanted to see what help i could find first.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-02-29
Ok if its just only with Unity then 
```
unity --reset
``` 
can help you

---

### Post by Jpeir20 on 2012-02-29
I've actually tried that and it doesn't work =\

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-02-29
Then you have to do proper graphic drivers installation .:). Thats the only thing we can do for such issues .

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-03-01
> **Jpeir20 said:**
> Ran the update manager
Removed Nouveau and installed the NVIDIA Drivers from the website.
Maybe you've run the Update Manager *after* manually installing the Nvidia driver, and a kernel update broke it immediately; or the chosen driver version just doesn't work with your graphics device.

If you want to use the proprietary Nvidia driver, it's always the best to install it via "Additional Drivers"; any proprietary drivers installed from there will be recompiled against the new kernel when it is upgraded.

So, I suggest removing the manually installed proprietary Nvidia driver, and install those offered by "Additional Drivers", or install the "Experimental 3D support" also offered there; for the latter, you'd need to reinstall or un-blacklist the Nouveau driver, whatever of that you've really done before the other way around.

Regards.

---

