---
title: "22.04 how to boot to user signon screen in Xubuntu"
date: 2022-10-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-01
After a recent upgrade to Xubuntu 22.04 my system starts up on my home page rather than the user selection box.  My wife then needs to switch users in order to sign in.  Is there a way to return to the 20.04 way of starting up at the user selection screen?  TIA for any help.

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-10-02
Just to be sure, I spun up a VM with Xubuntu.

The default behavior is the same if you select the "Require my password to log in" radio button at installation.

First question, then:  Did you do that?

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-10-02
To change the behavior:

1. Go the the app menu and type "Users" in the search box.

2. In the user settings, select your username.

3.  In the upper right quadrant of the user settings dialog, you will see "Password:  Not asked on login".  Click "Change"

4. Uncheck the box by "Don't ask for password on login"

5.  Apply change.

Reboot.  Let us know if that worked.

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-02
I have never set xfce to ask for passwords on xubuntu 20.04 (where I am writing from) and this machine has always booted to the select user screen.  I'll try setting the 22.04 machine to ask for passwords and see what happens but my goal is to have 22.04 function the same way 20.04 does.  Thanks for responding - I'll get back to you...

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-02
I made the change to ask for password but the machine still boots up to my home page without a password request.  However, if I switch users and then try to switch back I get a password request.  Something gone wrong in xfce.  I will go back to no passwords (as I have done since 2014 with xfce) and try contacting the xfce people.  We can live with the extra couple of clicks until it gets fixed.  Thanks for your response - I'm closing this question out.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-10-02
> **lou6 said:**
> I made the change to ask for password but the machine still boots up to my home page without a password request.  However, if I switch users and then try to switch back I get a password request.  Something gone wrong in xfce.  I will go back to no passwords (as I have done since 2014 with xfce) and try contacting the xfce people.  We can live with the extra couple of clicks until it gets fixed.  Thanks for your response - I'm closing this question out.

I am a bit confused as you said originally that you did want the password to be requested but now you say you will go back to no passwords (as you have done since 2014 with xfce).
This certainly not an xfce problem as the default has always been to ask for the password at start of a new session.
If you logout after an autologin session you will always get a request for a password in order to login again; this has always been the way it works.

Here's a possible system file you may need to edit manually as well

Comment out with a # as shown in the final line in /usr/share/lightdm/lightdm.conf.d/60-xubuntu.conf (if it shows an autologin line)

[Seat:*]
user-session=xubuntu
# autologin-user=andrew

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-02
I don't see what's confusing - I still expect to see the login box (a rectangular box in the center of the screen) in which I can choose the user for the session (either me or my wife) but what I see is my Xubuntu home page.  In order to get to my wife's page it's necessary to either press the power button to gain access to the ability to switch users.  After this is done once the system returns to functioning normally (where the login box appears after signoff).

Neither user is required to enter a password.  I have been setting up Xubuntu this way since 2014 or so with no issues.

I hope I have explained more clearly this time.  Thank you for responding.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-10-02
To the best of my knowledge you can not set up autologin, ie, without asking for a password for more than a single user, so both you and your wife can not autologin.

Perhaps I have misunderstood again!

Perhaps you do not want what I think of as autologin but simply to choose the user in the login dialogue and then go to that chosen user's desktop without typing a password.

In that situation I presume the system will login by default to the user who was last logged in but I do not know for certain as I've never felt secure not using a password to login on my systems.

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-02
I am not asking to autologin - just, as you put it "simply to choose the user in the login dialogue and then go to that chosen user's desktop without typing a password"...

But... I am not getting a login dialogue when I start the computer _ I'm getting my homepage.  After that the system reverts to normal behavior.

I have been setting Xubuntu up this way for many years and it's working just fine on the machine I'm typing on now (Xubuntu 20.04/xfce 14).

I have been trying to set up a backup computer in case of disaster and it's working just fine except for this weird login issue.  Thanks for responding.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2022-10-02
The login screen is more properly called the greeter. On Ubuntu the greeter is GDM3. What is it on Xubuntu? Is it LightDM? Please look at this question on the XFCE forum.

[https://forum.xfce.org/viewtopic.php?id=15244](https://forum.xfce.org/viewtopic.php?id=15244)

Note the command to find out what greeter is being used. Is one installed Or, is it configured not show Users? See the first reply then the second reply. 

> [09:31 AM ~] bob$ cat /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf
[Seat:*]
allow-guest=false
greeter-hide-users=false
greeter-show-manual-login=true

If you have greeter-hide-users=true then the login screen will not show users. This is my guess. I am unfamiliar with Xubuntu.

Regards

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-10-02
> **lou6 said:**
>  ... my goal is to have 22.04 function the same way 20.04 does. 

As far as I can tell, on a fresh installation it does behave the same.  Did you upgrade/do-release-upgrade or do a clean installation?

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-02
I did a release upgrade.

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-02
I doubt this is the problem because after the initial login with no greeter the system works correctly - only the initial greeter does not appear.

Sorry, I was replying to the previous post.  This is getting confusing.

The problem only occurs on the initial login - after that everything is normal.  We can learn to live with it...

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-03
I found that lightdm.conf contains the line "autologin-user=lou" which may be causing my problem.  I can't delete the line because the file is read-only.  How can I get around this?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-10-03
Don't delete it, use 
```
sudo nano /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf
```
And modify it to look like:
```
#autologin-user=

```

---

### Post by lou6 on 2022-10-03
I installed nautilus-admin and commented out the line in question.  Problem solved.

Many thanks to all who posted.

---

