---
title: "11.04 Default theme - white windows?"
date: 2011-07-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ryanmills on 2011-07-20
upgrade install to 11.04 using unity theme. I get random white screens/panels. first time was the whole login screen, second is the body of notepad but terminal works fine. I can enter content and it works, sometimes if I refresh it draws the body correctly, sometimes when I change focus it does not work. That happened with Firefox. I have everything updated and I have not changed anything. No private drivers to install. I'm guessing its just a setting somewhere. Thoughts?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-20
> **ryanmills said:**
> upgrade install to 11.04 using unity theme. I get random white screens/panels. first time was the whole login screen, second is the body of notepad but terminal works fine. I can enter content and it works, sometimes if I refresh it draws the body correctly, sometimes when I change focus it does not work. That happened with Firefox. I have everything updated and I have not changed anything. No private drivers to install. I'm guessing its just a setting somewhere. Thoughts?Hi,it is probably your video card drive do you have a ati or nvidia card? My is a nvidia card and I had to change to the older 173 driver to fix it. If this is not the case please give a screenshot.

---

### Post by ryanmills on 2011-07-21
odd, your right, changed drivers and it fixed it. thou they both say 173. either way it works thanks :)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-21
Hi, glad you got it fixed, would you please go to the top of the page and mark this thread solved be clicking on thread tools. Thank you so much.

---

