---
title: "[13.10] ubuntu default session doesnt work when cinnamon is installed?"
date: 2013-10-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by haruX on 2013-10-26
Hi everyone, I just upgraded to 13.10 and reinstalled all my packages, one particular software I want is nemo as I really dislike the new nautilus.

But after installation of nemo (which also installs cinnamon), I can't login with the ubuntu default session, I can login if i select "Cinnamon" when logging in... As for error message, either I see the message "Unable to load session 'ubuntu' or I will just get thrown back to login screen.

Have tried a couple of times, executing "sudo apt-get remove --purge nemo* cinnamon*" solves the problem and reinstalling them cause the problem to resurface.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-10-26
Cinnamon 2.0 is now its own desktop environment and not a modified Gnome shell . If you installed the latest version via PPA be warned it has been breaking Unity for a number of users and reporting bugs is one way to help resolve problem . The version in the 13.10 repository is 1.74 and I have no suggestions if that is the version your,e using. PPAs are not official packages and there is always a risk they will break things.   

[http://news.softpedia.com/news/Cinnamon-2-0-Corrupts-Unity-on-Ubuntu-13-10-390736.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/Cinnamon-2-0-Corrupts-Unity-on-Ubuntu-13-10-390736.shtml)


[http://askubuntu.com/questions/361392/does-cinnamon-2-0-really-break-your-13-10-desktop](http://askubuntu.com/questions/361392/does-cinnamon-2-0-really-break-your-13-10-desktop)

---

### Post by haruX on 2013-10-26
thanks for your quick reply! I searched around the web for this already but I guess I have missed out some keywords in my query.

yes I have installed it using the PPA, took a look at the PPA and cinnamon packages are already pushed to version 2 even for 13.04, so if I updated my nemo there the same problem would occur.

removed the ppa and reinstall with the one which ships with ubuntu and it is working now. 1.8.4 in universe. marking this as solved.

---

