---
title: "11.10 &amp; 12.04: No hibernate/suspend with closed lid"
date: 2012-04-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by slamdunk on 2012-04-07
Hi all,

Both versions 11.10 and 12.04 Ubuntu with installed Xubuntu/XFCE extension have problems when I close the lid of my laptop as it doesn't go into "sleep" (hibernate or suspend - actually I don't know the real difference) mode.

When I try to do that with Gnome 3 or Unity I have no this kind of problem.

Any idea how to fix that?

Thanks
Julio

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-04-07
In Settings Manager -> Power Manager, there are options to control what the laptop does when you close the lid. Have you set them to either hibernate or suspend?

In a nutshell, suspend is when your computer goes into low power mode with the contents of your memory being maintained. If you run out of power, you will lose everything. Hibernate is when the contents of your memory is written to disk and the computer shut off. Since it is written to disk, you don't have to worry about running out of power and losing the state of your computer.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-04-07
Does it work when you initiate suspend or hibernate from the menu? If it doesn't work from the menu it is unlikely that it works by closing the lid.

---

### Post by slamdunk on 2012-04-07
> **Toz said:**
> In Settings Manager -> Power Manager, there are options to control what the laptop does when you close the lid. Have you set them to either hibernate or suspend?

OOOOPS thanks mate works fine :)

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-04-07
Good to hear. Can you please mark the thread Solved from the Thread Tools link at the top of this page?

---

### Post by bradleypariah on 2012-04-13
I needed this answer as well.  This was a helpful thread.  Such a simple solution.

I'm really digging XFCE.  Once you get used to the ins-and-outs, it seems to be the perfect replacement for Gnome2.  After only a week or two, I'm feeling almost right at home.

---

### Post by Lemuriano on 2012-04-23
I understand that the hibernate option in 12.04 is not available by default in all the Ubuntu family.

Regards.

---

