---
title: "9.04 not loading partitions correctly"
date: 2009-07-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Guyver1 on 2009-07-29
So installed the new Ubuntu 9.04 inside my Windows 7 RC 64 bit installation.

windows boot menu shows ubuntu perfectly fine and i can boot into ubuntu perfecly normally and use it prefectly fine also...

bar this one little niggle.

So all my drives are NTFS as its a windows machine.

I have 3 partitions, XP, DATA and GAMES

they show up fine in /media exactly as above.

Problem i've noticed is this, I have a desktop background that is based on DATA.

The image will not load until i actually go to 'Places' and manually select the DATA drive to open an explorer window. then all of a sudden my background pops into life.

fstab confirms that 9.04 isnt loading the NTFS partitions on boot:
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'vol_id --uuid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
/host/ubuntu/disks/root.disk /               ext3    loop,errors=remount-ro,relatime 0       1
/host/ubuntu/disks/boot /boot           none    bind            0       0
/host/ubuntu/disks/swap.disk none            swap    loop,sw         0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
//192.168.0.253/music /home/guyver1/Music   smbfs  auto,credentials=/root/.credentials,uid=1000,umask=000,user   0 0

```
But it does load my network /music samba share on boot correctly and the drive icon shows up on my desktop

So whats the correct enties in fstab to load my 3 local NTFS partitions on boot??

any help appreciated thanks

---

### Post by quixote on 2009-07-31
When you click on an entry in nautilus, it mounts it.  So the problem is the three partitions you want aren't automatically mounted.  Entries have to be made in fstab to do that.  You can edit it by typing in a terminal (Start > Accessories > Terminal) ```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```  Check the [wiki doc on fstab]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Fstab") before you actually do anything.

I think, not sure because this is from memory, that adding the following lines will mount your other drives:```
/dev/*sda1*    /media/DATA  ntfs    user,auto,exec,utf8     0       0
```
Substitute the right device name for your DATA partition.  You can find out what it is by typing "sudo fdisk -l" in a terminal window.  It'll return a bunch of gobbledygook, but by looking through the partition sizes carefully, it's usually possible to figure out which partition is which.  Also, if you want a different mountpoint, say /mnt/data, then use that instead of /media/DATA.  The directory has to be made ahead of time.

Make two more lines for your other two partitions, XP and GAMES.

After you reboot, if the lines are right, they should all mount automatically.

---

### Post by Guyver1 on 2009-07-31
Thanks man, 

all sorted now.

What I find strange is that all other versions of Ubuntu have always loaded all partitions found automatically by default. 

This is the first time that ubuntu hasnt, I'm wondering whether its a bug with the 'install inside windows' option or whether it is the default behaviour of 9.04?

---

### Post by quixote on 2009-07-31
I haven't noticed any difference under regular (ie not-inside-Windows) Ubuntu 9.04.  If it is a new default for the Windows version, it seems kind of stupid.  Obviously, somebody running ubuntu inside Windows wants their Windows stuff to be accessible.  Probably just some glitch.

---

### Post by Guyver1 on 2009-07-31
yeah tbh the whole 'installed inside windows is a bit misleading'

Yes you do install Ubuntu off the CD while using windows and it installs like another windows app, but thats where it ends.

When it comes to actually using Ubuntu, I use it just like a normal install of Ubuntu, turn PC on, wait for multi boot screen (windows boot menu not Grub)
select Ubuntu
Ubuntu loads as normal just like you expect and its usage is no different to a 'normal' standalone Ubuntu installation.

So yeah i dont understand why the NTFS partitions arent auto loaded in fstab as normal. its weird.

---

