---
title: ".deb files ?"
date: 2006-04-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by stansaraczewski on 2006-04-22
I'm slowly advancing out of the newbie stage, but still face challenges - such as installing Oracle that I dowloaded in a .deb package.

Synaptic cannot find it - apt-get cannot find it - and it is in my home directory.

I have made an effort to search this forum but there are no questions previously posted that help.

How can I accomplish installing my .deb package ?

Thank You !

](*,)

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-04-22
Go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal and copy and paste this command: ```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
``` For more info, go here:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installingsoftware)

---

### Post by Bloch on 2006-04-22
sudo dpkg -i yourpackage.deb

It might be better to get it from the repositories - it will be automatically updated then. make sure the universe is enabled in synaptic. (Settingd --> repositories)

---

### Post by stansaraczewski on 2006-04-22
Using sudo got me further - but now it appears that I am missing pieces and parts:

dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of oracle-xe:
 oracle-xe depends on libaio (>= 0.3.96) | libaio1 (>= 0.3.96); however:
  Package libaio is not installed.
  Package libaio1 is not installed.
dpkg: error processing oracle-xe (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 oracle-xe

I appreciate your assistance !

---

### Post by Ramses de Norre on 2006-04-22
sudo apt-get install libaio1
Then run dpkg again.

---

### Post by stansaraczewski on 2006-04-22
Thank You !

The friendly people on this forum have made my Ubuntu adventure a real treat... I'm hoping someday to be able to contribute.

---

