---
title: ".htacces in Apache2 doesnt seem to work."
date: 2006-02-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by krusbjorn on 2006-02-03
Hey all,

I'm trying to password protect a folder in my /var/www directory, but i cant manage to get it working.

In the directory, i've placed the file .htaccess which contains:
> 
AuthType Basic
AuthName "Password Required"
AuthUserFile /etc/apache2/passwords/passwords
Require User rbowen

The file "/etc/apache2/passwords/passwords" contains a line for user rbowen:

> rbowen:[encrypted password]

And here is my /etc/apache2/apache2.conf file]:
[http://pastebin.com/537859](http://pastebin.com/537859)

Thanks in advance!

Edit: Oh, sorry if i put this in the wrong section. Mods feel free to move it.

Edit again: Finally got this working. I've read about 20 tutorials, and none of them mentioned that i had to put 
> 
<Directory "[path to password protected directory]">
	AllowOverride AuthConfig
</Directory>

in my apache2.conf file.

---

### Post by TomH on 2006-02-06
I have exactly what you have above and mine doesnt work :( Dont ask for username / pass any ideas?

---

### Post by krusbjorn on 2006-02-06
The directory section in my last edit looks like this actually

> <Directory "/var/www/*">
	AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
</Directory>

Dunno if it makes a difference though.

---

### Post by RaptorRaider on 2006-02-06
If I remember correctly, you're supposed to quote the file path (AuthUserFile).

---

### Post by krusbjorn on 2006-02-06
[QUOTE=RaptorRaider]If I remember correctly, you're supposed to quote the file path (AuthUserFile).[/QUOTE]

Works perfectly without quotes here. Perhaps both work?

---

### Post by RaptorRaider on 2006-02-06
Ah, I'm sorry, I see you've already fixed it.

'bout a year ago, I tried installing Apache in Windows, and couldn't get .htaccess files to work without quoting the file path.

---

### Post by TomH on 2006-02-06
Still no joy im still getting a 403 Forbidden :( 

```
<Directory "/usr/lib/cgi-bin/*">
AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
</Directory>
```

That is a the end of my apache2.conf

```

 AuthType Basic
AuthName "Password Required"
AuthUserFile /etc/apache2/passwords/passwords
Require User tom

```

Thats my .htaccess within my directory 

And the password file is generated and correct... Doesnt even ask for a user / pass ?

---

### Post by krusbjorn on 2006-02-06
edited.

---

### Post by TomH on 2006-02-06
have checked that and still the same..

What it does now is pops up the box aksing for user / pass i type them in but it doesnt accept them :-k 

Any ideas :S

---

### Post by krusbjorn on 2006-02-06
Now at least things work _almost_ as they should :)

Did you use the htpasswd command to generate the passwords in the /etc/apache2/passwords/passwords file? 

Do your username contain any international characters? I noticed I couldnt log in if the username had an å, ä or ö in it.

---

### Post by TomH on 2006-02-06
yes created it that way and just checked it to make sure :)

```

AuthType Basic
AuthName "Password Required For Proxy"
AuthUserFile /etc/apache2/passwords/passwords
Require User tom

```

and in apache2.conf

```

<Directory "/usr/lib/cgi-bin/*">
AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
</Directory>

```


Im confused :(

---

### Post by krusbjorn on 2006-02-06
You sure you got all the capital letters right? And that the file /etc/apache2/passwords/passwords really is called "passwords", and not ".htpasswd" which is default?

---

### Post by TomH on 2006-02-06
Yes looking at the logs it knows when i put the correct user pass combo in, as when i put something random in it shows an error, im not sure what the errors means when i put the correct details in?

  [Tue Feb 07 03:39:25 2006] [error] [client 192.168.254.4] user Bob not found: /cgi-bin/proxy/nph-proxy.cgi
  [Tue Feb 07 03:39:32 2006] [error] [client 192.168.254.4] access to /cgi-bin/proxy/nph-proxy.cgi failed, reason: unknown require directive:"User "Thomas""
  [Tue Feb 07 03:39:32 2006] [error] [client 192.168.254.4] access to /cgi-bin/proxy/nph-proxy.cgi failed, reason: user Thomas not allowed access

  [Tue Feb 07 03:39:32 2006] [error] [client 192.168.254.4] access to /cgi-bin/proxy/nph-proxy.cgi failed, reason: user Thomas not allowed access
  [Tue Feb 07 03:41:19 2006] [error] [client 192.168.254.4] user Thomas: authentication failure for "/cgi-bin/proxy/nph-proxy.cgi": Password Mismatch
  [Tue Feb 07 03:41:23 2006] [error] [client 192.168.254.4] user Thomas: authentication failure for "/cgi-bin/proxy/nph-proxy.cgi": Password Mismatch

See when i put the wrong password in it states Password MisMatch :S ?

Tom

---

### Post by TomH on 2006-02-07
Finally got it working with:

```
AuthUserFile /etc/apache2/passwords/.htpasswd
AuthType Basic
AuthName "TomLinux Proxy Server"
require valid-user

```

and 

```
<Directory /usr/lib/cgi-bin/proxy>
AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
</Directory>
```

Not sure why it sudently decided to work, changed the password file from password to .htpasswd dont know if that has affected it! 

Thanks for all your help anyways :mrgreen:

---

