---
title: "14.04 System start loop??"
date: 2015-07-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-11
HI All 
 
I have a 14.04 system that seemed to have lost a video driver, (ASUS GTX 970 v card)  now it won't allow me in. when I put in the pass word it will try to start and 2 seconds loop back to the log in screen if I put in the wrong password it does let me know. (my log in screen does come up either way) 
I tried the advanced option menue and it seems to not improve or fix anything 

I haven't found a good trouble shooting guide and I'm by no means a Linux wizard so I need a comprehensive command by comand help guide to recover this its my primary system and I really need and want it back up HELP!!! I need to get in AND fix the Vcard driver...(I think anyway)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-11
Fozz; Hello;

Quite possible that an update to the system, in the process the proprietary (non-ubuntu) driver got broke.
To investigate this hypothesis let's look at the hardware on the system for graphics, and what driver (if any) is loaded:
Console log in: At the login screen key combo ctl+alt+F1. At this interface, input your username and then your password ( there is no response to the screen here, enter password blindly and hit the enter key) .
```

lspci -vnn | grep VGA -A 12
sudo lshw -C display

``` to tell this tale. Then we see what is to be done.

[INDENT][INDENT]ain't nothing but a thing
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-11
Ok so I could not get it to acept my login and tried and it keeps cycling me back to the pompt  so I tried gong to root through the recovery menu and when running the (lspci -vnn | grep VGA -A 12) I get " grep:12: No such file or directory" 
For sudo lshw -C display) I get " *-display UNCLAMIED  then goes on to discribe 

Discription: VGA compatable controler 
product: Nvidia Corp
Vendor: Nvidia
Physical  id :0
bus info : pci @0000:02:00.0 
version: a1
width: 64 bits
clock: 33 Mhz 
capabilities: pm msi pci express vga_controller cap_list
configuration: latency=0
resources: memory:ee000000-eeffffff memory: d0000000-dfffffff Memory: eooooooo-e1ffffff io porteooo(size=128) memory : doooooo-ef07ffff

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-11
Fozz; Humm ..

Do not know what to make of your failure with the ' lspci' command.
It is valid:
```

sysop@1404mini:~$ lspci -vnn | grep VGA -A 12
06:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] RV515 [Radeon X1300/X1550] [1002:7146] (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
        Subsystem: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Device [1002:2342]
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 16
        Memory at e0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
        Memory at fd4f0000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
        I/O ports at 4c00 [size=256]
        [virtual] Expansion ROM at fd400000 [disabled] [size=128K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: radeon

06:00.1 Display controller [0380]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] RV515 [Radeon X1300/X1550 Series] (Secondary) [1002:7166]
        Subsystem: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Device [1002:2343]
        Flags: fast devsel
sysop@1404mini:~$ 

```

Let's try a different method to obtain a Command Line Interface.
Reboot to the grub boot menu. With a nornal kernel selected press the 'e' key for edit mode -> boot parameters screen;
Arrow down to the line starting with linux, and arrow across to the terms "quiet splash" replace these terms with the term "text" - without the quotes.
Key combo ctl+x to continue the boot process to TTY1 .

Can you login to this terminal with your username followed by your password ?

[INDENT][INDENT]got to have a means to talk to the system
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-12
it keeps kicking back "incorrect login"   :(

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-12
Fozz; Yuk !

> 
it keeps kicking back "incorrect login"

One thing for sure, we have to have access to the system.
How about changing the password ? To something you can be absolutely sure about .
This tutorial:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword)

Once the password is reset, access TTY1 through the grub boot menu.

[INDENT][INDENT]as we carry on
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]fight the good fight
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-12
OK the good news is the Ls got me the correct used name (its been a year I forgot how I set it up originally) 
back to the orginal problem (thank you by the way) 
lspci -vnn | grep VGA -A 12 Yeilds 
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300} : NVIDIA corproation Device [10de:13c2] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller]) 
    subsystem: ASUSTek Computer Inc. Device[1043:8508]
    Flags: fast devesel, IRQ 17
    Memory at ee000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
    Memory at d0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
    Memory at e0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=32M]
    I/O ports at e000 [size 128]
    Expansion ROM at ef000000 [disabled] [size=512K]
    Capabilites: <access denied>  

02:00.1 Audio device [0403]  NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:0fbb] 9rev a1)
    Subsystem: ASUS TeK Computer Inc. Device [1043:8508]
    Flags bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 18

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-12
Fozz; Humm ...

That 'lspci' output, still not as I expected .. I am having a bit of difficulty interpreting that result.
Maybe as :
```

lspci -vnn | grep -i VGA

```
Please copy and paste and use code tags:
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)
to maintain the formatting and promote readability.

As I try and identify what driver should be installed for the graphics chip set/

[INDENT][INDENT]the module (driver)
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]between the kernel and the monitor
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-12
You do realize I'm hand typing this in on a seprate system right?

lspci -vnn | grep -i VGA yields

```
 02:00.0 VGA compatable controler [0300] : NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:13c2] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
```

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-12
```
02:00.0 VGA compatable controler [0300] : NVIDIA Corporation Device [10de:13c2] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])   
```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-14
Fozz; Hey;

You are not at fault here, I am . In that I fail to comprehend from the output how to match up the graphics driver to your hardware.
I am sorta stuck presently. Release 14.04 does not have the drivers available in the software repository for the latest hardware. We can get these drivers from a trusted PPA, IF I only can determine the driver version required .

[INDENT][INDENT]but I am stuck
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-18
Anything is better than nothing!!! really need to get this back up!!!

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-19
Anyone?????

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-19
Fozz; Welp;

Don't recon anyone else has experience with that chip set.

Let's see what 'we' can do to move forward.
1st is to insure that "you" have authority to access "your" /home .
When you :
```

ls -al /home

```
do you own and group to the directory of your username; ie "
> 
sysop@1404mini:~$ ls -al /home
total 28
drwxr-xr-x  4 root  root   4096 May 19  2013 .
drwxr-xr-x 25 root  root   4096 Jul 16 16:35 ..
drwx------  2 root  root  16384 May 19  2013 lost+found
drwxr-xr-x 29 sysop sysop  4096 Jul 19 16:35 sysop

where 'sysop' is my username.
Then same same for
```

ls -al /home/<user_name>

```

Now for a shot in the dark:
what returns:
```

sudo ubuntu-drivers list

```

And compare:
```

sudo lshw -C display

```
to what is listed in the 'configuration' line.

And maybe we can finger out sumthin
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]maybe yes
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-25
Ls -al /home/
[code] 
TOTL 12
drwxr-xr-x   3 root root 4096 May 26   2014  .
drwxr-xr-x 24 root root 4096 July   6  19:00  ..
drwxr-xr-x 33 fozz fozz 4096 July  25  14:40 fozz
fozz@Homebuilti73500:~$[code/]

Then: sudo ubuntu-drivers list 
[code] nvidia-349
nvidia-346
nvidia-352[code/]

then finally: sudo lshw -C display

[code] 8-display UNCLAIMED
description: VGA compatible controller
product: NVIDIA Coropration
vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
physical id:   0
bus info: pci@0000 : 02 : 00 . 0
version: a1
width:  64 bits
clock:  33MHz
capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller cap_list
configuration: latency=0
resources: memory:ee000000-eeffffff memory: d00000000-dfffffff memory: e0000000-e1ffffff  ioport:e000(size128) memory:ef000000-ef07ffff[code/]

I think that's all copied correctly
when I did the Ls -al /home/fozz the list was to big to type

again any help to get this out of the loop is welcome

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-25
Fozz; Hey;

As you can see there is no graphics driver (UNCLAIMED) loaded.

Let us "assume" that the result from " ls -al /home/fozz: is that 'fozz fozz' are the owner and grouped to in all the files and proceed to install the Nvidia graphics driver.
```

sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt full-upgrade
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall

```

And let the system choose the driver it thinks best ( 346, 349 OR 352 ) .

Will be of interest to see which driver the system chooses.

[INDENT][INDENT]ain't no big deal
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-26
SCORE!!!!!! it picked 352.02 for a driver!! THANK YOU!!

---

### Post by Fozz on 2015-07-26
Obviously I don't know much about Linux can anyone point me to a good tutorial for Linux?  Please, Thank you

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-26
Fozz; Outstanding !

> **Fozz said:**
> SCORE!!!!!! it picked 352.02 for a driver!! THANK YOU!!

As this little crisis is terminated:
Please mark this thread solved;
aides others seeking the solution,
helps keep the forum clean and
precludes others miss-directing efforts to aid.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads)

Now ain't 'buntu
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]wonderful
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-07-26
Fozz;; He he;

No step for a stepper

> **Fozz said:**
> Obviously I don't know much about Linux can anyone point me to a good tutorial for Linux?  Please, Thank you

Pleased to be of some small help, and to promote this our operating system by choice.
As to tutorials, you may find these of interest:
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Trusty](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Trusty)
be aware the tutorial specific for vivid (15.04) is still under development.

[http://files.ubuntu-manual.org/manua...tu%2012.10.pdf](http://files.ubuntu-manual.org/manua...tu%2012.10.pdf)
[http://ubuntu-manual.org/downloads](http://ubuntu-manual.org/downloads)
[http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/debian-reference/](http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/debian-reference/)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ExternalGuides](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ExternalGuides)

Should keep you busy for a while, then you are prepared to get specific.

Open source where there are
No Secrets !

---

