---
title: "[8.10] - uninstalling services I don't need"
date: 2009-02-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by skunkbad on 2009-02-17
I've just installed 8.10, and I'm wondering if I can make it run faster by uninstalling service that I don't need. I noticed that when the system did its initial upgrade after installation, that bind was being updated. Do I really need this? I just browse the internet on this machine. I need the wireless NIC to work, flash, javascript, and the ability to view PDFs and movies. Other than that, I don't need the other stuff like Open Office, Pidgen, etc.etc.etc.

Would the sytem run faster if this stuff wasn't there, or am I just being hopeful?

Is there a list of not so necessary stuff that I can get rid of? Perhaps a tutorial?

Thanks,
Brian

---

### Post by ChrisHannam on 2009-02-17
As long as those programs are not running you wont save any boot up time. As for tutorials I have yet to try any but a bit of googling should see you ok.

---

### Post by UbuntuNerd on 2009-02-17
anytime I do a fresh install of Ubuntu I get rid of all kind of things, I don't know if it makes things faster but at least is less clutter. you can go to add/remove programs and look for things you are not planing on using. I usually remove all the "themes and icons" I don't like also some of the OpenOffice programs and I only keep the Openoffice word. some programs may not let you remove from add/remove and you have to do it from synaptic Package manager, also be careful not to remove your desktop as some apps are closely integrated with it.

---

### Post by skunkbad on 2009-02-17
Well, if it won't make things faster, then I don't think there is any point in doing it. Thanks for your responses.

---

### Post by Vico Vicario on 2009-02-18
Synaptic is not very helpful when it comes to deleting not required packages. Use aptitude: find ubuntu-desktop (using / command), press enter and examine required and recommended packages. You can actually purge (using _ command) all recommended packages that you dont need.

Also check System/Preferences/Sessions and disable things you dont need like tracker,strigi, assistive tech, etc.


V.

---

