---
title: "Hoary, nvidia and 2 GFX cards with 3 screens"
date: 2005-04-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by UrbanSlayer on 2005-04-15
In my desktop system, I currently have an AGP Geforce 6800GT and a PCI 5200FX.

In XP, I am able to use both cards, the 6800 with 2 LCDs on, and the 5200 with 1 LCD and 1 TV.  The LCDs are identical.

In Hoary, I have gotten the 6800GT with the 2 LCDs working fine with TwinView.  How do I make the other LCD (initially) work with TwinView so its all one screen?  The TV part can wait.

These are the lspci results for the 5200FX - 

```
0000:02:09.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA])
``` 

I am not sure if that BusID would then be PCI:2:09:0 or PCI:0:2:09.  When I use the later, and Xinerama for the 5200FX, X loads, but the screen doesnt initiliase.

Is it possible to use this 3rd screen with TwinView, or am I dreaming?

Thanks

---

### Post by c_dog on 2005-04-15
Twinview essentially adds 2 (and for now only 2) video framebuffer regions on the same memory bus together to act like one big X screen. This different from Xscreens generated by seperate video cards. They do not share a common memory bus.They have to communicate across the system bus to talk to each other. For the sake of cirppling video speed to a severe crawl video and not limit the flexiblity of the API; X framebuffers are not shared across the system bus. They are each treated as a seperate desktop. Which means basically in the end that you can't drag a window between two Xscreens. It also means that X doesn't take as much of a CPU processor hit for controlling more than a 2 Xscreens.

---

### Post by UrbanSlayer on 2005-04-16
Im now trying to get it to work with Xinerama, and while I can get the 2 screens on the 6800GT to work, I am having no luck in getting the screen on the 5200FX to load.

This is my xorg.conf - [http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/xorg.conf](http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/xorg.conf)

I have tried various placements etc of the screen in the ServerLayout section, but it just will not initialise.

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by UrbanSlayer on 2005-04-17
Ive been trying new tweaks etc all weekend now, and this is my current xorg.conf file - [http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/xorg.conf](http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/xorg.conf)

And this is the log file - [http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/Xorg.0.log](http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/Xorg.0.log)

The thing I dont get, is that in the beginning of the log file, it detects my 5200FX as PCI Bus ID 2:9:0, but then later on in the log it then reports there is no matching Device section for that Bus ID. Thing is, if I use that BusID instead of 0:2:9, X will not load at all.

The error output from that is again - There is no matching Device section for Bus ID 2:9:0.

Followed by this error - 

Fatal server error: 
Caught signal 11. Server aborting 

Is there something I am missing?

Ive tried using the nv driver for the 5200FX, but still with no joy.

---

### Post by c_dog on 2005-04-18
After just a quick glance there are few things that you have going that are going to cause problems. First off, if you're going to use twinview on the 6800 you don't want to be also setting it up for seperate Xscreens at the same time. You will only need to load the nvidia module once. If you're using xinerama you probably don't need to be using twinview; visa versa. Also LCD monitors are CRTs as far the Nvidia module knows. There are also few other possible problems involving missing modelines and syncs. It might be a good idea to just sit down with the Nvidia driver docs and actually read it all the way through once and not just hack examples it gives together. It actually makes a lot more sense if you read it through and then build an xorg.conf as you go; starting simple then adding the fancy stuff later..

---

### Post by UrbanSlayer on 2005-04-19
After looking at the nvidia docs again, I decided to see what the below command showed - 

lain@eclair:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/cards/0
Model: GeForce 6800 GT
IRQ: 16
Video BIOS: 05.40.02.15.01
Card Type: AGP
lain@eclair:~$ cat /proc/driver/nvidia/cards/1
Model: GeForce FX 5200
IRQ: 21
Video BIOS: ??.??.??.??.??
Card Type: PCI

It picks up the 6800GT BIOS ok, but not the 5200FX, is this significant?

This is my current xorg config - [http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/xorg.conf_new](http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/xorg.conf_new)

This is the logfile from when it fails - [http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/Xorg.0.logfail](http://eclair.kiddygrade.org/Files/Xorg.0.logfail)

I have also tried the Option "UseInt10Module" option, to soft boot a secondary gfx card, but again, no joy.

I havent changed errors, the only error I get is the No valid Device section for BusID (PCI:2:9:0), even though it is detected further up the log file.  So far, I just havent been able to work out what it is causing it.

---

