---
title: "7.10 Issues"
date: 2007-12-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ryansgibbs on 2007-12-23
Hello:

I recently upgraded to Gutsy and now my computer seems to crash randomly.  I had no issues with the previous version so I'm looking for any suggestions prior to reverting to 7.04.  The crash symptoms are as follows.  Display goes completely blank and into power save for monitor.  Everything on my computer itself locks up (CD Tray won't open) power button does nothing unless is hold it in for a hard shutdown.  Everything else hardware wise seems to stay on, no power loss.  Win XP remains stable and as I said before 7.04 was running without a hitch.  I'll write my system specs in case anyone know of some known issues with any of my hardware but really for now I'm looking for any general suggestions.  I'm a long time windows user, but a new Linux user so please let me know if I've missed anything incredibly obvious.

Hardware Specs: (nothing overclocked)
Intel Q6600 2.4GHz
Gigabyte GA-P35-DS3R rev1.0
2x1GB Patriot Extreme performance DDR2-800
Nvidia 8800GTS 640MB (running NVidia Drivers, but stock driver didn't seem to be working either)
320GB Seagate Barracuda HD (7200.10)
Pioneer DVR-212D

So, Any suggestions?

Thanks in Advance,
Ryan

---

### Post by Bliepo32 on 2007-12-23
When exactly does your pc crash? Does it happen when you open a certain program, or after a certain amount of time?

---

### Post by daengbo on 2007-12-23
It sounds like a kernel oops is locking up your machine. Are you using the 64 or 32 bit version?

---

### Post by ryansgibbs on 2007-12-24
There is no Pattern to when it crashes, sometimes before I even log in, other times when browsing the internet, and sometimes when running an application,

I believe that I'm running the 32-bit version. I chose the 32-bit version because I'm running 32-bit windows with no problems.  As I said before as well 7.04 was working great and It would have been 32-bit as well.  Where can I go to find out for sure whether I'm running 32 or 64?


Ryan

---

