---
title: "12.04 strange NIC behavior"
date: 2012-11-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by chuck_theobald on 2012-11-10
I accidentally upgraded to 12.04 from 10.04. Kind of regret it. Got Unity desktop when I prefer the traditional desktop, but can get used to that. The strangest thing is that the system keeps popping up a notification that the network cable has been disconnected:

Wired network
Disconnected

This is simply not true as I am actively using the network at the time. The notification occurs every minute or so.

WTH? :confused:

Wired network
Disconnected

---

### Post by chuck_theobald on 2012-11-10
Sorry, this should be in the Networking section.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-11-10
You may have two ethernet adpters. I know I have as well as a wireless adapter. You may have previously set up both of them to automatically connect. But only one can connect because the ethernet cable is only plugged into one ethernet port. But the OS has several tries at connecting to it.

Open the menu under the Network icon and see what wired connection is activated - one or two. Then go to Edit connections and make sure that the wired connection that is not connected is not set up to connect automatically.

Alternatively, go to System Settings and the Network Utility and use that to switch off the other wired network and make sure it is not set up to connect automatically.

The different look between 10.04 and 12.04 make take some getting used to but I find that everything is much easier to do in 12.04.

Now, tell me that the machine only has one ethernet adapter. :)

Regards.

---

### Post by chuck_theobald on 2012-11-10
Ah, quite obvious in retrospect, I should have found this myself. Though, to be fair, 10.04 did not bug me about this :wink:

Yes, I will get used to Unity, need to be able to work in many different environments. Though I will need to fix my machine following a disastrous installation of the proprietary NVidia driver. :-s Luckily, I have a spare 10.04 install that mostly works.

Thank you for the insight.

---

