---
title: "boot list"
date: 2011-01-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by smss on 2011-01-09
Hello.
 How to Change the boot list?
 I have 4 OS.
 "in order to install"
 (Windows XP. Windows Seven. Windows Server 2008. Ubuntu)
 But in the boot list I see only:
 (ubuntu. Windows Seven).
 I need all of these operating systems.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-01-09
What boot list are you talking about?

If you use grub2 from the ubuntu install to boot the system, you should be able to update the grub menu that appears from within ubuntu by running ```
sudo update-grub
``` in terminal.

If you are using some other system than grub2 to boot the computer, I can not help at all.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-01-09
So from a booted live Ubuntu cd or thumbdrive lets see the bootscript read out; in my signature just click on it and follow the instructions. Come back to the thread and click on the **(#)** in the reply panel this makes code tags paste all the text in between.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-01-09
run the boot script, but windows moves the boot files from later installs to the first install with the boot flag. Grub cannot boot the later installs since they do not have all the files required.

You may be able to move boot flag and then run windows repairs. Boot script may tell us more.

To get each MS to have its own boot loader make a second primary partition and set its boot flag on, then install the 2nd product in it. Multibooters, Pictures here worth 1000+ words
[http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html](http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html)
A user who installed two windows & it worked to boot from grub directly
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1271600](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1271600)
Another user who disconnected and used a second drive 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1334346](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1334346)

---

### Post by mlamorey on 2011-01-09
Does it matter if the OS are on different HDD. I noticed that with two HDD and a split Win7 / Ubuntu partition that when updating GRUB it was not certain of which HDD to update it on. I had it update both. Obviously the Bios is only going to one but can this be an issue? 
Is it good practice to only have GRUB on one HDD in a system, or multi in case of an HDD crash?

Cheers,

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-01-09
> **mlamorey said:**
> Does it matter if the OS are on different HDD. I noticed that with two HDD and a split Win7 / Ubuntu partition that when updating GRUB it was not certain of which HDD to update it on. I had it update both. Obviously the Bios is only going to one but can this be an issue? 
Is it good practice to only have GRUB on one HDD in a system, or multi in case of an HDD crash?

Cheers,

Post the boot script as oldfred suggests we can only assume here without it, do you want us to assume?:)

---

### Post by mlamorey on 2011-01-10
No assuming please, thank you.

However, how do I get my boot code / log ?

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-01-10
> **mlamorey said:**
> No assuming please, thank you.

However, how do I get my boot code / log ?

Look at post three, click on the link in my signature, follow the instructions and post the text from the file generated by running the boot script. When you finally get tis done post it in code tags as described in post 3 and in my signature is another way of manually wrapping the text in code tags.

---

### Post by mlamorey on 2011-01-15
I downloaded the script and chmod +x boot_in....
The strange thing is after I do that the file is no longer recognized in the directory. What I mean is that if I start typing and hit 'esc' it does not fill in. Further if I type the whole file, or highlight/paste I get
--------------------------------------------------------------------
drwxr-xr-x 8 mlamorey mlamorey  4096 2011-01-09 21:12 jstock
-rw-r--r-- 1 mlamorey mlamorey 11698 2011-01-14 22:03 HD-Audio-Models.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 mlamorey mlamorey 70588 2011-01-15 10:02 boot_info_script055.sh
mlamorey@mlamorey-laptop:~/Downloads$ chmod +x boot_info_script055.sh  
mlamorey@mlamorey-laptop:~/Downloads$ boot_info_script055.sh
boot_info_script055.sh: command not found
mlamorey@mlamorey-laptop:~/Downloads$ ls -rtl
total 88
drwxr-xr-x 8 mlamorey mlamorey  4096 2011-01-09 21:12 jstock
-rw-r--r-- 1 mlamorey mlamorey 11698 2011-01-14 22:03 HD-Audio-Models.txt
-rwxr-xr-x 1 mlamorey mlamorey 70588 2011-01-15 10:02 boot_info_script055.sh
mlamorey@mlamorey-laptop:~/Downloads$ boot_info_script055.sh
boot_info_script055.sh: command not found
mlamorey@mlamorey-laptop:~/Downloads$ sudo boot_info_script055.sh 
[sudo] password for mlamorey: 
sudo: boot_info_script055.sh: command not found
mlamorey@mlamorey-laptop:~/Downloads$ 
-----------------------------------------------
Brain cramp I am sure but has me stumped for now.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-01-15
If you go back to the link the instructions were:

sudo bash ~/Desktop/boot_info_script*.sh 

Or if you have it in downloads:

sudo bash ~/Downloads/boot_info_script*.sh

or if you have changed with cd to Downloads:

sudo bash boot_info_script055.sh
You can start typing boo and hit tab and it will add all the unique characters it can.

---

### Post by mlamorey on 2011-01-16
Thanks much for the tip on how to run the boot script.
Worked perfectly. Answer my owns question on how the system works with dual HDD.

Cheers,

---

