---
title: "22.04, Wayland, on-screen keyboard going partially inactive on touch"
date: 2023-01-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by linwood2 on 2023-01-25
I'm baffled and would appreciate any advice.

I have 22.04 running on an Intel NUC (I5) that is embedded in a player piano, with a touch screen, no keyboard or mouse.  There is a piano page turner on USB that can send page up/down from a pedal (not sure if that interacts), so it looks a little like a real keyboard as well.  I think this causes me to need to swipe-up to open the on screen keyboard, which is actually a good thing IMO in this application. 

I have a QT application that runs all the time.  After a while, the on-screen keyboard stops working partially -- in a field with text, the backspace works, but no characters can be typed. 

If I close the QT application and open terminal the same occurs (except of course with nothing there I can't hit backspace).   In terminal I can see that the USB pedal device sends characters (part of its escape sequence is a visible character).  The keyboard, whether on letters, symbols, numbers, will not enter anything.

Touch otherwise is normal, I can close and open applications, just the keyboard won't enter data (only backspace). 

If I log out and back in (no reboot) all is well again until it acts up again, which might be in minutes, might be in days (this application just sits and runs forever normally). 

This is a new build of the application and new computer, upgrading from Qt5 and 20.04 to an Intel NUC, so a lot of things changed, but it is a very vanilla installation.  The problem never occurred in older versions (I've been doing this app for about 10 years on ubuntu, updating every 2-3 years).  I do not think I did anything but turn the on-screen keyboard on from the switch.

If I run the same setup in XRDP to a remote display it never seems to fail (this is a bit misleading as I only do that for, relatively, brief periods trying to debug, so I do not know if it is luck of the draw or real). 

Note that once in this mode, disconnecting the page turning pedal has no effect, it still fails.  I do not know if, leaving it disconnected, it will get in that mode, I need to test (but it's inconvenient to use the piano in that mode, and Murphy so far has failed to yield a definitive result in brief tests). 

The most weird aspect of this is the backspace key working and not others. 

I would appreciate any advice for debugging this, or fixing. 

Linwood

---

### Post by linwood2 on 2023-01-25
Update: I stand corrected, the onscreen keyboard does not automatically appear even with that page-turning pedal disconnected.  I suspect there may be a setting to invoke that, but I like it this default way.  I have the page turner disabled and hopefully the problem will return proving it is not involved (otherwise I need to wait days or a week or so to feel confident I proved a negative, since it is very random when it starts happening, though once started a logout is necessary to reset).

---

### Post by linwood2 on 2023-01-25
Update: it fails with the keyboard-emulating page turner not attached at all (I removed, rebooted, and left it sitting an hour or so).   So that is not playing a role at all, the only thing remotely keyboard/mouse like is the touch screen, a standard Viewsonic USB connected touch device.

---

