---
title: "12.10 looking for a WM that doesn't suck"
date: 2013-01-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jbeiter on 2013-01-14
New to 12.10 and have been happily using gnome2 for the past decade. I don't really know what good options their are for this new release.

Can anyone run through the stable options that are out there? It looks like enlightenment is still kicking around but don't know if it works. I tried the newish gnome and the cinnimon stuff but they're not really gnome as I knew it.

I really hate unity but wonder if I should give it a shot for possible functionality benefits, despite how ugly it is (can't we customize this thing to at least look better??)

some vet tips would be appreciated.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2013-01-14
I really liked the cinnimon found it just like the old gnome but a bit better (search bar)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-01-14
Fuduntu, CentOS, Scientific, and Debian are still supporting the old Gnome 2, if that's your comfort zone.

Linux Mint has Cinnamon and Mate which may interest you as well.

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2013-01-14
gnome-classic!

---

### Post by black veils on 2013-01-14
xfce ```
xubuntu-desktop
``` can be configured in many ways

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-01-14
You can try different desktops on your current install.

Xubuntu

```
sudo apt-get install xfce
```

Lubuntu

```
sudo apt-get install lxde
```

And choose at boot (login).

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-01-14
You will be quite comfortable with Linux Mint Mate.

---

### Post by markbl on 2013-01-14
sudo apt-get install gnome-shell

then select GNOME at the login screen. Superb.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2013-01-14
> **markbl said:**
> sudo apt-get install gnome-shell

then select GNOME at the login screen. Superb.

Adding a few extensions makes shell better IMO.  I also install tint2 panel (in the repositories) to get traditional app/window switching.  The extensions are simple to install - go to the web site extensions.gnome.org, pick the ones you like and they will be installed.  One huge oversight in gnome-shell is the lack of a power down/suspend menu item.   One of the more popular extensions remedies it.  A couple others restore traditional applications menus.

---

### Post by markbl on 2013-01-14
> **kurt18947 said:**
> Adding a few extensions makes shell better IMO.  I also install tint2 panel (in the repositories) to get traditional app/window switching.
I respectfully disagree. I do not think there are any essential shell extensions.

Most of us have used a traditional taskbar desktop for many years so the change to Unity or Gnome shell is initially a little traumatic. 90% of new gnome shell users immediately race off to extensions.gnome.org and with an easy single click here and there they go about recreating their familar gnome 2 environment Yes, extensions are easy to install, perhaps too easy?

However, IMHO the native Gnome shell environment actually contains everything you need and is in fact easier to use and more productive than the older taskbar/classic interface. Give it time, and try to understand why Gnome have designed it the way they have.

Sorry, I am not attempting to turn this into yet another flame-fest debate about the new desktops.

---

### Post by t.rei on 2013-01-18
elementaryos.org -> gala - on the other hand, thats probably not "messaroundable" enough. *g*

---

### Post by VanillaMozilla on 2013-01-18
I've been through this, and am still going through it.  I'll tell you what I think in a nutshell

1. If you want a Macintosh, then Unity is the way to go.  It really is very nice for what it is, and they've fixed some of the original problems.  Gnome 3 shell is somewhat similar.  ***But you already told us you don't like this stuff.  Case closed.***

2. **The easiest alternative by far is Gnome Classic or Gnome Classic (without effects).**  It's a no-brainer.  It's not quite as nice as Gnome 2, but it works and it's good enough.  Just install gnome-session-fallback and you're done.  You don't have to change distros.  You need to press the <alt> key and right click to customize the panel (the <alt> key is new).  You might have to spend a few minutes rearranging some panel buttons and things, but that's about all you need to do.  There is a long thread here on how to spiff it up.  Personally, I wouldn't bother.  How long this will last is anyone's guess, but it gives you time to wait until the dust settles.  If you stick with the LTS version, you will have 5 years, I believe, although you don't get new versions of most apps (only security updates).

Kiss your screensaver good-bye for now.

3. You can get Gnome 2 in various other distros, but they won't keep Gnome 2 for much longer, and you have to start over.  Why bother?  Maybe an LTS version?

4. You can get Mate in some other distros, especially Mint.  I think you can put Mate on Ubuntu (?).  But will it last?  Don't know.  They say it's like Gnome 2, but it sure doesn't look like it to me, and you would be starting over.

5. I love Lubuntu.  It has the OpenBox window manager, which is fast, really light, and has some very useful but easy tricks of its own.  You can use just the bare OpenBox if you want (I think you get that if you install just the LXDE core??).  You can't go wrong with either.  You can still use the same Gnome or KDE apps you're used to, or the lighter Lubuntu equivalents.  Either way you can start from Ubuntu, without nuking your computer.  By the way, you can easily change the desktop image.  Plan on spending some hours rearranging things and exploring.  You may find more than one menu editor.  Look around until you find the right one.

This is my favorite for an older computer.  Really fast (even while memory swapping) and uses little memory.  You can run the xscreensaver with xscreensaver-extras on it.  :) No guarantee that it will work well, but it's a nice thing to try.  I had to give up on it with Gnome-Classic.

6. A lot of people are using XFCE desktop or XUbuntu, the Ubuntu version of this.  Linus recommended this before he went to Gnome 3.  It's similar to Lubuntu, but the tools are maybe a little more fully arranged and nicely configured right out of the box.  I suspect if you trim it down a little, it *might* be as light as Lubuntu--just a hunch.  It looks not quite as pretty as Lubuntu at first (as in 1980's desktops, but perhaps you can change that.  I don't see how to change the desktop background, but I suppose there's a way.  This also runs the xscreensaver.  Haven't tested it, though.

7. I almost forgot Ubuntu version 10.04 LTS.  You could go back to that and have Gnome 2 until 2015.  The programs would be old software, though, unless you take pains to install newer versions somehow.


*To be honest with you, I think you can quit worrying.  All this stuff is really nice.  You can get to almost any reasonable desktop without leaving Ubuntu.  If you start from Ubuntu, you will have some extra programs and menu entries, but it's not too hard to do what you want.  You can't go wrong.  Personally, I was upset at first, but now I'm happy with it.*

---

