---
title: "9.10: Can't add applets to Gnome's panel"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mibadt on 2009-11-01
Hi,
Yesterday I installed the 9.10 netbook remix on a new netbook without a problem.  However, I **can't add an applet** ( I need a keyboard layout applet) to Gnome's panel (on the top). Right clicking on the panel provides a few options, but **ADD is NOT among them** ( it doesn't appear at all, not that it's grayed out). Being a KDE person, I might be doing something wrong (although I don't think so).

Please advise!

Best Regards,

Michael Badt

---

### Post by mibadt on 2009-11-03
After searching, I've found it's a known bug - see
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-netbook-remix-default-settings/+bug/448109]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-netbook-remix-default-settings/+bug/448109")

Any idea when this is planned to be fixed?

Best Regards,

Michael Badt

---

### Post by undoIT on 2010-02-13
Same issue here. Did you ever find a way to add applets?

---

### Post by Kruken on 2010-03-17
Same issue for me as well ... Has anyone found a solution yet ?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-03-17
You need to make sure tat you are right-clicking on some empty space on the panel itself, not on any applet (Like the window list-applet on normal Gnome, or the window Picker-applet that uses most of the panel space on Netbook Remix.

The option to add things to panel only appears on the right-click menu for the panel, while right-clicking on any panel applet will of course open the right-click menu for *that applet* instead.

IF you can't find any empty panel space to click on then try moving some panel applet a bit to clear some space.

---

### Post by raelga on 2010-04-29
I just installed Netbook Remix 10.4 and I have the menubar locked:*** The Remove from panel***; ***Move*** and** *Blockpanel to panel***** are disabled and greyed. **

I want to add the CPU Freq. and the system monitor :S

In 9.10, it not happens.

---

### Post by micdhack on 2010-04-30
same problem here! 10.04 has the options greyed out

---

### Post by farhanb on 2010-04-30
hi, the reason you cannot add to panel is because you are still logged into the netbook edition desktop, you need to log into a gnome session. 

I solved this problem on Ubuntu 10.04 netbook remix as follows: 

1) logging into the netbook remix junk go to system-> synaptic package manager and install ubuntu-desktop and remove the netbook edition package and you can remove the windows-picker-applet as well if you want but this should not be necessary. 

2) now restart and on the log in screen at the bottom (atleast in 10.04) you should be able to select the session type--choose GNOME before entering your password and you should arrive at a normal sane looking desktop unlike the netbook remix. 

hope this works.
farhan

---

### Post by tomarcom on 2010-05-01
same problem here! 10.04 has the options greyed out.  i even added my user account to sudo, admin, and root groups thinking it was a rights issue.  sadly it did not help.

---

### Post by lessmemorelove on 2010-05-01
farhanb's trick works.

---

### Post by raelga on 2010-05-05
> **farhanb said:**
> hi, the reason you cannot add to panel is because you are still logged into the netbook edition desktop, you need to log into a gnome session. 

I solved this problem on Ubuntu 10.04 netbook remix as follows: 

1) logging into the netbook remix junk go to system-> synaptic package manager and install ubuntu-desktop and remove the netbook edition package and you can remove the windows-picker-applet as well if you want but this should not be necessary. 

2) now restart and on the log in screen at the bottom (atleast in 10.04) you should be able to select the session type--choose GNOME before entering your password and you should arrive at a normal sane looking desktop unlike the netbook remix. 

hope this works.
farhan

But doing this you "lost" the Netbook Edition interface, no? 

Edit: I mean without losing the Gnome Standard session doing the adaption to UNE as explained on:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Mobile/HowTo/TurnUMPCDesktopIntoNetbook#The manual way]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Mobile/HowTo/TurnUMPCDesktopIntoNetbook#The manual way")

---

### Post by nilarimogard on 2010-05-05
Here is an easier way to keep all the Ubuntu Netbook Edition settings but unlock the panel and all other locked settings [http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/how-to-add-remove-applets-from-gnome.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/how-to-add-remove-applets-from-gnome.html)

---

### Post by annonymouse on 2010-05-06
Hi guys

I have just installed 10.4 onto my dell mini 9  its so fast is amazing.

my only concern at the moment is my desktop, after installing I have what i assume is an applet:[LIST]
[*]Favorites
[*]files
[*]accessories
[*]Games
[*]Graphics
[*]Internet
[*]office
[*]Sound
[*]System
[/LIST]

I wanted to change this to just a Gnome desktop,

I tried following farhanb's post but cannot locate Ubuntu-desktop on my  synaptic package manager

reading further I tried: 
[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/how-to-add-remove-applets-from-gnome.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/how-to-add-remove-applets-from-gnome.html)

tried both solutions for 2d and 3d, i wasn't sure  if the GFX card in the dell mini 9 would support 3d (hopes i could get compiz at some point)

```
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une/autostart/maximus-autostart.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/ #this makes Maximus run at login
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une/autostart/netbook-launcher.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/ #this launches the UNE interface at login
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/default/20_une-gconf-default /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/mandatory/20_une-gconf-mandatory /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo update-gconf-defaults
```
and
```
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une/autostart/maximus-autostart.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/ #this makes Maximus run at login
sudo ln -s /etc/xdg/xdg-une-efl/autostart/netbook-launcher-efl.desktop /etc/xdg/autostart/ #this launches the UNE interface at login
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/default/20_une-gconf-default /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo ln -s /usr/share/gconf/une/mandatory/20_une-gconf-mandatory /usr/share/gconf/defaults/
sudo update-gconf-defaults
```

I got a few  "file already exists"   however when I reboot its no different except that applet screen now seems bigger.

Can any one help me with this, I used to use Ubuntu around 7.10 days and was really impressed however I don't know a lot about Linux and was hoping to get back into it with my netbook.

Thanks for any help

Mousey

---

### Post by haghdoost on 2010-07-11
> **nilarimogard said:**
> Here is an easier way to keep all the Ubuntu Netbook Edition settings but unlock the panel and all other locked settings [http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/how-to-add-remove-applets-from-gnome.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/how-to-add-remove-applets-from-gnome.html)

Thanks alot, How ever non of these methods (one proposed in the text and  one proposed in the comment section) works for me... I can add applets  to the Gnome session panel However when I switch again to UNE , I don't  see any changes.

---

### Post by simosx on 2010-07-11
For the keyboard indicator, you now (since Ubuntu 10.04) need to go to the Preferences/Keyboard/Layouts and add a second layout there.
Once the system sees that there are two keyboard layouts, you get the indicator on your screen.

---

