---
title: "System Tray Size Issues"
date: 2012-04-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by airtonix on 2012-04-16
For the last two week I've been using plasma-desktop desktop session.

Works great, except for the System Tray Widget which one might place in any Panel.

Each time i login i notice with much annoyance that the system tray widget is much wider than the combined width of its contents.

I could not find any way to manually resize this widget on the panel.

Amazingly, removing the widget and adding it again, causes it TO GROW EVEN BIGGER!

if i open the system tray settings, i see a HUGE number of items in the "Entries" section.

Attached is two screenshots of the situation.

Before adding
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=216135&stc=1&d=1334616013[/IMG]

After adding
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=216136&stc=1&d=1334616013[/IMG]

---

### Post by airtonix on 2012-04-16
I believe I may have solved this.

1. open ```
~/.kde/share/config/ksmserverrc
``` in your favourite text editor.

2. look for and obliterate any line containing the word 'agent' (you will more than likely see more than one occurance of this.

3. empty ```
~/.kde/share/config/plasma-desktop-appletsrc
```

4. log out then back in,

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-04-16
If you click on the "cashew" at the far right-hand end of the panel, you'll open the panel properties.  Click on the Height entry and make the panel bigger or smaller. You'll see the system tray adapt to the changes you make.

---

### Post by airtonix on 2012-04-19
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> If you click on the "cashew" at the far right-hand end of the panel, you'll open the panel properties.  Click on the Height entry and make the panel bigger or smaller. You'll see the system tray adapt to the changes you make.

Height is not the issue.
What is actually happening is that there are lots of autogenerated icons in the status bar that don't have icons and don't provide tooltips or menus. 

Which is why there is lots of blank horizontal space in the systemtray

---

### Post by TheFlanman91 on 2012-07-14
I was having this exact problem. Just fixed it. Try this:

Go into the panel editor (far right button on the panel) and right click on the System Tray widget. Click on System Tray Settings and then on the Entries tab. In there I had a load of items called things like ".../org/kde/statusnotifieritem/...". Each of their visibility was set to auto so I set it to Hidden and when I applied the settings the System Tray had shrunk back to normal size. Hope this helps!

-TheFlanman91

---

### Post by vertago1 on 2012-07-31
I was having this problem too, but I would like to be able to remove these entries / find out where they are coming from. Any clues as to how I might do this?

---

### Post by Jakin on 2012-07-31
Not 100% but i think those "blank" tray icons are caused from a crash in plasma, I was having them alot of those for awhile. Immediately after desktop crash, there might be 3 or 4 of them. I fixed them after looking at crash logs closer, and installing missing libraries.

---

### Post by lfcfan on 2012-08-27
Hello Jakin, 
Could you please let us know where you searched exactly in the logs, I don't find any message saying a libray is missing...

Hello Arkin,
I do not have anything in my ./kde/ directory, is this normal ? (I checked the option "display hidden files")

Thierry

---

### Post by GeorgeWhite5 on 2012-08-27
> **lfcfan said:**
> Hello Jakin, 
Could you please let us know where you searched exactly in the logs, I don't find any message saying a libray is missing...

Hello Arkin,
I do not have anything in my ./kde/ directory, is this normal ? (I checked the option "display hidden files")

Thierry

KDE stores it's configuration in the ~/.kde directory, not the ~/kde directory.

---

### Post by Nathanael Culver on 2013-05-18
Recently started having the same problem -- the System Tray width occupied most of the panel, squeezing out everything else. Deleting and re-adding the widget simply increased the width. Unlike TheFlanman91, I didn't have any extraneous notifier entries in the Entries tab.

Going to the system tray settings and unchecking "Miscellaneous" under Item Categories fixed it for me.

---

