---
title: "9.04 keyboard shortcuts weirdness galore"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gcbzzzz on 2009-04-28
(happens with both a clean 9.04 install as well as an upgrade from 8.10)

+++
#1 shortcuts for "move window to workspace X" simply does nothing.
workaround: lamely move them with the mouse :(

+++
#2 the shortcut for open terminal ignores the preferred application and opens gnome-terminal.

I've set my preferred terminal as Custom "xterm -ls" and when i press my shortcut for "open terminal" it opens the gnome-terminal.

Then I've set the preferred terminal to xterm from the drop down (maybe it was checking if the string as an executable)... but same thing happens.

workaround: ln -sf /usr/bin/xterm /usr/bin/gnome-terminal
(yep, that's how much i like my xterms)
...actually, I've made it a script to run xterm -ls $@.

+++
Upgrading from 8.10 only:
#3 the setting to make the flag/windows key act as Super, was reseted after upgrading to 9.04
workaround: go to keyboard settings and set it again.

+++
clean install of 9.04 only:
#4 there's no package compizconfig-settings-manager to configure my compiz keyboard shortcuts. I can't live without it :(

In the upgrade from 8.10 the program is still there.

Workaround: go to machine i upgraded from 8.10, and copy gconf files. Luckily i use the same settings for both machines.

---

### Post by raghuramos1987 on 2009-05-01
kinda the same problem here... upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04... all keyboard shortcuts gone... Alt+F1, Alt+F2 do nothing. Any bugfixes?

---

### Post by gcbzzzz on 2009-05-04
> **gcbzzzz said:**
> 
+++
clean install of 9.04 only:
#4 there's no package compizconfig-settings-manager to configure my compiz keyboard shortcuts. I can't live without it :(

In the upgrade from 8.10 the program is still there.

Workaround: go to machine i upgraded from 8.10, and copy gconf files. Luckily i use the same settings for both machines.


This is the main issue.&#12288;After a while it fixed itself... maybe i haven't apt-updated when i first checked... then the auto update fixed it. Dunno, point is, after a while I was able to install that package in 9.04 and then all the other issues were fixed by entering the compiz settings manager and fixing them manually.

---

