---
title: "10.04 panels disappearing - please try this"
date: 2010-07-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by spamhog on 2010-07-18
This is not a fix but some tests that might help find a solution.
For a temporary workaround see e.g. here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1482575](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1482575)


[COLOR="Red"][B]If you already have the disappearing-panels problem,
please see if you can reproduce this behavior:[/B][/COLOR]

- A virgin, just-generated Linux user account, never logged into Gnome, will display panels ONCE and only once.

- I found 3 separate factors, each of which alone can make a virgin account incapable of displaying panels:
[LIST=1]
[*]logging in and logging out, which puts Gnome config files in the virgin user's home directory
[*]copying a just generated virgin, never logged-in user's home directory, deleting the original, and restoring it from the copy
[*]renaming a just generated virgin, never logged-in user's home directory, and than renaming it back to the original name
[/LIST]

[COLOR="Navy"]**Please try this and tell us what happens.**[/COLOR]

**[COLOR="Navy"]TEST 1[/COLOR]**
```
sudo adduser test1
# select a password

```
[LIST]
[*]Go to graphic login screen (easiest is to reboot).
[*]Log into Gnome as user "test1".
[*]Log out.
[*]Log in again
[/LIST]
You should see the panels the first time you login as test1, but not the second time.  This is the commonly reported behavior.

**[COLOR="Navy"]TEST 2[/COLOR]**
```
sudo adduser test2
# select a password but DO NOT LOG IN as user "test2" now
sudo cp -a /home/test2 /root/test2
sudo rm -rf /home/test2
sudo cp -a /home/root/test2 /home/test2

```
[LIST]Go to graphic login screen (easiest is to reboot).
[*]Now log into Gnome as user "test2".
[/LIST]
This time you may not see the panels, even on the first login. I don't!

**[COLOR="Navy"]TEST 3[/COLOR]**
```
sudo adduser test3
# select a password but DO NOT LOG IN as user "test3" now
sudo mv /home/test3 /home/test3-renamed
sudo mv /home/test3-renamed /home/test3

```
[LIST]Go to graphic login screen (easiest is to reboot).
[*]Now log into Gnome as user "test3".
[/LIST]
Also this time you may not see the panels even on the first login. I don't!

If you see all this happen, then the bug might be related to meta-data recorded by the file system, or some other system-wide problem, not a necessarily a misconfiguration automatically generated the first time a given user is logged into Gnome.

I have reported this as a Gnome bug: [https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=624659](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=624659)
The disappearing panels from a previously logged-in user is a much reported problem.  But the related issue with copying / renaming of a totally virgin user's directory was not noticed yet.  If confirmed it might help find the bug, and needs confirmation.

Please help!
Thank you in advance.

Filippo / spamhog


*To clean up after tests do this:*
```
sudo deluser --remove-home test1
sudo deluser --remove-home test2
sudo deluser --remove-home test3
sudo rm -rf /root/test2
sudo rm -rf /home/test3-renamed
```

---

