---
title: "11.10 (unity) volume icon missing after removing (and re-installing) pulseaudio"
date: 2011-10-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by birauser on 2011-10-28
howdy fellas, 

as I was experiencing problems with skype, I've decided to try removing pulseaudio. the internal microphone, in fact, seemed to work properly in audacity when alsa was selected,whereas it kept popping and crackling when using skype. 

I removed pulseaudio via terminal, and I immediatly noticed that the volume icon on the top right corner of the screen (the tray) was missing. the Fn keys didn't work as well. 

After re-installing pulseaudio the fn keys went back to their normal behaviour, so that I could hear the "pops" when adjusting the volume and see the adjusting horizontal fader "hovering" in the top right corner of the screen. however, the volume icon was still missing. 

Honestly, I don't really want to reinstall. It's just a minor issue, and it does not affect usability in any manner whatsoever (since I can access the sound control panel in other ways). It's frustrating, anyway, and I'm really looking forward to solve the issue. I've searched throughout the forums, but I didn't find a solution.

thanks a lot.

post scriptum: does anyone of you have and idea about how to make skype (and only skype) work with alsa? thanks.

---

### Post by JPELLOIS on 2011-11-04
Hello,

I had the same problem when I removed pulseaudio from my ubuntu 11.10 ...

Try to see if these package are installed in synaptic (be care I have a 64bit version so you might change the amd64 to x86)


ubuntu-desktop:amd64 (1.245), 
libcanberra-pulse:amd64 (0.28-0ubuntu11), 
pulseaudio-module-bluetooth:amd64 (1.0-0ubuntu3), 
pulseaudio:amd64 (1.0-0ubuntu3), 
pulseaudio-module-x11:amd64 (1.0-0ubuntu3), 
pulseaudio-module-gconf:amd64 (1.0-0ubuntu3), 
indicator-sound:amd64 (0.7.9-0ubuntu1), 
pulseaudio-esound-compat:amd64 (1.0-0ubuntu3)


For skype, i did'nt find a solution.
I think we have to wait for a solution from canonical because the "alsa solution" is not available with 11.10 !

Best Regards

---

### Post by sdbillin on 2011-11-29
I removed pulse due to a problem with setting the volume - for some reason with pulse the master goes from mute, to very quiet then no change right until it jumps to an ear rupturing level - I could watch the volume changing in aslamixer.
Removing pulse sorted it out.

Anyway, to get the volume icon back - 
[INDENT]sudo apt-get install indicator-sound[/INDENT]
and kill the panel to get to take effect
[INDENT]killall unity-panel-service[/INDENT]

---

### Post by r9s on 2012-01-13
I have the same problem (I deleted pulseaudio but then I installed it)  I don't have sound control on the panel. 

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/zsSSi.png[/IMG]

Strangely, I have installed indicator-sound and still don't have that sound control. Nay, I don't even have any settings in "Sound Settings": 

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/vSAoH.png[/IMG]

What Can I do to fix it?

@edit:

I ran "Volume Control PulseAudio" from unity launcher and I got this:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/D5sZF.png[/IMG]

So I ran **start-pulseaudio-x11**:
> $ start-pulseaudio-x11 
Connection failed: Connection refused
pa_context_connect() failed: Connection refused

---

### Post by YumaJim on 2012-02-19
> **sdbillin said:**
> I removed pulse due to a problem with setting the volume - for some reason with pulse the master goes from mute, to very quiet then no change right until it jumps to an ear rupturing level - I could watch the volume changing in aslamixer.
Removing pulse sorted it out.

Anyway, to get the volume icon back - 
[INDENT]sudo apt-get install indicator-sound[/INDENT]
and kill the panel to get to take effect
[INDENT]killall unity-panel-service[/INDENT]

Thanks that restored the sound icon for me.
YumaJim

---

### Post by mayid on 2012-03-19
I have the very same problem than r9s. I messed things up trying to install an audio equalizer for pulseaudio. Yesterday it worked, indeed, but today (after rebooting, let's say) it doesn't. The sound icon is missing. And the whole sound configuration area is blank. Just like in the pictures above.

Note: for other users there's still sound. I tried deleting the content of .pulse folder and restarting pulseaudio but that won't do the job.

---

### Post by riopiedra on 2012-03-28
> **birauser said:**
> howdy fellas, 

as I was experiencing problems with skype, I've decided to try removing pulseaudio. the internal microphone, in fact, seemed to work properly in audacity when alsa was selected,whereas it kept popping and crackling when using skype. 

I removed pulseaudio via terminal, and I immediatly noticed that the volume icon on the top right corner of the screen (the tray) was missing. the Fn keys didn't work as well. 

After re-installing pulseaudio the fn keys went back to their normal behaviour, so that I could hear the "pops" when adjusting the volume and see the adjusting horizontal fader "hovering" in the top right corner of the screen. however, the volume icon was still missing. 

Honestly, I don't really want to reinstall. It's just a minor issue, and it does not affect usability in any manner whatsoever (since I can access the sound control panel in other ways). It's frustrating, anyway, and I'm really looking forward to solve the issue. I've searched throughout the forums, but I didn't find a solution.

thanks a lot.

post scriptum: does anyone of you have and idea about how to make skype (and only skype) work with alsa? thanks.

What I have made when I get the same problem?
I remove pulseadio: sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio
I remove skype from the software center (from where I installed it).
Restarted the system. Installed again indicator-sound: sudo apt-get install indicator-sound 
This install pulseaudio and all the necessary things.
Then install skype from the software center.
Made a restart.
The sound indicator appeared. Then start skype. No sound in skype. Go to the menu Options in the skype menu. Select sound settings, and put everything to the default device (in my case it is in the top line of the list). Test the sound - OK. Make a testing call - OK.

---

### Post by Toadmund on 2012-04-25
> **sdbillin said:**
> 

Anyway, to get the volume icon back - 
[INDENT]sudo apt-get install indicator-sound[/INDENT]
and kill the panel to get to take effect
[INDENT]killall unity-panel-service[/INDENT]

Jeez, purged and re-installed a few sound items from another post, still no sound, then lost my icon.
Fixed the sound problem by pushing the proper button on my stereo](*,)

Thanks for this sound icon fix.

---

### Post by tatsujin on 2012-09-24
For users with **indicator-sound** installed but  still no icon (but sound works), try also installing **indicator-sound-gtk2**. That fixed it for me (xfce 4.10 in (x)ubuntu 12.04).

---

### Post by stanrogo on 2013-05-04
This is also what worked for me! Thanks a bunch for this awesome tip man!

---

