---
title: "10.04 boot issues"
date: 2012-05-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bedwards2000 on 2012-05-16
I'm running ubuntu 10.04 and have been experiencing some issues for a bit and while trying to fix it I've now completely hosed it and have no idea how to get it back up and running.

The issue I'm facing now is it boots and a screen appears saying 

Ubuntu is running in low graphics mode

your screen, graphics card. and input device settings
could not be detected correctly.  You willl need to 
configure these yourself.

There appears to be a clickable "ok" button but nothing is working that is allowing me to press it to move on.  I also tried ctrl-alt-f1 to get a command line and I'm getting nothing.  Before this happened I was trying to upgrade 10.04 to 10.10 because I had been having so many issues that I thought that might help, but the upgrade failed and this is what I'm left with.  It is completely unusable at the moment and I have a ton of data I don't want to lose if at all possible.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-05-16
Boot a live cd and copy your data to a backup.

Next, you need to establish just what you did in the upgrade. Try and tell us what you did and if it completed OK.

It's possible you will need to use the live cd to chroot in to your system and run sysnaptic from there. Or possibly look at a new clean install.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-05-16
First I'd boot from a LiveCD and save your data to an external device.

Can't really help you as I am facing a black screen at login with 10.04 and trying to figure that out myself. 

If you stopped the upgrade midway, or it stopped itself, that is not a good sign. Things will generally be real broke after that (I had to eventually reinstall when this happened to me).

Sorry can't be of much help but good luck and I'll be watching this thread to see if I get any clues myself.

Incidentally, 10.10 is no longer supported (as of a month ago) so attempting to upgrade to it was probably never a good idea and always doomed. 10.04 LTS, being an LTS release, upgrades directly to the next LTS release, 12.04 LTS, in a couple of clicks. You need to set your update manager settings to inform you of 'Long Term Support Releases' only. ;)

For future reference:
LTS = five years support (as of 12.04 LTS, previously three years)
ALL OTHER RELEASES = 18 months. 

Easy to calculate: The first number is the year, the second the month, thus:

10.04 LTS = April, 2010 + three years support; 10.10 = October, 2010 + eighteen months support; 11.10 = October, 2011 + eighteen months support; 12.04 LTS = April, 2012 + five years support, etc ...

You would have been better to try fixing the 10.04 glitches as that has a year support left. If 10.04 had problems, an upgrade was unlikely to fix them (you are simply updating the mess you already have and possibly making a more confused, worse one) although a fresh install might.

---

### Post by bedwards2000 on 2012-05-16
I do have a 10.04 install cd that I'm assuming is what is referred to as a "live cd"  I'm just don't know how to use it as a tool to boot into and copy my data but I can look into that.

I just selected the upgrade button to 10.10 from update manager and it went from there.  It got to install new software part and then things went south and it aborted and failed.

I'm also not sure how to use the live cd to chroot my system and run synaptic

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-05-16
Boot from LiveCD, choose 'Try Ubuntu', you'll be at a desktop, follow your nose. Easy. That's it. Copy and save files to an external device.

---

### Post by bedwards2000 on 2012-05-16
I got it now.

I've booted into the LiveCD and found my data.  I have a 1TB external HD that I can copy everything to and then do a clean install of the new LTS I guess.   I just hate starting from scratch again just when you have things configured the way you want them and all your devices working properly.  Perhaps it is best though since I was having some problems anyway.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-05-16
You may as well install 12.04

---

### Post by bedwards2000 on 2012-05-16
Thanks for the replies.  I was able to copy my data to an external drive and I am now installing 12.04.  That's eventually where I wanted to end up anyway.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-05-16
> **bedwards2000 said:**
> Thanks for the replies.  I was able to copy my data to an external drive and I am now installing 12.04.  That's eventually where I wanted to end up anyway.
Good news
It's LTS so that's good

---

