---
title: "12.04 - Hot Corners set by Ubuntu Tweak not responding after logout/login\."
date: 2012-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by koohyar on 2012-05-01
I installed the latest Ubuntu Tweak and set up hot corners as I always did in previous distros. It worked all fine until I logged out and back in again only to find out nothing happens when I hover the pointer to the corners!
When I open up UT again, the drop-downs are still set to what I chose for the hot corners though!
Any help would be appreciated since hot corners make life much easier!\.

---

### Post by kwisatz on 2012-05-08
I have the same behaviour...

---

### Post by WaterAnemone on 2012-05-08
Same problem.

Edit: Using ccsm I did not encounter this problem. Just unset and reset the hot corners.

---

### Post by flowerdealer on 2012-05-10
I'm having this problem too, any ideas?

---

### Post by flowerdealer on 2012-05-15
This is really annoying. Has anyone found a fix yet? The funny thing is that it sometimes starts working again...

---

### Post by pickledegg on 2012-05-26
Same problem, at least I'm not going mad.

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2012-05-26
A bug report has been started for this on Launchpad.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/999939](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/999939)
I suggest you add your names to "bug affects me also".
The more people who do, the more likely the bug will be resolved.

---

### Post by pickledegg on 2012-05-26
> **cottfcfan said:**
> A bug report has been started for this on Launchpad.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/999939](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/999939)
I suggest you add your names to "bug affects me also".
The more people who do, the more likely the bug will be resolved.

Thanks, I've added my name to the list. I wonder, are there any alternatives that will give me these hot corners in the meantime? I find them really useful!

---

### Post by koohyar on 2012-06-17
As mentioned in one of the comments in launchpad, one rather dirty workaround is to run ```
compiz --replace 
``` in the terminal whenever the corners were not responding.

Another fix I haven't tried yet but received much appreciation in launchpad was (and I quote):
"
Quick fix, courtesy of Steven Kurylo (skurylo):

I used gconf-editor to change the following settings:

compiz-1 > general > screen0 > options > active_plugins

and I moved scale to the bottom of the list. Scale now works; however expo didn't. I then moved expo to be below unityshell, but above scale. It now works too.
"
\.

---

