---
title: "11.04 Unity works, Classic and Safe suddenly empty Desktop"
date: 2011-05-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by C64HCS on 2011-05-05
Hi,I recently installed Ubuntu 11.04 and all was working ok till today. I am not sure if it was because of a new update(manager)or maybe another reason, but i get a purple screen and a unresponsive window from a alarm clock app and thats it. This occures when I login onto Classic Ubuntu and Safe mode, the main Ubuntu (Unity) is working fine.

I did use Ubuntu Classic since install and was running fine. Now the screen is purple and cant even shut of the PC with the powerbutton. I can still get into terminal using CTRL+ALT+F1 and that about it... I had Dock installed,task bar... all is gone, even the background picture changed.

Please can somebody give me some advice or help.

And please tell if I start fixing this problem from a terminal in classic or do I log into the 100% working Unity

TNX:confused:

---

### Post by C64HCS on 2011-05-05
Additional info. PC is a S10-t3 and i upgraded 2 weeks ago succesfully from 10.10. I allready reinstalled compiz... In classic from terminal i enter ccsm, but get error GktWarning: Could not open display and Attribute-error 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'get_default_screen'

I do have background image, not purple now.

So Ubuntu (Unity), works
User defined, works (but no task-bar)
Doesn't work: Classic,No effects,Safe mode (Do have access to terminal)

When i enter 'gnome-panel &' in the terminal PC freezes

---

### Post by dannothetenor on 2011-06-20
I have this same issue. Was happily going along with Ubuntu Classic when it suddenly stopped loading the UI correctly this afternoon. I booted this morning and everything was just peachy.

I can still boot and have full control of Unity, though I really do prefer Ubuntu Classic and am hoping to get it working.

I started playing around with the theme a bit yesterday (only so far as changing the background and a couple colors so eclipse's roll over windows would be more legible), but I suspect that as the problem. On a boot yesterday, the ambiance icons didn't load. Another theme did in its place. This could all be nothing as, again, the theme loaded fine this morning.

So, a summary:
In Ubuntu 11.04, I can successfully boot and control the standard unity version. I can boot into Ubuntu Classic, but lose all my toolbars and such. In classic mode, I can right click on the background (the only thing that loads except for a message that the wireless network has been connected to) and create folders, documents, and modify the background/theme. I can not, however, create a launcher as the menu never loads. Alt + F2 and Alt + F1 do not work, but Alt + Ctrl + T does.

Running firefox gives a lot of messages like this in the terminal: "*** NSPlugin Viewer  *** WARNING: unhandled variable 18 (<unknown variable>) in NPN_GetValue()"

Running gnome-session produces gnome-session[2229]: WARNING: Failed to acquire org.gnome.SessionManager
gnome-session[2229]: Gtk-CRITICAL: IA__gtk_main_quit: assertion `main_loops != NULL' failed
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-dgF2T3
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-dgF2T3/ssh
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-dgF2T3
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-dgF2T3/ssh
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-dgF2T3
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-dgF2T3/ssh

** (gnome-settings-daemon:2242): WARNING **: Failed to acquire org.gnome.SettingsDaemon

** (gnome-settings-daemon:2242): WARNING **: Could not acquire name
compiz (core) - Error: Screen 0 on display ":0.0" already has a window manager; try using the --replace option to replace the current window manager.

** (process:2249): WARNING **: zeitgeist-datahub.vala:218: Unable to get name "org.gnome.zeitgeist.datahub" on the bus!

** (polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:2245): WARNING **: Unable to register authentication agent: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1.Error.Failed: An authentication agent already exists for the given subject
Cannot register authentication agent: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1.Error.Failed: An authentication agent already exists for the given subject
An instance of nm-applet is already running.

** (nm-applet:2248): WARNING **: <WARN>  constructor(): Couldn't initialize the D-Bus manager.

TI:14:33:16    TH:0xd390a0    FI:gpm-main.c    FN:main,250
 - Power Manager is already running in this session.
Traceback:
    gnome-power-manager() [0x41bb82]
    gnome-power-manager() [0x410831]
    /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xff) [0x7f20123dbeff]
    gnome-power-manager() [0x407f19]

** (gnome-screensaver:2684): WARNING **: screensaver already running in this session
Failure: Module initalization failed

I'm running a Samsung RV511-A01 with an Intel i3 processor.

---

### Post by dannothetenor on 2011-06-20
I found the gnome-panel packages in Not Installed (residual configuration) in the Synaptic Package Manager.

I must have not read some line as thoroughly as I should have. Reinstalling these packages has fixed my problem.

---

