---
title: "Screen resolution can't change"
date: 2005-08-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rleblanc on 2005-08-23
I have just installed Ubuntu for the first time. I was a Mandrake user before. 
I cannot get the screen resolution to be anything but 640x480, which sucks because many of the dialog boxes don't show the bottom action buttons. 

Here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file as it currently stands: 

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	#Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX - nForce GPU]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL M992"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX - nForce GPU]"
	Monitor		"DELL M992"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


The Screen Resolution menu item under the System menu item will only let me select 640x480, listing no other possible choices. Anyone have a hint for me to try? 

Thanks, 
Ron Le Blanc
[email]rleblanc@me.acadia.net[/email]

---

### Post by NoHope on 2005-08-23
Friend, try to delete the resolutions that you don't want. See:

 Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"

Make it 

 Modes "1024x768"

Supposing you want "1024x768".

You will force xorg to set this resolution.

Bye.

---

### Post by darkbluesea on 2005-08-23
I'm quite shure this isnt the main reason for it to work but have you tried forcing xorg to load only the 1024x768 resolution?
try deleting the excess in modes for: 
Modes "1024x768" 

never happened to me before, i would like to see the outcome of this thread. :) gl!

---

### Post by rleblanc on 2005-08-23
I have tried to change the modes to only "1024x768" but it still comes up with only "640x480" even though that resolution is no longer listed in the xorg.conf file! 

It acts like it isn't even reading the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. Is that possible? Is there a way to force it to use the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file? 

Thanks,

---

### Post by YoG%*@ on 2005-08-23
hi!

have a look at this thread: 
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?s=&threadid=341238](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?s=&threadid=341238)

had the same problem with my ibook g3. try adding the lines
HorizSync nn-nn
VertRefresh nn-nn 
to the monitor section of your xorg.conf file with the correct HorizSync and VertRefresh values for your type of monitor (you may need to look that up somewhere).

may be useful to backup your xorg.conf file before you change it! =)

hope that helps! 

mux

---

### Post by rleblanc on 2005-08-23
:) 
Hip! Hip! Hooray!! 

Thanks Mux, including the Horizontal and Vertical scan rates under the monitor section fixed all my screen resolution problems!

Great input, Thanks!!

[email]rleblanc@me.acadia.net[/email]
[http://userpages.acadia.net/rleblanc](http://userpages.acadia.net/rleblanc)

---

