---
title: "12.04 Fullscreen and alt-tab not working."
date: 2012-06-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Newuser901 on 2012-06-15
I installed unsetting and tried changing it in the settings keyboard shortcuts area, but it still won't alt tab(or anything else) out of any program/game running fullscreen mode. It doesn't seem to have the ability to override once it gives it over to them. Does anyone know how to correct this. Or what I need to do with unsetting or keyboard shortcuts. I don't think they are working in my case. I tried the things stated in the google searches I found but nothing works. The behavior seems like it's something more. It doesn't do anything not in the programs own ability once it goes to full screen.

---

### Post by Pistolpete2 on 2012-06-15
It might be that some games intercept the keypresses so that alt+tab just doesn't work in that game.  Have you tried switching your browser to full screen and then press alt+tab?  If that works it is probably the game that intercepts the key presses and I don't think you can do much about it.

I'm not an expert on the matter though :-).

---

### Post by Newuser901 on 2012-06-15
Yea, it works when I do it with the web browser.

---

### Post by javajames79 on 2012-08-25
The problem for me exists in GLX and SDL applications (so pretty much every game unfortunately) and it is currently the only thing i have wrong with my ubuntu gaming+work setup :/

So i've been trying to find a solution for a while now.

With xonotic there is a glx and sdl version; with the GLX version everything is caught - i can't ALT+F2 (to use xkill) which is worrying because my GPU messes itself up if i switch out of X, kill a fullscreen app and then switch back.

With xonotic SDL, i can use ALT+F2 to run a command - but i have to quickly, and if i tap the super key i can alt+tab or switch work spaces perfectly fine, but then after a few seconds the game snatches back, and further more i cannot then free up the keyboard/mouse after that (one of the problems may be that xonotic uses it's own mouse, so there isn't a point at which your mouse is free from the game anyway.)

It varies a ridiculous amount though;

Overgrowth will switch to windowed mode if i use SUPER or ALT+F2 and will happily give up the mouse, but i can't re-enter fullscreen mode.

Amnesia - i've only tried once :S - froze up completely and did nothing until i tapped super again and it brought me back.

I've done quite a bit of research with no luck. The problem has been in discussion for far too long. Some sites have suggested a patch for SDL, but the patches are always either outdated or broken links :(

If this gets solved there would be advance in ease of use in gaming. And while i can see that gaming hasn't had a great deal of attention, it is getting some now, and i can't afford to use windows - it's not fast enough or slick enough for me :/.

---

### Post by javajames79 on 2012-08-25
From this thread [http://forums.libsdl.org/viewtopic.php?t=7873&postdays=0&postorder=asc&start=15](http://forums.libsdl.org/viewtopic.php?t=7873&postdays=0&postorder=asc&start=15) i found this patch [http://www.swanson.ukfsn.org/#sdlcombo](http://www.swanson.ukfsn.org/#sdlcombo). You can grab the patch file from the second link, get the SDL-1.2.15 source tar from the libsdl website (here [http://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL-1.2.15.tar.gz](http://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL-1.2.15.tar.gz).)


I'm not entirely sure how to patch, because i've never used patch before, but i did this:

extract the sdl tar into SDL-1.2.15, and make a duplicate of that directory called SDL-1.2.15-supercombo

In the same directory as these two folders add the patch file (you may wish to back it up as my incomplete knowledge of patches led me to just modifying the patch file :S.) Open the patch file and CTRL+R, replace "SDL-1.2.15-supercombo" with "./SDL-1.2.15-supercombo". Then open up terminal, cd into your working directory where you have this is and run:

```
patch -p1 < sdl-1.2.15-supercombo-20120131.patch
```

This should complete for you, then just do:

```
cd SDL-1.2.15-supercombo
./configure
make
```

Now, i wouldn't make install because i just want to test the library :S, but unfortunetely i don't quite know how to do that bit. I can't find any shared object libraries so i don't really know what to do, i might back up my SDL libs and then make install, but i don't want to ruin anything :S.

---

### Post by javajames79 on 2012-08-26
Alan swansons SDL hack worked mostly (Seemed to work pretty well with xonotic), i emailed him as i was struggling to understand his comments on it, but after his explaination, i've produced this information:

To patch, all you have to do is this:

1) Download the SDL1.2 tarball source. (here [http://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL-1.2.15.tar.gz]("http://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL-1.2.15.tar.gz"))

2) Create a folder (anywhere) and extract this into that folder (make sure it's called "SDL-1.2.15")

3) Make a dupe of that folder by copying it, called "SDL-1.2.15-supercombo"

4) Download the patch script (here [http://home.roadrunner.com/~nwmovies/fullscreen-toggle-1211.patch](http://home.roadrunner.com/~nwmovies/fullscreen-toggle-1211.patch))

5) Copy that script into the folder which contains the two SDL folders.

6) Install "patch" if you haven't ("sudo apt-get install patch")

7) Open the .patch file in the working directory and CTRL+R, replace "SDL-1.2.15-supercombo" with "./SDL-1.2.15-supercombo".

8 ) Apply the patch: open up terminal and cd into the directory of all these things, (you can open the terminal, type "cd " (with the space), and drag that directory in for ease of use)

9) Simply type ```
patch -p1 < sdl-1.2.15-supercombo-20120131.patch
```

But with the name of your patch file instead of the name i gave you (don't rename the one you downloaded and it will be fine)

10) In the terminal:

```
cd SDL-1.2.15-supercombo
./autogen.sh
./configure
make

```

This will build the libraries

11) To install, first back up and then copy the new libraries:

You need to find out where the library is.. So you may have to do a bit of thinking; it's pretty easy though, 

64bit machine:

```
file /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libSDL.so
```

You should get something like this:

```
/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libSDL.so: symbolic link to `libSDL-1.2.so.0.11.3'
```

"libSDL-1.2.so.0.11.3" is the real SDL library file, you need to replace it, so in the next few lines just write whatever you got from that instead of libSDL(etc):

(ensure you are in the supercombo SDL dir)
```

sudo cp /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libSDL-1.2.so.0.11.3 /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libSDL-1.2.so.0.11.3-ubuntu
sudo cp build/.libs/libSDL-1.2.so.0.11.4 /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libSDL-1.2.so.0.11.3

```

On a 32bit machine you want to type i386-linux-gnu instead of x86_64-linux-gnu :)

12) Now you need to export some variables before you start the game, my favourite is just to type "export SDL_OVERRIDE_ALTTAB=1" before running a game

The override exports are on alans page (here [http://www.swanson.ukfsn.org/#sdlcombo]("http://www.swanson.ukfsn.org/#sdlcombo")) if you want it to permanently work, you can add it to the ~/.bashrc file :)

Any furthur questions don't hesitate to ask :D (i have it working in xonotic, so if you have questions about other games i can try them out)

And feel free to drop an email showing your appreciation to alan himself :)

---

### Post by javajames79 on 2012-08-27
Here is some info you may need:

i tested a few games with this and here was the results:

Xonotic> worked perfectly :)

Osmos> Worked perfectly (again)

Overgrowth> Worked perfectly (:P)

Edge> Worked, but caused lag in compiz when the game was minimized, the music would keep playing and also returning to it, the game would stay as a window for about 10-20 seconds before returning to fullscreen.

Amnesia> DON'T TRY THIS. (Well it might just be my ATI6870 GPU, but better safe than sorry because everything else worked for me :/) - the game crashed, and nothing happened. Forever.

---

