---
title: "11.04 Suggestions/Questions"
date: 2011-04-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Horseboy on 2011-04-21
Is it possible to move the launcher? Because if it isn't, this should be added. Also, we should have a dedicated place for Launcher settings either in System Settings, by right clicking the launcher or both. Settings such as Transparency, style (perhaps). Or the style part could be incorporated into gnome themes somehow. Also, I'd like support for adding applets to the bar and creating new bars, as far as I can see it isn't possible.

Great work though, kudos to the devs :)

---

### Post by bricelemons on 2011-04-26
I'd like if you could change the desktop background for each workstation. :D that would be cool :guitar:

---

### Post by Horseboy on 2011-04-26
> **bricelemons said:**
> I'd like if you could change the desktop background for each workstation. :D that would be cool :guitar:
And that too, forgot that.

Also, seems you can do transparency in Compiz :P

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-26
> **bricelemons said:**
> I'd like if you could change the desktop background for each workstation.
I guess you mean "workspaces". You can try Compiz' "Wallpaper" plugin for that, apparently the only way currently. Therefore you need to install the package "compiz-plugins-extra", it's in the official repos.

But this implies the loss of the usual desktop features, like items on it, you may need to disable Nautilus' handling of the desktop manually, if it's not done by the plugin automatically, therefore disable the key "/apps/nautilus/preferences/show_desktop" in "gconf-editor".

But you may need to switch to a console and back to your xsession each time you log in, for example with Ctrl+Alt+F1 and Ctrl+Alt+F7/F8, to make the plugin apply the chosen background images.

Greetings.

---

### Post by duegogo on 2011-04-29
I think they should combine the Ubuntu button with the software distribution thing.  So for example, if I try to search for a program that doesn't exist, it'll look automatically in the software distribution center, and allow me to install if I'd like.  Keep the software distribution center by itself though, because it'd be nice to have more than one way to install new software easily.  When I click on the Ubuntu button, I find the options really limited and not customizable, so if they allowed us to pin certain items on that, it'd be nice too.

---

