---
title: "9.10 - Where have all the config files gone?"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by procherc on 2009-11-10
I just upgraded to 9.10. Very happy with what I see but my resolution for the desktop is 800x600. Normallly, I would modify the XORG.CONF but this is no longer in the /etc/X11 folder. I'll bump around and find the solution - BUT - I would like someone to explain or justify why the change. 

I'm an old and decrepit throw back from IBM AIX systems and have other production UNIX experience SCO, BSD, etc. I will fully admit that I have more or less been spoiled with a very rigid production-grade patches and upgrades - with very few waves. My biggest source of frustration with LINUX distro's  is this "fancy" to rename configuration files and move key configuration scripts and software locations. 

Canonical and their Ubuntu product is getting close to being a viable production software - but this nonsense and lack of standardization has got to be resolved. I will not recommend a Linux desktop distro. to any company if I know the company  will have to retrain first-level help desk technicians for items like basic desktop configuration file locations every time and upgrade comes down the time. This is amateur and proves to be the immaturity of Linux to date. 

IT hates Microsoft but the reality is that their strength is a debatable degree of predictablity and standardization - which translates into monkey help-desk technicians - which ultimately keeps IT operating costs low. Of course amateurs can go off and debate this - but that is what the bottom line rests upon - who has the training and how much do I have to pay for them. Microsoft techs are a dime a dozen - not all good - I agree - but readily available and somewhat measurable.

Please Canonical - Ubuntu is a GREAT product - BUT - standardize your product and stick to it. The upgrade cycle chosen is fantastic - but this moving and jostling of basic configuration and "ways" of doing things must be resolved either by extensive means of GUI (like Microsoft has chosen) or remaining to the Unix grass roots and sticking with easily identifiable script names and locations.

---

### Post by rhythmiccycle on 2009-11-10
I had this same problem and I just fixed it, now I want to help others, because I know how much it sucks.

I might be able to help.

first of all what resolution do you want to use?

---

### Post by Joebubba360 on 2009-11-10
Ubuntu is slowly breaking away from the 1970's CLI and adopting GUI based system controls. Look in System/preferences/display. Should fix your display resolution issues. 

Actually, I have a different viewpoint...I'd rather UBUNTU NOT be tied down to a ridgid set of design constraints...that IS what MS did...and look at the huge bloated slow code that it has created. If you use GUI based controls, the changes under the hood can be invisible to both the user and to the support personnel.

---

