---
title: "686 or 386?"
date: 2005-11-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ephman on 2005-11-08
hi,

just curious about something.  i have a dell inspiron 5100 notebook, and it's running breezy right now, no problems.  but i was poking around and i noticed that it's running the 386 image.  since this notebook has a p4 2.4, should it be running the 686 image instead?  is there a big perfomance difference or should i not even bother on upgrading the kernel?  

thanks for the bandwidth,
ephman

---

### Post by RAOF on 2005-11-08
The 686 kernel should be (somewhat) faster, and shouldn't cause any problems.  There's basically no reason not to use it.

On the other hand, it shouldn't actually be that much faster.

---

### Post by az on 2005-11-08
I guess you see a big difference on lower-end machines like mine (500Mhz Pentium III or pII)

---

### Post by phanboy_iv on 2005-11-08
The reason a 386 kernel is the defaut is because it is compiled for the lowest common denominator, i.e, the oldest processor that someone might be using, so as to insure compatibility.

You can stick with the 386, sure. It will work fine for you. You can use a 686 if you want to, anyone with a Pentium Pro/Pentium II and up can. As to a performance increase, most people won't see much, although with a Pentium 4 you might. It's mainly a thing to do if you go in for tweaks, like some people do with sports cars.

I've got a Celeron M, and I recently switched to a 686 kernel. Not much of a difference, but it makes me feel better, and a little geeky.

If you decide to do it, follow this thread:[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=85917&highlight=Kernel+speed+increase")

---

