---
title: "Resolution Problem"
date: 2007-11-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Dai777 on 2007-11-06
I'm having a problem changing my screen resolution in ubuntu. Every time I change the resoulution from 1280 x 1024 my screen looks like a thing from the sixties psycedelic era. If I try to change it using Administration>Screens and Graphics it screws up all together and seems to duplicate itself horizontally and becomes ureadable.

My graphics card is:
ATI Radeon™ HD 2400 PRO, DVI, VGA, HDTV

my monitor is an Acer AL1716
monitor specs:
[http://direct.tesco.com/q/R.100-5831.aspx](http://direct.tesco.com/q/R.100-5831.aspx)
computer specs here:
[http://direct.tesco.com/q/R.200-1493.aspx](http://direct.tesco.com/q/R.200-1493.aspx)

So any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by 6eleven on 2007-11-06
So, I'll assume you've not installed the ATI binary drivers and are using the radeon driver. Open a terminal (Accessories->Terminal) and copy+paste the output of:

xrandr -q

Also, are you sure you are using the ATI card? The computer you linked also has an onboard intel display adapter.

---

### Post by Dai777 on 2007-11-06
dai@dai-desktop:~$ xrandr -q
Screen 0: minimum 640 x 400, current 1280 x 1024, maximum 1280 x 1024
default connected 1280x1024+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1280x1024      76.0* 
   1152x864       76.0  
   1024x768       76.0  
   800x600        73.0  
   720x400        71.0  
   640x480        73.0  
dai@dai-desktop:~$ 

Not quite sure what I'm using. Vesa Generic Vesa compliant is the driver.
for the screen it say generic plug and play

To be honest to afraid to change anything as it keeps screwing up and I end up having to re-installl from scratch. Stil a mewb at linux. So the help is appreciated.

---

### Post by wonk-o-matic on 2007-11-06
For what it's worth, I've had similar results, and found that my X window configuration file had multiple entries for a certain resolution.  Only one of them worked, though.  

If you think that could be your issue, try commenting out all but one of the entries (tedious, sorry) and you might narrow it down to one that works.

---

### Post by Dai777 on 2007-11-07
How do i get up the windows x configuration to try this. sorry to be a pain but I know very little of bash so need some direction in this area.

here is my xorg file.

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"AL1716"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Monitor		"AL1716"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by wonk-o-matic on 2007-11-08
Believe it or not, I fixed my problem by booting from an old knoppix live-cd, which uses a different X Windows system, and copied/snipped some settings.  Sounds pretty complicated, but really wasn't.  When I get home, I'll try to remember to look at the box and update you with good info.  

Basically, though, your video driver is probably trying to query the monitor for settings, but ends up using a refresh rate that the monitor can't support.

---

