---
title: "14.10 wont boot to GUI without nomodeset"
date: 2014-10-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Stephen_at on 2014-10-29
Upgraded from 14.04 to 14.10 and my system won't boot to the GUI - it just hangs on a black screen and I can't even get a command line terminal.

I either have to :

1) boot into recovery and then do continue with normal boot
2) Edit grub and add nomodeset to the options

When I do either of these then things are OK but the brightness up and down Function buttons show the brightness graphic and move the slider but don't actually change the brightness.

Card is:

00:01.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Trinity [Radeon HD 7520G]

lshw reports:

        *-display UNCLAIMED
             description: VGA compatible controller
             product: Trinity [Radeon HD 7520G]
             vendor: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI]
             physical id: 1
             bus info: pci@0000:00:01.0
             version: 00
             width: 32 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm pciexpress msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list
             configuration: latency=0
             resources: memory:e0000000-efffffff ioport:3000(size=256) memory:f0300000-f033ffff


I'm running a 64 bit system and using the X.Org driver - and am unable to switch to proprietary drivers as it just seems to switch back - this seems to be down to a conflict betwee fglrx and Wine in the 14.10 repository.

---

### Post by Stephen_at on 2014-11-02
I've been doing some digging round and the brightness controls change the brightness value stored in the appropriate sys folder. I was thinking that using nomodeset might be the problem - but even with Wine uninstalled and FGLRX installed and the update driver selected (the base driver causes all sorts of screen corruption) and nomodeselect removed the brightness controls don't work.

There seem to be a lot of problems with 14.10.....

---

### Post by Stephen_at on 2014-11-04
It looks like setting acpi_osi='!Windows 2012' fixes the brightness buttons but I have also had to turn off the splash screen to avoid random kernel panics.

Its a bit a of joke really isn't it.

---

