---
title: "add a linux folder shared on Windows network"
date: 2006-08-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by frankeleone on 2006-08-06
Hello,
	I am a Linux newbie. I run Kubuntu 6.06. The computer is on a network with two other computers that run Windows XP.  The network is linked by a Linksys router wrk54g.  The Linux computer is wired to the router, one of the Windows computers is wired to the router, and one of the computers is wirelessly connected to the router.  The name of the home network that connects both of the Windows computers together and allows me to view the shared Windows folders on the Linux computer is called mshome, which is the default name given.  My goal is to create a folder on the Linux computer that can be viewed, and the contents shared, on the Windows computers.  I want to make it clear that there is a connection between all three computers: on my Linux computer I can view both of the Windows computers shared folders, add to those folders, delete from those folders etc.. This is what I have tried so far.  At the bottom of the desktop I clicked the icon  that allows me to open Konquerer to the path system: remote\.  There, I see an icon that says "add a network folder" that looks like a magic wand.  Clicking on that icon brings up a dialog box.  It gives me a choice to "add a network folder".  It gives me the choice to either add a Web folder, FTP folder, Windows network drive, or secure Shell.  I select Windows network drive, and the next dialog box says "network folder information".  It says, enter a name for this Microsoft Windows network drive, as well as a server address and folder path to use and press the save and connect button.  Under name, I enter mshome.  Under server address, I enter frankeleone@linuxbox  (frankeleone is my username; linuxbox is what I named the Linux computer. frankeleone@linuxbox  is what comes up when I open Konsole). Under folder, I enter smb://remote/mshome/linuxfolder (linuxfolder is the name that I would like to give this shared folder).  When I click the save and connect button, a dialog box briefly comes up that says "examining file progress", after which a dialog box comes up and says "unable to connect to server.  Please check your settings and try again".  Given the fact that I am a Linux newbie, I may have the whole purpose and concept wrong, or it may be just the result of me naming things wrong.  Can someone please help me with my goal of trying to add a folder to my Linux computer that can be viewed and altered on my Windows computers?  Any help would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks, Frank

---

