---
title: "10.04 Zebra Stripe Crashes"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-09
Hello,

After having installed Ubuntu several days after its release, I have enjoyed the OS entirely except for one issue: zebra stripe crashes. When my desktop (stats are in my signature) is left idle, occasionally it will begin flashing from the blank navy blue screen (the screen saver when no screen saver is set) to zebra stripes which can be seen at the top right corner of the screen. When I attempt to move the mouse or even attempt to do remotely anything, the stripes and blank screen continue flashing regardless. I end up having to terminate my session by holding down the power button. I have installed all updates to date. How can this be stopped?

Thanks,



aust77

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-09
bump

---

### Post by Dimarchi on 2010-05-10
Sounds suspiciously like it has something to do with a video card, monitor, or both.

```
lspci | grep VGA
```plus monitor info, please.

If I had to hazard a guess, this would be it: the video card asks monitor to display data with a request to a such refresh range that the monitor is not able to supply.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-10
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)

If this helps, my monitor is supposed to run at 75 hz, but 10.04 defaulted it to 85 hz and when I change the setting to 75 my mouse pointer disappears.

---

### Post by Dimarchi on 2010-05-11
This might help:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1448684&highlight=intel](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1448684&highlight=intel)

 That Intel graphics card (or the driver for it) seems to be the problem, currently. If I remember correctly, Intel graphics stuff has been problematic for some time now in past releases of Ubuntu.

Those with more knowledge might lend a hand here.

---

### Post by aust77 on 2010-05-11
After having researched the topic mentioned and using the help of your link, I have solved my issue.

Thank you Dimarchi.


aust77

---

### Post by zvi on 2010-12-28
I am having this same issue on may parent's old emachines computer. We are running something which looks like it must be similar to aust77's graphics card


[INDENT]00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)[/INDENT]


Just to keep people updated here, the thread listed above goes through this problem and how it is presented in earlier versions of ubuntu, and then moves on into lucid. Aust77 reports there on fixes that he and others have found in their research on this problem. At the point where the thread is so far it seems like different fixes work for different people, although for many of them apparently this problem is not found on Ubuntu 10.10, so although that is not an LTS many had therefor opted to use it. So far I have not tried anything, but as I am not very tech savvy and don't have much time to work on this computer I plan to try that too.

Another solution some decided was worthwhile was to buy a cheap old graphics card of another make to throw into the problematic machines in question and someone found one for as little as $15 on Ebay.


GL to all,

Zvi

---

