---
title: "'No screens found' when trying to start X"
date: 2005-07-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by buckrogers01 on 2005-07-07
hi, I have just completed an install of kubuntu, but instead of getting a graphical, I get the command line, so I typed 'startx' and it returned the error, 'No screens found'. In the install I set my res to 1280x1024 (which works fine in FC4). My monitor is an LG170 TFT monitor (I can't remember the end number of my model). And is using the digital input. Does anybody know what I need to do to get X to start, and get KDM running.

Any info would be great, Buck

---

### Post by CookieNinja on 2005-07-07
First thing would be to paste the contents of xorg.conf, you can find it in /etc/X11/xorg.conf if I remember correctly. It might also help to know what your graphics card is because, although this doesn't seem to be relevent at this moment in time, it *might* be part of the problem. With those 2 pieces of information it should be possible for me or someone else to say exactly what xorg.conf should look like in order to work.

If I remember correctly, the "proper" way to start x is with the script provided in /etc/init.d/

I forget the name of it, but if you look in there it should be really obvious which one you need to start x. You start it with something like this "/etc/init.d/script-name start" without the " marks on either side, obviously. You can "start", "stop" and in most cases "restart" various parts of the OS using the scripts in that folder, just by placing the appropiate word after the script name.

---

### Post by buckrogers01 on 2005-07-07
My graphics card is an ATI X850 XT Platinum Edition, and I will post my xorg.conf when I get home

Cheers, Buck

---

### Post by buckrogers01 on 2005-07-07
OK, Ive managed to get my xord.conf of my filesystem, so here it is:

> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X850 XT PE (R480)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X850 XT PE (R480)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


Hopefully someone can decipher this and tell me what I need to change to get it to work.

Any info would be great

Cheers, Buck

---

### Post by shakin on 2005-07-07
Just for kicks, change  Driver "ati" to  Driver "vesa" and see what happens. The vesa driver should work for every video card.

---

### Post by shakin on 2005-07-07
Although I should really mention that you might also want to try this change:

```

 Depth 24
 Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
```

To


```

 Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
```

By lowering the settings you're increasing the likelyhood of it working. Finding a topic in the tips forum about how to install the fglrx driver might also be time well spent. Basically, run 'sudo apt-get install fglrx' and change the xorg driver from ati to fglrx. You'll need the kernel headers (not kernel source) to get the driver working.

---

### Post by buckrogers01 on 2005-07-07
I worked it out before I read your post. In FC4 I remembered that VESA worked, and when I changed it to ATI it stopped, so I checked what it was set to in xorg.conf, and changed it from ATI to VESA, so what you told me worked. I also did not need to change my res.

Thanks for the help, James

---

### Post by shakin on 2005-07-07
[QUOTE=buckrogers01]I worked it out before I read your post. In FC4 I remembered that VESA worked, and when I changed it to ATI it stopped, so I checked what it was set to in xorg.conf, and changed it from ATI to VESA, so what you told me worked. I also did not need to change my res.

Thanks for the help, James[/QUOTE]

Good to hear! Now remember to install the fglrx driver because vesa will give you noticably worse performance.

---

