---
title: "7.10:Desktop not maximized (has borders around it)"
date: 2008-06-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2008-06-13
I know I have seen a few threads about not having the 7.10 Ubuntu desktop being trully maximized and therefore having borders around it. But the search button is useless since I  cannot find a single thread talking about it.

So how do I fix this problem without playing with my monitor buttons ?

---

### Post by ktechman on 2008-06-13
Is the problem missing window borders? Otherwise is your resolution on XP the same as Gutsy? If you can't get a screen shot how about a digital picture and post it.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2008-06-13
Not now as I need to leave for 1hr.

The monitor screen is not filled up by the Ubuntu desktop. Therefore there are black gaps between the outer monitor screen borders and the desktop outer borders.

[FONT="Courier New"]
MMMMMMMMMM
M@@@@@@@@M
M@DDDDDD@M
M@DDDDDD@M
M@DDDDDD@M
M@DDDDDD@M
M@@@@@@@@M
MMMMMMMMMM


where 'M' is physical monitor shape
where '@' is actual monitor screen glass
where 'D' is actual Ubuntu Desktop in full screen residing on the '@' monitor.
so the visible '@' area are black borders not being part of the Ubuntu desktop. The desktop doesn't fully extend to the whole monitor screen.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by ktechman on 2008-06-13
What I found last week with a rig I am working on is that the screen would either line up off center to the left or the right and I would have to adjust it with the monitor controls.  I also had some other issues as well with splash not showing up and so on, after correcting the settings using this post 
[http://www.namanb.com/2007/11/ubuntu-710-bootup-resolution-problem.html](http://www.namanb.com/2007/11/ubuntu-710-bootup-resolution-problem.html)
Then I went in and set the boot screen resolutions the same and the regular window resolutions the same and the problem corrected itself.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2008-06-13
Came back faster then I thought.

Ktechman, that is not my problem. So your solution does not apply. My monitor supports 1280x768. In fact that is the resolution I am using.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2008-06-16
Nothing on this ?

Playing with the monitor's button is only a temporary solution as when I change O/S, it messes up any other O/S. SO I have to replay with the button at every O/S.

---

