---
title: "10.04: How to launch a .sh file with a link"
date: 2011-08-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by temporos on 2011-08-21
I have an executable .sh file that I would like to launch by clicking on a link in my "Internet" menu in the Netbook Remix.  I've attempted to create a new link in the "Main Menu" control panel, but it won't launch.  When I execute the .sh file directly (through Nautilus), I am always presented with a choice of editing or executing the file.

How can I make a link in the "Internet" menu that will execute this .sh file?

---

### Post by ubun2freak on 2011-08-21
create new launcher -> type apps in terminal -> execute path is your sh file location -> OK done.
have fun.

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2011-08-21
Hi
Right click that .sh file and select properties. Select permission and tick the box stating 'file as executing programme'. Link your launcher to the .sh file by entering the location of .sh file

---

### Post by temporos on 2011-08-21
> **ubun2freak said:**
> create new launcher -> type apps in terminal -> execute path is your sh file location -> OK done.
have fun.

> **drpjkurian said:**
> Hi
Right click that .sh file and select properties. Select permission and tick the box stating 'file as executing programme'. Link your launcher to the .sh file by entering the location of .sh file

Hey, guys.  Thanks for the quick responses.

I already tried both of those methods, and neither one worked.  When the terminal window pops up to execute the .sh file, it immediately closes, and the file is never executed.  If I execute the .sh file directly, it runs after I choose to execute it.

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2011-08-22
Hi
while creating the launcher select the tab'application' and select the option 'application in terminal'. In the box related to 'command',enter the path to the .sh file.I hope this should solve your problem

---

### Post by temporos on 2011-08-22
> **drpjkurian said:**
> while creating the launcher select the tab'application' and select the option 'application in terminal'. In the box related to 'command',enter the path to the .sh file.

This was the idea that [*ubun2freak*]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11173767#post11173767") already proposed.  It didn't work.  When I click the launcher in the UNE (Ubuntu Netbook Edition) Internet display, the terminal window opens and disappears within one second.

The "application" (i.e., executable) bit only *allows* the file to be executed; it does not *require* the file to be executed.  I think the system is confused about what to do with the file when called by the terminal window.

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2011-08-23
May I know the content of .sh file?

---

### Post by lmarmisa on 2011-08-23
Did you add the [shebang]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)") on the first line of your shell script?:

```

#!/bin/bash

```

Did you add the execute permission to your bash script file?. You can use Nautilus -> Select file -> Properties -> Permissions -> Allow executing file as program. You can type this command too:

```

chmod +x yourbashscript.sh

```

---

### Post by temporos on 2011-08-31
> **lmarmisa said:**
> Did you add the [shebang]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)") on the first line of your shell script?:
```

#!/bin/bash

```

No, but I do have

```

#!/bin/sh

```
Can I use both?

> **lmarmisa said:**
> Did you add the execute permission to your bash script file?. You can use Nautilus -> Select file -> Properties -> Permissions -> Allow executing file as program. You can type this command too:
```

chmod +x yourbashscript.sh

```

Yep.  Did that a while ago.  I know it will execute.  It lets me execute it when I double-click on the icon itself in Nautilus, then select "run" from the dialog box that appears.  But it won't execute from a link in the UNE launcher.  I think it's because the launcher doesn't know what to do with it (i.e., open it in gedit or execute it).

---

