---
title: "0.5 second hangups"
date: 2005-10-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by quiteNewbee on 2005-10-14
I get 0.5 second hangus, small freezes, where my mouse stops, typing from my keyboard stops and music (xmms) stops. They occur about every 20 seconds whenever I'm active on my computer, i.e. browsing, filemanagemant etc. I've checked the system monitor, and it seldom peaks over 90%, so that should't be the problem, and as far as I know, there should be buffers and stuff like to compensate for peaks like that. Whein I'm not  being active, like now when I'm writing this, there's no problem. I've been wondering if its the mousedrivers, because I can get the cpu up to almost 80% by just turning the scrollingwheel as fast as I'm possibly able to while keeping my mouse on the desktop. 

I have a dell inspiron 8100: 1GHz, 512 mb ram, 500 mb swapdisk and a USB connected Logitech DiNovo wireless keyboard.

Anyone experienced the same, or got a clue what the problem is? A 0.5 second stop while in the middle of Divine moments of thruth by Shpongle hurts :-)

---

### Post by chanders on 2005-10-14
I have a very strong feeling that you are using Breezy Preview, or have upgraded from it. This seems to be a problem in the cpufreq-detect.sh file. 

replace ```
MODULE=speedstep-centrino$EXT ;;
```
in the "#Unconfirmed except for the cpuid string; from Kirsch on #ubuntu" section with ```
MODULE=speedstep-ich$EXT ;;
```

remember this fix is only if you have a Pentium brand CPU with the problem.

---

