---
title: ".xsession-errors"
date: 2013-11-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nLpPyXR on 2013-11-09
My apologies if this thread doesn't belong in the desktop environments forum; I figured it would.

Ok so I'm running Lubuntu 13.10, and every time I log in, there are 2 files generated in my home folder:

.xsession-errors
```
Script for cjkv started at run_im.
Script for default started at run_im.
```

and .xsession-errors.old
```
Script for cjkv started at run_im.
Script for default started at run_im.
init: lxsession main process (1437) terminated with status 1
```

is this to be expected? or can I fix it somehow?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-11-09
Yes, it's quite normal.

On my system the xsession-errors file starts at a size of about 1.8KB and may grow to be as much as 12 - 20KB depending on how many, if any, errors have occurred during the session.  Errors and warnings can occasionally be quite useful at figuring out answers to problems that may be happening in the background without you being aware of them, so I look carefully at the file occasionally and then search out answers to the errors mentioned.  Often they are the result of trying to play a corrupt downloaded video file and will say something about "vlc blah-blah-etc etc" which I was aware of as the file would not play, or similar situations.

Your files, if that is all they contain are very tiny compared with anything I've seen, and I do not think you need to worry about anything you are seeing in those two files unless they grow exponentially, as can happen when big display (xsession) problems arise.

The xsession-errors.old file is simply a backup of the file which is saved every time you shutdown an xsession.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-11-09
I'd go with ajgreeny's explanation.

FWIW, I have exactly the same .xsession-errors content as you do although my .xsessions-errors.old has one more line:
```
Script for cjkv started at run_im.
Script for default started at run_im.
init: upstart-dbus-session-bridge main process (4510) terminated with status 1
init: lxsession main process (4492) killed by TERM signal
```
Lubuntu 13.10, 64-bit

---

### Post by nLpPyXR on 2013-11-09
Hmm, alrighty; thank you ajgreeny and vasa1. Guess I'll just ignore those files from now on...

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-11-10
@nLpPyXR, I think aj's reply has solved your question and so, IMO, you should use the "Thread Tools" to mark the thread "Solved". See [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads) for how to do so.

---

### Post by nLpPyXR on 2013-11-10
Oh I've already started and "ended" a couple of threads before, I just didn't think this needed to be marked as solved since there was nothing TO solve technically.

But ok, marked as solved for the sake of forum etiquette.

---

