---
title: "8.10 Problem: Firefox Loses Imported Bookmarks"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2008-11-01
I'm having this really odd problem with Firefox under Ubuntu or Kubuntu 8.10. After importing my rather large set of preferred bookmarks, everything seems to run just fine and as expected as long as I keep Firefox open somewhere. If I should close Firefox and reopen it, however, all those bookmarks have disappeared. Only the default bookmarks which come with Firefox under Ubuntu or Kubuntu 8.10 are available. This means, of course, that no bookmarks are held over from session to session.

I never had this problem when running Ubuntu or Kubuntu 8.04.1.  I have a dual booting system (based on an HP Pavilion media Center PC [m8120n]) which, until my recent clean install of 8.10, was happily running both Windows Vista and Ubuntu/Kubuntu. I have no problems with running Firefox on the Windows side of my PC.

Any suggestions about how I might fix this problem will be appreciated.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2008-11-01
First export your bookmarks from the running FF using the Organise Bookmarks from the bookmarks menu.  Then I can only suggest you rename your hidden folder ~/.mozilla to a backup of .mozilla~, restart FF and import your bookmarks again.  Now shutdown and see if it all works OK after restarting again.  I assume you are aware that the bookmarks.html file in your profile no longer contains the up-to-date bookmarks for FF.  They are now in the file **places.sqlite** database, I think.

---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2008-11-01
> **ajgreeny said:**
> First export your bookmarks from the running FF using the Organise Bookmarks from the bookmarks menu.  Then I can only suggest you rename your hidden folder ~/.mozilla to a backup of .mozilla~, restart FF and import your bookmarks again.  Now shutdown and see if it all works OK after restarting again.  I assume you are aware that the bookmarks.html file in your profile no longer contains the up-to-date bookmarks for FF.  They are now in the file **places.sqlite** database, I think.

Seems to have worked, ajgreeny!  Thanks a ton!!  :)

---

