---
title: "11.10: is there a 'Desktop' layout with 'descriptions' of elements?"
date: 2011-12-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by LandisTwo on 2011-12-29
Yesterday I was a bit,,, mean. I loaded 11.10 and as a user of SuSE since the beginning, was not prepared for the Huge difference in one, gnome and two, 'the latest' rendition of it, ubuntu 11.10.. 

I was so frustrated... I can't 'right-click' on anything and the 'taskbar' doesn't 'autohide' or actually, anything, it just sits there taking up space. The bar on the left seems Useless unless the Only things you do are wright letters and chat on the internet.. Well, that covers most people i guess. lol

I'm getting to my *question, promise.. 

ubuntu 11.10:
the first thing I've noticed with a clearer head is that when a window  is open (eg, 'home' is opened from that ugly panel on the left), if you  hover on *'taskbar' , 'the menu' appears (file edit etc.. ).. 
So,, I can open 'home' and with the menu, Go>Network.. you get the gist. 

*My Question: is there a diagram, image or 'map' of 'the desktop' that identifies the  parts of or elements of 'the desktop' so that I use the right terms when referring to  things like the 'taskbar' and 'system tray'.. I hate using MS terms in xwindow.

Thanks again, 
&#1057;&#1087;&#1072;&#1089;&#1080;&#1073;&#1086;,
Landis.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-12-30
To hide the bar, install compizconfig-settings-manager, select the unity plugin and chose autohide. Be careful what you mess about with in there though :)

To add your favourite applications, launch them then right click them on the panel and choose keep in launcher. Do the opposite to remove them.

---

