---
title: "11.10: Guest Session is not working - I get a blank/black screen"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jammaj on 2011-10-16
I am getting a blank screen when I log into a Guest session on 11.10. However, when I click on the screen, the blackness dissipates and I can see little bits of the purple Ubuntu background. Same when I go to the launcher on the left side of the screen, or use any menus. I use Ctrl+Alt+Delete to logout, and a lot of the screen becomes clear - however all of the menus are covered in black. How can I fix this?

My computer is in a public place, so I want guest sessions to be available to others.

Thanks

---

### Post by fnadde42 on 2011-10-22
I have _exactly_ the same problem.

EDIT: I have a Gigabyte Radeon HD6950 1024MB Windforce OC

---

### Post by slapthorn on 2011-10-29
same here
hp dv6 laptop
ati graphics 64bit amd

---

### Post by Linux User 2011 on 2011-10-29
I got a blank screen also.  Using Dell Studio XPS 7100 with ATI Radeon HD 5450 Card.  Wanted to let my kids play on the computer without chance of something being deleted.

---

### Post by slapthorn on 2011-10-30
...an update.

clicking right-mouse on the black (guest) screen causes part of the desktop menu to show (a partial screen refresh) and part of the content is displayed.

Applications seem to be running (if you guess where the menus and buttons are) but the windows/panels are not being displayed correctly.

---

### Post by jammaj on 2011-10-30
I wander if this is a problem with ATI Radeon cards? I have one as well.

---

### Post by wshruti on 2011-10-31
Same here... I have it as a virtual machine running on VMware Workstation... I have tried to revert to various snapshot to look more precisely whats causing the problem.. All I can say is, after installing the recommended updates for 11.10 I get the issue...

---

