---
title: ".bash_profile breaks graphical login for Ubuntu 22.04"
date: 2024-03-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by keep-tryin on 2024-03-26
I'm setting up a new computer. In Ubuntu 20.04 I have a .bash_profile that calls a bash script when you open a terminal so the user can choose from a menu for what they want to do. In 22.04 when the .bash_profile is present in the users home directory they can not log in they just get a black screen with a mouse arrow. If I remove the command from the .bash_profile the user can log on just fine. The command works just fine if you open the terminal and type it.  Any ideas why this is happening? 
           Thanks
            Linda

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2024-03-26
Does it work to instead put that command at the end of [FONT=Courier New].bashrc[/FONT]?

---

### Post by him610 on 2024-03-27
I recall trying to use .bash_profile a couple of months ago, and I had similar issues as the OP. 
What I use in all of my systems is .bash_aliases where I place my called script at the bottom of  .bash_aliases.
```

# show system OS, spec summary, and words of wisdom
~/bin/run-id.sh

```

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2024-03-28
First, it would be helpful if you posted your $HOME/.bash_profile contents, so we can see it and debug what is going on.

The user-specific config file in the base of the user home folder are used to override the system wide config file in /etc

As a rule of thumb for User-Specific Configuration files:

[LIST]
[*].bash_profile is called whenever a new shell is opened. )terminal session)
[*].bashrc is a configuration file for the Bash shell. The file consists of commands, functions, aliases, and scripts that execute every time a Bash session starts on Linux or macOS. The file allows customizing the shell environment with various functionalities, shortcuts, and visual tweaks.
[*].profile 'was' profile was the original profile configuration for the Bourne shell (a.k.a., sh). bash, being *a Bourne compatible shell* will read and use it. The .bash_profile on the other hand is 'only' read by bash. It is intended for commands that are incompatible with the standard Bourne shell.
[*].xinitrc is used to run programs depending on X and set environment variables on X server startup. Called by startx and xinit.
[*].bash_logout  is sourced by bash when a bash login shell terminates. The file makes it possible to do, for example, various forms of cleanup when logging out from 'a terminal session'.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by keep-tryin on 2024-04-04
moving the command to .bashrc solved the problem.Thank you

---

