---
title: ".gtkrc-2.0 tricks"
date: 2007-03-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by spivak.d on 2007-03-10
Hi all,

In the process of configuring my GNOME environment under Ubuntu, I learned of the way that it's possible to change the color of the Clock applet by making a file in ~ called .gtkrc-2.0 and then adding the following: 

```
style "panel-clock"
{
  fg[NORMAL] = "#FFFFFF"
}
widget "*.clock-applet-button.*" style "panel-clock"
```

I have two questions, then. 

First off, when I hover over the clock (which, with this code, has a white font), a gray background appears and the text goes back to black (for reference, my top panel is fully transparent on a dark wallpaper). Is there a way to add to the style code so that upon hovering, the background of the clock's time remains transparent and the text remains white?

Second, I gather that "widget "*.clock-applet-button.*" identifies the target of the style as the clock. I would like to extend this trick to the Weather Report applet that comes standard with Ubuntu (Edgy, fwiw). Does anyone know, then, the "widget" name of that applet?

Sincerely,
Dima

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2007-03-10
i'm not too sure how to make the background remain transparent (yet), but you can specify to keep the text white after moving the mouse over it by adding the following intoin between the braces next to [FONT=monospace]fg[NORMAL] = "#FFFFFF"[/FONT]:
**fg[PRELIGHT]          = "#ffffff"**



after you've made the changes to panel and saved the gtk file, type the following on the commandline in order to refresh the panel:
[B]killall gnome-panel


[/B]i don't know the answer to your other questions.

---

### Post by spivak.d on 2007-03-10
Ooh, great. It's strange because bg[PRELIGHT] = #000000 (or something darker than white) has no effect... back to the hunt. Thanks.

Anyone know about finding widget names like .clock-applet-button. ?

-Dima

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2007-03-10
bg[PRELIGHT] = "#000000" should, in theory, change the background when you hover the mouse over it, but it doesn't. i know for a fact that bg[PRELIGHT]  works on the text colour when you hover the mouse over it because i tested it out myself.

---

