---
title: "12.04 Desktop Odyssey"
date: 2012-06-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by antiman on 2012-06-12
Hi!

I'm using Linux-Distributions for about 10 years now but I'm startin to get desperate.  I've downloaded the last Mint-Release in both verisons, Mate and Cinnamon, Mate doesn't react as mouse-click when i tip on my HP-Compaq 6910p's touchpad, Cinnamon, just like Gnome3, isn't very stable and customizable. I really liked KDE3 but I don't really like KDE4 and Trinity doesn't work that well, or at least it didn't when i tried it. LXDE doesn't support viewing my battery state, or the version included in 11.10 didn't and when i tried XFCE I didn't really like it too. Are there any alternatives except the minimalistic ones like icewm or workarounds for my problems?

---

### Post by black veils on 2012-06-12
why didnt you like xfce?

have you tried bodhi linux? it has the enlightenment desktop (e17), which is nicer than just installing the e17 desktop within ubuntu. if you dont like the shine, there are subtle, matte themes available. the system is very configurable. they even have a simple to use software centre website, with some application collections too.

---

### Post by LiamOS on 2012-06-12
I'd urge you to give LXDE another try if you didn't mind it. It's fairly minimal, so an hour of customizing goes a very long way. Also, 12.04 may be able to detect the battery, but it may not. I had a look in .config/xfce4/.../xfce-power-manager, but there didn't seem to be anything overly helpful in there. You could always setup a simple enough script to check it for you, but that's only worth it if you like LXDE to begin with.

---

### Post by antiman on 2012-06-13
@ Black Veil:
I don't know why but i didn't really like it sry
and I'd prefer to stay with ubuntu/mint because it's quite easy to maintain and to get commercial software like skype or spotify

@LiamOS
When I had it on my desktop-PC I really liked lxde.

---

### Post by LiamOS on 2012-06-14
> **antiman said:**
> @ Black Veil:
I don't know why but i didn't really like it sry
and I'd prefer to stay with ubuntu/mint because it's quite easy to maintain and to get commercial software like skype or spotify

@LiamOS
When I had it on my desktop-PC I really liked lxde.
LXDE is probably your best bet, then. Check it out on a live CD/USB in the hope that it can manage your battery.
If it can't, you can always write a simple script to print your battery state info. Usually this information is found somewhere in /sys/class/..., if you don't mind it not being plainly visible on your task bar.

---

