---
title: "Gnome Menu Editor: Can't delete entries"
date: 2005-05-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jkndrkn on 2005-05-18
I can't seem to delete entries from my gnome menu using SMEG, the menu editor suggested in ubuntuguide.org.

How can I manually remove menu entries?
Is there a better gnome menu editor available?

Thank you.

---

### Post by Majlo on 2005-05-18
Type in console ls /usr/share/applications/  
And them remove .desktop files. Example Gaim has gaim.desktop .
Then delete .desktop file

---

### Post by derrick1985 on 2005-05-18
Click the item you want to remove, click either properties or edit (i forget which one it is) you will have an option to delete it in the pop up box.

---

### Post by Vache on 2005-05-19
[QUOTE=derrick1985]Click the item you want to remove, click either properties or edit (i forget which one it is) you will have an option to delete it in the pop up box.[/QUOTE]
 Some applications show up in "legacy" directories, i.e. old, as of now non-standard directories...

/usr/share/gnome/apps

---

### Post by jkndrkn on 2005-05-19
Perhaps I should refine my question.

I have entries in my menu that I cannot remove using the popular third-party window manager.

I'm interested in seeing if I can manually edit the menu to remove the offending entries.

Does anyone know which files and directories are involved in this?

Thanks again.

---

### Post by psychicdragon on 2005-05-19
That third party window manager would be XFCE right?

I actually went back to gnome the other day for this very reason, you either have to accept the autogenerated menu or build your own from scratch

the menu file is:

~/.config/xfce4/desktop/menu.xml

---

### Post by jkndrkn on 2005-05-19
Sorry, I meant menu manager. I'm thinking of scratching the auto-generated menu from Debian and building my own. Since I use less than half of the offerings and editing the Debian menu brought over from gnome is such a giant pain.

Thanks for the help guys.

---

### Post by garnertr on 2005-08-12
[QUOTE=Majlo]Type in console ls /usr/share/applications/  
And them remove .desktop files. Example Gaim has gaim.desktop .
Then delete .desktop file[/QUOTE]

Thanks, I had to remove k3b fr my menu and it wouldn't remove, synaptic, smeg, etc, nothing could touch it, w/ your simple instructions, I found my file, rm'ed it and it was gone!  Thanks!!

---

### Post by jkndrkn on 2005-08-12
I have two cases where no .desktop files even exist, and the entries can't be removed.

---

