---
title: "Looking for kiosk help with Citrix client and Fluxbox"
date: 2007-08-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by zolodon on 2007-08-17
I work in a medical environment with many Wyse terminals scattered throughout our clinics.  While these devices work well enough most of the time, the inability to customize them to suit our needs makes them less than ideal...

What I'd like to do is start re-deploying our old desktop machines (saving money versus buying these terminals) running a stripped down version of Linux with a very limited user environment.  

Currently I have Ubuntu Linux Server 7.04 installed on a desktop PC with FluxBox for the desktop environment.  I've managed to customize the menus and toolbars as required, but now that I have a better idea about how to do this I'm left with more questions than answers regarding deployment.

Once I figure out how to auto-login this machine upon boot-up (my next task), the machine should be close to what I need for a kiosk.  With all this work (I'm certainly no Linux expert), I'm now concerned that I'll only have one working machine for the task at hand.  How can I redeploy this configuration to other machines?  Is there a way to compile a LiveCD from it, or would I be better off imaging the machine and changing computer names afterwards (prior to deployment)?

Am I looking at this the wrong way?  Given that I need a terminal that boots up to a basic graphical environment with standard wallpaper, a web browser (with access to only one site),the Citrix web client, a simple toolbar, and remote SSH control, is there a slimmer and thus more efficient approach to reaching the same goal?

Any advice at this point would be appreciated.  I've enjoyed this project and already see avenues for similar deployments (booting a PC to our web-based timeclock system with no toolbars/menus, for example).  I want to know how this will work in detail before taking the idea to my boss.  The end result should yield quite a cost savings by turning old machines into Citrix access/web terminals.

Thanks,
-Josh

P.S.  I work in a Windows environment.  Interoperability and fighting FUD generated by my co-workers is key...which is why I need to know how it will work before bringing the idea forward.  I will also not be able to suggest using a Linux DHCP server (for things like PXE booting, computer name assignments, etc) since that would mean another network segment created/managed by our infrastructure crew (unfriendly to Linux).

---

### Post by pointone on 2007-08-17
Although there are probably more elegant ways of deploying ([Thinstation]("http://thinstation.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/ThIndex"), or [the Linux Terminal Server Project]("http://www.ltsp.org/"), for example) one quick and (somewhat) dirty method would be to use the bootcd package.

```
sudo apt-get install bootcd
bootcdwrite
```

These two commands will install bootcd, then create a CD image (ISO) of your currently running system. I completed an Ubuntu-based kiosk project last winter using this package and found it worked quite well for what I was going for.

Pros:
[list]Makes customization dead-easy. Just set up a system the way you want, and run the script. No messing around with chroot or remastering or networks![/list]
[list]Little know-how required. Just run the script on your customized system and you're done![/list]

Cons:
[list]There were some issues with xorg.conf files. When you create the image, it uses the xorg.conf file of the system you created it on. This isn't a problem if your destination system(s) are the same (hardware-wise) as the source system, but could prove tricky otherwise. I tried to get around this issue in a variety of ways but never really "fully" succeeded.[/list]
[list]A tad bit messy in it's implementation. There are some issues with hardware detection and when booting, you'll probably see a lot of error messages while it tries to find the disk and whatnot. It all works fine in the end, but it just doesn't look totally "professional." I'm sure you could clean it up with a bit of effort, though.[/list]

Try it out and see if it fits the bill. If you run into problems, let me know--I might be able to lend a hand.

---

