---
title: "12.04 LTS without Unity : will it be faster with traditional GNOME desktop?"
date: 2013-07-31
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by d-vineet on 2013-07-31
If I switch from the Unity UI to a traditional GNOME desktop, will it be faster?
(ref. this article: [http://deviceguru.com/ubuntu-11-10-without-shell-shock/](http://deviceguru.com/ubuntu-11-10-without-shell-shock/))
Specks of my PC are: P4, 768 MB RAM, 80 GB HDD.

Thanks,

Vineet

---

### Post by SweetAurora on 2013-07-31
Yes, it will be faster. For the "traditional" Gnome desktop, install gnome-session-fallback to get the classic Ubuntu desktop.

---

### Post by alan9800 on 2013-07-31
since gnome-session-fallback installs also gnome-shell, you might prefer to install gnome-panel, that only has the gnome 2 classic desktop.
And if you wish an even more faster desktop environment, you may choose "gnome classic (no effects)" at the login.

---

### Post by SweetAurora on 2013-07-31
No it dosen't. gnome-shell and gnome-session-fallback are entirely separate enviroments in Ubuntu 13.04 and earlier. You can install one without the other.

---

### Post by d-vineet on 2013-07-31
Thanks for your replies.
Let me try it out.

---

### Post by alan9800 on 2013-07-31
> **kitsuneinari78 said:**
> No it dosen't. gnome-shell and gnome-session-fallback are entirely separate enviroments in Ubuntu 13.04 and earlier. You can install one without the other.as far as I have been able to experiment, every time I have installed gnome-session-fallback there was available also gnome-shell as desktop environment.
Perhaps I have made something wrong, but is it wrong running```
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
```:?:

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2013-07-31
I made some notes about using the classic (no effects) DE here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370)

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2013-07-31
> **alan9800 said:**
> as far as I have been able to experiment, every time I have installed gnome-session-fallback there was available also gnome-shell as desktop environment.
Perhaps I have made something wrong, but is it wrong running```
sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback
```:?:

If you add the --no-install-recommends flag to your command, then only GNOME Classic will be installed. I believe the name of the flag is self-explanatory.

---

### Post by BBQdave on 2013-07-31
> **d-vineet said:**
> If I switch from the Unity UI to a traditional GNOME desktop, will it be faster?

Another thought...

I have Ubuntu Unity 12.04LTS on a Toshiba Satellite c655-s5503, I noticed some sluggish response in Dash and Firefox.
In System Settings > Privacy > Application tab, I add Firefox Web Browser - Do Not Log Activity.

Dash is now responsive and it sped up Firefox. Overall, my system seems smooth and responsive by adjusting *NO Indexing* of Firefox. I like the search function of Dash with my local system - just seemed redundant to include Firefox in Dash, as Firefox has a history function for searching data. That is to say, I can do data search within the application of Firefox - no need to duplicate that function in Dash, and slow my system.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-07-31
You might find that Xubuntu or Lubuntu perform much better on your computer.

---

### Post by RadicaX on 2013-07-31
@Gordintoronto.

He probably would have better results with Xubuntu or Lubuntu, but the lack of that Long term Support is probably why he just wants a different DE. (Which is understandable, most do not like changing their OS often, or even upgrading often, because it can be buggy.) 

@Original poster.

It should be over all faster, boot times will still be the same from my understanding. But when in use, it can effect performance. Because you only use the session you choose. If I use my LXDE session, that is what it is doing, if I use XFCE, that is what it is is using. You can install any DE basically you want, but it is pretty hard to remove them from my understanding, and it can bloat it and give you dupes of packages. So go ahead and try another DE, and if you are good at working with the command line, use a minimal install and work your way up to make an Ubuntu for you, light weight, with LTS.

---

### Post by nkpWyMD on 2013-07-31
Unity and Gnome-shell are both resource demanding. I wouldn't use them on an older and weaker machine.

Gnome-fallback (or Gnome-classic) is fast but it is not fully supported anymore and it suffers from massive feature regression compared to Gnome 2. If it works for you, that's great. If you find it lacking, you can try XFCE4 or LXDE, those should run fine on your hardware.

---

### Post by alan9800 on 2013-07-31
> **zombifier25 said:**
> If you add the --no-install-recommends flag to your command, then only GNOME Classic will be installed. I believe the name of the flag is self-explanatory.thank you very much for this explanation; each guide I've read didn't specify to use that flag for installing only gnome-session-fallback.
Only one more question:```
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends gnome-session-fallback
```is the same as```
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
```or not?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-08-01
Install xfce4, log out, choose 'xfce session' from the session menu, login and watch it fly.

---

### Post by Buntu Bunny on 2013-08-01
> **gordintoronto said:**
> You might find that Xubuntu or Lubuntu perform much better on your computer.

+1

> **RadicaX said:**
> @Gordintoronto.

He probably would have better results with Xubuntu or Lubuntu, but the lack of that Long term Support is probably why he just wants a different DE.

Except that Xubuntu does have an LTS version, currently 12.04.

On another note, I find working with menus faster than search, unless I know the name of what I'm looking for.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2013-08-01
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Install xfce4, log out, choose 'xfce session' from the session menu, login and watch it fly.

That's what I've done and it seems to work okay, there don't seem to be issues with more than one D.E. installed.  Is this a way to get LT support and and Xfce desktop?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-08-01
The OS has the LTS support, not the desktop environment, if you know what I mean. A Ubuntu 12.04 LTS kernel is underneath all of them. If you have Ubuntu 12.04 LTS that's what you have. That you might be using xfce4 as your desktop environment doesn't change that fact. The 12.04 LTS kernel will be supported until 2017.

---

### Post by RadicaX on 2013-08-01
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> The OS has the LTS support, not the desktop environment, if you know what I mean. A Ubuntu 12.04 LTS kernel is underneath all of them. If you have Ubuntu 12.04 LTS that's what you have. That you might be using xfce4 as your desktop environment doesn't change that fact. The 12.04 LTS kernel will be supported until 2017.

Indeed, this is so. Something that does not make sense to me though, is why something like Lubuntu is not LTS then, is it for a lack of wanting to update the packages in it? Because the kernel period will be updated. Either way, pick a buntu you like and start smacking it with any de you want. If you are really worried about speed and such. just pick a Windows Manager set up like open box or something. Not as full featured as say Gnome, but it is super lightweight. I have only a gig of ram, and a slow 1.6 ghz dual processor, I have no trouble running Xubuntu. Everything is pretty snappy. I used Ubuntu 11.10 before this, and it was also plenty fast, some of the programs were a bit slower, but honestly, not much.

---

