---
title: "9.04 on laptop"
date: 2010-01-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by windowsfree on 2010-01-10
I use 4 desktops and started playing with Compiz, how can I get each desktop to have it's own wallpaper?

Read through one guide on here and it didn't work for my setup, tried google but not satisfied with answers there.

Thank you.

Using the guide below this, I can't see anyway to set up the wallpapers, only the caps on the cube.
To have different wallpapers for each desktop, follow these steps:

**I. Disable "show desktop" in Nautilus**
1. ALT+F2
2. gconf-editor
3. Apps --> Nautilus --> Preferences
4. Untick "show desktop"

**II. Install Compiz Fusion**
1. In Terminal, input the following:
     Code:
     sudo aptitude install compizconfig-settings-manager 
2. Exit Terminal

**III. Select your desktop wallpaper**
1. System --> Preferences --> Advanced Desktop Settings
2. Tick "Desktop Cube" and opt to disable desktop wall if prompted
3. Tick "Rotate Cube"
4. Select "Desktop Cube"
5. Click "Appearance" tab
6. Click "Add" under the "Background Images" field
7. Browse for your desired wallpaper(s), ordering them based on which face of the cube you want them to appear

---

### Post by noelvh on 2010-01-10
This is a good question, and some thing I have woundered my self. I was doing this under windows with ydom3d running.
I would have a differend background for each desktop.

Noel

---

### Post by windowsfree on 2010-01-10
i just got it setup now.....go to CCSM and choose wallpaper.  Enable that and choose what wallpapers you want.  Included a screen shot to show you.

---

### Post by noelvh on 2010-01-10
Ok I went to CCSM and enabled the wallpaper thing added 4 different wall papers and this did not work. How did you add the wallpaper, and make them work for each desktop.

Thanks.

Noel

---

### Post by llawwehttam on 2010-01-10
Follow the guide word for word and it WILL work.
don't skip steps.

---

