---
title: "jpeg MIME type error in nautilus"
date: 2006-03-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by grendelkhan on 2006-03-28
I get an error when clicking on any jpeg image in nautilus that due to the MIME type it cannot open it.  Now, I can right click and open in EOG and it's fine, and after clicking on the image, and clicking through the error, I get a thumbnail, but in the meantime having to click on each image in a directory to get a thumbname and not having eog just open it automatically is a major pain in the butt.

---

### Post by david_finlayson on 2006-03-30
I've got the same problem. Anyone else?

---

### Post by xavatar on 2006-03-30
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=152241&highlight=mime](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=152241&highlight=mime)

Me too ...

---

### Post by grendelkhan on 2006-03-30
I even edited the jpeg.xml to read 'jpg document' instead of 'JPEG Image' and now it's just swapped terms and I still get the error.

Is this a MIME error or an eog error?

---

### Post by david_finlayson on 2006-03-31
This is really frustrating. I just searched Malone and couldn't find anything related to this bug. I don't have a clue where to start tracking this down. As far as I can see, there are *jpg entries in /usr/share/mime (there are too many options here for me to see anything obviously wrong)

I suppose it is a gnome "feature" that we can't edit mime associations with some sane interface. ](*,)

---

### Post by david_finlayson on 2006-04-02
I think that I just fixed this. Gnome keeps a local copy of your MIME database in:

~/.local

Apparently, one of the MIME types for jpeg got corrupted. I just deleted the entire directory ([COLOR="Red"]CAUTION, this may remove all file-type customizations you have set or more, I don't know[/COLOR]):

```
> rm -r ~/.local 
```

Double-clicking jpg files now works correctly. You will need to re-do you custom file-type associations again if you do not use the default applications.

---

### Post by KrIaXPaTaLa on 2006-04-27
Just removed the JPG entries in .local/share/applications/mimeinfo.cache

It did the trick.

Regards.

KrIaX, Portugal.

EDIT: Still, only after I click an image, nautilus recognizes it as a picture. And gthumb doesn't load a folder filled with *.jpg. However, *.jpeg works fine. Any other thoughts?

---

### Post by kamstrup on 2006-05-31
```
rm -rf ~/.local/share/mime
```, log out and log back in. That did the trick for me.

I think it was an autopackage that screwed up the mime database for me...

KrIaXPaTaLa: You might want to delete the entire mime directory in .local/share... I had the same no-thumbnail-before-click problem as you, but after the above command, I'm back to normal.

---

### Post by pyros on 2006-08-26
Sorry to reopen an old thread, but I think I found the culprit:
My ~/.local/share/mime/globs
looked like this:

```

# This file was automatically generated by the
# update-mime-database command. DO NOT EDIT!
application/x-extension-jpg:*.jpg

```
Renaming files to .jpeg fixed it, but just deleting the globs file was easier.
For me it was an f-spot install that sparked it.

---

### Post by gilipter on 2006-10-06
Thanks a lot! I I deleted the globs file and suddenly everything works fine again. My file associations were removed when I uninstalled Bluefish 1.05.

---

### Post by trishacupra on 2007-09-17
> **kamstrup said:**
> ```
rm -rf ~/.local/share/mime
```, log out and log back in. That did the trick for me.

I think it was an autopackage that screwed up the mime database for me...

KrIaXPaTaLa: You might want to delete the entire mime directory in .local/share... I had the same no-thumbnail-before-click problem as you, but after the above command, I'm back to normal.

Worked for me, too. My JPG's suddenly gave an error because they were seen as 'JPG documents' rather than images. All fixed now.

---

