---
title: "help: Power Management setup"
date: 2006-08-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tyn on 2006-08-14
Hi,
I'm trying out Xubuntu as a Samba file server (then hopefully a file server for my Xbox) that lives without a monitor, keyboard or mouse.  I'm not using a laptop, this is a desktop PC.

I have successfully setup Samba and FreeNX (thanks to all the excellent information on these forums) to get my desired functionality.  The problem I am having now is the noise and heat generated by my system not powering down when it is idle.

What I am most concerned about is my hard drives spinning all day and all night.  I know that desktop hard drives don't last very long when they are run 24x7.

I've search these forums and the web trying to find some answers but I can't find anything that works.  I am not even sure how to diagnose my installations capacity to spin-down the hard drives.  Here is what I have tried:

I read some articles that say power management is built in to ubuntu.  I looked at the /etc/laptop-mode/laptop-mode.conf and made some changes to enable laptop mode when on AC power, reduce the hard drive idle timeout and screen timeout.

This hasn't made any difference.  I'm not sure this script is even being run.  I also can't work out when or if the /etc/acpi/power.sh script is run either.

I have also tried the gnome-power-manager program.  The gnome-power-preferences applet gives me almost no options: screen sleep, computer sleep, sleep type and sleep button.  There are no configurations for hard drives or CPU speed.

Please save me from having to go back to using WindowsXP.  Apart from my power management problems everything else in Xubuntu is excellent.

---

### Post by tyn on 2006-08-14
Hi,

I've made a little progress but I'm still not 100% sure I've got this working.  After learning a bit of scripting I found the hdparm command.  When I run hdparm -C against my hard drive devices I do get a suspended result when the PC is idle for a while.

Is this definitive evidence that power management is spinning-down my disks?  Is there a way to interrogate the CPU to see if it is getting throttled when the computer is idle?

Can I control the CPU fan with the power management?

Thanks

---

### Post by editrix on 2006-08-15
Tyn, I'm posting mainly to bump this thread. I've found several posts asking  how to do this, because I'm trying to do it myself, but never any answers.

---

### Post by scott_b on 2006-09-25
Tyn, what are the specs on the machine you are running (including manuf.)?

---

