---
title: "Unable to configure openbox settings."
date: 2011-08-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jose_2008 on 2011-08-04
I have just installed Lubuntu (from Ubuntu). I would like to add a few items to the right-click menu. I tried doing it using ObMenu as well as directly by editing the configuration files in /home/{user}/.config/openbox, but the default remains unchanged (even after reloading the configurations from the right-click menu or rebooting). Could someone please give detailed instructions (e.g. where should I add some apps so as to see on the right click applications list?). The default on my right-click are a file manager, a browser and a terminal.

Also, I don´t see a way to edit the main menu (the one at the lower left corner of my screen) anymore, although I remember  to have accessed it from the main menu somewhere.

Thanks.

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2011-08-06
Hi, 

Question 1.- The menu file you're looking for is in /usr/share/lubuntu/openbox.
  Note: the one you're modifying, which is in ~/.config/openbox, controls the settings when you start a plain "openbox session" from the login screen (please see at the bottom of the login screen).

Question 2.- Bad news: there is not an easy GUI application (yet) to modify the lxpanel menu. It is autogenerated from the *.desktop files which are present in your system, be it in /usr/share/applications (installed programs usually deploy a desktop file here), or in ~/.local/share/applications
Of course you can create a desktop file by hand, and the system wil update the panel menu accordingly on reboot. Not that difficult. I give you an example file below (which could be named "warsow.desktop", for a particular app called warsow). It's quite self-explanatory (well kind of).

```
[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Exec=warsow
Icon=/home/USER/my/icons/wsw-icon_80x80.png
Type=Application
Terminal=false
Name=Warsow
GenericName=warsow
StartupNotify=false
Categories=Game
```

---

