---
title: "11.10 unity 2d disabling dash auto-hide causes workspaces to look strange"
date: 2011-12-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dtm30 on 2011-12-02
[http://www.addictivetips.com/ubuntu-linux-tips/enabledisable-auto-hide-for-unity-2-d-launcher-in-ubuntu-11-10-tip/]("http://www.addictivetips.com/ubuntu-linux-tips/enabledisable-auto-hide-for-unity-2-d-launcher-in-ubuntu-11-10-tip/")

I don't like the auto-hide feature of the dash so I elected to keep it up always, which required some of the above website's information.

Note in particular the code which is causing this issue: dconf write /com/canonical/unity-2d/launcher/use-strut true

If you don't use the strut, your windows will expand "underneath" the dash so you can't use all of your window because the left edge is obscured.  

If you use the strut, the window will only expand to the edge of the dash, but when you use the workspaces feature of Ubuntu it doesn't look right.  This really bugs me.

How can I use the strut and keep workspaces looking normal on ubuntu?  I'm attaching screenshots.

---

### Post by dtm30 on 2011-12-05
Any thoughts?

Am I being unclear as to what the problem is?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-12-06
I'm following this thread since you set it up, as I too noticed that issue, but didn't really care too much about it so far.

I've just searched and found a related bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/766103](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/766103)

I believe there is no fix to this yet, but we'd need to press the devs of Unity 2D to implement the no-auto-hide feature in another way, one that doesn't conflict with Compiz' Expo plugin, or with Compiz' perceived dimensions of the desktop in general, for that matter.

Regards, and good luck!

EDIT: Hehe, I just remembered that Unity 2D is not running with Compiz by default, thus not depending on it, so the Workspaces feature must be provided by something else. :-D

---

### Post by dtm30 on 2011-12-12
Yeah, I know it's not a functional problem but I think visual glitches are really annoying.  Good to see it's not something to do only with my own computer.

Do you know how I can get ahold of the Unity 2d devs to tell them about this?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-12-12
> **dtm30 said:**
> Do you know how I can get ahold of the Unity 2d devs to tell them about this?
Sure, visit the bug report linked to in my previous post,

[LIST]
[*]mark it as "affects me too" above,
[*]leave a comment to make the devs aware of the bug again, as the last one is already almost 3 months ago, and there is no reaction from the devs since then,
[*]subscribe to the bug report on the left side, to get notified about updates.
[/LIST]
The first and last of which I've done, too.

---

