---
title: "icewm blank black window on startup (2)"
date: 2014-06-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by richardbrucebaxter on 2014-06-29
This is a continuation of the closed "icewm blank black window on startup" and "Have weird blank X window in IceWM" threads ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1597993](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1597993) and [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1044172](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1044172)).

As of Ubuntu 14.04 LTS with ~24 June 2014 updates this bug is occuring regardless of how many sleep delays are added to ~/.icewm/startup. Perhaps Ubuntu is now executing additional programs immediately after logging in while icewm is starting up (ie, programs that are being run independently of those issued in ~/.icewm/startup)?

---

### Post by richardbrucebaxter on 2014-07-04
Symptoms:


- little black window bug occurs even when sleep delays are added to ~/.icewm/startup
- little black window bug occurs when ~/.icewm/startup is empty


Diagnosis:


There is some process being started by the Ubuntu Login screen that is interfering with icewm startup


Temporary Workaround:


1. Enable automatic login
sudo gnome-control-center - user accounts - youraccountname - automatic login 


2. Set xscreensaver to lock upon startup
gedit /home/youraccountname/.icewm/startup:


!#/bin/sh


xscreensaver -nosplash &
xscreensaver-command --lock


gnome-sound-applet &
#Volume Control applet


mate-bluetooth-applet &
#Bluetooth applet (bluetooth-applet is not available on Ubuntu 14.04)


mate-power-manager &
#Power Manager applet (gnome-power-manager is not available on Ubuntu 14.04)


/opt/extras.ubuntu.com/indicator-brightness/indicator-brightness &
#Brightness Control applet


nm-applet &
#Network Manager applet


#gnome-settings-daemon &
#makes all GTK applications (eg Firefox/Thunar) use the Gnome3/Unity graphics (dark grey)


xbindkeys

---

### Post by protagoras2 on 2015-01-19
Temporary fixup (working for me):

root:# mv /usr/lib/ibus/ibus-ui-gtk3  /root/

I have been bugged by the same problem for a while now. What makes it particularly annoying is that it becomes impossible to log out, because of the presence of the black/blank window. This darn window is completely inert (it cannot be closed by icewm) and has no process (pid) associated to it, so I cannot get rid of it with either kill or xkill.

What I have found out so far is that the window is generated by  /usr/lib/ibus/ibus-ui-gtk3 : I believe this program is called by Ubuntu/lightdm at the icewm startup and it tries to dock itself into the toolbar. Sometimes it manages to do so (and you can see the keyboard language code and interact with it), other times ibus-ui-gtk3 remains "locked" into the window (in which cases you can interact with it within the window), other times it does neither. Killing ibus-ui-gtk3 after the window is born does not get rid of the latter.

---

