---
title: "No 3D acceleration / DRI on ATI Radeon 7000, 7200, 7500, Mobility M6, etc."
date: 2005-11-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by fheinsen on 2005-11-08
By my count there are at least a dozen threads in these forums asking about the lack of direct rendering and 3D acceleration on a variety of older ATI Radeon cards such as the 7000, 7200, 7500, Mobility M6, etc.  

This is now reported as a bug on LaunchPad.  If you are having this problem and would like to help solve it, please go to  [https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/3587]("https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/3587") and provide the Ubuntu team with a description of the problem in your system and any information about your configuration you think might help.

---

### Post by earobinson on 2005-11-08
I think this question is better asked in the hardware sections

---

### Post by NeoChaosX on 2005-11-08
I've got a Mobility Radeon 7500 and 3D's working just fine for me since I did a fresh install of Breezy. What's the result you get when you type in **glxinfo | grep Mesa**?

---

### Post by fheinsen on 2005-11-10
[quote=earobinson]I think this question is better asked in the hardware sections[/quote]

Ooops -- sorry about that.  Is there a way for me to move this thread to the Hardware sections?

---

### Post by fheinsen on 2005-11-10
[quote=NeoChaosX]...What's the result you get when you type in **glxinfo | grep Mesa**?[/quote]
Mine is a fresh installation of Breezy too.  Here's the filtered output from glxinfo:
```
$ glxinfo | grep 'Mesa\|direct'
direct rendering: No
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: www.mesa3d.org
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (1.5 Mesa 6.2.1)

```

---

### Post by NeoChaosX on 2005-11-10
```
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
```
Okay, this line means your 3D acceleration is disabled. Can you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, then?

---

### Post by Mizzou_Engineer on 2005-11-10
I have a Mobility 9000 (M9) and it uses DRI. I can't test the FPS as glxgears does not give me an FPS output. 

Xorg.conf file (the relevent parts)
user@computer:/$ glxinfo | grep 'string'
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
client glx vendor string: SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
OpenGL vendor string: Tungsten Graphics, Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI R200 20041207 AGP 1x TCL
OpenGL version string: 1.3 Mesa 6.3.2

Performance seems to be okay, but most importantly, everything works, which is more that I can say for ATI's fglrx drivers...

---

### Post by strawman on 2005-11-11
I have a ati radeon mobility 9600 64mb and when i run glxgears, well, it doesn't, the gears hardly moves and there is no corresponding fps.  i'm not sure what is wrong; this is a stock install and i'm not using the fglrx drivers as i want to have acpi suspend working (does sometimes, i'm working on it), but still i want to use the ati driver and have 3d accell.  My xorg.conf is what came with the breezy install does anyone have a idea as to how you get 3d accell with a stock ati driver?

---

### Post by fheinsen on 2005-11-22
[quote=NeoChaosX]```
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
``` Okay, this line means your 3D acceleration is disabled. Can you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, then?[/quote]

Exactly.  Sorry for taking so long to reply.  I'm out of town and won't have access to the computer which has the problem for another week, so I can't post the xorg.conf file at the moment... I'll do it when I get back.

---

### Post by termite on 2005-11-23
Same problem, more or less.  I'm using a Toshiba laptop with a Mobility 7000 (M6).  I followed the instructions at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=72391](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=72391) but my glxgears still gives only ~300fps and the glxinfo still shows Mesa.  Here is my xorg.conf file:
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 7000 (M6)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
	VideoRam	32000
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-50
	VertRefresh	43-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 7000 (M6)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by NeoChaosX on 2005-11-24
termite, try changing 
```
Driver "ati"
```
to
```
Driver "radeon"
```

---

### Post by cjazz on 2005-11-24
[QUOTE=Mizzou_Engineer]I have a Mobility 9000 (M9) and it uses DRI. I can't test the FPS as glxgears does not give me an FPS output. 
[/QUOTE]


Mizzou_Engineer, are you running "glxgears -printfps"?

---

### Post by termite on 2005-11-24
I change the device to Radeon.  No change in the speed, still in the 300-400fps region.

Ack...more ideas?

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2005-11-24
On breezy DRI works on my M6 without anything extra at 400 fps on glxgears. It's an old card so don't expect much from it. With hoary there was no DRI at all and I got around 100 fps. So yeah....

---

### Post by termite on 2005-11-24
without anything extra?  What extras are you referring to?

---

### Post by Rob2687 on 2005-11-24
worked out of box...

---

### Post by termite on 2005-11-24
But is there a driver other than the Mesa one?

---

### Post by ]Nbx*cmD[ on 2006-11-30
Maybe it helps...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=310018&highlight=ati+radeon+igp+320m](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=310018&highlight=ati+radeon+igp+320m)

---

