---
title: ".xsession-errors file in home folder"
date: 2006-08-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2006-08-18
Every time I start up my machine I end up with a new .xsession-errors file in my home folder, a plain text file that is slightly different and seems to change as the session goes on.  An example is attached for you to look at if you want to.  It doesn't seem to make any difference to how things work as my system is all going beautifully with no real problems, but I am just inquisative as to why there shoud be a big text file with errors showing, but with no obvious effect.

Errors shown are:-
xset:  bad font path element (#76), possible causes are:
    Directory does not exist or has wrong permissions
    Directory missing fonts.dir
    Incorrect font server address or syntax
This appears always at the start.

X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 168
  Major opcode:  145
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
This appears many times repeated exactly the same throughout the error file.

kdecore (KLibLoader): WARNING: KLibrary: /usr/lib/firefox/plugins/libjavaplugin.so: undefined symbol: NP_GetValue
nspluginscan: WARNING: Plugin doesn't implement NP_GetValue
kdecore (KLibLoader): WARNING: KLibrary: /usr/lib/firefox/plugins/libjavaplugin.so: undefined symbol: NP_GetMIMEDescription

this appears at least twice in the file.

X Error: BadWindow (invalid Window parameter) 3
  Major opcode:  20
  Minor opcode:  0
  Resource id:  0x2800059
This is repeated many times.

There are various other entries, but as I say everything works splendidly, so what is going on here?  I know curiosity can kill the cat, but I would like to increase my general linux knowledge so any answers would be very welcome.

I'm running a AMD Sempron 2400+ with 1Gb ram, standard install of ubuntu with Kubuntu-desktop added and several other additional programs as well.  I have an ATI graphics card (9200 SE) but am using the default ati driver from the install, so no messing about with fglrx or anything.

Any clues anybody, should I just leave thing as they are?  If it ain't broke, don't fix it?

---

### Post by groggyboy on 2006-11-10
According to [this thread]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=264400"), the file can be deleted without any ill effects.  Which is good, because I received an error today stating that my /home partition was full.  I investigated, and discovered the culprit: the .xsession-errors file had ballooned to 783MB.  on its own, it had managed to eat up over three quarters of my 1gig /home partition!

If this happens regularly, I would say that is definitely NOT a good thing.  I need my /home partition for other things!

---

### Post by BooVeMan on 2006-11-18
guess what - I just had my system crashed as I do not have a dedicated home partition but within the root filesystem which lives on a 40Gig disk. I only was able to recover my system after I found out that after having been running kubuntu 6.06 for about a month this file had grow to an imensly 30Gig!!!
THIS IS WORRYSOME!!! Please could anyone advise who to reduce the amount of logging into this file and why its there in the first place?

---

