---
title: "18.04 XFCE 2 fingered scroll"
date: 2018-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kazakore on 2018-05-02
Just installed Ubuntu Studio 18.04 on a new SSD, old laptop which has been running 16.04 with no problems for quiet some time. Slowly configuring things as I like. One rather strange behaviour I've noticed though!

I use two finger scrolling, as I imagine most people do these days. It works flawlessly when scrolling downwards, but trying to go up and I often have to try three or four times to get it scrolling. Never had this issue with the old hard drive and 16.04 installed, on which it worked perfectly until I removed it yesterday, so definitely not hardware related! How can such a simple thing not work properly?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-05-03
I don't know whether xubuntu uses xserver-xorg-input-synaptics or libinput. If xserver-xorg-input-synaptics is installed it will be used.

so check which one or both is installed from synaptic package manager

If both are installed, uninstall xserver-xorg-input-synaptics and reboot and test

if only libinput is installed, install xserver-xorg-input-synaptics and reboot and test

if only xserver-xorg-input-synaptics, uninstall it and install libinput then reboot and test

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2018-05-03
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> I don't know whether xubuntu uses xserver-xorg-input-synaptics or libinput. If xserver-xorg-input-synaptics is installed it will be used.

Xubuntu still needs -synaptics due to tap and double tap issue.

See this bug report [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1686081](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1686081) and comments 2, 7 and 8.

---

### Post by kazakore on 2018-05-03
> **PaulW2U said:**
> Xubuntu still needs -synaptics due to tap and double tap issue.

See this bug report [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1686081](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/1686081) and comments 2, 7 and 8.


Well it wasn't installed until I installed it this morning after reading the previous post. Ubuntu Studio, which is XFCE and I believe on the whole based on Xubuntu with extra packages and configuration, and fairly sure on previous versions I've always used synaptics.....

Seems a bit better but a. it's too early to be sure. b. I'm currently booted into MATE and was using XFCE yesterday (considering a switch so alternating use of each for the moment) so it's not a fair comparison...

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2018-05-03
> **kazakore said:**
> Well it wasn't installed until I installed it this morning after reading the previous post. Ubuntu Studio, which is XFCE and I believe on the whole based on Xubuntu with extra packages and configuration, and fairly sure on previous versions I've always used synaptics.....
Ah, sorry I didn't fully read your post and just saw Xubuntu mentioned in monkeybrain20122's reply to you.

-synaptics would have been included in previous releases of Ubuntu Studio but the Ubuntu Desktop team removed it from all flavours as the functionality is now provided by libinput. Ubuntu Studio is **based** on Xubuntu but have a separate development team who presumably have not added -synaptics back into their default installation as the Xubuntu team have done. In due course I'm sure Xfce will be updated to fully deal with libinput and -synaptics will be dropped (again).

---

### Post by kazakore on 2018-05-08
Been back on XFCE (still think I prefer it on the whole to MATE although the niggles I have with both are currently very similar....) and since having installed the -synaptics package I've not noticed any sluggishness with scrolling or any other issues, thus marking this as solved. Thanks guys.

---

