---
title: "10.04 freeze"
date: 2010-08-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by davisford on 2010-08-19
Hi, I've been running 10.04 on an AMD64 box since its release.  Prior to that I've run 9, 8, 7 releases of Ubuntu on the same box.

The box has 4 SATA disks in it.  3 of them are configured for software RAID5, and the other holds the OS.  Typically when there's a new major Ubuntu release, I'll wipe the OS, and re-install the latest, and remount the RAID.  Everything had been working fine...until yesterday, after I ran the autoupdater.

Upon a reboot, it failed to mount /dev/md0 through /etc/fstab.  mdadm indicated that the superblocks were bad.  I tried doing some investigation with mdadm, but I can only get so far before it just freezes.  When it freezes, the screen paints garbled lines, and the system is unresponsive.  I can't get in via ssh either.  

I tried booting to the cmd line, and running fsck...it also hangs after a while.  I booted back into Gnome, and ran fsck on /dev/md0 -- it ran for about 10 minutes, and then froze.

I tried inserting the CD to re-install the OS -- just to try to get a stable OS.  My thinking was that if I can get the OS back to a stable known state, without the /dev/md0, then I can work on fixing the raid, but in the installer screens, after I pick the keyboard layout, it froze again -- screen painted garbled, and it was unresponsive.

There is no information in /var/log/messages other than the standard boot info -- no kernel panic, no errors reported.  

I'm working with both hands tied behind my back b/c I don't know what is causing it to hang, and I can't do a lot with the system before it hangs again and I have to do a hard-reset.

I'm hoping someone on the forums can give me some tips on what to try?

---

### Post by tripolitan on 2010-08-19
Very obvious hardware failure. Start with the CPU, be sure the fans are running and that the heatsink is cool enough to touch for about 5-7 seconds and that there is enough airflow (clean fins).
Then the chipset heatsink, then the video.

---

### Post by davisford on 2010-08-22
Yea, I was afraid of that.  Turned out to be some faulty capacitors on the mobo.  Time for a HW upgrade anyway.

Asus mobo -> Gigabyte mobo
AMD 64 dual core -> AMD 64 quad core
all new memory.

I figured I'd have to just re-install the OS, and remount my raid afterward.  Lo and behold the system booted without a hiccup with completely new hardware.  It detected that the nvidia chipset no longer existed and asked if I wanted to reconfigure graphics - which I did, and it worked.  2 seconds later I was viewing the desktop, and /dev/md0 was mounted and working just fine.

I was pretty geeked -- I didn't expect that.  Kudos to all the fine people that make this OS such a pleasure to work with.

---

### Post by tripolitan on 2010-08-22
wow, I didn't expect the mobo to fail but glad all worked out.

---

