---
title: "X11 and Display Preferences are fighting"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Steneub on 2009-05-30
I've discovered that my Xorg.conf doesn't really matter *that* much when it comes to my default display. 

I want to run at 1440x900 most of the time, but sometimes I want to run at 1024x768 to take advantage of the aspect ratio. If I CtrlAlt-/+ to my other mode, it really behaves like 1024x768@1440x900 (A viewport within a larger space). If I make the first mode 1024x768 and then CtrlAltBackspace to Zap and restart X, the login window is at 1024x768, but as soon as I login, it reverts to 1440x900.

I've discovered that whatever my Display Preferences are is what the desktop will ultimately load as. Is there a way to *not* load the Display Preferences and only respect my Xorg.conf ?

Here's my Xorg.conf as it stands
[html]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
    Option         "DontZap" "False"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GT/GTO"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768 +0+0; 1440x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/html]There's plenty more I want to do with my Xorg.conf and learn how to use xrandr, but this hurdle has me stumped. Also, are there any good tutorials for xrandr? There are some, but a little heavy for me yet.

---

### Post by Steneub on 2009-05-30
Since I'm messing with things now, and still haven't figured it out, I'll give more context and specific behaviors.

I'm trying to play Baldur's Gate through WINE. I want it to stretch across the screen and be distorted (in a perfect world, BG would support 16:10 displays. Second best would be black bars on the left and right, but that's a different goal entirely). 

When running from a Xorg.conf either from 1440x900 or 1024x768, or any other resolution, the game loads and runs fine, but is unstretched so the last bit of screen real-estate hangs off the bottom. Gross. Do not want.

When I set the resolution to 640x480 (no other 4:3 will work) from the Display Preferences, I get exactly what I want. The game runs slightly squished (It's really not that much from 16:10 to 4:3) and I can see everything.

So what gives?

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2009-05-30
You sound like an experienced Desktop Linux user;
but things are always changing.

xorg.conf and ctrl+alt+[+] and ctrl+alt+[-] are depreciated in favor of
the X11 Resize and Rotate extension, check out
```
man xrandr
```
You can now quickly whip up some panel launchers or shell scripts to change
resolutions
and never have to dig into xorg.conf again, something like
```
xrandr --output VGA --mode 1440x900
```
You may have to revert all previous xorg.conf customizations to enable automagic xrandr

---

### Post by Steneub on 2009-05-31
Not terribly experienced! I just read enough to be dangerous.

What do you mean revert all my previous Xorg.conf customizations? I do have a ton of backup files for previous dates. Are you saying I should wipe out the old stuff to clean it up?

I've heard tell of resetting the X11 folder to make it all fresh and new again - is that what you're suggesting, and how to you do it?

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2009-05-31
xorg is moving over to a config-less setup where everything is auto-detected;
about the only thing that sounds crazier than that is the fact that it's actually working okay!

the xorg.conf that I'm running off of right now looks like this,
I would think it would be good starting point for you to get into xrandr:
I just noticed, though, that you have nVidia, the line in [COLOR="Red"]red[/COLOR] is
not in mine but probably should be in yours:

```
# ... opening comment block ~20 lines

Section "Device"
   Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
[COLOR="Red"]   Driver      "nvidia"[/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
   Identifier  "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
   Identifier  "Default Screen"
   Monitor     "Configured Monitor"
   Device      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

^If you get up and running with a config file that empty,
you can use `xrandr` to set the rest "on-the-fly"

But, again, nVidia may complicate things more than I know;
that `nvidia-settings` GUI tool may be preferable to `xrandr` in your situation.

---

### Post by Steneub on 2009-05-31
That xorg.conf makes my desktop boot lightning fast! Thanks very much.

I've been fiddling with xrandr now, but it doesn't appear to do anything. Sometimes I make an error and it tells me what I did wrong, but most of the time I feed it a command and then... nothing.

Is there a good resource for xrandr other than the manpages that you could recommend, the stuff I'm finding is a bit outdated or not the solutions I'm looking for. For starters I just want to change the resolution. Baby steps, you know?

---

