---
title: "10.10: sometimes I get an ugly theme"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by magowiz82 on 2011-01-27
Hi,
it happens that sometimes I log in and I get an "ugly" theme : panels are grey and icons are different , some other icons don't appear . If I logout and login again I get back ubuntu original theme. Is there something I can do to avoid this?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-01-27
See this thread. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1575703](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1575703)

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2011-01-27
Hope this isn't a wide spread issue with 10.10

---

### Post by danootz on 2011-01-27
I'm having the same issue. It started yesterday.

I'll have had the computer off all night, boot it up in the morning, log in and the theme is old school looking gray panel etc and the icon set is the default icons I think.

If I log out and back in, it's fine. Sometimes the panel colors are as I want them but the icons don't change.

I never had this issue before.

---

### Post by jazzworksweb on 2011-02-06
this exact same thing has been happening to me also, ugly theme on first login, which I can "fix" by a logout and then another login. This "fix" is the worst kind of time wasting aggravating "fix" I can possibly imagine.

Note that this started happening basically immediately after a very recent fresh install (I just reinstalled 10.10 fresh sometime about 2 weeks ago now)

nothing has fixed it. I've tried everything, I've removed nvidia drivers, I've removed (proprietary broadcom) wireless drivers, I've deleted my ~/.gnome2 and ~/.gconf folders etc. 

I switched back to the "ambiance" theme and that fixed it for a single reboot but then on the next reboot the same problem was back. This is majorly annoying and very unprofessional. It makes me loose faith in Ubuntu :(

---

### Post by markthekdeguy on 2011-02-07
try Kubuntu ?

---

