---
title: "gui issue"
date: 2006-02-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by uthra on 2006-02-24
I installed ubuntu 5.10 (breezy) last night for a test drive. I was really delighted with the look and feel of the desktop. But I was really annoyed with one issue though. Every now and then I see a breakage in my mouse movement. That is whenever I'm moving the mouse in and around the desktop the movement stops for a while and then goes on smooth. This can be tolerated if it happens one or two times, but rather it's happenning every time. I found out that mostly it happens when I launch any new application or any program that uses gui, or sometimes it happens even when I'm working inside an application and trying to click another window. This is really irritating. At present we are planning to migrate to Ubuntu in our office and throw off windows. I'm very upset with this issue. I have a PIII 1GHz with 256mb laptop where I'm currently trying it out. I can't fully agree that the h/w is the issue, because I tried Ubuntu Live with my same laptop and I didn't face the issue. so it must be somewhere in the config where the problem lies which I'm missing out. Can someone pls help us?

---

### Post by lamego on 2006-02-24
I would open a terminal window an launch the following command:
```
tail -f /var/log/messages
```
Then try to block the gui.
If there is some unusal system event (hw or sw related) you may get a log entry there...
Do you have an "usual" mouse ? Do you feel only the mouse pointer blocks or the entire GUI ? 
Dou you believe you are using the correct graphical driver or do you know about your graphical driver at all ?
Some more info would help...
I don't have much experience with X troubleshooting, but posting your:
/etc/X11/xorg.conf
could help...

---

### Post by uthra on 2006-02-24
I'm using a logitech wireless mouse, but I also tried a ps/2 mouse and it didn't make any difference.

I couldn't quiet understand how to block the gui. can you pls explain the same....

I have ATI Rage Mobility Video card.

My xorg.conf file is given below:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "GLcore"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage Mobility P/M (AGP)"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage Mobility P/M (AGP)"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

---

