---
title: "8.04 firefox and terminal, bad fonts"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mentallysilent on 2008-04-29
Hello, 

After an upgrade from 7.10 to 8.04 I notice the fonts look terrible in firefox and terminal. Currently on an LCD with subpixel smoothing, and full hinting, dpi 96. 

Also why isn't there an ~/.fonts folder?

Is this a problem with rendering? Sorry I don't know much about Linux's font system. Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by adityakavoor on 2008-04-29
> **mentallysilent said:**
> Hello, 

After an upgrade from 7.10 to 8.04 I notice the fonts look terrible in firefox and terminal. Currently on an LCD with subpixel smoothing, and full hinting, dpi 96. 

Also why isn't there an ~/.fonts folder?

Is this a problem with rendering? Sorry I don't know much about Linux's font system. Any help is greatly appreciated.

you are better off installing MS fonts.

```
sudo apt-get install msttcorefonts
```

---

### Post by Urik on 2008-04-29
Done. The problem remains, even after playing with 
dpkg-reconfigure fontconfig-config.

---

### Post by mentallysilent on 2008-04-29
But I like the bitstream vera series fonts. Everything looked beautiful with 7.10. 
Thanks for the reply tho.

---

### Post by lamego on 2008-04-29
I have the same problem.

Please set the bug stats to "confirmed" :
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/220568](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/220568)

Thanks

---

### Post by cojoco on 2008-05-09
This bug has nothing to do with LCD smoothing.

In both Konqueror and Firefox3, my small fonts are rendered
without any smoothing.

In Konqueror, fonts look good; in Firefox3, they look bad.

These images are from [www.theregister.co.uk](www.theregister.co.uk)

I changed default font sizes from 10 to 9.

I have installed MS core fonts.

---

### Post by jensjk on 2008-05-14
Similar, though not quite the same problem: In 7.10, everything was smooth and beautiful in all apllications.
In 8.10, most are also, but not all:

---

