---
title: "9.10 gnome-display-properties doesn't repsond"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by carolinason on 2009-10-05
Installed 9.10 Beta 1 and applied updates. 

I have two monitors and use the display properties to configure them - this worked in 9.04.

Setting the refresh rate to 60hz works fine. I uncheck mirror screens and click apply, a dialog box is presented to choose yes or no to set the virtual resolution. I select yes and then the display properties box hangs. 

Looking in the system monitor i see that gnome-display-properties is sleeping. i can end the process, but obviously no changes are made.

Not sure how to log this, looked in the bug reports at launchpad and found similar issues, but nothing exactly like this one.

There is no xorg.conf in 9.10 that I can find.

---

### Post by carolinason on 2009-10-05
running gnome as root i can un-mirror the displays. permissions issue... also now the resolutions are stuck

edit -- magically i can now uncheck mirror as a regular user.
edit -- now changing the resolution on a display is hanging the dialog box
edit -- also another note to add is that after a bit gnome was realizing that the dialog was hanging and offered me to force quit the box

---

### Post by carolinason on 2009-10-05
9.10 beta 1 is a bear.

0. the graphical installer didn't work - used alternate cd
1. grub didn't install - fixed by booting with live cd and installed grub to the correct drive
2. dual monitors didn't work - after reinstalling 9.04 i had to disconnect a monitor and connect the second afterwards, so this might need to be repeated in 9.10
3. network had strange latency issues, both wired and wireless

i made sure the md5256sum was correct and checked the media.

9.04 is the best linux i've ran since some old red hat 7.0 releases, slackware back in the 9 and 10 days and debian's 3.x, 4 and 5. not sure what the deal is with u9.10

---

### Post by Bellopheron on 2009-10-14
Same problem here with the display preference app under Gnome 2.28.0 and Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic). Some fiddling about shows 

1. that I can unmirror the screens and have a dual screen desktop up to 1024 x 768 resolution on each. Pushing higher rez's brings up a monitor resolution/virtual desktop check box- checking "ok" instructs me to log out/ back in again (to no effect);

2. I cannot reposition the screens regardless of the resolution using the display preference app (no dragging screens around).

3. Have yet to try running the app as root; that's next.


Hardware: AMD Athlon 64, ATI Radeon X1300.

---

### Post by GoalieCa on 2009-10-14
I  can confirm. I have the same problem.

---

### Post by BadSeqtor on 2009-10-17
I have a similar problem - resolution on external Acer display can not be set higher than 1280x (supports 1650x).

---

### Post by starger on 2009-10-28
> **BadSeqtor said:**
> I have a similar problem - resolution on external Acer display can not be set higher than 1280x (supports 1650x).
 
Same for me: external monitor can be set to just 88x640.

---

### Post by Ledhed2222 on 2009-10-29
I just upgraded to the official 9.10 release and can confirm that my system crashes every time I try to unmirror the displays.

I've gotten them to mirror, but only if I disable the second monitor.  My laptop screen resolution sets fine.  I tried logging in as root, but this didn't help; it still froze. Software updates did not fix it.  Any solution?

---

### Post by nad2000 on 2009-11-02
I confirm the issue. After the upgrade 9.04-9.10 my system (Dell Latitude D420 with an external monitor connected to a dock) crashes every time I try to unmirror the displays.

I found a work-around:
- disable laptop display;
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=134314&stc=1&d=1257155826[/IMG]
- enable (turn on the display) external monitor;
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=134315&stc=1&d=1257155826[/IMG]
- unmirror & apply;

it worked, BUT, well, after closing the lid the system still crashed, but after booting up with closed lid, the external display was fine.

Cheers!

PS I have also changed xorg.conf setting virtual display:

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        SubSection "Display"
                Virtual 2960 2960
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

