---
title: "howto run Firefox with flash 10 and any other browser with flash 9?"
date: 2009-05-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Wanas on 2009-05-18
I love to play yoville on facebook but its not working on ubuntu 9.04 with flash 10, I tried google for a solution and I fount out that installing flash 9 will end the problem and you can play yoville safely.

But the problem is that I am very comfortable with flash 10 because I always watch live videos like in youtube and such .

So I decided to install opera and make it work with flash 9 to play yoville with, and not to destroy my firefox with flash 10 stability because flash 9 was not working well with me on ubuntu 8.04 it always crashes .

Can any one help me to make opera works with flash 9 without uninstalling flash 10 from firefox ?
I am using ubuntu 9.04 and opera alpha

---

### Post by disturbed1 on 2009-05-19
Uninstall the flash package. Obtain the tar.gz from Adobe for the wanted versions.

You can put plugins in the local directories of each program. For firefox - place the version of flash you want here (create the plugins directory if it does not exist).
$HOME/.mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so

Make sure libflashplayer is not also installed to /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins. This is in the search path for Opera and Firefox. Flash can not be installed globally.

Do the same for Opera, but Opera may require you to tell it where the plugin path is. This is in the settings, or $HOME/.opera/pluginpath.ini

---

### Post by Wanas on 2009-05-19
Worked as the book have said 
thanks disturbed1 
that what I wanted exactly 
problem solved by disturbed1 :D

---

### Post by racecarpete on 2009-05-23
Hi, I am trying to do the same thing.


However, in the home folder I only have my username. I do not have the .mozilla or .opera directories. Am I doing something wrong?

Thanks,
Peter

---

### Post by Wanas on 2009-05-23
> **racecarpete said:**
> Hi, I am trying to do the same thing.


However, in the home folder I only have my username. I do not have the .mozilla or .opera directories. Am I doing something wrong?

Thanks,
Peter

open your name (the folder) and then If your using nautilus (the gnome file manager) click view > show hidden files then you will see the .opera and .mozilla folders.

Hint:
any folder is named by dot at the first that means this folder is hidden.

---

### Post by racecarpete on 2009-05-24
Ok, so I had someone help me out. I got through the first half of it.

I uninstalled the flash package.

I then extracted the flash 10 install into $HOME/.mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so.

This is now working fine.

The problem is, I can not get opera working. 

I extracted the flash 9 install.tar.gz to $HOME/.opera/plugins/. I then edited the line in pluginpath.ini from 

```
Opera Preferences version 2.1
; Do not edit this file while Opera is running
; This file is stored in UTF-8 encoding

[Paths]
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins=1
/usr/lib/opera/plugins=1
```

to:

> Opera Preferences version 2.1
; Do not edit this file while Opera is running
; This file is stored in UTF-8 encoding

[Paths]
/home/peter/.opera/plugins=1
/usr/lib/opera/plugins=1

Now, I can not login to facebook or any other web page. 

Did I edit the file incorrectly?

---

### Post by Wanas on 2009-05-24
1: Is the folder in the home directory peter or Peter ?
2: Is the folder in the opera folder Plugins or plugins ?
because lower and upper case cares much in linux 
3: Are you sure that your flash9.tar.gz working ? try other ones from here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=980342](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=980342)

---

### Post by racecarpete on 2009-05-24
Ok I got it all working.

The weird part is, now everything is working in firefox. Thanks for the suggestion.

---

