---
title: "11.04 Global menu only when maximized?"
date: 2011-04-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by EthernetHub on 2011-04-27
I actually like some aspects of the global menu, but the reality is that a better solution for non-maximized windows is to just have the menu **in the titlebar**, and have title hide when you hover over it to reveal the menu, just like it does for maximized windows. You aren't losing any screen space with this solution.

Having to click on a window, then go all the way back to the top left of the screen is hardly a convenience, especially when using a touchpad. Does anyone know if there are plans to have an option for this, or is there a community fix out?

It just seems to me the most logical solution, and I'm sure many of you have thought of this as well.

---

### Post by Kasoroth on 2011-04-29
I agree with you 100% on this.  I hate separating the menu from its associated window, but I like the space saving.

I also like consistency.  Menu should always be in the title bar.  Maximized windows can merge window's menu/titlebar with OS bar.

I would also suggest having the menu be visible by default rather than title, with just a small application icon to the left of the menu.  Hover over icon to reveal full window title.  Make icon also a grab-able area for moving the window (in case the menu takes up the whole bar)

EDIT: Related Ubuntu Brainstorm idea:
[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/27520](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/27520)

One other option for dealing with the menu/title issue would be to let applications define "new-style" menus like Firefox 4 does (just one top level item, and it is the app name).  For apps that support this new menu style, the menu button would just go in the title bar next to the title.  These apps wouldn't need the application name in the window title since it's already on the button, so they could just have the current document name (if any) as the window title.

For apps that don't yet support the new menu style, they could toggle between title/menu by hovering, or (for more consistency with the "new" menus) have a small app icon that you can click on and have the top level of the old-style menu expand downward.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-04-29
Here is an opinion bug on basically that, don't quite see it being changed, but who knows
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/682788](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/682788)

Myself I just individually change for apps where the global menu is never quite suitable, about the best to be done ATM

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-04-29
I had a global menu PPA in 10.10 and it had the option to enable the menu in the application along with many other options . I have found no such preference settings in Unity so far.

---

### Post by summersab on 2011-05-01
I could have SWORN that the global menu was going to exist only for maximized windows - I think OMGUbuntu had a post on that. Furthermore, maybe it's just because I was tired when I installed it, but I thought that was the default behavior of a fresh install. A day later, everything is global, and I'm trying to figure out how to fix that. Is there a way to have "windowed" title bars with menus and global menus for only maximized windows?

---

### Post by dustinwind on 2011-05-01
it doesn't bother me that much. It's basically the same as MAC OS. It is a genius idea to save space. No more dock or systemtray at the bottom. No more both panel and title bar at the top of the screen. I quite like this idea. The only thing I concern about Unity is that it is not stable (far from being stable).

---

### Post by EthernetHub on 2011-05-01
> **dustinwind said:**
> it doesn't bother me that much. It's basically the same as MAC OS. It is a genius idea to save space. No more dock or systemtray at the bottom. No more both panel and title bar at the top of the screen. I quite like this idea. The only thing I concern about Unity is that it is not stable (far from being stable).

It's a great way to save space, and I like how it works for maximized windows, but I really don't see how it's a good idea for regular use to have the menu bar so far disconnected from a non-maximized program window. It isn't logical, and I can see it being confusing for users.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-01
> **dustinwind said:**
> it doesn't bother me that much. It's basically the same as MAC OS. It is a genius idea to save space. No more dock or systemtray at the bottom. No more both panel and title bar at the top of the screen. I quite like this idea.
It seems like you are confusing "title bar" with "menu bar". Right?

And I agree with *EthernetHub's* opinion.

---

### Post by HDave on 2011-05-02
> **EthernetHub said:**
> It's a great way to save space, and I like how it works for maximized windows, but I really don't see how it's a good idea for regular use to have the menu bar so far disconnected from a non-maximized program window. It isn't logical, and I can see it being confusing for users.

100% agree...especially given that there is no self-discoverable hint that it is up there and tons of programs don't work like that (e.g. Libre Office....which has default launch icons)!!!

Honestly, this whole thing is starting to feel like a debacle....

---

### Post by Charlski on 2011-05-02
Unity is pretty.

But I use classic no effect for the speed. Right-click each panel : auto-hide = saves space.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-02
> **Charlski said:**
> I use classic no effect for the speed. Right-click each panel : auto-hide = saves space.
Not bad, too. But you may want to enable compositing in Metacity, if you haven't done so already:
```
gconftool-2 /apps/metacity/general/compositing_manager --type bool --set true
```At least at my system Metacity works much better with it.

However, I don't want to miss most of Compiz' features, but the Cube and Wobbly Windows are none of them. ;-)

---

