---
title: "At 12.04 LTS time, then what?"
date: 2011-07-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DCmartiX on 2011-07-08
I run the Ubuntu LTS releases, so I have a standard 10.04.2 on right now. The machine only has built-in video, but it does have 2GB RAM and a 3GHz CPU: this is more than enough for what I do.

I got brave and installed Openbox WM. I can choose it as a session. I have even added pcman file manager and the avant task bar.

At 12.04 when Gnome is gone, can I expect Openbox and, if I install it, LXDE, to be broken?

Thank you.

Marti

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-07-08
> **DCmartiX said:**
> I run the Ubuntu LTS releases, so I have a standard 10.04.2 on right now. The machine only has built-in video, but it does have 2GB RAM and a 3GHz CPU: this is more than enough for what I do.

I got brave and installed Openbox WM. I can choose it as a session. I have even added pcman file manager and the avant task bar.

At 12.04 when Gnome is gone, can I expect Openbox and, if I install it, LXDE, to be broken?

Thank you.

Marti

if everything is working the way you want it to and you use it for very little then why change ;-)

There is no requirement to upgrade to the next version ever.

Alolt of people out there are still running 7.04 or 8.04 etc

if aint broke then dont fix it, dont get drawn into having the latest, especially as your needs are limited.

---

### Post by DCmartiX on 2011-07-08
I don't need the bleeding edge technology, but I do feel safer about at least getting the security and app updates (changes, bug fixes, etc.) with the LTS releases. That's why I just stay on them (2 years) vs, the 6 month releases.

Updates DO stop being available after 18 months (for non-LTS) and 3 years for LTS - unless I am misunderstanding something.

Still, if Unity could break it, a mini-iso install of 12.04 LTS with an apt-get of LXDE may be the way to go. I am not found of the "look" of Unity. I am NOT commenting on its technical aspect. I am NOT a programmer.

Marti

---

### Post by Purplerob on 2011-07-08
This is hard to answer now but that should still work. LTS releases are usually very stable rather than being bleeding-edge because of gnome 3 openbox might work differently. Gnome 3 might change this but in a year's time I expect this to be fixed. But you never know.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-07-08
Install the server LTS version (5 years of support) and install a WM/DE in it.

---

### Post by DCmartiX on 2011-07-08
Ah, server edition. Good idea. Thanks.

Marti

---

