---
title: "9.04 UNR Eee PC Mouse problems"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by weslson on 2009-04-24
Yesterday (4-24-2009) I installed Netbook Remix 9.04 on my Eee PC 900A.  The mouse is giving me a fit.  When you drag to where you want to click and raise your finger to then press to click, the mouse jumps across the screen.  Double clicking definitely suffers from this issue as its near impossible to get those two clicks in without the mouse moving across the screen.  I noticed that during beta testing some people had this same issue [HERE]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1104648&highlight=Netbook+Remix+Eee+PC") and [HERE]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1110341&highlight=Netbook+Remix+Eee+PC").  I have fiddled with the sensitivity and other mouse settings with no luck.

Has anyone seen this with their Eee PC and/or found a way to fix it????  

(note: Mouse worked fine in Crunchbang, Xubuntu, and 8.10)

UPDATE: This has been reported on [Launchpad.net]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/355326")

FIXED: Right now I'm about 20 minutes in with this new fix and it seems to have corrected the problem.

In /etc/modprobe.d/options.conf add the line "options psmouse proto=imps"
Restart

I personally did not have the options.conf so I just created it and added the quoted line above as the only thing in the file and its working great now

---

### Post by pteri498 on 2009-04-29
Thank you very much for posting the fix. I was hoping someone would do that soon. By the way, I think there's a way to tag your post as "Fixed" or something to make it easier for other people to find this solution. Forgot quite how to do that, thought.

---

