---
title: "18.10 starts with new desktop after resume"
date: 2019-02-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by drohhyn on 2019-02-22
Hallo,

**intro**: I am a long time ubuntu user and had problems like this years ago but not with any newer version of ubuntu. I have just upgraded from 18.04 to 18.10 about a week ago and had to re-install my graphic card's drivers to get some games running again. Before the upgrade everything was fine.

**problem**: When ubuntu suspends itself (Settings > Power > Automatic suspend (ON) > 30min) and I try to resume, the login screen appears. After typing in the (correct) password, lot's of flickering is starting (I have 3 screens), for a short glimpse the main screen is showing a new desktop and after that all the screens get dark again. When hitting a keyboard button the login screen comes back again, I re-enter the password and the new desktop is back again. All previous programs are shut down, so it is not a resume...
Just checked: it also happens when sending to suspend with the power button.

I have searched for a solution but most posts are about having issues when upgrading TO 18.04 not FROM, nevertheless the obvious tries all failed. Any guesses or some more information you might need to help me?

Thanks in advance
  drohhyn

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-02-22
> **drohhyn said:**
> All previous programs are shut down, so it is not a resume...

That's not a given. From your description the scenario that seems most likely to me is that it *does* suspend, and (probably) *does* resume, but then X crashes and then restarts. The first thing you get after an X restart is the login screen.

---

### Post by ubname on 2019-02-25
I have the same problem, i'm using nvidia binary driver and if i'm using an external monitor with HDMI cable (are you using HDMI?) the laptop suspends but all program previously opened are gone so I guess X is crashing.
This happens if nvidia is enabled; if intel is enabled it does not happen.

---

### Post by drohhyn on 2019-02-25
I am using 2 monitors with DP, running with Nvida GeForce GTX 907M, driver: nvidia-driver-415. When switching to driver-390, 396 or 410 I can't even login, X crashes instantly.
How do you enable your embedded graphic chip?

---

### Post by drohhyn on 2019-03-01
My xserver process is running as root, afair it wasn't in ubuntu 18.04 or am I wrong?
19036 root       20   0  289M 79592 38436 S  4.0  0.2  0:10.56 /usr/lib/xorg/Xorg vt7 -displayfd 3 -auth /run/user/1000/gdm/Xauthority -background none -noreset -keeptty -verbose 3

---

### Post by ubname on 2019-03-05
> **drohhyn said:**
> I am using 2 monitors with DP, running with Nvida GeForce GTX 907M, driver: nvidia-driver-415. When switching to driver-390, 396 or 410 I can't even login, X crashes instantly.
How do you enable your embedded graphic chip?

I have a pc with nvidia 950M an it woul freeze on boot, to install (both 18.04 and 18.10) I had to set the "nouveau.modeset=0" to grub boot menu, after that I can boot and install nvidia driver using the normal ubuntu gui ( selec drivers )
and simply switch prime profile to intel or nvidia, maybe, with your nvidia 907M you need to set that same parameter to avoid nouveau to take in and crash.

HTH.

---

