---
title: "8.04 Monitor/Rez annoyances (Taxan 875)"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ricster on 2008-04-29
Tarred up my 7.10 /home and installed 8.04 frome scratch, here's a rundown of my desktop resolution woes, hopefully in the form of constructive feedback!

Firstly it set the default resolution to something really really freaky, like 1280*768. My guess is that it looked at my intel p4 chipset (no idea what it is) and onboard video and assumed i was on a laptop or some such. But in reality I've got a clunky old 17" CRT.

I managed very easily to set it to 1024x768 60Hz on my desktop but the login screen stubbornly remained at the original rez.

I found and edited xorg.conf and it turned out there was no driver or monitor specified at all in there, so added my own "Virtual" section to specify the above rez, which the login screen respected.

So far so annoying, but i fixed it so the geeky part of me enjoyed the victory, but had the wife encountered the dodgy rez she wouldn't have gotten anywhere. (Though she's mostly happy with a year of ubuntu rather than XP so that's good!)

Anyway, I have two PCs on a manual monitor KVM switch and was on #2 when i booted the ubuntu box, but upon switching back found a dialog saying it couldnt detect the monitor. Fair enough, so i found it in the list, Taxan 875+. And it installed.

Now i had 800x600 at 75Hz or something, it does not like 800x600. in any Hz. Ever. Probably because it's old and crap^H^H^H^H faithful.

So i fiddled with the rez dialog and couldnt select 1024x768, it just wasnt there. 

So i rebooted, and this time i did have the 1024 option, but only at 75Hz.  Which the monitor did not like either.

I had a peek inside the xorg.conf and cant remember now but i'm fairly sure it looked like the 60Hz option was in there. Either way I couldnt convince the dialog to let me select it even with hacking the supported modes myself and rebooting a few times.

So I took out the decleration and went back to my earlier one with no monitor set up and the "Virtual" setting. I'll just have to boot with the Monitor switched over.

If there's a way I can hack the monitor's definitions (and contribute them back) i'm more than happy, if someone gives me pointers! I don't know how much of it's 75Hz complaining ise related to it's age however, but i do know that 60Hz is ok for 1024 an it should let me select it. (Though to be honest I'd probably just like an override "Let me select whatever rez/Hz i damned well please yes i know it might melt my eyeballs" option)

---

