---
title: ".Trash on other partitions"
date: 2006-08-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by asplode on 2006-08-15
Hello,

I have 2 hard drives in my computer.

The first one is partitioned like this:

/dev/sda1   *           1        2384    19149448+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            2385        9729    58998712+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5            2385        2652     2152678+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6            2653        4041    11157111   83  Linux
/dev/sda7            4042        5472    11494476   83  Linux
/dev/sda8            5473        9729    34194321   83  Linux

That being 2 linux distros (ubuntu & fedora core 5) a swap, and a home partition.

The 2nd hard drive is one large ext3 partition.

My problem is that when I deleted something on a partition that isn't root, it goes into its own separate .Trash-david folder in that partition, and I have to go to the mount point, unhide folders, and the delete it again from the trash there.  The empty trash button on the bottom right hand side doesn't automatically delete all the trashcans that GNOME makes.  Is there a way to have it do this, or to stop it from making multiple trashcans everywhere in the first place? (when I delete something, usually I mean it.)

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by sefs on 2006-08-15
i had a simular problem but just had ubuntu installed.  the second drive was a data drive only.  futher more when i delted directly from the hidden folder they created copies and multipled what i was trying to delete.  So i unmouted drive removed it from loading in fstab.  rebooted went into drives and formated my data drive.   when set back fstab rebooted and the seperate trash folder was gone.

---

### Post by asplode on 2006-08-15
But I don't want to format my data on the storage drive... because its my storage drive, and has about 130gb of various data on it.  I have nowhere to put it, and I dont want to burn 30 DVDs to back it all up.

---

### Post by stainless_steel on 2008-03-19
asplode: i am totally laughing at this thread. with that picture, you seem so angry about this. who knows? maybe you are.
anyways, im trying to do the same thing now. my guess is something like $ rm -a

what if you replaced .trash-dave with a symbolic link of the same name that linked to your main gnome trash?

---

### Post by stainless_steel on 2008-03-19
actually rm -r .trash-dave would probably be better. 
(hopefully you know to be careful with the rm command)

---

### Post by lapubell on 2008-03-19
just use shift-delete.

that issues the rm command not the "move to trash"  command.

---

### Post by stainless_steel on 2008-03-20
> **lapubell said:**
> just use shift-delete.

that issues the rm command not the "move to trash"  command.
sweet shortcut! i like it

---

