---
title: "11.04 x64 - Dell D820 - Nvidia - Compiz won't run"
date: 2011-06-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by armedmonkey on 2011-06-19
Sorry if this is the wrong forum. First post. I'm pretty new to Ubuntu, but I used the previous version and I had compiz working fine. Now with 11.04, like many people, i'm having issues.

I'm running a Dell Latitude D820 and a fresh / clean install of Ubuntu 11.04 x64. 
My graphics card is detected as nVidia Corporation G72M [Quadro NVS 110M/GeForce Go 7300]  (it's the NVS 110M - the Go is the non-oem version I believe). I'm running the recommended drivers from the Additional Drivers dialog.

I have tried running compiz --replace and unity --reset, but they both hang my laptop.

I'm not really sure what other information I need to provide, so please let me know. 

One more thing. When I run compiz --replace, it freezes on "starting unity-window-decorator"

Many thanks!

edit: compiz is not running, 
and I do have the compiz config manager installed.

when I run CCSM from terminal this is the output I get. Does anyone knwo what those errors mean?
[http://pastebin.com/2WJzw3ZU](http://pastebin.com/2WJzw3ZU)

note, this dump is from "Ubuntu Classic"; I get something similar if I run in Unity mode, but the profile says Unity.


I should also say that it looks like Unity will load, but will hang up the display after. For example, I'll see the drop shadows on the windows, the cursor will change if I'm hovering over a window border or something, but nothing on the UI will update. I can manage to click on my Terminal shortcut and type 'sudo reboot' and it will reboot, so it's just the gui that's crashing.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-20
Hi look in my signature it says reset unity and compiz, reset unity and compiz it will fix it up.
To get the cube working in natty use this link.
[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com...ty-ubuntu.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com...ty-ubuntu.html)
after you have finished with this guide and you change other settings it will mess up your windows again so just log out and back in and they will be fixed. If you stay with ubuntu classic you should look at this link.
[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/05/how-to-downgrade-to-compiz-086-in.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/05/how-to-downgrade-to-compiz-086-in.html)

---

### Post by armedmonkey on 2011-06-20
I used what you suggested in conjunction to downgrading to nvidia 173 drivers. apparently the current ones are bugged for my card. 

Only thing I can't get now is compiz to run automatically. I read that adding it to startup applications is bad because it runs on top of other things. Do you know what the best way is to get it to run on 11.04 ? 

I also tried changing the config for the classic gnome 2 session, but this causes my windows to load without decorators.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-20
> **armedmonkey said:**
> I used what you suggested in conjunction to downgrading to nvidia 173 drivers. apparently the current ones are bugged for my card. 

Only thing I can't get now is compiz to run automatically. I read that adding it to startup applications is bad because it runs on top of other things. Do you know what the best way is to get it to run on 11.04 ? 

I also tried changing the config for the classic gnome 2 session, but this causes my windows to load without decorators.Hi, compiz is installed and runs at start up by default in natty because unity plug in uses compiz, have you installed ccsm that lets you configure compiz. After you boot up use system monitor and see what process are running compiz should be there.

---

