---
title: "14.04 Gnome Flashback Config"
date: 2014-06-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2014-06-14
'Back in the day' you could configure menu items by right clicking the top left panel icon.  Can you perform a similar task (editing/adding menu items) in (14.04) gnome flashback?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2014-06-14
Just checked and it looks like it:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253942[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253943[/ATTACH]

Or you can open it here:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253944[/ATTACH]

Then you can edit the menus here:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253945[/ATTACH]

Is that what you mean?

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2014-06-14
Thanks - this is what I'm looking for.  Initial problem is I do not have **Main Menu** under System Tools, Preferences (or any where else).  According to Sysinfo my release is 14.04 (trusty) and I'm running GNOME 3.8.4 (Ubuntu 2014-03-17) - kernel 3.13.0-24

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2014-06-14
You can also launch that by running the command:

```
alacarte
```

No sudo needed.

You may find some other useful tips here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264)

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2014-06-16
When I create a Desktop icon (manually) it puts the script in ~/.local/share/applications/  but if I use the tweak tool to put a trash icon on my Desktop it puts the script (or I guessing it points to a an existing script) somewhere else.  Where else can you have Desktop icon scripts?

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2014-06-16
> **Quarkrad said:**
> When I create a Desktop icon (manually) it puts the script in ~/.local/share/applications/  but if I use the tweak tool to put a trash icon on my Desktop it puts the script (or I guessing it points to a an existing script) somewhere else.  Where else can you have Desktop icon scripts?

No idea :confused:

---

