---
title: "8.10 Ibex -  Problems with applications suddenly, and unexpedly quitting"
date: 2008-12-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by paulinator on 2008-12-15
Here are a few strange things that are happening that, I believe, may all be related since most or all of them started just last evening.

Maybe someone has someone has some ideas.  I have none, really.

(I'm fairly new to linux - so I have no idea how to fix this...)



1.  If you hold your mouse cursur over an MP3 icon it should play the media as a sample without having to double click on it and run an application.

This no longer works for me, since last night.

 

2.  Amarok will not run and I get a message, "Could not launch the mail client:".  It stopped working last night.



3.  If I right-click on an MP3 and select "Properties" the window containing the the MP3's immediatly closes.  Started last night.



4.  If I run Deluge for a while - maybe 3 or 4 minutes - it suddenly and unexpectedly closes and disipears from off my desktop Gnome Panel or task tray.  This started last night, I believe.



5.Firefox web browser closes when I go almost anywhere, and if I try to go into: "File< Preferences" the program immediatley quits.  I think this also started last night.


Any ideas?

---

### Post by telocity on 2008-12-26
Hi,
       I updated to 8.10 recently on our church PC for recording.  I have been having the same issue mostly with Brasero disk burning software.  It seems to happen randomly with several programs mostly when checking preferences or changing something in the case of Brasero it happen when I change how I want to burn a disk.  I have switched to KB3 and have not had the issue.  I am worried audacity may suddenly quit while in the middle of a sermon.  If this is a common issue I will switch back to a earlier version of Ubuntu.  Let me know if anyone has a solution or knowledge of this issue.

---

