---
title: "Resolution Issues"
date: 2008-02-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Salazar420 on 2008-02-17
Recently I enabled a second monitor to my vga port on my laptop. Using the Screens and Graphics tool, I enabled the second monitor in a "clone" function. All seemed to be going well... and then I tried to extend my desktop.

As you can imagine, it did not follow through well; hence my being here, asking for assistance. I can not be sure why this happened, but the end result is as follows in my xorg:

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	0
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	1
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

...and, the most unsettling affect, by far, I'm bound by a 640x480 resolution at 60 Hz, as I'm sure you noted above. Now, I could go so far as to add resolution modes in my xorg.conf, but that definitely would not solve the problem.

If anybody could shed some light on what might've happened and, more importantly, how to correct this with the avoidance of a reinstall, I'd be forever grateful. You see, I just managed to configure everything to my liking, (well, of course, not *everything,* seeing as how that'd be like using 100% percent of the brain, despite our lesser capabilities), and, as one could obviously assume, I'd just much rather avoid the whole mess.

As a footnote: I'd like to find some means of ensuring that the rightclick button on the keyboard -- what is it, a menu button? -- would always right click wherever my cursor is, despite whether or not I've already selected a window, or section, or not. Any ideas?

If you guys could shed some light on this mess, seriously, I'd appreciate it.

P.S. I have the Mobility Radeon 9600, in case that helps.

---

### Post by Salazar420 on 2008-02-19
OMFG, am I really so ignorant that I didn't see the obvious solution right there, in front of me the whole time, obscured only by my too blatant, yet apparently non-perpetual obliviousness. It's a wonder I can even see [I]that.[I] Anyway, I can't blame you guys for not pointing the obvious out to me; it was, after all, right in front of my face...

On another note, I'm happy to announce that this mess is all over for me, now. I'm off to watch some stuff at tv-links.cc. Later.

---

