---
title: "Nvidia (again, eh) and stuck Rez on LCD"
date: 2006-01-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pwrstick on 2006-01-06
Thanks in advance to anyone who helps!

Hello!  What an adventure this is.  I'm a windows user primarily, trying to get into Linux, and I'm finding the installation of my graphics card somewhat cumbersome.

Now, I think I have my 6800GT installed.  I get the Nvidia logo, glxgears works, and things (screensavers) seem to be running quickly.  Don't know what else to test.

So now the problem is I can't get over is 1024x768.  I own a Samsung 970p LCD monitor, and am unable to locate the vertical and horizontal refresh rates.  In fact, I don't think they exist, because it is an LCD, but what do I know.  Other threads have mentioned it, so I gave it a shot.

And I've got at least 5 hours invested in getting the frigging graphcis working, so I'm down for whatever.  Anyway, here's my xorg.conf:
(Note that I added the 1280x1024 in hopes of freeing that up, but I have a hunch that the real problem lies in the monitor tag.)

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6800 GT]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6800 GT]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by tokyovigilante on 2006-01-06
Try adding the line
```
Option "NoDDC"
```

to your [Monitor] section, and modifying your HorizSync and VertRefresh to:
```

HorizSync 30-75
VertRefresh 50-160
```

Then Ctrl-Alt-Del to restart the xserver. You may also need to enter startx at the commandline if it doesn't automatically come back up.

I think the important bit is to have HorizSync at least 75 max, as this is high enough to hit 1280x1024. I need to do this with my Dell e773s (CRT I know) to hit 1280, as the DDC on the monitor lies and says 1024x768 is the highest res it supports. I couldn't google anything interesting about your monitor, but if the DDC is lying as well, the NoDDC option will disable it. I don't think setting excessive sync ranges can hurt an LCD.

Probably wise to back up your xorg.conf before modifying the above, as if the above doesn't work you'll be stuck at the terminal. Alternatively you can use dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg to set the above up and get back to normal if it doesn't work for you.

---

### Post by pwrstick on 2006-01-06
And lo, the screen rez was set to 1280x1024.

And it was good.

Thank you very much.

---

### Post by tokyovigilante on 2006-01-06
Awesome, glad to help.

---

### Post by IFZen on 2007-10-07
Hi, 
Just solved the exact same problem after a long unsuccessfull running around (and some panicking moments : no mouse ? where is my mouse ?)
Thanks a lot for the solution. Can enjoy ma full screen capacity now ! great !
:guitar:

---

