---
title: "10.10 crash when adding new panel"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ubfu on 2010-10-13
A warning for those who adding a new panel at desktop.
10.10 just crash when adding new panel at the bottom after restart.

I dont know why but it just wouldn't boot into the desktop , only able to see the wallpaper.

Make sure you guys backup the current panel before proceed a restart.

> Eg. use "gconftool --dump /apps/panel > backup.xml" to save your settings and to restore using "gconftool --load backup.xml".
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1091770](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1091770)

---

### Post by ubfu on 2010-10-14
No one had this problem ? 
how do I report it as a bug ?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-10-14
Moved to Desktop Environments by request.

---

### Post by sophiem on 2010-11-23
This happened to me. I tried to add a panel. The whole thing froze. Now when I restart, I get stuck with the default wallpaper and not a lot else. I can restart in graphical failsafe mode. 

What do I do? I ran update manager and it all seems fairly happy.

Not sure what to do with the commands you posted now that it has crashed and refuses to budge.

---

### Post by layr on 2011-01-04
+1 here. I just migrated to Ubuntu, and it's starting to appear Linux ain't no better than win, when it comes to crashing. It's far from stable.
This time my system crashed, when i opened properties for the top panel and changed the orientation to right. System froze up. I tried it second time too - same case. After rebooting the panels and their contents remained unchanged, fortunately, although it had to be reorganised as everything was pretty f-ed up.

Also, is it normal when creating a new panel, for instance to the left, mark it to autohide, and when it hides itself, you won't be able to unhide it anymore? It's just there and you can't use it whatsoever.

Edit: can anyone confirm whether this bug has been reported? Couldn't find exactly the same report.

---

### Post by jmacgowan1 on 2011-01-04
I have the exact same problem in 10.10. I created a new panel - worked fine on the right side, but the system froze when I moved it the bottom. I restarted the system: in safe and a normal boot, but all I have is wallpaper - no other options available. Thankfully I left WinXP on half my disk drive - I can at least get to the internet still.
I'm new to Linux and am not familiar with commands. Please help. 
Thank you!

---

### Post by nklnsk on 2011-01-04
Me to on 10.04. 2 hours ago. Same issue.

pls help

---

### Post by nklnsk on 2011-01-04
People,

try with this command:

gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel && killall gnome-panel

Nothing hapend in terminal (ctrl+alt+F2) but after restart with live cd it just get fine. Panels looks like defolt.

---

### Post by layr on 2011-01-05
> **jmacgowan1 said:**
> I have the exact same problem in 10.10. I created a new panel - worked fine on the right side, but the system froze when I moved it the bottom. I restarted the system: in safe and a normal boot, but all I have is wallpaper - no other options available. Thankfully I left WinXP on half my disk drive - I can at least get to the internet still.
I'm new to Linux and am not familiar with commands. Please help. 
Thank you!
Hehe I too left XP on the second partition for the migrating time. Anyway, why can't you go to the Internet/open any other app? alt + F2 and type "firefox" or any other program/ command and you're good to go.

---

### Post by jmacgowan1 on 2011-01-05
Still nothing... I've tried booting in both safe-mode and normal boot, but to no avail. I'm still getting wallpaper with zero other options. Tried running a check, but I got the following message: "Check syslog for diagnostic" - "fail"
It just freeze up totally after I log in. When I log in in 'safe mode' the bottom panel comes up and jumps around a bit, but there are still no option available. alt+k brings me back to log in screen...
It must be something simple I'm overlooking, but being new to Linux = I have no earthly idea what it might be;)

---

### Post by layr on 2011-01-05
> **jmacgowan1 said:**
> Still nothing... I've tried booting in both safe-mode and normal boot, but to no avail. I'm still getting wallpaper with zero other options. Tried running a check, but I got the following message: "Check syslog for diagnostic" - "fail"
It just freeze up totally after I log in. When I log in in 'safe mode' the bottom panel comes up and jumps around a bit, but there are still no option available. alt+k brings me back to log in screen...
It must be something simple I'm overlooking, but being new to Linux = I have no earthly idea what it might be;)
As i'm obviously as familiar w/ Ubuntu as you are, i'd recommend format and clean install. Or.. didn't the Live CD include a repair tool of some kind? I wrote over mine so i can't check.
You have XP partition, backing up data should be no biggie;)

PS as i pressed "Submit reply" the first time, my system crashed (actually i was able to swich between desktops, open new windows, but anything other didn't work) and rebooted:D:D It's starting to feel like a bad habit of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by jmacgowan1 on 2011-01-07
I'm beginning to think you're right - re-install and go from there. I really like Ubuntu and the fact that it's open source, but I think they released this version a bit too soon. I updated my drivers (new computer system; very new graphics processor that even made windows crash), so it might very well be that ATI is to blame for this issue:confused:.
Thanks for the help!  I hope the weather's not treating you too terribly there in Estonia, my friend!):P

---

### Post by anthonyvo on 2011-01-07
Can you load grub? If you can, try the previous kernel... I believe it ends in 22.

---

### Post by Qwerty9119 on 2011-03-22
Does anyone know if this bug has been reported? I just went through the exact same process of adding a panel to the bottom and gnome/ubuntu 10.10 crashed.

Only wallpaper on reboot. Removed the configuration using gconftool as above and reloaded a configuration that I backed up from another laptop (gconftool again).

Q

---

