---
title: "n00b... operation not permitted"
date: 2006-01-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Bubs on 2006-01-25
ok I admit I'm a complete N00B but I installed limewire throught the command line.

and I don't like it and want to remove it

so I found it in the /opt directory

so in the command line I di a cd /opt

then tried to rmdir LimeWire

but then I get a message saying that I don't have permission.  So I tried to change permissions using chmod but it still tells me that I can't do it.

WHY?  What am I doing Wrong?

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-01-25
You don't have permissions to **change** the permissions, either ;)

You can run "sudo rm -r Limewire" - sudo gives you super-user privileges.  Nothing is denied to you!  (oh, and I don't think rmdir will work unless the directory is empty.  rm -r will delete the directory & everything in it)

---

### Post by hscottyh on 2006-01-25
sudo rm -r * will. But you better be sure where your at!!! It will wipe out an entire tree. Which could wipe out and entire system unless you know exactly where you are at!!!!!!

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-01-25
[QUOTE=hscottyh]sudo rm -r * will. But you better be sure where your at!!! It will wipe out an entire tree. Which could wipe out and entire system unless you know exactly where you are at!!!!!![/QUOTE]
That's why you should go "sudo rm -r LimeWire".  Then, the worst that can happen is that the LimeWire directory is removed.  "sudo rm -r *" is a recipe for **unpleasantness** :cool:

---

### Post by Bubs on 2006-01-30
this is what I get when trying to remove it...

also when I found it in the /opt directory the folder has a little red "x" on it.. don't know if that helps.

plus It wouldn't bother me that its on my drive but I have limited space and don't want clutter that I don't use



bubs@ubuntu-bubs:/opt/LimeWire$ sudo rm -r
rm: too few arguments
Try `rm --help' for more information.
bubs@ubuntu-bubs:/opt/LimeWire$ sudo rm -r LimeWire
rm: cannot remove `LimeWire': No such file or directory

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-01-30
You are in the wrong directory. The LimeWire folder is in /opt, but you typed that in /opt/LimeWire. So it is trying to find the directory /opt/LimeWire/LimeWire which does not exist. So move to /opt and try again:
```
cd /opt
sudo rm -r LimeWire
```
You can list folders and files with the *ls*-command

---

### Post by Bubs on 2006-01-30
YES!!! 

                    thats it

 it worked thank you!

---

### Post by Bubs on 2006-01-30
but I thought that I tried that once before.  but for some reason it worked this time

---

