---
title: "Extended Dual Monitor Help!"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Deathwish238 on 2009-10-03
I have two monitors hooked up via DVI-D to my Sapphire Radeon HD4850 X2.  The main monitor is a Dell 2209WA and the secondary is an Acer X223w.  They both have a 1680x1050 resolution

Currently, after installing Ubuntu 9.04, the monitors are cloned.

However, I need to have an extended desktop so I can display different things on each monitor.  They're both running at 1280x1024 which I need changed to 1680x1050 as well.



The immediate problem I see is in the Display preference, it just sees one monitor and calls it Unknown.  Refresh rate is at 0Hz apparently(obviously wrong) and the highest resolution I can select is 1280x1024.  Hitting Detect Monitors does nothing.


What should I do or try?  I really need two separate workspaces and it's driving me crazy that Windows does it without hassle but Ubuntu just won't.

---

### Post by Owlman on 2009-10-04
Had the same problem. Unchecked the Mirror Screens option and got separate monitors. My only problem is, I like to use the right hand monitor as the main monitor, but I can't figure out how to tell Ubuntu that. It insists on making the left monitor the main one, with the start bar and all that stuff.

Any ideas anybody?...

BTW had this working in 8.04, but can't remember how I did it!

---

### Post by Deathwish238 on 2009-10-04
Couldn't you switch the inputs each monitor uses?

I don't think Mirror Screens is checked.

---

### Post by Deathwish238 on 2009-10-04
I don't think this is right...my xorg.conf has no info for my video card.

What should I add to it?




GNU nano 2.0.9           File: /etc/X11/xorg.conf                             

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by lirel on 2009-10-04
you can try
$ xrandr --output OUTPUT1 --right-of OUTPUT0
where OUTPUT1 and 0 are the names of the screens reported by
$ xrandr

---

### Post by Deathwish238 on 2009-10-04
Here's what my xrandr says:

```
akroy@DaDesktop:~$ xrandr
Xlib:  extension "Generic Event Extension" missing on display ":0.0".
Screen 0: minimum 640 x 400, current 1280 x 1024, maximum 1280 x 1024
default connected 1280x1024+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1280x1024       0.0* 
   1152x864        0.0  
   1024x768        0.0  
   800x600         0.0  
   640x480         0.0  
   720x400         0.0
```



Edit:
Don't like this either:
```
akroy@DaDesktop:~$ aticonfig --initial=check
Check: No fglrx section.

```

---

### Post by Deathwish238 on 2009-10-05
Another fresh install and 4 hours later after much headache, I'm running a 3360x1050 desktop across my two 22" monitors.

[I followed this guide]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_drivers_manually")

---

