---
title: "9.10 Karmic: Blank display after fiddling with GDM and login screens"
date: 2009-12-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tankishev on 2009-12-16
Hi guys,
I gust installed Ubuntu 9.10 on a Lenovo x61 laptop this week and it is my first linux experience.
The installation went with no problem and everything including hot-keys and display were set-up correctly.

**I.Messing around:**
Last night I decided to do some customisation and downloaded a new login screen. Then the following occurred:

1) I followed these instructions to set up the login screen:
[html]http://www.ubun2.com/question/293/how_ubuntu_change_login_screen_window_appearance_910[/html]2) Decided not to change through the gnome-control-centre but rather followed these instructions to downgrade my GDM to 2.20
[html]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8506641[/html]3) Installed the new login using System --> Administration --> Login Window

**II. After reboot I have the the following symptoms:**
1) after the splash-screen my display goes blank with only a cursor on top and it stays that way (connected external display is also blank)

2) next, should I press Enter I get a message for a split second saying that the Xserver is already running on DISPLAY:=0.

3.1 (**If I have external monitor connected**) next, should I press Enter once more I gent a message that display 0. is busy and Xserver is switching to display .1 (detects the external monitor) and I can see my new GDM login window on the external monitor. I log in and then I use Fn-F7 hotkey and get my laptop display working!

3.2 (**If I don't have external monitor connected**) next, I start typing my username and then my password as if I see the login although the screen is blank ..... press enter and I log in and everything is fine.

4. Once logged in should I log out I can see the log-in screen with no problems.

**III. If I boot with the (recovery option):**
I just type "gdm" on the console and everything loads as if normal (I get my new login screen and then proceed as normal)

**IV. Screaming for Help!!!**
Please help me fix that ;)

PS: I have tried removing gdm and installing it again but no change.
PS2: I also tried fixing it with this:

[COLOR=DarkSlateGray]4. Now you have to fix the broken gdm.conf. Enter[/COLOR][INDENT][COLOR=DarkSlateGray]cd /etc/gdm[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=DarkSlateGray]sudo sed &#8217;s|X11R6/||&#8217; gdm.conf >/tmp/gdm.conf[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=DarkSlateGray]sudo mv /tmp/gdm.conf .[/COLOR]
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by tankishev on 2009-12-16
**V. New developments**
I discovered that if I boot in (recovery mode) and on the next menu select to resume normally my logon screen appears.

This leads to believe that something is messed up with the X server and it starts correctly only with the settings of the recovery mode.

Also my resolution in recovery mode is normal - 1024x768 .. (this is the maximum for the x61)

Any ideas????

---

### Post by tankishev on 2009-12-17
UP :confused:

---

