---
title: "8.10, nVidia GeForce 8400M, Sony W4000 resolution problem"
date: 2008-12-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by karhulitos on 2008-12-14
Hello,

I need some help again from you all. I tried to search for this problem without success.

I have an Ubuntu 8.10 test install running on USB stick to see how it works before upgrading 8.04. So far I haven't been able to upgrade.

Problem is secondary monitor (is this called dualhead?). The visible part seems to be limited to 1440x900.

[LIST]
[*]This is an Acer 7520G laptop with internal 1440x900 display. It works fine.
[*]nVidia driver is the 180.16 beta one. Also works fine.
[*]Secondary display is a Sony KDL-40W4000 TV set with 1920x1080 resolution.
[*]Sony is connected to laptop with DVI-HDMI cable
[*]"Separate X screen" is used from nVidia settings, not "Twinview"
[/LIST]

I have same setup with 8.04 "production" laptop (with nVidia 173* driver) and all works fine. Sony is really a separate X screen where I have own panels and things and all programs started there just show up there. Sony shows clear and vivid 1920x1080 desktop while laptop shows it's own 1440x900 screen 0. Beautiful.

The problem is with Intrepid that Sony's visible screen appears to be 1440x900 started from upper left corner so that I get black areas to bottom and right side of the screen.
Now follow carefully. Although I said resolution problem in the subject I think it is not a resolution problem after all.

[LIST]
[*]nVidia-settings reports Sony being a 1920x1080 screen
[*]I can see mouse cursor moving also on the black area but no programs use full area, wallpaper is 1440x900, bottom and right panels cannot be seen
[*]the picture (or what I see from it, 1440x900 part) is crystal clear so no up/downscale is happening
[*]If I move the top panel to bottom (my personal default) it really goes to bottom of 1080, I just don't see it as I have the black part on that 900 - 1080px area
[*]when I log in or log off, I can see wallpaper briefly at 1920x1080 size
[*]if I open for instance Home Folder from screen 1's (Sony TV) panel, system opens the folder on the laptop's screen 0. On 8.04 it did open it on Sony instead
[/LIST]

My first 8.10 test was an upgrade from 8.04 and this very same problem existed there too (this was the nr 1 reason to revert back to 8.04) with nVidia 173* or 177* driver which came with the upgrade.

Could this be some sort of Xorg/gdm related issue or misconfiguration instead of video driver/resolution issue?

Would anyone have any hints for me to proceed?

Kind regards,
Timo

[edit] damn, didn't use google when searching. At least I'm not alone: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6333696](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6333696). Disabling desktop effects did solve the black screen problem. Home folder still seems to open only on laptop screen so hints are still welcomed.

---

