---
title: "What about a mini Ubuntu's distro for USB?"
date: 2006-08-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by carontis on 2006-08-07
I've seen many distro (as Knoppix with DSL) give also such s kind of power to use them in a USB pen (or USB disk if you prefere), but Ubuntu has only the live CD with those -/+ 600 mb. Is it possible include also a little ISO file of about 50/60 Mb to be installed on a USB pen? I think it would be really great above all to all those that would try Ubuntu in a minimal distro. I'm not a compiler or programmer, so I leave to them the job. 

When will we see an Ubuntu-mini distro? Will it be possible? Let us know.

Regards

---

### Post by christhemonkey on 2006-08-07
You can install ubuntu from usb ([like this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=80811"))
but only if your usb stick is large enough to hold the full install iso.

As for a mini-ubuntu, i dont know of anyone working on such a project myself, but who knows, you could start one ;)

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-08-07
What would the advantage of having a mini Ubuntu be? Just asking..
We already have DSL and Puppy as small mini distros.

---

### Post by carontis on 2006-08-07
Christhemonkey: simply to have possible use (for deeperate times);
Lord Illidan: well and why not also an Ubuntu mini-distro? 

For all: I used mini distro to correct errors and to show the speed of a Linux distro. I know there are many mini distro around the net, but as Ubuntu has the live CD I think it could be a "cherry on the cake" having also a mini distro on a USB pen (those with 128 Mb space). 
But you know... it's what I was thinking, so I don't pretend anything... it was only generated by a question inside myself: why I have to use another distro for (when it happens) correcting some error pr something I did wrong?
I tried with live cd but it never gave me chance to erase a folder; I had to use another distro (omissis) for having the asked result. Is it so bad what I'm asking?

---

