---
title: "{mate}   /ver/crash logs missing in log file viewer."
date: 2022-07-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by lazlo-lebrun-q on 2022-07-11
Hi,

I had an irritating error:
system program problem detected.
I have scrutinized for hours all logs in the log file viewer and did not find anything...
:sad:

It turned out to be a file in /log/crash.
Deleted that file in /var/crash and the problem did not return.

But why aren't the files in /var/crash listed in the log file viewer from Mate by default?

Can I get the log file viewer to list these logs as well?
How?

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2022-07-11
Probably not. The crash report files are generated by apport. After a crash apport generates the report, shows you a dialog with the options to view the report and / or send it off to canonical, and after you have made your choices the report gets send off (or not) and then erased. Files in /var/crash sticking around happens, but that's a bug - or at least a mis-feature - in apport (and leads to the same crash being reported to you more than once, usually after a reboot, and usually with a message about a system program problem since apport assumes that a report in /var/crash/ must have been generated during the last shutdown or the boot process ... the way it's meant to work there shouldn't be a report sticking around). 

Add to this that the naming pattern for crash reports is very different from normal log files (the name of a crash report is the path and name of the crashed program with all the slashes in the path being replaced with underscores and the extension '.crash') so there isn't a fixed name for a file to open and show in the log viewer.

The information in a crash report is also very technical, to make sense of it you need to be an advanced user - or better a programmer who knows the language the program is written in - and have at least the debugging symbols for the program installed or better the source of the crashed program.

Holger

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-07-12
[https://vitux.com/view-system-log-files-ubuntu/](https://vitux.com/view-system-log-files-ubuntu/)

seems you can open log files as you need. Personally I'd suggest using terminal and grepping for what you need

---

