---
title: ".thumbnails?"
date: 2006-01-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Bou on 2006-01-18
Hi, I just read this in the Comix changelog:

> Comix now conforms to the thumbnail managing standard as proposed by freedesktop.org. Thumbnails for plain image files can be read and written to ~/.thumbnails where they are shared with other applications conforming to the same standard.

So, can you set a .thumbnails folder and have all your thumbnails stored there and Nautilus use them? cause that would be great, I have an MP3 folder with tons of albums, each of them with its front picture as a thumbnail, and it takes ages to open the first time. Then it's stored in the memory or something, cause after the second time it takes no time. But first time, it's Hell.

well, what about .thumbnails folder?

---

### Post by twisted_steel on 2006-01-18
I'm no expert, but I think I have an idea of how the .thumbnails folder works. Nautilus uses it to store the image previews of files you have previously looked at, which is why the second time, your album thumbnails will show up right away.

Now for my thoughts on how they do this ...

Each time nautilus (or gphoto, or one of the other apps), goes to display the thumbnail, it calculates some sort of hash on the file (maybe [md5]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Md5")). It looks to see if that new hash value is located in either .thumbnails/fail/ or .thumbnails/normal/. If it's in the normal directory, it displays that image, if in the fail, it doesn't display a preview. If it isn't in either folder, it creates a thumbnail from the original image and saves it in .thumbnails/normal/ if it worked, or .thumbnails/fail/ if it couldn't create a preview. This must take a decent (noticeable) amount of time, which is why the first time takes a while, and the next time, it will load right away.

You can take a look at the thumbnails you currently have in your directory by opening Nautilus and hitting CTRL+L, which will give you the location box. Type in */home/user/.thumbnails*, where user is your username, and you should be able to see the thumbnails in the 'normal' folder.

---

### Post by twisted_steel on 2006-01-18
It looks like I was fairly close to what Nautilus actually does - it calculates the MD5 value for the filename, rather than the file itself.

In case anyone is interested, the spec is [here]("http://jens.triq.net/thumbnail-spec/thumbsave.html"), and the actual code is [here]("http://cvs.gnome.org/viewcvs/libgnomeui/libgnomeui/gnome-thumbnail.c").

---

### Post by ossi on 2006-01-18
Thumbnailing with Nautilus doesn't work anymore for me since I had a crash of gthumb. The programs work again, but I somehow can't get thumbnailing to work again - I even reinstalled all the packages and programmes. Is it likely something in the rights management has changed due to reinstall? Any other reasons it doesn't work anymore who are likely? Preview for pictures (only for those) lets Nautlilus crash.

---

### Post by Bou on 2006-01-18
[QUOTE=twisted_steel]If it's in the normal directory, it displays that image, if in the fail, it doesn't display a preview. If it isn't in either folder, it creates a thumbnail from the original image and saves it in .thumbnails/normal/ if it worked, or .thumbnails/fail/ if it couldn't create a preview.[/QUOTE]

You were right. However, you mean looking for about 70 thumbnails should take 3 or 4 seconds? Because that's what Nautilus takes to open the folder.

Anyway, Nautilus seems to have trouble thumbnailing some images. Look:

[IMG]http://img453.imageshack.us/img453/5483/pantallazonormal9nn.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by pmj on 2006-01-19
You can set the maximum file size for files to be previewed (thumbnailed) in the settings for Nautilus. I'm guessing these files are larger than the maximum size you have set.

---

### Post by HerrEkberg on 2006-01-19
Since those files are in the ~/.thumbnails/normal folder, where all files should be 128x128 px maximum, that seems unlikely. I don't know why Nautilus behaves this way though.

---

### Post by Bou on 2006-01-19
[QUOTE=pmj]You can set the maximum file size for files to be previewed (thumbnailed) in the settings for Nautilus. I'm guessing these files are larger than the maximum size you have set.[/QUOTE]

No, I assure you they aren't. They're all front covers, 200x200. And the thumbnails (the ones from the screenshot) are all 128x128 MAX, just like HerrEkberg said.

BTW some curious thing: I downloaded lots of different copies of Aerosmith's Nine Lives Album, and while bein random, unrelated images all of them showed the same behavior. Can someone please try?

---

### Post by twisted_steel on 2006-01-20
[quote=Bou]BTW some curious thing: I downloaded lots of different copies of Aerosmith's Nine Lives Album, and while bein random, unrelated images all of them showed the same behavior. Can someone please try?[/quote]

I tried two 200x200 images found when [searching]("http://images.google.com/images?hl=en&q=Aerosmith%20Nine%20Lives%20cover&btnG=Google+Search&sa=N&tab=wi") Google Images, and they both worked, as well as the 300x300 image from last.fm.  Do you happen to know where you got the images that are not previewing?

---

### Post by Bou on 2006-01-20
[QUOTE=twisted_steel]Do you happen to know where you got the images that are not previewing?[/QUOTE]

Well... searching Google :confused: The first one in your link (300x300) doesn't work for me, for example.

I wonder if I should fill a bug, the whole issue seems not so important.

---

### Post by nszabolcs on 2006-01-30
I have the same problem.
I had a directory full of images and thumbs were ok, but new images, i added later, are not displayed.
It seems like i need to tell nautilus to refresh its thumbnail cache or there is some limit on .thumbnails which prevents creating new thumbnails. (size of my .thumbnails folder is 29MB)

---

### Post by nszabolcs on 2006-01-30
ok i solved it
somehow nautilus was unable to create the tumbnails but afer i opened my directory with another image browser (gqview) the missing thumbnails were generated so every image is ok again (well, when i moved a picture to another folder the tumbnail was lost so i had to regenerate it).

---

### Post by mustang on 2006-01-30
[QUOTE=pmj]You can set the maximum file size for files to be previewed (thumbnailed) in the settings for Nautilus. I'm guessing these files are larger than the maximum size you have set.[/QUOTE]

Thank you sir. That was bugging the hell out of me. Good to know there is a fix.

---

