---
title: "9.10 was worse for me than 9.04"
date: 2010-01-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nukenate on 2010-01-16
I've had the Dell Vostro 13 preloaded with Ubuntu 9.04 for five days now and today noticed that I could upgrade to 9.10.

I realize that this could go under "Dell Support" but since I'm more concerned with Karmic Koala than getting help with my Dell system I posted here. I apologize if I should have posted this in the Dell section of the forum.

Anyhow, the issues I've had with Ubuntu:

1st thing I noticed was that the Opera web browser, Epiphany, and Firefox was no longer stable.

2nd, the Internet was significantly slower. Pages that use to load in under 2-5 seconds took 15-20, if my browser didn't freeze.

3rd, to make sure that it wasn't my CONNECTION that was slow as opposed to the browser I opened up "System Monitor" and found that my upload/download rate was the same. However the CPU was working a heck of a lot harder than before. Normally I would rake up 80-90% of usage if I had multiple browsers, Open Office, a Music Player, and IM program open. Now I had (literally) 97.5-100% usage with a SINGLE web browser open.

My system was very slow and programs froze left and right. I just couldn't use it. Sadly I had to downgrade to 9.04.

Other than that I loved the load and log off screens.
It was a much nicer look, and I appreciate the (very) large number of new programs that I could download from the software.

This is just feedback.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-01-17
A fresh install may give you better performance than an upgrade. Not sure tho. Try a dual boot?

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-01-17
Did you open up the task manager and find out what was using your
processor? Something is running.

---

