---
title: "[8.10] Change Desktop Font Color"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by butsam on 2008-11-23
How do I change the desktop font color? I saw another post that indicated using the Gnome Configurator but the link was bad, and I didn't see much detail.

I have a background with a lot of white, would prefer black text. It's still readable as listed, but not preferrable.

Seems to me like a good usability idea would be to have the font color and other basic desktop properties accessible from the same menu as the background color? The font color that I want for the desktop items depends on the background color that I am using. Perhaps a future version of gnome and/or ubuntu will provide this? Just my 2 cents.

Thanks!

Sam

---

### Post by hictio on 2008-11-23
Sorry, no answer, but I have to say that I haven't even realised until this thread that it is not possible to change thru the Fonts tab on the Appareance configuration, which seems really strange.

---

### Post by david819 on 2008-11-30
I too ran into this problem.  Eventually I found Gnome Color Chooser that works fantastically.  
[http://gnomecc.sourceforge.net/](http://gnomecc.sourceforge.net/)
after installation, open the app(will be in the System-Preferences Menu), then go to the "Desktop" tab, and in the second section put a check mark next to "beautify icon labels", and you can probably figure it out from this point.  good luck, hope this works for you.  I'm using 8.1 i think, so all should go well.

EDIT:  oops, my bad, still using 8.04.  Can't guarantee this will work, but I'll cross my fingers for you.

---

### Post by alex777 on 2009-10-31
Thanks a lot! 

Gnome Color Chooser rules! If you want to change any colors on your Gnome desktop, you should definitely try this program.

---

### Post by Turmoyl on 2010-03-03
Thank you, david819!  I had never even thought about this issue before, but my wife chose a light colored painting as her wallpaper, rendering the default font color nearly invisible.

Your guidance worked like a charm. :)

---

### Post by existPierre on 2010-03-06
this is working only on desktop, i need this also in nautilus

thanks

---

