---
title: "12.04 to 14.04 Upgrade; cursor themes inoperable."
date: 2014-04-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ashfallen0 on 2014-04-27
Today I upgraded from 12.04LTS to 14.04LTS, and while most of my desktop preferences carried forward, my xubuntu themes and cursor themes did not carry forward.  I have found a similar window theme, but my cursor theme I wished to carry forward.  [http://xfce-look.org/content/show.php/Pulse+Glass?content=124442](http://xfce-look.org/content/show.php/Pulse+Glass?content=124442)

I went into Settings>Mouse>Themes after copy to /usr/share/icons, and selected the new cursor theme.  At first, I thought the cursor theme didn't take, and it actually did. But the main cursor display does not change; only when going back to the main settings window did I notice that when mousing-over objects or text-entry, the theme displays.  I cycled through all of the default cursors, and the behavior replicates with all of them.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2014-04-27
Since the cursor you want appears in some places, I think you may need to reset the default cursor:

In the terminal, run the command:

```
sudo update-alternatives --config x-cursor-theme
```

Then enter the number on the left of your theme. Log out and then log in.

If the cursor you want is not shown, then it needs to be installed with update-alternatives before you use the command above.

---

### Post by ashfallen0 on 2014-04-28
That will change the cursor fully, and while useful, does not fix the broken functionality.  Also does not provide fix for broken functionality of xfce no longer seeing themes and cursors and icons in ~/.icons or ~/.themes even when replicated into /usr/share/icons or /usr/share/themes.  This functionality was working in 12.04/12.10/13.04/13.10.  Going backwards to CLI utility is not a fix for broken UI.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2014-04-28
Well, my install of Xubuntu 14.04 does see themes and icons in both places and I see no broken functionality in that regard.

It has been necessary for several releases now to use update-alternatives or galternatives to change the cursor fully which I think is what most users want to happen.

I notice that you did an upgrade rather than a new install as I did. Could have made a difference. You could try a new install and see if that solves your problem.

---

### Post by ashfallen0 on 2014-04-29
1) The first and last statements in your reply DO provide diagnostic relevance in regard to the issue at hand here.
2) I have several systems running this variant, and I have yet to require update-alternatives over the provided cursor theme mechanism in Settings>Mouse and Touchpad>Theme.  If you wish to use the CLI to provide this change, that is your prerogative, however, I cannot see users forgoing the use of a provided setting dialog and requiring a logout/login cycle as a preferred default.
3) You say your bare-metal>14.04 provides correct function, however you did not distinguish whether this function is provided without update-alternatives and requiring a logout/login cycle.

If the "fix" is a bare-metal install, then the 12.04>14.04 and 12.10>14.04 system upgrade utilities provided by the Xubuntu install disk have a bug that needs addressing.  This breaks the productivity cycle if all software and utilities must be installed again from scratch rather than upgraded just to overcome xfce limitations.

---

