---
title: "8.04 Samba Issues"
date: 2008-04-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by forkbeard on 2008-04-14
So my 8.04 box is sitting in an AD domain and many of the shares I need to access are on Windows machines. I have no problem seeing the servers from within Places > Network but when I open one up to see it's shares I'm not prompted for a user/pass and none of the shares show up. Furthermore, when I try to access the server manually through 'Connect to Server...' (using either the server name or the IP address) I'm told that Ubuntu can't mount it because it's "already mounted". 

Anybody know what's up with this? I've searched the forums and haven't been able to find a similar case.

---

### Post by polki@mac.com on 2008-04-16
I use LinNeighborhood or xsmbrowser to access windows shares on the network. That's all the help I can give you and I hope it works for you too.

---

### Post by forkbeard on 2008-04-21
Thanks for the reply. Sadly, LinNeighbourhood doesn't want to work either. 

It seems like samba is automatically logging into the windows file servers as a guest instead of asking for a username/password. Does anyone know how to change that behaviour?

---

### Post by polki@mac.com on 2008-04-22
I right click on a computer name in LinNeighborhod and click "Search as user" (direct translation from Swedish, it probably says something else in your language, but you'll find it I think...) then I am prompted for name and password and it mounts that windows folder in > ~/mnt/<computername>/<sharedfolder>/.
Not perfect, but useful until my office is all Linux :-)

---

