---
title: "After upgrade - No splash screen and sometimes doesn't boot - Need some &quot;Gutsy&quot; help"
date: 2008-03-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rashead on 2008-03-16
I'm kind of new to Linux, but have playing around with it for some time, and I know a decent amount about computers.  I've installed Version 7.10 and everything was fine for a few months.  Then after upgrading my PC lost the boot up splash screen that shows the progress bar. (All I get is a message saying "Starting Up...").  

That wouldn't be a too big of deal, but at the same time my PC most of the time doesn't boot into the GUI.  It locks up just as the video resolution would normally change, but it doesn't change and there is nothing on the display.  I then power it down and try again.  I have a Nvidia NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] video card.

I've tried booting in recovery mode, but it also locks up.  I've yet to successful in booting to recovery mode at all.  I've also tried changing resolution settings lower and no go.  I've tried 2 different video cards.  However, all I've got is two different Nvidia models.  I also looked into a bug with the ATI video cards that kind of explains my problem but that didn't seem to help either. [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/AtiDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bugs/AtiDriver)

I did format the drive and start over.  I reconfigured everything before running the upgrades and everything ran great.  I ran the upgrades and the problem resurfaced.  I'd be interested if anyone had any ideas.  At this point, I've got my computer running and I don't want to shut it down again for fear that I won't get it to boot up.  I'd appreciate any help.

I've also copied my xorg.conf file if that helps...

Thanks

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-80
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1600x1200"	"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"832x624"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by rashead on 2008-03-20
I thought I'd bump this up and add some more information.  I could still use some help if anyone has any ideas.

I've wiped out the hard drive several times at this point, then I do the upgrades and I have the same problem.  (All I get is a message in the upper left corner of the screen that says "Starting Up.." when the splash screen with the progress bar should be. Then the PC will only sometimes boot, other times it locks up when it's supposed to be switching resolutions right before the login screen)

Again, before any updates it works beautifully (and I do get the progress bar).  I've tried removing the splash screen by putting nosplash in the menu.lst file, I've tried just installing the security updates and leaving the others alone, but I still have the problem.  So, it's somewhere in the security updates it's having a problem.

I have an older PC, and I'm thinking that may be part of my problem at this point, but it does have a P4 1.5 GHz, 650MB RAM, 40GB Hard Drive.  The PC is a Pavillion 7955.

I'm thinking at this point of not running any updates on the PC and leaving at it is, but I hate doing that.  Especially when it's the security updates I can't install.

Anyhow, I'd appreciate any thoughts.
Thanks!!

---

