---
title: "Visual Effects not working in 9.10"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Breetai on 2009-11-01
Is there a new tool to manage the visual effects stuff or am I just having problem that needs solving?

Just switched from 8.10 thought Id try out the new version.

Using the Nvidia 8800 Cards and The Nvidia Driver version 185.  I used to use "compizconfig settings manager" and I downloaded and installed it but it's acting like it's not connected to anything. I make the change in the config settings manager and nothin'.

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-11-01
Compiz is still about the same there could
be some stuff different did you install ccsm?
You can try running compiz in the terminal
to see if you have any errors.

applications>accessories>terminal

then type
compiz

Post the output from that.

---

### Post by Breetai on 2009-11-01
I'm assuming by ccsm you mean CompizConfig Settings Manager then yes.  That's what feels like it's not hooked up to anything,  I can change windows minimize to magic lamp in the manager but it dosn't make the change, I get no magic lamp effect.

Here's what I got. from the terminal

Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 
Xlib:  extension "RANDR" missing on display ":0.0".

EDIT: Heh, not sure if this will help but I loose the chrome of the browser (and everything else) after everytime I run that command (compiz) in the terminal.  and have to reboot.

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-11-01
I see you do not have a Composite extension
take a look at your xorg file in the terminal
type 
> gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and post that

---

### Post by Breetai on 2009-11-01
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Aug 14 18:33:37 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 1920 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" LeftOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ACI ASUS MK241"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "NEC LCD2470WVX"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 92.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 85.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTS"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTS"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-11-02
ok look in synaptic and verify that compiz
is installed.You may also want to run compiz
check you can get it [here]("http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check")

---

### Post by Breetai on 2009-11-03
I get the feeling my Video Card Drivers aren't working at all for some reason.  Video Performance felt exactly the same as when I removed the video drivers rolling them back to try older ones but that didn't help.

But anyway that being said I followed the checklist there to download and install everything and make sure it was done in sequence.  Ran into this when I ran

./compiz-check


" More than one graphics chip detected -- sorry, the script can not handle that.  Aborting."

I'll try running both through the same card and see if that fixes it.  

EDIT: That didn't do it.  finally said screw it and went for a reinstall of the OS.  worked fine this time must have been voodoo.

Now that I've got the effects working I'm having a problem with saving my Dual Monitors settings, if it ain't one thing it's something else eh.  I can apply it and it seems to work fine.  opening the X-Serverconfig in the terminal with  sudo nvidia-settings


When I try to save to X config file I get an error so I need to reset it every time I reboot.

A Window Says
Failed to parse existing X config file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'!

Terminal Says
VALIDATION ERROR:  Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
Undefined Device "(null)" referenced by Screen "Default Screen".

---

### Post by InsaneNoob on 2009-11-04
I have the same problem. (Recently upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04) But when I run *compiz* in terminal I get the visual effects and compiz to work, but with the following output:

```
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Checking screen 1Comparing resolution (1400x1050) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for Software Rasterizer: Not present. 
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
running under gnome seesion, checking for gnomecompat
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
WARNING: Application calling GLX 1.3 function "glXCreatePixmap" when GLX 1.3 is not supported!  This is an application bug!
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format
WARNING: Application calling GLX 1.3 function "glXDestroyPixmap" when GLX 1.3 is not supported!  This is an application bug!
```I'm not an expert with linux, and have recently moved away from cruddy windows, but still find myself drawn back to it for certain applications i cannot work in Wine

---

### Post by jwb1275 on 2009-11-05
> **InsaneNoob said:**
> I have the same problem. (Recently upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04) But when I run *compiz* in terminal I get the visual effects and compiz to work, but with the following output:

```
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Checking screen 1Comparing resolution (1400x1050) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for Software Rasterizer: Not present. 
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
running under gnome seesion, checking for gnomecompat
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
WARNING: Application calling GLX 1.3 function "glXCreatePixmap" when GLX 1.3 is not supported!  This is an application bug!
/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format
WARNING: Application calling GLX 1.3 function "glXDestroyPixmap" when GLX 1.3 is not supported!  This is an application bug!
```I'm not an expert with linux, and have recently moved away from cruddy windows, but still find myself drawn back to it for certain applications i cannot work in Wine


I get this same error!  It's really annoying when I am trying to configure multiple monitors!!  I think I found a temporary solution.  System > Preferences > Appearance  Select Visual Effects tab and select None.  This seemed to stop the strange behavior I also had with the video getting corrupt around my application windows.

---

### Post by caitor on 2009-11-06
> **jwb1275 said:**
> I get this same error!  It's really annoying when I am trying to configure multiple monitors!!  I think I found a temporary solution.  System > Preferences > Appearance  Select Visual Effects tab and select None.  This seemed to stop the strange behavior I also had with the video getting corrupt around my application windows.

Dear friends!!!
I have this output:
Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 9.10
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Intel Corporation System Controller Hub (SCH Poulsbo) Graphics Controller (rev 07)
 Driver in use:         Unknown
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [ OK ]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [ OK ]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [WARN]

Something potential problematic has been detected with your setup:
 Warning: Unknown driver in use. 

My xorg.conf is it:
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "GMA500"
        Option         "AccelMethod" "EXA"
        Option         "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
        Option         "DRI" "on"
        Option         "IgnoreACPI" "yes"
        Driver         "psb"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection

I installed all dependences.
What is the problem?

Thanks to all.

---

