---
title: "[13.04] Move Unity Launcher to bottom screen"
date: 2013-05-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-22
Hi

I try to move the ubuntu 13.04 unity launcher with standards tools whithout finding the option. I also try to use unity tweak, but i did'nt found an option ( I also try ubuntu-tweak but he stopped every time i launch it).

There is several hours that i try to find an answer for that but no one can give me one ...

I just want one thing : Move my unity launcher top the bottom of the screen ... (And yes, we could modify background color of launcher but not that ?)

If you know how to manage that, i take it 

Thanks

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-05-22
Moving the launcher is not possible. There was a Compiz plug-in  project for Ubuntu 11.10, but was quickly abandoned.   

Obsolete: [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/11/install-ubuntu-unity-bottom-launcher.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/11/install-ubuntu-unity-bottom-launcher.html)

---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-22
Hi Frogs Hair and thanks for that answer. But, infortunaly that does'nt satisfy me ...

> Moving the launcher is not possible.


The first solution is moving to another interface (like Gnome3 or KDE) or moving to another distribution.
But i'm using Ubuntu for years and i just don't want to move to different distribution for that ...

I've  been using gnome3 on a Fedora distribution and i know how to use it but i  didn't want to customize gnome 3 to fit with the unity interface just  for one feature.

So i ask again, how can we have the unity launcher on screen bottom ?

I'm  using Linux, Mac OS and Windows (didn't have the choice), so for me the  logical place for application is at the bottom of the page (certainly  due to [path dependence]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Path_dependence") ).

For me, it's the main difference between Linux and Mac os : When Apple says 'this is not possible', apple users think 'if Apple says that, this is a normal feature' - and claims the great genius of apple for thinking for them btw - But when you said to a Linux user 'this is not possible', he will search it aniway and may finally find it ...

Why did I have to use another dock when there is already one ?
My screen is largest so why did I have to use the dock on the smaller place (side) ?

There is actually no solution to do that, so if you found one, be sure that all the internet will thank you

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-05-22
> **ak12 said:**
> ... But when you said to a Linux user 'this is not possible', he will search it aniway and may finally find it ...
...
All the best. This question has been asked several times before. Unfortunately, the answer you got accurately describes the present situation.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-05-22
Official comment on  a bug report regarding launcher movement. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/668415/comments/2](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/668415/comments/2)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2013-05-22
This has been rinsed and repeated enough times already.

Closed.

---

