---
title: "8.04 - Some questions"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kripz on 2008-04-28
How do i select multiple files by creating a rectangle from the mouse like on windows/every other os?

What are common keyboard shortcuts? Only one i found was Alt-F2 for run.

I am developing software for Windows but would like to be able to edit and test them on Xubuntu. Currently im running XP on a VM to use Visual Studio 2005, can Mono/MonoDevelop edit and run VS2005 solutions without modifying the solution (so i can go back to Windows and open up the solution and continue editing)?

How do i browse a windows network share? Currently im using pyNeighborhood but there must be an easier way?

Any software to throttle bandwidth like net limiter on windows?

---

### Post by Jammin80503 on 2008-04-28
for selecting multiple files, you need to be in icon view. I dont know why, but they have not implemented that funtion in list view. 

keyboard shortcuts are, by default, similar to windows. to see all of them, go to system>preferences>keyboard shortcuts

I havent done much work with visual studios, so I dont rightly know the answer to this one.

to browse a windows network, I think the program you want is Samba. (if you're using hardy, its built in)

I know there are bandwith limiters, but I dont know any names. just google it, I'm sure its easy to find (it looks like you're a coder, so you might be able to just write one if it doesnt exist)

---

### Post by kripz on 2008-04-29
> keyboard shortcuts are, by default, similar to windows. to see all of them, go to system>preferences>keyboard shortcuts
Cant find it, that must be 7.10, but in 8.04 Applications - Settings - Settings manager - Keyboard - Shortcuts only lists about 10 (10 rarely used ones).

> for selecting multiple files, you need to be in icon view. I dont know why, but they have not implemented that funtion in list view. 
What about desktop? Im sick of holding CTRL and clicking.

> I know there are bandwith limiters, but I dont know any names. just google it, I'm sure its easy to find (it looks like you're a coder, so you might be able to just write one if it doesnt exist)
Only found trickle and wondershaper, both had no gui and trickle only shapes per application and wondershaper shapes per interface.

---

### Post by morgengenuss on 2008-04-29
> Cant find it, that must be 7.10, but in 8.04 Applications - Settings - Settings manager - Keyboard - Shortcuts only lists about 10 (10 rarely used ones).
well, simply create a new profile and add the ones that are missing. also there is a second section where you would find window-manager related shortcuts (like minimize window etc), settings-> settings manager-> window manager-> keyboard
the same applies as above: if you want to edit/add any of the shortcuts, simply create a new profile.

> What about desktop? Im sick of holding CTRL and clicking.
and you will stay sick about that because xfce simply doesn't support this function on the desktop. (if you really want it though, you can tell nautilus to manage your desktop.)

> Only found trickle and wondershaper, both had no gui and trickle only shapes per application and wondershaper shapes per interface.
what exactly is your problem with not having a gui? and ad wondershaper: are you using more than one interface to connect to the net?

---

