---
title: "11.10 Ocelot -- Toggle shade leaves a window frame... help!"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by spoonerm on 2011-10-26
So I just installed a fresh 11.10 up from 11.04.. my go-to desktop is gnome classic with an emerald theme I set up and have been using without fail until I upgraded. I know emerald isn't officially supported, but this particular issue has not arisen before, so the problem definitely has something to do with the recent DE changes made in 11.10... 

Anyway, to get to the point, after installing emerald from an unofficial repo I migrated over all my previous theme settings; afterward I modified the Ambiance theme css to suit and set up compiz, etc...

Now, when I double click a titlebar (which is set to toggle shade so I don't have to screw around with minimized windows) the actual application will scroll up, but when it is drawn all the way up emerald or compiz or whatever draws the emerald frame around where the window used to be... it's weird. I attached a photo to illustrate.

If anybody has any insight into what's going on please let me know. It's going to bother the hell out of me until I can get it fixed...

Thanks,
Marc

---

### Post by arisp on 2011-10-27
same [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1869004")

---

### Post by arisp on 2011-10-30
It was bothering me too, so I did apply a workaround until it is fixed. 
I have emerald as the window decorator and I edited a theme to not have any borders or shadow. I also changed the initiate re-size to something that suits me. 
Not the most elegant solution, but it will have to do for now

---

### Post by spoonerm on 2011-10-30
not a bad suggestion... clunky, as you mentioned, but it works until a better solution arises.

i'll let you all know if i figure anything out.

---

### Post by arisp on 2011-10-31
There is a [bug report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz-core/+bug/864478) about this already. The strange thing is it reports this bug as fixed.

---

### Post by spoonerm on 2011-11-12
fixed! enable "pre-release updates" in the software manager software sources menu [edit | software sources | updates]...

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

it installed a whole bunch of compiz upgrades among a variety of other components and everything works great.

phew, that was getting annoying...

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2011-11-12
Did it update the kernel as well ? to 3.0.13 ? Kindly check, thanks !

---

### Post by spoonerm on 2011-11-13
3.0.0-12-generic; so no, i don't think so.

i'm running 11.10 on an amd64 processor, for what it's worth.

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2011-11-13
> **spoonerm said:**
> 3.0.0-12-generic; so no, i don't think so.

i'm running 11.10 on an amd64 processor, for what it's worth.

Thank you, I did the proposed as well, leaving out the Kernel for now. There is (or was) a huge problem with 3.0.13 , that after update the system could not boot anymore...

According to the proposed "special bug tracker" it has been fixed these days, and should be out soon working perfectly.

Compiz update did solve a lot more issues to me than just the shade:
- Performances: CPU at idle has gone down significantly. Just by judging from CPU temp at idle, which now stays as low as 36C while before never fell below 45C. CPU usage was always 1~3% at idle.
- Scale windows: when you have 2 or more windows open of the same program, clicking on the icon on Unity launcher brings out all the windows on the desktop with scaling compiz plugin. There was an awful looking bug in this thing.

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-11-13
It worked here.
Enabled the pre-release updates.
I only installed the compiz packages then disabled the pre-release updates.
Haven't noticed any other changes to compiz except now windows are shaded properly.

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2011-11-13
> **stinkeye said:**
> It worked here.
Enabled the pre-release updates.
I only installed the compiz packages then disabled the pre-release updates.
Haven't noticed any other changes to compiz except now windows are shaded properly.

A lot of improvements. Try the scale plugin on the live CD:

- Open two nautilus windows
- Move one of the window so that half of it is off the edge of the workspace
- Use the unity launcher to activate the scale, and see what happens...

Fortunately, the bug is gone. :guitar:

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-11-13
> **typhoon_tip said:**
> A lot of improvements. Try the scale plugin on the live CD:

- Open two nautilus windows
- Move one of the window so that half of it is off the edge of the workspace
- Use the unity launcher to activate the scale, and see what happens...

Fortunately, the bug is gone. :guitar:
Never encountered a scale problem.
My main problems were the jerkiness when moving windows 
and using ctrl+alt+shift+right to move a window to the next workspace.
Still have these problems after the upgrade.

---

### Post by typhoon_tip on 2011-11-13
> **stinkeye said:**
> Never encountered a scale problem.

Try the LiveCD if you can, and do the steps I mentioned for testing the scaling. Result as attached.

---

