---
title: "Fresh install, KDE refuses to launch"
date: 2006-03-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kylstien on 2006-03-06
I just installed Kubuntu 5.10 yesterday. When it boots up, I get the tty login and when I try to start KDE manually, it just returns pages of errors. The errors returned went by too fast and left no impression of any sort to me as to the nature of the problem. I do not believe there were any problems with the install or configuration.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-03-06
Do you ever get to a part at the tty login that looks like this? ```
kylstien@ubuntu:~$
``` If so, try typing this at the prompt ```
sudo /etc/init.d/kdm restart
``` If that doesn't work, please report back what exact errors you get.

---

### Post by kylstien on 2006-03-06
Terminal:
> 
kyle@kyle:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/kdm restart
password:
Stopping K Display Manager: kdm
Starting K Display Manager: kdm
kyle@kyle:~$_


---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-03-06
And then it just sits there?

What happens if you do that and then press Control-Alt-F7?

---

### Post by kylstien on 2006-03-06
Actually, it fickers a bit before returning to the command prompt. When I hit ctrl+alt+F7, it goes to a blank screen with a blinking underscore until I shut it down.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2006-03-06
That's weird. Maybe your screen resolution's off?
Try doing Control-Alt-F1 and then typing ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` at the prompt.

---

### Post by kylstien on 2006-03-06
I tried configuring as well as I could but it didn't have any impact. I tried to get the gist of the errors generated by startkde: "unable to open display '' ", "cannot connect to Xserver", "aborting. $DISPLAY is not set", "connect() failed: no such file or directory", a bunch of mount errors, something isn't a volume, at the bottom: "can't connect to Xserver", "couldn't attach to DCOP server", something shutting down, another connection failing, and "can't contact kdeinit".

---

### Post by rlklee on 2006-04-04
I have this exact same problem -- just upgraded to Dapper from Breezy.  Any word on a fix?

---

### Post by lodjr on 2006-04-06
[QUOTE=rlklee]I have this exact same problem -- just upgraded to Dapper from Breezy.  Any word on a fix?[/QUOTE]
I had the same prob for about a week and did  a complete install of KDE and it worked

sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install kubuntu-desktop

it seemed that it did not install when I  installed the program

---

### Post by kylstien on 2006-04-16
[QUOTE=lodjr]I had the same prob for about a week and did  a complete install of KDE and it worked

sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install kubuntu-desktop

it seemed that it did not install when I  installed the program[/QUOTE]
I tried that and it seems to have had no effect at all.

---

### Post by kylstien on 2006-04-29
It just occured to me, could my problems be because Kubuntu can not use my internet connection? It seems many distributions install all but the most basic system from the internet to save CDs. If this is the problem, does anyone know where to get and how to install drivers for a NETGEAR WG111v2 USB wireless network adapter?

---

### Post by kylstien on 2006-05-08
Or perhaps it isn't the connection... sorry to keep posting after myself but I really need an answer. I wonder if KDE simply isn't compatible with my system. Except for on an old Knoppix disk, I've never acually got KDE running on any distro...

---

### Post by ronniet on 2006-05-14
I've no answer to your question, sorry, but whatever the solution to your problem is, it's also the solution to my problem!

**I get the _exact_ same here.**

I installed Ubuntu, installed KDE then uninstalled some Gnome stuff. All was fine. Went to update from Hoary to Breezy and now, like you, my KDE wont run.

:-k 

I've tried *dpkg-reconfigure*, tried *KDE restart*, tried *startKDE*, you name it, I've tried it...   ](*,) 

It does seem as though its TRYING to flick into another resolution to display something but cant, so gives me errors like:

[I]ksplash : cannot connect to X server
kdeinit : Aborting $DISPLAY is not set
ERROR : couldn't attach to DCOP server[/I]

I'm at a loss as to what to do next. Having to dual boot back to Windows to type this post. **Oh the shame!!..  **

---

