---
title: "10.10 hibernate not installed by default"
date: 2010-11-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tgc05 on 2010-11-13
Hibernate never worked in my current Ubuntu install, 10.10.  Symptoms varied. Sometimes just a blank screen with blinking cursor. Other times there were error messages.  Suspend works OK.

I was about to report a bug when I discovered that the **hibernate package was not installed**, according to Synaptic.  I installed hibernate and it now works without any problems.  (resumes OK, too)

I performed a standard install of 10.10, so I don't know why the package was missing. The option to hibernate was listed in the shutdown dialog.

I just want to flag this as an apparent problem with the 10.10 install.

---

### Post by bobstay on 2010-11-26
Thanks for this, I'd been scratching my head over lack of hibernation for a while - installing hibernate fixed it and it now works fine.

Quite why someone at canonical hasn't noticed this glaring omission with all the "my hibernate doesn't work" threads all over the forum I can't begin to explain... ](*,)

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2010-11-26
```

sudo apt-get install gnome-power-manager

```

---

### Post by SecretCode on 2010-11-26
The package called "hibernate" is not installed on my system, but I can hibernate. It's not a requirement.

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2010-11-26
i believe the package pm-tools provides hibernate as well as suspend by default in gnome/ubuntu at least. check ```
man /usr/sbin/pm-hibernate
``` . but if the hibernate package makes it work for you - who cares

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2010-11-26
double posted, sorry

---

### Post by MickSulley on 2010-12-22
I have tried installing Hibernate and it still does not work.  If I select Suspend or Hibernate the machine goes to sleep, but there does not seem to be any way to wake it again.

I'm on 10.10 64 bit

Any ideas?

Thanks

Mick

---

### Post by silvagroup on 2010-12-29
Yeah I too continue having problems w/hibernate/suspend (for the last 10 years). In that time I have never been able to get it all working properly at all.And over that time it has been with varying laptops.

Right now with Gnome Power Manager, which is suppose to simplify the whole thing,I get options for suspend, which just blanks my screen, after an hour or so system is really hot, fan going full bore so nothing is suspending. Other option is shutdown, that works. But No hibernate option. 

However on my desktop I have all three options.
Both have same packages installed that control these functions. I have never tried the suspend/hibernate on desktop, I guess I should to see if they work at all as they are suppose to.

Googleling seems to bring up 101 things to do. With varying results which have yet to yield a fully working suspend/hibernate on laptop.

I have said this many times before, Microsoft can make this work properly so what's up with our Linux community on this one very fundamental requirement. :confused:

Somebody please give us a clear and simple solution, PLEASE !!!!!!!!

---

### Post by Eosie on 2011-01-01
Type in a terminal:

sudo pm-hibernate

---

### Post by flo2010 on 2011-01-02
hibernate via pm-hibernate in terminal just disconnects wlan and reconnects it..
i do not have any hibernate option in the "power-button-menu".

any ideas how to fix this?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-01-02
The hibernate option appears on my shutdown menu but I have never tried it . A hibernate package is in the synaptic package manager but is not installed .Do you have enough swap for hibernation ?

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2011-01-05
I also do not have suspend or hibernate on my shut-down menu. This is on my laptop running Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit.

Closing the lid only turns off the display, does not suspend.

---

### Post by MedianN on 2011-01-09
Also looking for a hibernate option in Ubuntu 10.10 64-bit laptop

---

### Post by MickSulley on 2011-01-09
Hibernate (or suspend, not sure which) works fine on my laptop, just shut the lid and it hibernates, open it up and it restarts, great!

My desktop on the other hand is a different story.  If I hit the button with the moon on the keyboard it hibernates but then there is no way to restart it other than holding the power button in for 10 seconds to force a reboot, which rather defeats the object.

Both machines are on 10.10 64 bit and so should behave the same.

---

### Post by bluebubbler on 2011-01-09
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> The hibernate option appears on my shutdown menu but I have never tried it . A hibernate package is in the synaptic package manager but is not installed .Do you have enough swap for hibernation ?
I've been having problems with 10.10 Hibernate also. Having linux-swap space is an issue to even see your hibernate button, but it needs to be registered as such .... see below:

So, I've now got my Hibernate button back, but it still doesn't work!! I hope someone can help.

----- (I'd posted this earlier in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1652871](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1652871))

"Well - found a solution to my own problem.
I had used GParted to format my swap partition and used the 'swapon'   option to set to be used as swap. However, I later found that on   rebooting, this allocation as swap (and the 'lock' on the GUI) has been   lost.
Reading further - love these forums!! - I found that Taurus in the  thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249307](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249307)  shows a easy way  to ensure that this swap partition is allocated each  time on boot by  editing the /etc/fstab file to include the line
/dev/sda4   none   swap   sw   0   0 
where sda4 is my swap partition.
Wonderfully, on rebooting I now have a hibernate option in my power off menu!!!!"
-------

---

### Post by jlh68 on 2011-01-21
I now have suspend and hibernate.  I installed pm-utils which meant that the laptop power management was uninstalled.  If now appears on the shut down menu. I might have done some other things but I do not know what they were or if they caused suspend and hibernate to work.

---

### Post by baobab33 on 2011-05-22
Good news though as there is a simple fix to this bug, documented in the [Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat release notes]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MaverickMeerkat/ReleaseNotes").

When the XHCI module is loaded for USB 3.0 operation the system cannot suspend. Manually unloading XHCI will allow suspend to complete normally. To avoid future suspend problems, the workaround is to add [FONT="Courier New"]SUSPEND_MODULES="xhci-hcd"[/FONT] to [FONT="Courier New"]/etc/pm/config.d/unload_module[/FONT] then the system can suspend normally. ( 522998 )

_Please note_: this fix only seems to work when using the closed source nVidia drivers.  Using the open source nouveau drivers gives a black screen when awoke from suspend or hibernate.


Implementing the fix - create a new configuration file

1. Open at terminal window Applications > Accessories > Terminal

2. Enter the following command into the terminal window:

[FONT="Courier New"]gksudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/unload_module[/FONT]

3. In the editor window that pops up, paste the following text and save the new file. 

[FONT="Courier New"]SUSPEND_MODULES="xhci-hcd" 
[/FONT]

That's it ! Suspend and hibernate should now work as normal for some people.  Good luck.


[SIZE="1"]copied from here : [http://jr0cket.blogspot.com/2010/10/ubuntu-1010-hibernate-suspend-bug-fix.html](http://jr0cket.blogspot.com/2010/10/ubuntu-1010-hibernate-suspend-bug-fix.html)[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-05-22
> Please note: this fix only seems to work when using the closed source nVidia drivers. Using the open source nouveau drivers gives a black screen when awoke from suspend or hibernate.
Yes, but this is an unrelated issue that *only* applies to nVidia cards (which I think comes to the idea that the open driver doesn't know how to kick the graphics card back on on wake.) Depending on the chipset, you can have a similar problem with the WiFi card (in which case the trick is to find the appropriate kernel module involved and manually remove and probe it with bash scripts in /etc/pm/sleep.d and power.d, respectively.)

In other words, everything normally works on ~most systems, and there are these specific hardware-related workarounds that need to be done on some systems, but that's a separate thing from having pm-utils not installed at all.

---

