---
title: "Clicking on .tar.bz2 or .deb on ntfs partition gives error"
date: 2007-06-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-06-23
Nautilus shows package icon but when I single click on it changes to text or paper icon?
If I try to open them I get error.

Fstab entry for that partition is **UUID=FAA4B8A1A4B861B5 home/orb/Drives/114GB ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0**

Any help is appreciated. Also note if I download the packages to home it behaves normally. If I try to copy from ntfs to home it still gives error.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-23
> 
 if I download the packages to home or copy and paste it to home it behaves normally.
Makes sense to me.  The .deb and .bz2 files depend upon the underlying os and file format, no?

And I cannot run those files from windows, either.

-merlin

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-06-23
> Makes sense to me. The .deb and .bz2 files depend upon the underlying os and file format, no?

No storing a compressed archive on any partition has nothing to do with what OS it is for.  To uncompress an archive in Ubuntu does not matter what type of partition it is stored on. 

.bz2 and .tar files can easily be uncompressed in windows or linux. If I compress a bunch of text or pictures in bz2 or tar I can uncompress them in windows or linux.

Or am I misinformed how it works?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-23
I am mistaken.  I just copied a .deb to my ntfs partition, and clicking on it in nautilus opened the package manager.

Thanks for setting me straight.

Wonder why it is not working for you?

-merlin

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-24
> 
Fstab entry for that partition is [B]UUID=FAA4B8A1A4B861B5 home/orb/Drives/114GB ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
[/B]Might it be a missing / before the mountpoint?

(/home/orb/Drives/114GB)

-merlin

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-06-24
Hmmm! that was generated by nfs-3g have to check into it. 
Thanks for suggestion. If that is the case will return to give thanks and mark thread resolved.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-24
Or is it a permissions issue?

-merlin

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-06-24
Well I thought ntfs-3g would take care of that. On further testing I can download a tar.bz2 to my ntfs-3g partition thru firefox and the archive is corrupt and cannot open. If I save it to downloads in my home folders works just fine. 


UUID=FAA4B8A1A4B861B5 home/orb/Drives/114GB ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

The 114GB ntfs partition shows that it is owner is root Folder access: Create and delete files File Access: ---
Group: root Folder access: Create and delete files File Access:----

So exactly what do I change to get FULL read and write access? And why did ntfs-3g not do it's magic and give it to me already since that is it's Primary function?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-24
Try this:

```

sudo chown -R username:username home/orb/Drives/114GB

```where username is your login name.

You may have to add a leading slash to home (/home).

BTW, my two ntfs partitions are owned by root, but Others have read and write permissions.  ntfs-3g did this for me automatically.

So that begs aother questions: Is the partition on a removable drive?  Did you mount it manually?

Another thing you might try is to change the 0 at the very end of the /etc/fstab line to 1.

hth....

-merlin

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2007-06-24
Nope and I can copy and read and delete files fine. It is the archive package files that I download thru firefox and save to ntfs partitions is when it is a problem if I save them to my /home/orb/downloads they are normal and open fine.

> You may have to add a leading slash to home (/home).

Did that

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-06-24
OK -- my understanding is improving all the time.  

I just tried doing this with a .deb download (saving it to an ntfs partition), and when I clicked on it, it opened the package installer.

So....

Firefox has a well-known antipathy for anything Redmond-related.   ;)

and

perhaps your drive has errors?

Other than that....

:confused:

-merlin

---

