---
title: "Cannot change screen BPP from 32 to XX"
date: 2007-12-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by luke16 on 2007-12-24
I have encountered this error quite a bit with a number of programs that use fullscreen. Mostly games and such. I've read about other such problems, but when I tried changing xorg.conf so that it would accept lower bpp than 32, something must have went wrong and I couldn't even get a graphical login, so I had to change it back. Can anyone tell me what to do to make it so that my monitor can run in other bpp, such as 16 and 8?

Here is my xorg.conf (forum won't let me post it as attachment)

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#    InputDevice     "stylus"    "SendCoreEvents"
#    InputDevice     "cursor"    "SendCoreEvents"
#    InputDevice     "eraser"    "SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "Buttons" "7"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"        # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "AL2216W"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 84.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 77.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "AL2216W"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by adam.tropics on 2007-12-24
Use subsections in the Screen section of xorg.conf. So for me, yours will need to be edited, it is
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Default Screen"
    Device     "ATI Technologies Inc RS400 [Radeon Xpress 200M]"
    Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth     16
        Modes    "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth     24
        Modes    "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by luke16 on 2007-12-25
> **adam.tropics said:**
> Use subsections in the Screen section of xorg.conf. So for me, yours will need to be edited, it is
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Default Screen"
    Device     "ATI Technologies Inc RS400 [Radeon Xpress 200M]"
    Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth     16
        Modes    "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth     24
        Modes    "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

I changed the screen section of my xorg.conf to look like this:
```
Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "AL2216W"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1600x1200" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```But when trying to launch a game under wine, for instance, the desktop still doesn't seem to want to change to the correct bpp, in this case 8. Would I be correct in assuming that this is caused by xorg.conf and not wine in this case?
```
$ wine ORION95.EXE 
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x34f8bc,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:xrandr:X11DRV_XRandR_SetCurrentMode Cannot change screen BPP from 32 to 8
err:xrandr:X11DRV_XRandR_SetCurrentMode Resolution change not successful -- perhaps display has changed?
err:xrandr:X11DRV_XRandR_SetCurrentMode Resolution change not successful -- perhaps display has changed?
```

---

### Post by adam.tropics on 2007-12-25
To be honest, I'm not entirely sure! Did you restart x after editing the file? If not, do so and try again. Other than that though I would assume if xorg.conf correct, which I think it is, then it must be wine. Unless it's because you changed the settings since you installed wine maybe....anyone else able to chip in?

---

### Post by kenjiru on 2008-01-22
same problem here

---

### Post by Schadenfroh on 2008-06-09
Same problem here as well in Capitalism 2.

> fixme:xrandr:X11DRV_XRandR_SetCurrentMode Cannot change screen BPP from 32 to 16


Ubuntu 8.04 with restricted ATI drivers from the Ubuntu repository.  I edited my xorg.conf file per the instructions (compensating the resolutions for my Dell 2001FP) above and the problem still occurs.

---

### Post by JohnnySlarko on 2008-07-20
I solved this issue by disabling Visual Effects for the desktop: System -> Preferences -> Appearance -> Visual Effects -> None. Then I logged out, Ubuntu restarts the X server every time I think so I just logged back in and it was fixed!

The problem is Compiz does not work alongside full screen 3D, does anyone know a way to get them to both work at the same time?

---

