---
title: "10.04 desktop how configure window close button"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by stanleytberry on 2010-05-06
I upgraded 9.10 desktop to 10.04 using network (recommended) procedure.

The window close button has moved (all desktop windows) from upper right corner to upper left corner.

This causes untold frustration since I flip amongst numerous computers with Windows windows and other levels of UBUNTU windows.

Does anyone know, please, is there some way to configure where the window close button is (some way to put it back in the upper right corner)?

Thanks,

---

### Post by blchinezu on 2010-05-06
Personally I just installed emerald (as I had before in karmic) and everything looks just fine.

edit:
For metacity you might solve the problem with this script: [http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Ubuntu+10.04+Start+script?content=123391](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Ubuntu+10.04+Start+script?content=123391)
I didn't test it but I supose it's working. If you look at the screenshot there you can see that the first check box is exactly what you want.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2010-05-06
Switch to a theme that has the buttons on the top right?

---

### Post by jr3us on 2010-05-06
Easiest way is to grab ubuntu-tweak and in the Window section is a choice to move the buttons to the right side.

---

### Post by stanleytberry on 2010-05-08
OK.  I found the themes.  Selecting another theme worked.
Thanks ...

I used to see something to mark these things solved ... I don't see it now?!?

This is solved for me.

Again ... thanks ...

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2010-05-08
> **stanleytberry said:**
> OK.  I found the themes.  Selecting another theme worked.
Thanks ...

I used to see something to mark these things solved ... I don't see it now?!?

This is solved for me.

Again ... thanks ...

I think it's at the top under Thread Tools

---

