---
title: "10.04 Lockdown to Home"
date: 2010-11-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by alienprdkt on 2010-11-19
Ok I love Ubuntu but for your average user may not be "User Friendly" enough. So I want to make a very usable pre-configured desktop using Ubuntu (system links to Desktop). I would like to lock it down to make it alot more "User Friendly" for my clients. 

How can I lock down the GUI to just there home folder?
Get rid of the top menu bar?
Get Rid of the the Main ToolBar and the SideBar from Nautilus?

Can this be achieved and if so how?

Any info for any of these 3 will help me out tremendously!

Much thanks in advance,

---

### Post by asmoore82 on 2010-11-19
"User Friendly" - a.k.a. The White Whale...

The system setup you describe with no top panel is simply _**not**_ Gnome.

For some strange reason you seem strongly opposed to Gnome,
so then why would you want to put your "clients" in Gnome??

People need to learn to use a computer. Period.
I say that they might as well learn a free interface instead of one
that will suddenly be rearranged for another rousing round of profit.

Try out Ubuntu; try out Kubuntu; try out Xubuntu; try out Unity;
If you can stomach it even try out Mac OS X and try out Windows 7.

And then pick the best tool for the job.

Rearranging one and teaching that to your clients doesn't help them.

Back to The White Whale ...
"User Friendly" are typically weasel words used in place of "Old and Familiar"

The "Undo" keyboard shortcut in every app under the sun is Ctrl+Z,
But in the VI Editor it is the "U" key, for _U_ndo.

Which is truly more "User Friendly"? (as in, *friendly* to new *users*)
Which is more "Familiar"? (ironically, *familiar* only to existing computer users)

---

### Post by alienprdkt on 2010-11-19
> **asmoore82 said:**
> "User Friendly" - a.k.a. The White Whale...

The system setup you describe with no top panel is simply _**not**_ Gnome.

For some strange reason you seem strongly opposed to Gnome,
so then why would you want to put your "clients" in Gnome??

People need to learn to use a computer. Period.
I say that they might as well learn a free interface instead of one
that will suddenly be rearranged for another rousing round of profit.

No I like gnome but don't want the users to have access to all of the other things... I need a desktop environment to make the apps accessible. But in the environment I choose to run my users (NX) will don't need the option of places or the option to install more software, if they can access everything they need within there home directory (aka Desktop, Documents, Downloads, Videos, and Music). If everything else is locked down to root, then why give them the option at all is all I am saying.

another note:

What I am trying to accomplish is the same as I was doing for Users on Windows RDP only now Ubuntu and NX. This is only going to be for my remote users for I don't want them having privileges to certain things. But I cant figure out what Linux equivalent to GPO are and refuse to go back to windows.

---

