---
title: "20.04 devilspie2 windows won't move to 0,0"
date: 2022-02-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by futz2 on 2022-02-17
I'm using devilspie2 to start windows where I like them instead of the super annoying smart (random) thing that gnome does. I've moved the dash (dock) thing to the bottom of the screen and autohide it - rarely use it anyway. But when I set devilspie2 to put a window at 0,0 it instead starts at dash-width,0, like gnome is reserving space for the dash, even though it's not there anymore. How to fix? I've dug through dconf-editor - couldn't find it.

---

### Post by futz2 on 2022-02-17
Oh, it gets stranger. I was using set_window_geometry2(0,0,1100,900); to place my window. I switched to set_window_geometry(0,0,1100,900); and now it puts the window at 0,about-5-pixels. Awesome! :rolleyes::rolleyes:

The reason I was using set_window_geometry2 instead of set_window_geometry is because I had just finished setting up my Arch/XFCE machine, and that's what worked there. Pushed the Lua file over the network to the Ubuntu box and started testing and making changes to suit.

---

### Post by futz2 on 2022-02-17
More strangeness. In last post I was starting Thunderbird and getting non 0,0 window position. Just tried starting Terminal and it starts at 0,0 just fine. Then I started Nemo and Aisleriot and Gthumb, and they all started properly at 0,0. Only Thunderbird is misbehaving. Huh...

---

### Post by vanadium on 2022-02-18
Applications using Client Side decorations are not obeying these old rules well. Enable the traditional title bar of Thunderbird, and it will probably work as expected. Else experiment with negative value to have the placement right.

---

### Post by futz2 on 2022-02-18
I thought it had to be something like that. Even XFCE has some weirdness with some programs. I tried negative values several times - nothing changed, and I assumed that negative values were being ignored.

I don't know how to change Thunderbird's title bar, but I'll figure it out. If I can't figure it out I'll be back here asking more questions. :):) Thanks for the reply.

---

### Post by futz2 on 2022-02-18
Ha! Disabled the title bar by unchecking the box. Thunderbird crashed and machine locked up. I hit reset and after reboot Thunderbird starts properly at 0,0 without that useless empty title bar.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2022-02-21
Another tool to try is Actiona.

---

### Post by futz2 on 2022-02-26
Thanks dragonfly41. Devilspie2 is doing the job very well for now, but I just installed Actiona on the Arch box to do some testing. Definitely looks interesting.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2022-03-07
[P.S.]

I am using Actiona to *orchestrate* a number of tools (devilspie2 being just one).
Thus you can use Actiona to launch different devilspie2 scripts.
Other tools might be: xdotool, yad, Python ...

---

### Post by futz2 on 2022-03-09
> **dragonfly41 said:**
> [P.S.]

I am using Actiona to *orchestrate* a number of tools
Oh! Very cool! I haven't even looked at Actiona yet. Been busy with other stuff. I'll get to it eventually. Thx for the hints.

---

