---
title: "Resolution problem with nvidia driver."
date: 2009-05-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by myme on 2009-05-05
I'm experiencing a problem with the screen resolution while running the nvidia driver. Currently I have the 185 beta driver installed. I had the same problems with the stable one, but wanted to check if the problem persisted with the beta driver.

The problem is basically that the screen seems to be 'zoomed' in a way towards the center, meaning the edges of the screen are not displayed (including panels). When I delete/rename my xorg.conf file and start gdm without it, the screen is OK, but then the vesa driver is used and not the nvidia driver. I need to be using the nvidia driver for development reasons.

The monitor model is ViewSonic VX2435wm 24".

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Apr 17 00:40:10 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24

    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1200" "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1280x960"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by miegiel on 2009-05-05
Check if your monitor supports 1920x1200, if it doesn't change
```
Modes      "1920x1200" "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1280x960"
```
to
```
Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x900" "1280x960"
```
in the 2nd last line

---

### Post by myme on 2009-05-05
It supports 1920x1200... That's also the resolution it has when not running the nvidia driver.

---

### Post by miegiel on 2009-05-05
I've got no experience with the nvidia drivers, sorry. The only thin I can think of is changing to a lower resolution and putting it back to 1920x1200 again. Did you check your monitor OSD menu to see what resolution it's using and if it's the same as the resolution set in ubuntu?

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-05-05
have you tried envyng to install your driver it should tell
you what driver is recommended for your card.Then go to nvidia
x sever setting and set the resolution and save it back to 
your xorg file.

---

### Post by Cain67 on 2009-05-24
hi, iv been looking through the forums and cant find anywhere better to post this issue, and would rather not create a whole new thread as im sure there are plenty on dual monitor resolution issues out there, just none of them seem to address my issue.

im runing ubuntu 8.10 on my desktop
graphics card is the 250GTS from Nvidia.
have 2 polyview 17" monitors. one VGA, the other DMI both plugged into graphics card

now i installed the drivers and that was all working fine.
set up the 2nd monitor and had the issue of the VGA only running at 1024x768 natively, however as in windows 7 i was running both monitors at 1280x1024 i know it is capable of that resolution.

my question is A) how do i get it to run this?
and B) what information do i need to provide. have not used ubuntu in months and so am very rusty on commands.

so what commands will i need to run to give print out of the resolution setup?

cheers.

---

### Post by zubin71 on 2009-05-24
usually you print all the available resolutions by doing the foll: at the command prompt... 

$ xrandr

if the resolution, 1280x1024 is listed, do

$xrandr -s 1280x1024


this should work... 

if it does not, go to system > administration > nvidia x server settings
you can change the resolution there...

hope it works..! cheers!! :-)

---

### Post by Cain67 on 2009-05-24
not to sound to retarded, but it didnt work.
iv run the Nvidia x server settings, and it gives odd options for the VGA monitor.

CRT-0 resolutions : 1360x768, 1152x864, 1028x768
however the CM0 CMC 17" AD resolution supports the 1280x1024 im looking for

the monitors both run 1280x1024 in windows 7 with no issues.

[HTML]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "CRT-0"
	HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	Option         "TwinView" "1"
	Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
	Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select @1280x1024 +1280+0, DFP: 1280x1024 +0+0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "dbe"
	Load           "extmod"
	Load           "type1"
	Load           "freetype"
	Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce GTS 150"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection
[/HTML]
that there is the xorg.conf file, and has more info on the graphics card.
had a similar problem in windows xp, and never managed to fix it.
is there anyway to force a resolution on the monitor???

further help will be greatly appreciated 
cheers

---

