---
title: ".bashrc not sourced when running bash script from unity dash"
date: 2011-11-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by heyneman on 2011-11-05
I just upgraded to 11.10 and decided to try out using Unity for a while, instead of the classic menu.  I have a few programs that need to be run with variables set in my .bashrc, and previously I was able to create a bash script to run the program and point a launcher at that script to make sure the program ran with all the right env variables (as per [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher)).  It worked perfectly with the classic menu.

However, if I use Unity Dash to find and run the launcher (which runs the script) my .bashrc is apparently not sourced.  If I run the script directly from a terminal everything is fine (as expected), but if I run it from nautilus I have the same problem.  The script is simply:

#!/bin/bash
spyder

I've tested exporting env variables directly in the script, and explicitly sourcing either ~/.bashrc or the relevant files that .bashrc sources.  Everything works except explictly sourcing ~/.bashrc.

Anyone else run into this or similar issues (and hopefully know how to fix them)?

---

### Post by heyneman on 2011-11-06
Well, I solved my own problem, so hopefully this is helpful to someone else.  Apparently the shell invoked is non-interactive, so ~/.bashrc isn't sourced.  I don't remember having to do this before, so maybe something has changed the type of shell invoked? (I'm really not sure).

But in any case, to fix it all I had to do was start the script off with:

#!/bin/bash -i

Hope that helps someone else out there...

---

