---
title: "9.04 nVidia separate X screens is WACKO"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by TheGolfball on 2009-04-21
In version 9.04 with 2 nVidia graphics cards (GeForce 7600 GT) and one flatscreen monitor on each card the "Separate X Screens" configuration is WACKO.  Most programs when initiated from Screen 1 open on Screen 0 instead of Screen 1.  Some programs (such as Firefox) when initiated from Screen 1 open on Screen 1.  However, then a new instance of Firefox cannot be initiated from Screen 0.

I understand that earlier versions of Ubuntu used to support nVidia's separate X screens correctly.  I need to use separate X screens.

1.  Can someone tell me which versions of Ubuntu support separate X screens correctly?

2.  It looks like this bug is being tracked.  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/339783](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/339783)  Can someone report if a fix is in the near future?

---

### Post by mindfury on 2009-04-25
I've noticed the same thing also, and my configuration is the same as yours.  Here's hoping they figure it out!

--
Philip L.

---

### Post by eviltang on 2009-04-25
I am having the same issue.  

if you launch the app on screen1 with alt+f2 it will open on screen1 (at least for me 64bit 9.04).  thats my "work around" untill a fix is found.

just a bump!!

---

### Post by AdamGott on 2009-04-25
My other problem with this release is that my keyboard keys bound to my application (in this case gmusicbrowser) do not work when the application is running on x-screen 1 but work fine when it is running on x-screen 0.

---

