---
title: "10.04: no WM on GUI start (nvidia)"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kirol on 2010-05-07
I have upgraded 9.10 -> 10.04 on a laptop.
The nvidia 195x driver is installed (confirmed by the
nvidia config tool). But when I log in there is no
window manager running. I have to either explicitly start
metacity from an xterm or enable visual effects for
window decorations to appear - and then visual effects
don't actually work and the same operation has to be
redone after every graphical login.

Has anyone seen and solved this?

---

### Post by kirol on 2010-05-07
I've run the compiz-check tool mentioned in the visual effects FAQ, and here's its output:
```

Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 10.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         nVidia Corporation G96 [GeForce 9600M GT] (rev a1)
 Driver in use:         nvidia
 Rendering method:      Nvidia

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [ OK ]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [ OK ]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [ OK ]

```
So in theory visual effects should work (my chipset is advertised as GT220M, but it's probably equivalent to GT9600M)

---

### Post by kirol on 2010-05-24
New info in the hope someone might hep:

if I try to start "compiz" from the CLI, I am getting ```
Couldn't find a perfect decorator match; trying all decorators
Found no decorator to start
```and then I see metacity is running ...

This system was upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 beta then kept current but the problem remains ever since.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2010-05-24
Do you have the **compiz-gnome** package installed? If memory serves that's where you get the **gtk-window-decorator**. An alternative is **emerald**, but then you need to use Emerald themes.

---

### Post by kirol on 2010-05-24
> **Zorael said:**
> Do you have the **compiz-gnome** package installed? 
Yeah! Thanks so much, Zorael, gnome-compiz was the missing piece indeed. Too bad switching theme or trying to enable desktop effects was not hinting at it, but I am glad I posted again this morning and you were passing by ;-) 

Now if only [*sleeping*]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475623") worked right on this here laptop, the lynx could become my new best friend...

---

