---
title: "14.04 - added gnome shell, activities hot corner doesn't work"
date: 2014-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by malspa on 2014-04-29
I added GNOME Shell to Ubuntu 14.04. The hot corner at the upper-left doesn't bring up the Activities overview (clicking on Activities works, as does the "Super" key). Anyone know how to activate that hot corner?

---

### Post by malspa on 2014-04-29
Well, I found that the hot corner works if I switch from lightdm to gdm. I think this is a work-around instead of a fix because I think it should also work when lightdm is being used. Any ideas? Anyone seeing the same thing?

---

### Post by m1qkus on 2014-05-20
Same here. I'll try the gdm workaround. Thanks. 

Best regards,
m1qkus

---

### Post by m1qkus on 2014-05-20
Switching to gdm didn't work for me, unfortunately. 
Any other ideas, anyone?

---

### Post by malspa on 2014-05-24
I'm actually back to using lightdm, and the activities hot corner in GNOME Shell is working (!). Not sure why. When I first log into the session and move the cursor to the hot corner, nothing happens at first, but then after that it works fine.

Also, I've added the Activities Configurator extension from the GNOME Shell Extensions page. Had to adjust the Hot Corner Threshold down (to about 25) to make it easier to get that hot corner to work nicely.

I don't know if it matters, but instead of editing /etc/X11/default-display-manager directly, I ran the following command and then selected the display manager to use:

```
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm
```

---

