---
title: "11.10: Adding custom .desktop file to launcher bar"
date: 2011-11-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bks07 on 2011-11-18
I got some trouble with my launcher bar. I already accepted that there is no possibility creating launchers via gui but my actual problem annoys me in an extreme way...

I just created that file: ~/.local/share/applications/VPNClient.desktop
```
[Desktop Entry]
Name=VPN Client
GenericName=VPN Client
X-GNOME-FullName=VPN Client
Exec=gksu vpnc-connect
Comment=Connect with VPNC
Type=Application
Terminal=false
Icon=emblem-web
StartupNotify=true

X-Ayatana-Desktop-Shortcuts=StartCampus;Stop

[StartCampus Shortcut Group]
Name=Start Campus
Exec=gksu vpnc-connect /etc/vpnc/campus.conf
TargetEnvironment=Unity

[Stop Shortcut Group]
Name=Stop Client
Exec gksu vpnc-disconnect
TargetEnvironment=Unity
```

How can I get it into my launcher bar?

Thx a lot. :)

By the way: who is responsible for this creepy launcher and bar handling? There is a new stable release (11.10) and everything gets worse? I always thought Ubuntu tries to reach "standard users" not only the hardcore elite... the launcher bar is the central navigation tool for novice users. Think about that.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-11-18
Search in the Dash, and the .desktop should come up. Then you can drag and drop it or (I think) right-click it to add it to the Launcher.

---

### Post by bks07 on 2011-11-20
Ok I got it... I missed a "=" behind "Exec" under [Stop Startup Group]... but thx anyway. :)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-11-20
...also there* is* a graphical tool for creating .desktop files, and it's even install by default. Just search for the "Main Menu" in the Dash. It's actually the same editor that was used in Gnome 2 for editign the menu, but works jut as well for Unity & Dash. 

And it's also possible to use the templates feature of Nautilus to allow creating .desktop files from the ight-click menu in the file manager. Just create an empty template .desktop file and put it into ~/Templates. 

What comes to what users Ubuntu is reaching too, it has nothing to do with the features people complain missing in 11.10. Most of the missing options and features are upstream changes, for example the option to create launchers from the right-click menu on desktop was left out of by Gnome's developers (probably because gnome 3 doesn't, by default, use any desktop icons).

---

