---
title: "18.4 LTS update cinnamon no start (SOLVED)"
date: 2018-04-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jackson21 on 2018-04-26
Hi, all  
New update to Ubuntu 18.4. LTS.
Cannot start   Cinnamon from the Unity greeter.
but:  ALT+CTRL+ F1  opened a new terminal login  and tried  startx cinnamon.[SIZE=2] This worked !!![/SIZE]
Then tried to reinstall cinnamon  latest version. Install provided no errors.
But still cannot start it from greeter. 

Thank you so much for any help

I solved the issue thanks  to the people  named -UXIAN-  
I did a
apt-purge gnome-user-share  
and now I can log into cinnamon from unity greeter !!!!

Thank you so much  uxian
You made my day !!!!

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2018-04-26
Hello,

I would suggest you either to change the greeter or/and the display manager. By default ubuntu is using gdm3, yet you can change it to lightdm. Since startx is starting normally, then I suppose that a faulty combination does not do the work for you.

Regards!

---

### Post by uxian on 2018-04-27
I'm seeing the same with both lightdm and gdm3 (I started with lightdm).  If I start using "startx cinnamon", the desktop launches but there are no applications in the app menu and I can't log out or shut down using the user menu.  Before I upgraded from Xenial I was using the embrosyn Cinnamon PPA (that hasn't been updated for Bionic yet).  I'm guessing there's some configuration floating around from the previous installation though I've deleted everything related to Cinammon that I could find from both my home directory and /etc.   I've also fully removed and reinstalled all of the cinnamon-* packages multiple times.

---

### Post by uxian on 2018-04-27
This solved my issue: [https://askubuntu.com/questions/1012087/cinnamon-session-crashing-login-from-greeter](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1012087/cinnamon-session-crashing-login-from-greeter)

---

### Post by jackson21 on 2018-04-27
Thank you
I have lightdm as display manager.
With lightdm greeter  , using cinnamon option  does not do anything

apt-get purge gnome-user-share !!!!!!!    I did this  and a can load cinnamon

Uxian you are a genius !!!!!!!

I did
apt-get purge gnome-user-share   
and can  load cinnamon !!!!!!!!!!!
You made my day ! Thank you so much

Thank you so much.

I did 
apt-get purge gnome-user-share  and
now I can open Cinnamon  from the unitu greeter !!!

You all made my day

Thank you a lot

---

### Post by d.kloettschen on 2018-11-25
All hail on Uxian! Great suggestion, great help! I'm so happy to find this post, because it prevents me to reinstall the whole desktop-environment which I did on my other mashine :) 
Very helpful post! Thank you very much!!!

---

