---
title: "8.10 - Doesn't show my desktop?"
date: 2009-05-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by claymater on 2009-05-16
So I made a thead a while back about booting into 9.04 and not seeing my desktop (The computer went to a black screen and the monitor "turned off") But Then I just thought that was the Graphics card problem (I have a ATI Radeon x1300), So I went back to 8.10... 


Now, onto my problem I have been running ubuntu 8.10 and everything went fine, and I wanted to play nexuiz and when I clicked it my desktop vanished... So naturally I use CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE. And it restarted but didnt show my desktop (black screen and my monitor turned off). I went into recovery and tried to fix the X server. Restart, no luck... 


So any ideas on how to fix this?

---

### Post by claymater on 2009-05-16
Really? No one?

---

### Post by claymater on 2009-05-17
Sorry for bumping... But. 
Does anyone know what this is, how to fix it?!

---

### Post by claymater on 2009-05-18
Bump... again (sorry) 

Can someone please put me in the right direction? :(

---

### Post by nitroguy on 2009-05-18
I only ask because I did this...

Is it a laptop? Did you try pressing the "toggle output" button (usually fn + f4). it's the one you'd press for making a projector work.

---

### Post by claymater on 2009-05-18
> **nitroguy said:**
> I only ask because I did this...

Is it a laptop? Did you try pressing the "toggle output" button (usually fn + f4). it's the one you'd press for making a projector work.

No, Its a desktop... and it works fine in windows, but ubuntu does this all a sudden :(

---

