---
title: "20.04 with compiz"
date: 2021-01-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by grozni on 2021-01-04
Hello,

Did anyone manage to get compiz running under ubuntu 20.04?
I did fresh install from 16.04 and I can't get it work. 
Everything was working normally under 16.04 now I can't get compiz running and also cairo dock looks kinda ugly.


If I type compiz --replace I get some error about no window decorator and some metacity theme info missing 'adwaita' and I must log out (error oh snap something went wrong).

I tried installing gnome, gnome-flashback and all behaves the same no matter what session I use. 
I also tried running cairo with gnome session it fails also and returns to login screen.
My GPU is 2060 Super running proprietary nvidia-450

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2021-01-04
16.04 uses unity/compiz as the default desktop and window manager 20.04. uses gnome/mutter and is not compiz compatible. I can't address gnome-flashback on current Ubuntu versions tho it did have a compiz option during login in the past. As I remember there was no need to use the compiz --replace command. The unity desktop environment is available in the repository.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-01-04
The answer to this question might help you. At least you can confirm that you have installed all the right packages.

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1250289/is-it-possible-to-use-compiz-with-gnome-flashback-on-ubuntu-20-04](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1250289/is-it-possible-to-use-compiz-with-gnome-flashback-on-ubuntu-20-04)

Regards

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2021-01-04
Hello,

both 20.04 and 20.10 are working fine with compiz as long as you have installed gnome-flashback and compiz. 

I did not understand what you meant by: fresh install from 16.04. Either upgraded or fresh install both are working fine. 

If something is messed up then you could reset ubuntu with this: [https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2018/06/reset-gnome-desktop-ubuntu-18-04/](https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2018/06/reset-gnome-desktop-ubuntu-18-04/), yet be careful before doing that because all settings will be lost.

Another thing you could try is to create a new user and check if things are working ok.

Returning to login screen is another issue. You could search the forums and see which solution fits best. One idea would be to change the display manager and see if problem persists, yet one thing at a time.

Regards!

---

### Post by grozni on 2021-01-04
Thx everyone. I ended up with gnome flashback like suggested.
Everything works as expected

---

