---
title: "[13.04] [Unsolved for Now] Move Unity Launcher to bottom screen"
date: 2013-05-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-22
You could see [my old post here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2147537") if you want ...

Sorry for that but I have to create a new thread since Elfy consider that :

> **Re: [13.04] Move Unity Launcher to bottom screen**[INDENT]                     This has been rinsed and repeated enough times already.

Closed.                 
[/INDENT]
            
                         


What exactly have been rinsed and repeated ? 

The fact that we could do that on older distribution (but not 13.04 because it's to recent) ? Or the fact that people did not consider Mark Shuttleworth can think for them ?

Btw I can understand that Canonical did'nt want to do it but the linux community already done it one with Unity Bottom Launcher ... For older version

I was decided to take my time on this and use gnome 3 instead (already got it but never use before today) ... but on internet i see that 'yeeppee gnome 3.8 is here you have to install it' - so i decide to try it ... 

I've just add the gnome 3 ppa 

sudo add-apt-repository **ppa:gnome3-team/gnome3**

and make an 

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

and that just ruined my computer so i decided to re-install ubuntu 13.04 and I'm decided to found that 'only thing i need' -> move the launcher ...

---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-22
I just create an "ask" on askubuntu.com so if you want to see it, [URL="http://askubuntu.com/questions/298872/ubuntu-13-04-how-can-i-move-the-launcher-to-bottom"]follow that link
[/URL]
Edit : Ask Ubuntu think my post is similar to another and just tell us that there no answer (please do not use ubuntu ?)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2013-05-23
We did tell you. 

Try using a different beast - I use Xubuntu. 

> What exactly have been rinsed and repeated ? This whole 'I don't like Unity - I want what I want' issue. 

If you want help with other desktop environments - have a look in Recurring Discussions - [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=302](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=302)

There are lots of the same there.

Closed.

---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-23
Ok Elfy and thanks to you for that answer.

As you said, people have to move to another distribution for this issue ... But i try Kubuntu and Xubuntu and I didn't like KDE and XFCE, so for me, the only thing to do is to move to gnome 3 ...sadly for Mark.

I know that Mark Shuttleworth decide in 2010 that this was'nt a feature that he want to implement but he was also claiming to use [wayland on unity back to 2010 ]("http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/551")and we know now that he plan to use [mir]("http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/1235") ...

So he can change his mind ... and like us didn't know everything about everything.

Elfy (or other) i got a question for you (i know, this is'nt the right place but that can help people who didn't choose their distrib for now) :

Wich distribution did i have to choose if i want to use Gnome 3 and a linux that have a great community (i mean active) and use a debian base (i'm using debian for year, so i didn't want to change know) ?

And (sorry for that Elfy the subject can't be close on 'we can't do it', otherwise you will see plenty of thread for that)

If you have an answer for moving the launcher bar on unity, please post it (if you don't have that answer please don't).

As this time, we know several things ;
- Mark did not plane to do it so 'Official Ubuntu' will not do it (unless he change his mind)
- No one have done yet a script for doing it (or a program so stop using tweaking tool for that)
- Unity impact on linux user's (and yes i'm not talking of my mother who did'nt know that she have unity) is to moving to another distribution ...

If you wanna discuss about the three point above, please DO NOT DO IT HERE. Make you own subject instead.

PS to Elfy : If you want to close this thread for another reason, please Notify me

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-05-23
try unity-tweal-tool or the other xx-tweak stuff

AND be positive (use again & again the "search" feature (otherwise you'll be on the good way to be banned  :( )

---

### Post by ak12 on 2013-05-23
> try unity-tweal-tool or the other xx-tweak stuff
Thanks dino99 but has I said :
> - No one have done yet a script for doing it (or a program so stop using tweaking tool for that)
So i'm sorry but your answer is no relevant

---

