---
title: "12.04   about persistent liveusb stick with account users in it."
date: 2013-02-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-25
hello, i finally succeed on creating the title , so i kinda of my own small portable OS on any computer, i just find this awesome..sorry :)

tho i am not sure to what extent this usb stick is secure.

what i mean is with this, no need to enter any password  to use it the usb stick.

now with this i can enter any files i wish on the "host" computer it seem wich is good in case of solving issue with it.

but let say i create an administrator account on my persistent live usb stick.

so i would have 2 account on it, one by default since it is live and another wich is password restricted , the one that i create.

now would the live default account could access all the info and the files i put on he restricted account i put on the stick , like browing file ,etc ?


about if someone end up with the usb stick , could he browse through the files using another computer like windows or another linux destro , the files on my live usb or on the restricted account or even both ?

ty

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-02-25
What do you have stored on that USB stick that would be of interest to any one but you? You can answer your own questions by doing a few little experiments. Do not take anybody's word for anything. Test out the security yourself.

Remember, there is no such thing as completely secure. If a young man with Aspberger's syndrome can so easily gain access to files on Pentagon computers, then may be you are expecting too much.

And just because I cannot access the user files on my USB stick of Edubuntu, I have just tried it, then do not assume that nobody else can. 

Regards.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-25
As well , when i am logged on the restricted password account on my usb live stick , when i shut down my computr it just would not close and i need to take power off or batterie off to shut it down and being able to restart it ?

Normal ?

If not any solution ?
Ty

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2013-02-25
If you are talking a **Persistent** install then everything is stored in a file named casper-rw.
I do not believe that this file can be encrypted.
The file is easy to mount and extract data from.

If you need security on a thumb drive install then do a **Full** install.
It can be made just as secure as an install to internal drive.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-25
Wait u telling me i could just put a full install on a usb stick , no need for it to be live ?

Got any link if that is what u met , i would be very interested  about this

Ty

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2013-02-25
Following is step by step for installing 12.04 on a 8GB flash drive on an Intel machine, 12.10 is similar.

Turn off and unplug the computer. (See note at bottom)
Remove the side from the case.
Unplug the power cable from the hard drive.
Plug the computer back in.
Insert the flash drive.
Insert the Live CD or Live USB.
Start the computer, the CD/USB should boot.
Select language
Select install Ubuntu.
Select Download updates while installing and Select Install this third-party software.
Continue
At "Installation type" select "Something else".
Continue
Confirm Device is correct.
Select "New Partition Table" 
Click Continue on the drop down.
(Optional partition for use on Windows machine)
Click "Free space" and "Add".
Select "Primary".
Make "New partition size..." about 1000 megabytes.
Location = Beginning.
"Use as:" = "FAT32 file system".
And "Mount point" = /windows.
Select "OK"
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = 4000 to 6000 megabytes, Beginning, Ext4, and Mount point = "/" then OK.
(Optional home partition)
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = 1000 to 4000 megabytes, Beginning, Ext2, and Mount point = "/home" then OK.
(Optional swap space, allows hibernation)
Click "free space" and then "Add".
Select "Primary", "New partition size ..." = remaining space, (1000 to 2000 megabytes, or same size as RAM), Beginning and "Use as" = "swap area" then OK.
(Important)
Confirm "Device for boot loader installation" points to the USB drive. Default should be ok if HDD was unplugged.
Click "Install Now".
Select your location.
Continue.
Select Keyboard layout.
Continue.
Insert your name, username, password, computer name and select if you want to log in automatically or require a password.
Selecting "Encrypt my home folder" is a good option if you are worried about loosing your USB drive.
Select Continue.
Wait until install is complete.
Turn off computer and plug in the HDD.
Stick the side panel back on.

Note:
You may omit disabling the hard drive if, when partitioning you choose to install grub to the root of the usb drive you are installing Ubuntu to, (ie sdb not sdb1). Be cautious, many people have overwritten the HDD MBR.
You can revise grub later, if you wish.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-26
wow ty
 i sure will try this ! :)

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-26
Small detail , i use a 16  Gigs usb stick , u think i can make the partition bigger , like the first one or is using again a casper-rw wich i cannot exceed 4 4Gigs ?

Hope i can make the following partition bigger if i cannot for the first one .

Ty , small detail but good to know

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2013-02-26
Feel free to make any of the partitions larger.
(You actually only require the "/" and swap partitions).
You can revise partition sizes later using Gparted.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-27
Evrything for now going well , im at the partitioning ...

Why would i create 2 or more partition ? U suggest 3  wich i cannot figure out why ?
Isnt 1 enough ?
Ty

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2013-02-27
Yes one partition is minimum.

If you are planning on also using the USB stick to transfer data to/from a Windows computer, note that windows can only see FAT and NTFS file systems and can only see the first partition on a flash drive.

Having a separate /home partition allows you to upgrade while keeping all of your settings, cookies and other stuff in your home folder.

Having swap space allows the computer to go into hibernation.

If you do not want any of the above optional partitions and have disconnected your internal drives you may use the installation type "Erase disk and install Ubuntu". this will give you one partition, (/), and swap space.

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-27
Great , awesome .

Mind as well make both and see wich i prefer !!

I got 2 16 Gigs usb :)

Hope i can finish tonigh or tomorow !

Ty again

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-28
I did everything but something seem not working.

Pnce all partition done , it says device for boot loader installation , i chose to install on /dev/sdb   Wich the description of lexar jumpdrive (16G) , i click install now and nothing happens beside  ubuntu kinda of thinking .

I do not think u met i choose sdb1 ,  2 or  3 where are the partirion i create right to install the boot loader ?

Even when i go directly to install ubuntu snd not choose  " option something else " , nothing happens :(

U click install now and circle animation start ( kind like thinking animation) but it just stop and nothing happens

Maybe i need to format first the usb key in full tho i dunno in what  kind format ubuntu reads so i can install ubuntu on my usb key , the simpler form of installation , letting ubuntu do all the work having only 1 partition

Yup each time i try , the computr just get stuck kind like in thinking mode :(
Seem i am missing something , so sad , and i have to close manually the computer to restart cause nothing eorks once i try to install it :(

---

### Post by MontrealCorp on 2013-02-28
well everything works great !

i had simply to reformat at start my usb stick to factory setting....seem a normal erase was not working for ubuntu installation.

TY so much !!!

imo , not enough info are available for this !

---

