---
title: "9.10 Fresh install freeze"
date: 2010-01-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by micio on 2010-01-12
Hi all!
I tried a lot of time to install the 9.10 on my desktop, but after a few it freeze and I have no possibility to understand what is the problem because I can't find any useful information in the logs files.
It happens since ubuntu 9.04 on all variants... on the same machine I have 3 OS

**sda1 k/ubuntu 9.10** (randomly freeze)
**sda2 Vista OS** (works fine.. of course, some bluescreen here and there, but it is windows :) )
**sda3 Ubuntu 8.10** Intrepid (It works like a charm!!! no freeze, no slowdown, it is the best os I ever seen and tried! And it is on that machine from 2 years ago)

My Hardware is

MB. Asus p5k Premium wifi/ap (Bios rev 1101 Last available)
cpu Intel q6600 @2.4 Ghz 
Video: Nvidia 8800 GT
4 GB RAM OCZ
Terratec T-stick TV receiver
3 SATA HD
1 IDE HD

May you have some suggestion?
What can I do to discover what is going wrong and find a solution?
What has been changed sing 9.04 version?
Let me know if you need additional informations.

Thanks in advance

Micio

---

### Post by micio on 2010-01-13
Bump!

---

### Post by micio on 2010-01-14
anyone can help me?

---

### Post by SethK on 2010-04-05
I am also running into a very similar problem.

When your desktop freezes, can you still run a terminal?

---

### Post by shaka_zulu on 2010-04-05
Did you run Live CD or you have tried to install it directly?

---

### Post by pbrugs on 2010-04-05
I've had similar problems with kubuntu installed inside ubuntu. It would happen randomly when I changed settings or tried to use the internet.

---

### Post by parn on 2010-04-05
I experience the same problem before installing ubuntu 9.10 from Live CD.

After pulling most of my hair out... I did a md5sum on the iso I downloaded and found that the iso was corrupted >.<"

---

### Post by oldefoxx on 2010-04-05
I found some similar problems with 9.10 a good while back, and going to 9.04 got me around that.  Another thing was sometimes related to whether you elected to manually install to a partition and decided not to format it, possibly hoping to preserve /home and everything under it.  I got the distinct impression that some non-/home folders and files might have survived and had a negative impact on the install that followed.

A format of the target partition would take care of this.  CDs and DVDs can be a problem area as well.  Usually it is skin oils and fingerprints that create problems here.  A light wash in mild soapy water and thorough rince and dry that leave no water marks can clean these enough to make them usable again, but I usually burn multiple copies anyway just to play it safe.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-04-06
Are you using the 64bit iso? I had an identical problem when I was trying to install from the 64bit version when I went back to a 32bit verson all the problems disappeared.

---

### Post by shaka_zulu on 2010-04-06
From my experience in 99% of all cases the problem is in the bad quality of CD/DVD or corrupted ISO file. Also SethK has a problem but he didn't say that he used alternate CD for fresh install which is, i highly believe, a very wrong since alternate CD is not for fresh install. I hope that you are not using the same one. Also if you have problem installing from Live CD try to install it directly before going with Live. I am also suggesting that you make whole process from USB flash stick. I it faster and safer in the same time.

---

### Post by micio on 2010-04-07
uffff... 
I have no words... :confused:

It freezes randomly after install...
it freezes during liveCD execution..
It freezes during a direct install (same live cd but direct install)

And I tried also 10.04 Beta1 and I still got the same problem...

There could be something in our Hardware configuration.. I don't know.. I tried also to remove Overclock from bios and/or upgrade bios firmware.. 
Now I'm starting to pull out some PCI like wifi (I don't need it anymore..)

There is some way to log everything happens like a debug mode? :popcorn:

Thanks

Micio

---

### Post by micio on 2010-04-08
Maybe it is too soon to say YEAH, but at first sight I get it sorted by removing a wifi PCI (athereos)

I made it because a lot of messages in kern.log and syslog about

ath5k noise floor calibration... blablabla

Well, I will keep you updated :)

byez!

---

