---
title: "11.10"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by durtie on 2011-10-14
advanced desktop effects settings is not listed in my ubuntu software center. Does anyone know how to get it on ubuntu 11.10

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2011-10-14
Try compizconfig-setting-manager

---

### Post by fmmarzoa on 2011-12-04
Hello,

I've installed and configured compiz, but I have not effects yet. For example, when I move or maximize windows there's no effect.

Any hints?

Regards,

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-04
What effect were you expecting ? There was an extra plug-in that changed the animation when a window was closed or minimized . I don't remember what it was named , but it came with a Compiz PPA on earlier versions of Ubuntu .

---

### Post by fmmarzoa on 2011-12-04
Hi,

Actually I do not see any difference from having installed compiz or not. There's no FX in my desktop.

On 10.04 with FX enabled, when you move a window for example, it shakes like a jelly.

Regards,

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2011-12-04
> **fmmarzoa said:**
> Hi,

Actually I do not see any difference from having installed compiz or not. There's no FX in my desktop.

On 10.04 with FX enabled, when you move a window for example, it shakes like a jelly.

Regards,

you must go to your system settings and enable the wobbly windows option in Compiz. It won't turn on just by having it installed..

---

### Post by fmmarzoa on 2011-12-06
I've YET enabled wobbly windows using ccsm command (I do not found a way to access ccsm through system settings on 11.10), but it does not work...

Perhaps I need to enable compiz in some way?

I think my system is not using compiz for some reason, so all that settings has no effect.

Regards,

---

### Post by fmmarzoa on 2011-12-06
Hello,

I tried compiz --replace and it frozes my desktop. It's not redrawed and windows does not respond mouse nor keyboard events anymore.

If I change to a vitual terminal (i.e. alt+f1) and come back again to X (alt+f7) I get a black window with the mouse pointer over it.

I needed to login through a virtual terminal, locate de X process with ps, and then kill it to get again the gdm login screen functional.

Regards,

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-12-06
CCSM will change the settings on Unity 3D only (or Gnome-classic with Compiz). Open the System Monitor and check in the running processes for compiz. If compiz isn't running, they you are probably using Unity 2D, which has no effects.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2011-12-06
Back in 10.10 and earlier that was an Enhanced Effects tab in the Appearance utility. From 11.10 onwards that is no longer available. Also a lot of the old utilities in System Settings have been removed. As you have noticed.

Once you have installed Compiz Configuration Settings Manager (CCSM) you can find it in the Dash. Click on the Ubuntu icon at the top of the Launcher and type in the search bar Compiz and you will get an icon to CompizConfiguration Settings Manager.

Make sure that the Unity plugin is enabled. It will let you make adjustments to how Unity works for you.

You can also set Wobbly Windows. This effect works on 11.10. I am using it. But I have seen posts in this forum where some of the other effects cause Compiz to crash. So, be careful what you alter. Try one at a time and see what happens when you reboot.

By the way Compiz is the window compositing manager used by Ubuntu. So, it is already installed. It is the Compiz Configuration Settings Manager that needs to be installed and that is what you cannot find because it no longer appears in System Settings.

Regards.

---

