---
title: "U 11.04 - how to freeze monitor resolution?"
date: 2011-07-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by globus999 on 2011-07-25
Hi,

 I am stumped and was hoping somebody my help me. 
 Just installed 11.04 on a box that it is on a kvm switch. As long as the switch is connecting the monitor to the booting Ubuntu box, the resolution of the monitor is detected OK. However, if for some reason I am working on a different box and the KVM switch is routing K V and M inputs to the other box, then Ubuntu defaults to what seems a botched VGA setting (i.e. it chops off top and left sections of the display). 
 While in this "VGA" mode if I log out and log in, it re-detects the resolution ok.

 Is there any way to force Ubuntu to use a specific resolution no matter what? In this way, if I am working on a different box while waiting for Ubuntu to load, when I switch the resolution will be OK.

 I tried the only thing I can think of and this is to set the "good" resolution as "default" for "all" monitors, but it has no effect.

 Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated!

 FYI, my box does not support Unity and hence it runs in Classic

---

### Post by cybergalvez on 2011-07-25
I would suspect you will have to create a valid x.org config file with the correct settings in it.

---

### Post by globus999 on 2011-07-25
> **cybergalvez said:**
> I would suspect you will have to create a valid x.org config file with the correct settings in it.

Tx! appreciated, but not a clue. Where may I find more info specifically how to edit x.org to prevent autodetect?

I mean, I checked in: [http://www.x.org/wiki/ConfigurationHelp](http://www.x.org/wiki/ConfigurationHelp)

but I got an error message saying something along the lines that the X server is busy with the current display "0" and that the X -configuration operation was aborted.

---

