---
title: "Thunderbird Unchained (Link Broken!) (Solved)"
date: 2005-10-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by geofff on 2005-10-29
I migrated from Evolution to Thunderbird because of problems losing messages/ subscriptions issues etc that I couldn't get resolved in Evolution. Everything was working well. I was writing my first e-mail and in the middle (for some reason) decided to make Thunderbird my default mail reader in preferred applications. When I then pressed send everything disappeared. 

When I now try to start Thunderbird from Applications>Internet>Thunderbird Mail Client it opens a new account set up window. The link seems to have been lost to my ~/.mozilla-thunderbird file that has all my working stuff in it. I've tried fairly incompetently to re-establish a link from (I am assuming) /usr/bin/mozilla-thunderbird to ~/.mozilla-thunderbird. I am clearly not doing it right or I'm trying to link the files from the wrong places (I've also located a thunderbird directory in /usr/share - whether this needs linking I don't have a clue! Maybe there's more!!)

I'd appreciate any help. TIA

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-10-29
Is /home/username/.mozilla-thunderbird the only thunderbird-like hidden folder in your home directory?

---

### Post by geofff on 2005-10-29
[QUOTE=aysiu]Is /home/username/.mozilla-thunderbird the only thunderbird-like hidden folder in your home directory?[/QUOTE]

I've also got .mozilla but nothing else re thunderbird. 

Within .mozilla-thunderbird I've got u57pksd8.default, appreg and profiles.ini (I've now also got a mozilla-thunderbird link file from me trying to set up links but that was part of me trying to sort the problem out and should now presumably be deleted!)

---

### Post by aysiu on 2005-10-29
I hate to say it, but it sounds as if you lost your Thunderbird profile.

---

### Post by JazzCrazed on 2005-10-29
You could try backing up the profiles folder, uninstalling, and reinstalling. Then put the folder back to ~/ before you run TB for the first time after reinstallation. This works in XP at least, where TB sees the profile there, with no further setup needed (as if you never uninstalled the program in the first place).

FYI: u57pksd8.default is the folder automatically generated by TB that contains your mailboxes, contacts - all the files and information associated with your account(s). So .mozilla-thunderbird, in which it resides, is the folder to which I've referred when I say "profiles folder." :)

---

### Post by geofff on 2005-10-29
I've been working on it but run out of time. I'll post again when I've something to report. Thanks again for the help.

Geofff

---

### Post by geofff on 2005-10-30
I've now got it going again. I backed up the existing .mozilla-thunderbird directory, reloaded TB, set up a new profile, and then transferred into the new .mozilla-thunderbird directory the backed up Mail directory, abook.mab, and prefs.js. So far everything seems to be up and running. The only thing I had to watch out for was not to automatically download waiting e-mail with the new profile as the mail directory would be overwritten when transferring the backed up data. 

Thanks for the help

---

### Post by ned.b on 2006-01-31
[QUOTE=geofff]I've now got it going again. I backed up the existing .mozilla-thunderbird directory, reloaded TB, set up a new profile, and then transferred into the new .mozilla-thunderbird directory the backed up Mail directory, abook.mab, and prefs.js. So far everything seems to be up and running. The only thing I had to watch out for was not to automatically download waiting e-mail with the new profile as the mail directory would be overwritten when transferring the backed up data. 

Thanks for the help[/QUOTE]

I had the same problem and this fixed it - now I wonder what caused it.  My laptop has locked up from time to time, also, it is not the fastest machine... impatient multiple clicks on the Thunderbird shortcut have caused it to launch the new acount setup wizard - though the default has remained intact.

---

