---
title: "1.  realy realy small desktop envirerment 2. dounload but not install a .deb package"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by stber321 on 2010-10-11
2 part question.
i was not shoure where i should ask part 1 but i desided it would be OK here becouse it is related to a Debian based linux distribution,

part #1. i have a wii. i installed the homebrew channel. then on the wii brew website i found wii linux. the wii is not the machine whith the most ram and becouse wii linux is a homebrew application i had to install it to a SD card which is only 1GB. i want to install some kind of gui. i like LXDE. i also have it installed on Ubuntu (although GNOME relay is the best). but i still want somthing smaller. if you have any recommendations i would love them.

part #2. my wii will not connect to the Internet, so i would like to put my packages on the SD card and install them on the wii. i know you can download but not install a package using
```
sudo apt-get -d install //name of package
```
but my computer has an AMD64 processor and the wii  has a powerPC processor.
i would like to know to know if there is a way to download but not install a package compiled on the powerPC processor.

mini question: is there a good website for someone already experienced with c++ on windows but wants to write it and compile it in ubuntu

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-10-12
Part #1 try XFCE instead of Gnome.
Part #2 "Save" instead of "Open with" when downloading.
Try Unetbooten for transfering to your card for installing.

---

