---
title: "how do I install compiz"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tiger07 on 2007-10-23
pretty self explanatory, how do I install compiz on gusty?

---

### Post by jualin on 2007-10-23
Compiz is installed by default on Gutsy, however it could be disabled if your video card does not have the latest drivers. If you have an Nvidia or ATI card go to the package manager and look for the package. However, ubuntu should recognize that you have a video card like that and should offer to install the driver for you.
After you do this, go to System, Preferences, Appearance and Visual Effects. You should have 3 options, select whichever you like best. If you want to customize the effects you should also install the package compiz-config-settings manager. You could also check that you have compiz installed in your computer by going to the package manager and searching for compiz to see if you have it installed.

---

### Post by Mcavity on 2007-10-28
Ok I have the ATI restricted driver installed. seems to be working well [3d games work]
however.
I get "the composite extension is not available" under system > appearance
I dont seem to be able to enable desktop effects. Im not sure my config file is exactly right.. but it is working..



fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9800
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6473 (8.37.6)

[Im going to clean this up a bit..]


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"v4l"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Boardname	"ATI Radeon (vesa)"
	Busid		"PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	
	# 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Boardname	"ATI Radeon (vesa)"
	Busid		"PCI:3:0:0"
	Screen	1
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"DesktopSetup"	"horizontal"
	Option		"OverlayOnCRTC2"	"1"
	Busid		"PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:3:0:0"
	Screen	1
EndSection


Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

---

### Post by Mcavity on 2007-10-29
update 
changed

Option "Composite" "0" to "1"

now i get a difrent error message "Desktop effects could nto be enabled"

---

### Post by athaki on 2007-10-29
> **Mcavity said:**
> update 
changed

Option "Composite" "0" to "1"

now i get a difrent error message "Desktop effects could nto be enabled"


you might have to install xgl unless you have the latest ati driver 8.42.3 (I think that's the right number) and you also might have to reinstall compiz.

```
 sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl compizconfig-settings-manager 
```

Hopefully this should work for you. Otherwise keep searching on these forums because I found the solution but forgot to subscribe and it got lost in the myriad of other posts :(

---

### Post by Mcavity on 2007-10-30
yea when I install xserver-gl i cant get past the login screen. =(

---

### Post by wigg on 2007-10-30
I had the same problem on a geforce 5200fx in 7.04.  I simply reinstalled the drivers from nvidias website and then reinstalled the xgl-new package and it fixed my problems.

---

### Post by Mcavity on 2007-10-30
The ATI driver install procedures still a little rough. but I think its installed right. 
I have 3d acceleration and even play the quake 3 based games.

---

### Post by carlos1992 on 2007-10-30
install with addremove the  CCSM and manage it

---

### Post by Mcavity on 2007-10-30
carlos,
um you lost me there. I have no Idea what you just said..
Grin 
add remove what? whats CCSM?

---

### Post by k0rfain on 2007-10-30
ccsm lets you configure compiz settings. Click Applications then towards the bottom you should see something like "Add/Remove..." and then search for Ccsm in there

[COLOR="Red"]edit:[/COLOR]
You might have to search for it in Synaptic package manager

---

### Post by Mcavity on 2007-10-31
Ok at this point Ill tell you whats working.


1.ATI drivers seem to be properly installed. 

fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: RADEON 9800
OpenGL version string: 2.0.6958 Release

2. open GL games work. 

3. GLXgears works
glxgears
23796 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4759.093 FPS
23902 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4780.399 FPS
23930 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4785.827 FPS
23806 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4761.156 FPS


3. GL desktop will run.. however I have to start it manually one I'm logged in. it will not go directly there from the login screen. 
at the login screen If I use the default it hangs, the screen blinks, then pops me back into the login screen. I'm not sure why. To login I have to select session and go to Failsafe Gnome. Once I'm logged in there I can go to system > preferences > GLdesktop and start it.

Desktop effects do not run. 


Any Ideas?


/ update. I gave up. I reinstall ubuntu from scratch and used the older driver. maybe the next driver set will be better. I still dont have compiz working

---

