---
title: "13.04 Error at login"
date: 2013-06-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tigerjack89 on 2013-06-05
Hey there.
As you can see from the image above, I'm having some problems after the login
[img]http://imageshack.us/a/img109/4218/ubuntudesktop.jpg[/img]

Do you experienced the same problems? Any advice?
Thanks in advance :)

---

### Post by bela42 on 2013-06-05
Maybe nautilus crashed? Can you open file manager windows?

---

### Post by Charlotte18 on 2013-06-05
Although my desktop appears as it should, I have noticed that the lightdm background seems to remain active after login. I say this because when I shutdown, I briefly see the lightdm background right after my desktop goes away. I wonder why this is so.

In your case, check the /usr/share/backgrounds folder and make sure that the permissions for "Others" are set to access files, or if the expected desktop image is not in that folder, check the permissions for the file and folder that contains the background image you expect to see.

---

### Post by tigerjack89 on 2013-06-05
> **bela42 said:**
> Maybe nautilus crashed? Can you open file manager windows?
Sure, it works fine.

> **Charlotte18 said:**
> Although my desktop appears as it should, I have noticed that the lightdm background seems to remain active after login. I say this because when I shutdown, I briefly see the lightdm background right after my desktop goes away. I wonder why this is so.

In your case, check the /usr/share/backgrounds folder and make sure that the permissions for "Others" are set to access files, or if the expected desktop image is not in that folder, check the permissions for the file and folder that contains the background image you expect to see.
All the permissions for others are setted to "r" for all the files in the folder; I also tried to change the desktop image several times, but still have the same problem.
One thing to note: after the first access, if I logout and then login, the desktop wallpaper become black.  :S

---

### Post by tigerjack89 on 2013-06-05
Other kind of errors using the ALT+TAB key. What's going on?
[IMG]http://img834.imageshack.us/img834/8153/screenshotfrom201306052.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by tigerjack89 on 2013-06-06
Don't know if it's related, but more often than not the command
```
sudo reboot now
```
doesn't work, while the
```
sudo shutdown -r now[CODE]
works well.

Also, I give strange error message when I try to shutdown, something like.
[CODE]
make sure the message bus daemon is running! Message: failed to connect to socket /var/run/dsbus/system_bus_socket. No such file or directory
* Stopping userspace bootsplace [Fail]

```

---

### Post by tigerjack89 on 2013-10-03
hey guys. Any ideas on this?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-10-03
My guess would be that sudo reboot now, reboots Ubuntu but sudo shutdown -r now, reboots Linux. 

Lightdm will use as its background for the login screen the selected background wallpaper image. The default wallpaper is /usr/share/backgrounds/warty-final-unbuntu.png. Somehow, the logos and icons for the login screen are still appearing.

More than this I cannot add. sorry. Why not re-install?

Regards.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-10-03
My guess would be that sudo reboot now, reboots Ubuntu but sudo shutdown -r now, reboots Linux. 

Lightdm will use as its background for the login screen the selected background wallpaper image. The default wallpaper is /usr/share/backgrounds/warty-final-unbuntu.png. Somehow, the logos and icons for the login screen are still appearing.

More than this I cannot add. sorry. Why not re-install?

Regards.

---

### Post by enterdavertex on 2013-10-04
Yesh try re-installing LightDM. Have you tryed to modify any of these settings ?

---

### Post by tigerjack89 on 2013-10-04
Hey guys, mistery solved!! It was a Ubuntu Tweak setting that I disclosed purely by accident.
For those who had the same problem, in Ubuntu Tweak go to Tweak>Desktop Icons>Show desktop icon:ON.
Thanks to all :)

---

