---
title: "[SOLVED] Fluxbox won't open apps"
date: 2007-12-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-01
So, I thought I'd give Fluxbox a try. I've been using Fluxbuntu in a virtual machine occasionally, so I already know how it works, how to customize thigns, etc. 

So, anyway, I installed Fluxbox itself as well as the basic utilities for it. First time I loaded it up, I got no menu. The right mouse-button simply didn't display anything. 

Back to KDE, opened a terminal, tried to look at the contents of /etc/X11/fluxbox/fluxbox-menu, and was informed that the file doesn't exist. The file is supposed to be automatically generated, so I was a bit puzzled by this. Running:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure fluxbox
```caused the menu file to be generated. So, I loaded another Fluxbox session, and the menu now comes up and displays most of my installed apps. 

But they won't open! This isn't limited to applications: all menu items (including theme choices) simply won't respond to the left mouse button. What's more, the desktop pager on the panel doesn't respond. It's as though the left mouse button simply doesn't work at all.

Has anyone else seen this? Know how to fix it? I really like Fluxbox, and would like it to become my daily-use wm, but so far I haven't been able to get past merely opening the menu.

EDIT: All right, I figured out what was going on. For some reason the left mouse button works if I hit it and "ctrl" simultaneously. So, now I'm using Fluxbox, but I'd really like to change that setting. I tried using fluxkeys to instruct the left button to "exec command", but that doesn't seem to have changed anything. 

I've also noticed that the right button won't load the context menu inside of an application. Is there a way to change that?

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-12-01
Hey there p_quarles. I use Fluxbox a lot on my Kubuntu install. Check these:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=371144](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=371144)
(about the menu and such)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=483613](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=483613)
(variety of topics)
Lots of helpful info in those. 

Forgive if you know all that, but you have copied the contents of /usr/share/fluxbox to ~/.fluxbox ? Located in your home folder, they'll over ride the default stuff and allow easy editing. Once copied to your home folder, you might want to go ahead and edit those files manually with leafpad or something, instead of the tools. Just a menu, a keys file etc, nicely straight forward. Doing it that way helped me cut through my confusion when I was starting on it.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-01
Cool, I'll look at those. 

Anyway, I just copied the files you mentioned, and I'll reload Fluxbox in a few to see if that fixes things. 

The main problem, though, is the left mouse button functionality. Since my last post, I was able to get it to work without the ctrl button, but now if I open the menu, it won't close until I open an application. If anyone would be kind enough to post their ~/.fluxbox/keys file for comparison, it would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by cknight on 2007-12-02
Could be a problem with your keys file (which allows you to configure your mouse clicks and if not done properly will render them useless).  Try posting your keys file so we can see what's going on...

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-02
> **cknight said:**
> Could be a problem with your keys file (which allows you to configure your mouse clicks and if not done properly will render them useless).  Try posting your keys file so we can see what's going on...
Output of "cat .fluxbox/keys"
```
\# File generated by FluxConf
Mod1 Mouse1top :DetachClient
None Mouse2top :WorkspaceMenu
None Mouse3top :RootMenu
Control Mod1 4 :NextWorkspace
Control Mod1 6 :PrevWorkspace
Mod1 Tab :NextWindow
Mod1 Shift Tab :PrevWindow
Mod1 F1 :Workspace 1
Mod1 F2 :Workspace 2
Mod1 F3 :Workspace 3
Mod1 F4 :Workspace 4
Mod1 F5 :Workspace 5
Mod1 F6 :Workspace 6
Mod1 F7 :Workspace 7
Mod1 F8 :Workspace 8
Mod1 F9 :Workspace 9
Mod1 F10 :Workspace 10
Mod1 F11 :Workspace 11
Mod1 F12 :Workspace 12
```

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-12-02
> **p_quarles said:**
> Cool, I'll look at those. 

Anyway, I just copied the files you mentioned, and I'll reload Fluxbox in a few to see if that fixes things. 

The main problem, though, is the left mouse button functionality. Since my last post, I was able to get it to work without the ctrl button, but now if I open the menu, it won't close until I open an application. If anyone would be kind enough to post their ~/.fluxbox/keys file for comparison, it would be greatly appreciated.

Well I think what you're describing is the default behavior; the menu remains on screen until one either starts an app, presses esc, or just left clicks on an empty spot on the desktop.

The only things I have in my keys file are things for functions like adjusting the sound volume, starting a favorite app or taking a screenshot. Here it is at present (Mod4 is the 'windows' key):

```
Mod1 Tab :NextWindow
Mod1 Shift Tab :PrevWindow
Mod1 F1 :Workspace 1
Mod1 F2 :Workspace 2
Mod1 F3 :Workspace 3
Mod1 F4 :Workspace 4
Mod1 F5 :Exec fbsetbg -l

Mod4 F9 :Exec amixer set Master playback toggle
Mod4 F10 :Exec amixer set Master playback 100%
Mod4 F11 :Exec amixer set Master playback 2dB-
Mod4 F12 :Exec amixer set Master playback 2dB+

Mod4 i :Exec /usr/bin/kopete
Mod4 l :Exec /usr/bin/leafpad
Mod4 n :Exec /usr/bin/notecase
Mod4 t :Exec /usr/bin/urxvt +sb -g 80x25 -fn xft:DejaVuSansMono:size=10 -fg black -bg white
Mod4 w :Exec /usr/bin/konqueror --profile webbrowsing --geometry 800x600

Print :Exec scrot %T.jpg
```

I do like KDE but I enjoy being able to use KDE & other apps in a crisper, less cluttered window manager like Fluxbox. It's a nice combination.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-02
> **TeaSwigger said:**
> Well I think what you're describing is the default behavior; the menu remains on screen until one either starts an app, presses esc, or just left clicks on an empty spot on the desktop.
Right, and the problem is that it after fiddling with the settings, it now only closes when I open an app -- not when I click on the desktop, and not even when I click on a style setting. 

I'm going to get rid of the mouse button mappings altogether. It looks from your file like that will enable the default settings. Thanks for posting that.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2007-12-02
Hah. Managed to get it working correctly. I don't know why I didn't think of this before, but all it took was booting up my Fluxbuntu vm, and copying the mouse button mappings from that. For some reason, the Fluxbox installation I got was really wonky, and I haven't seen anyone else having this problem. 

Basically, the mouse buttons were not instructed to differentiate between "OnDesktop" and inside of applications. Changing it to the following solved it:
```
OnDesktop Mouse1 :hideMenus
OnDesktop Mouse2 :workspaceMenu
OnDesktop Mouse3 :rootMenu
```
Thanks for the help, guys.

---

### Post by cknight on 2007-12-02
Yes, the 'Mouse1top', etc. do seem to cause all kinds of problems.  Not sure where they originated from as I can't find any real documentation about them on the web.  Best cure is to change all 'Mouse1top', etc. to 'Mouse1', or do as p_quarles has done and replace ALL mouse bindings with the 3 basic ones above.  

If anyone is interested in customizing their keys file further, check out this fluxbox keys how-to: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=617812]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=617812")

---

### Post by RedSquirrel on 2007-12-02
Note that you can always generate a set of stock configuration files for Fluxbox by renaming the ~/.fluxbox directory to ~/.fluxbox_backup or similar. Then, the next time you login to Fluxbox, it will recreate all of the stock config files automatically. After that, it's just a matter of copying over the files you want from your ~/.fluxbox_backup folder.

---

