---
title: "Multiple desktops and multiple display monitors"
date: 2009-07-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Jukken on 2009-07-29
Hi. I'm a total newbie with linux, but I'm already liking Ubuntu alot.
Be patient with me please... :)

I really like the desktop thing in gnome, having multiple desktops to switch between is nice.
Also installed compiz and lets just say I'm impressed with the awesome display :)

So, to my question:

Is it possible to bind the desktops to different monitors?
Say I have 2 desktops.
Desktop1 always gets output to Samsung-monitor.
Desktop2 always get output to Dell-monitor.

Or even better...the desktop in "focus" always get output to Samsung-monitor, and the Dell-monitor always outputs the "other desktop".

So I could basically click to change desktop, and the monitors would switch also.

I hope you can understand what I'm trying to say. Is it possible, and how if so?

Thanks

---

### Post by hyperAura on 2009-07-29
r u using a laptop or a pc? do u hav a graphics card that supports having a second monitor if it is a pc?

---

### Post by Jukken on 2009-07-29
I'm on a stationary PC.

The graphics card supports having multiple displays (Geforce 8800GTS).
If I set Nvidia X Config to Twinview, I get one big display from both monitors.
I'd rather have one display monitor on each desktop/workspace view though.

---

### Post by hyperAura on 2009-07-29
i cant look at it atm as i am not on my machine and i am using a windows machine..

i am pretty sure that u can put different wallpaper on each workspace in KDE but i am not sure if u can link each workspace to a different monitor.. i think there is a gnome feature about assigning each workspace to a different monitor but cant remember it right now..

---

### Post by hyperAura on 2009-07-29
i found this topic as i was digging about the subject, hope it'll help u..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=243021](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=243021)

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-07-29
> **Jukken said:**
> I'm on a stationary PC.

The graphics card supports having multiple displays (Geforce 8800GTS).
If I set Nvidia X Config to Twinview, I get one big display from both monitors.
I'd rather have one display monitor on each desktop/workspace view though.

When you say one big display your panels don't run across both monitiors do they?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2009-07-29
You need to set it up in your xorg.conf

Here's a basic dualhead layout i use to watch movies on my TV. You probably won't be able to simply copy n paste, but it isn't 2 hard to figure out what to change I think :)

Hint: It's useful to create a backup of you single layer (this is your current xorg.conf file) xorg.conf inside the same directory.

```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_singlelayer

```

Then, after creating your dualhead config, place it in 
/etc/X11/xorg.conf_duallayer

Then you may simply remove your xorg.conf and link the conf you want to use into place.
```

ln -s /etc/X11/xorg.conf_<the conf u want>layer /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Oh, you have to kill your gnome, so hit ctrl+alt+f2 and run 
/etc/init.d/gdm stop
before you change your configs. Then start your display manager back up with 
startx
and your second monitor should show up just as you set it up.

Here's the xorg.conf... 
You may want to read some articles about the different setup options too
twinview vs separate-xscreen vs cloneoutput

I use separate screens, due to different resolutions.
```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Mon May 11 15:58:00 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    FontPath        "unix/:7100"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CPT"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600M GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600M GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1440x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

*edit

nvidia-xconfig provides a nice option to test a config and view your setup in a tree format.

nvidia-xconfig -c /tmp/xorg.conf -t

for example. so you wont have to mess around with sudo or as root or so. Only once you finished configuring and testing. useful.

---

### Post by Jukken on 2009-07-29
> **wojox said:**
> When you say one big display your panels don't run across both monitiors do they?

I've tried alot of settings in the nvidia x settings program.

If I use the configuration Separate X Screens ... I can no longer move programs between the monitors...and the right monitor has launchpanel etc. For some reason the windowdecoration-theme does not seem to work here...and no way to change it. 
Everything I do only changes stuff on first monitor :/
Launching a program - makes it run on monitor 1.
This mode seems useless.

Using Twinview - the workspace becomes one big workspace, only the first monitor has the launchpanel, icons etc. The right monitor only has wallpaper. I can move programs back and forth. Works ok.

However...I would like to only have the first monitor displaying the first workspace...and the second monitor to display the second workspace.

---

