---
title: "12.10 very slow and freezes, fan is very loud"
date: 2013-01-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by magitekZ on 2013-01-21
I'm a bit new to Ubuntu. I installed 12.10 64 bit on a custom built desktop, but it runs  very slow and often freezes or something like Unity will crash. I'm not  sure what the issue is. I tried installing AMD drivers (I'm using an AMD  Radeon HD 7850 graphics card) but when I restart the computer afterwards Unity doesn't load. Only the wallpaper and the cursor appear and I can't fix it unless I reinstall Ubuntu.

Also my CPU  fan is very loud. When I boot into Windows, the fan quiets down to a  tolerable speed but with Ubuntu it never does and in fact it gets louder  after a few minutes.

This is the output for sudo lshw -C display; lsb_release -a; uname -a:


   *-display UNCLAIMED
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: PITCAIRN PRO [Radeon HD 7800 Series]
       vendor: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:05:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:fe9c0000-fe9fffff ioport:e000(size=256) memory:fe9a0000-fe9bffff
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 12.10
Release:	12.10
Codename:	quantal
Linux home 3.5.0-21-generic #32-Ubuntu SMP Tue Dec 11 18:51:59 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by Jim01 on 2013-01-21
What are the specs of the rest of the computer?  Does Windows seem much faster compared to ubuntu?

EDIT: Have you at least confirmed it is the graphics card that's causing the issue?  if not I would suggest disconnecting the graphics card and see what ubuntu is like when using the onboard motherboard graphics instead.

---

