---
title: ".desktop files don't work in home dir"
date: 2021-01-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Tectuktitlay on 2021-01-05
Hi all,

I just upgraded to focal fossa and am facing some issues. Can someone help me out? Basically I'm trying to add an application to the launcher. To do so I followed there steps:

[https://developer.gnome.org/integration-guide/stable/desktop-files.html](https://developer.gnome.org/integration-guide/stable/desktop-files.html)

I've created a a file: ~/.local/share/applications/todoist.desktop. According to the Gnome page, it should be picked up automatically. It's not showing up on the launcher. What am I doing wrong?

Hope someone can help!

Thanks a lot in advance!

Tec

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-01-05
Can you launch the application from Activities? Is the application's icon present in the Dash and does it launch the application?

According to the Gnome document 

> GNOME monitors 	these directories for changes, so simply copying the file to 	the right location is enough to register it with the 	desktop.

I cannot see where it is promised to put the application's icon into the launcher. When you run the application does its icon appear in the launcher? Can you add it to favourites so that it is fixed to the launcher?

Regards

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2021-01-06
> What am I doing wrong?
The location is good. Check the .desktop file entries. In particular, if the path in the Exec= line in the .desktop file isn't correct, the program won't show in the overview search or in the Applications Menu. And it won't appear on the Ubuntu dock unless it is running, or added to Favorites.

---

### Post by Hagar Delest on 2021-01-06
Can you post the content of the .desktop file?
Perhaps trivial but there are several lines needed.
If you type the content of the exec line in a terminal, does it launch the application?

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2021-01-06
Yes, please show the content. If you double click the .desktop file does it work as you expect? I suspect it has not been told to display in your desktop session (You can set them to only display in KDE, for example)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-01-06
It may help if you make sure the .desktop files all have executable permissions.

---

### Post by Tectuktitlay on 2021-01-06
Hi guys, thanks for the responses!

Contents of todoist.desktop:

```
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=Todoist
Comment=Organize it all
Exec=~/apps/Todoist-0.2.1.AppImage
Terminal=false

```

Executing "~/apps/Todoist-0.2.1.AppImage" works fine.

The .desktop file was not executable. The Gnome page doesn't mention it. The AppImage is executable, obviously. I did chmod +x on the .desktop file anyway, but it didn't change anything. I also notice that .desktop files in /usr/share/applications aren't executable either.

The application is not showing up in Activities or in "Show Applications".

Would could be the problem? This is happening on a fresh install.

BRgds, Tec

---

### Post by Tectuktitlay on 2021-01-06
Hi all,

As I was making the previous post I started experimenting again and solved the issue. The problem was using "~" as shortcut for my home folder. I replaced it with "/home/<username>/" and it works now!

```

[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=Todoist
Comment=Organize it all
Exec=/home/<username>/apps/Todoist-0.2.1.AppImage
Terminal=false

```

(with <username> replaced by my local username)

I tested again after doing chmod -x and that works as well. The .desktop file does not need to be executable.

Thanks for all your help for this trivial issue! Glad it's working as it should!

Warmest regards,

Tec

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2021-01-06
NEVER use ~ in a script or a configuration file or any other file for that sake, always use $HOME instead.

~ is a quick way of getting to the home directory in a terminal (if you have a US keyboard, otherwise it's pretty useless).
~ is only interpreted by the shell (sh, bash, whichever), the system itself has no idea what it means.

Glad that you worked it out. Mark it for the future.

---

### Post by Tectuktitlay on 2021-01-06
I actually tried $HOME to replace "~", but that didn't work either. So I've used the full path.

---

