---
title: "11.10 - Decrease launcher icon size? Increase number of Workspaces?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Kronalias on 2011-10-14
The questions are in the post title, and I'd appreciate a little help!

Q1: How do you decrease the size of the icons in the Launcher (the vertical bar on the left of the desktop)?
(and, while we're at it, how do you make the Launcher disappear unless the mouse is over it?)

Q2: The default number of Workspace is four, arranged in a 2x2 matrix.
How can I increase this to 12, arranged in two rows of six Workspaces?

Thanks in advance, K

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-10-14
Install compizconfg-settings-manager and use the Unity plugin.

Icon size is in the Experimental tab.

Workspaces can be set in compiz settings manager also, General Options > Desktop Size.

---

### Post by retchid on 2011-10-14
install compizconfig settings manager in the software centre

then:

in Dash (search)type cc and select compizconfig program

compiz will open

select desktop

double click ubuntu unity plugin

Experimental tab

launcher icon size scroll bar to reduce size

and while your in ccsm


go back to behaviour tab and set hide - never dodge etc
you can also change the transparency of the dock (opacity)

---

### Post by Kronalias on 2011-10-14
Thanks very much! I hadn't appreciated that Compiz needed to be installed.

Why on earth wasn't ccsm included in 11.10??????

Anyway, it also sorts out the answer to my Q about Workspaces - it's:
Compiz Config Settings Manager => General Options => Desktop Size =>
Horizontal Virtual Size: 6
Vertical Virtual Size: 2
Number of Desktops: 12

[edit] BTW, After changing the Launcher icon size you need to log out and back in for it to take effect [/edit]

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-10-14
> **Kronalias said:**
> Thanks very much! I hadn't appreciated that Compiz needed to be installed.

Why on earth wasn't ccsm included in 11.10??????

I don't think ccsm has ever been included by default in Ubuntu, but then it never had a Unity plugin till 11.04 :-)

At least it is only an apt-get away, and perhaps it'll make an appearance in 12.04 :)

---

### Post by Kronalias on 2011-10-14
Fair comment - apols, I sounded picky.

---

### Post by cbennett926 on 2012-03-30
I don't want to bring back the dead here, but this does not work for me. I can change the values, however the launcher does not change size.

---

