---
title: "11.10: lubuntu or normal iso?"
date: 2011-10-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ethyn408 on 2011-10-11
Hello,
I'm a long-time user of Ubuntu and recently I got an Asus EeePc 900a with a 1.6GHz Intel Atom and only 1 GB of RAM and 4GB of SSD space. I used to use the netbook remix before they combined all of the iso's into one, and now I use the LXDE interface. It's slightly faster, but I think it's not as fun to use. When 11.10 comes out, should I stick with lubuntu or will it be worth the decrease in speed (if any)? Also, any alternative suggestions would be nice.
Thanks in advance,
ethyn408

---

### Post by soloman498 on 2011-10-11
Have you thought about using a smaller distro like Damn Small Linux or Puppy Linux?There is other small distro's too

---

### Post by ethyn408 on 2011-10-11
> **soloman498 said:**
> Have you thought about using a smaller distro like Damn Small Linux or Puppy Linux?There is other small distro's too

I prefer ubuntu because I've been using it for a long time and I like it a lot.

---

### Post by mystika1 on 2011-10-11
Hi,
I am no expert but I have read that if you would like to slim down ubuntu even more then installing Ubuntu Mini follwed by LXDE or XFCE would do the trick. 

HTH,

Penny

---

### Post by amjjawad on 2011-10-11
> **ethyn408 said:**
> Hello,
I'm a long-time user of Ubuntu and recently **[COLOR="Red"]I got an Asus EeePc 900a with a 1.6GHz Intel Atom and only 1 GB of RAM and 4GB of SSD space[/COLOR]**. I used to use the netbook remix before they combined all of the iso's into one, and now I use the LXDE interface. It's slightly faster, but I think it's not as fun to use. When 11.10 comes out, [COLOR="red"]**_should I stick with lubuntu_**[/COLOR] or will it be worth the decrease in speed (if any)? Also, any alternative suggestions would be nice.
Thanks in advance,
ethyn408

One word, YES :)

NO WAY Ubuntu 11.10 can be compared with Lubuntu 11.10 when it comes to speed. After all, it's your call :)

---

### Post by Neosano on 2011-10-23
go with lubuntu :) it's really fast!

---

