---
title: "12.04 Appearance"
date: 2013-11-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ubu88 on 2013-11-23
Why is there so little option in System settings - Appearance? What were they thinking? You have only Wallpapers choice.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2013-11-23
Ubuntu appearance customization has been somewhat reduced from a few years ago. For more options, try Xubuntu.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-11-23
Install the Gnome Tweak Tool for additional theme and Icon selections. It was named advanced settings in earlier versions of the application .  You can access the pictures folder from appearance preferences via a drop-down menu above the wallpaper selections.

---

### Post by ubu88 on 2013-11-24
Thanks. I installed Avanced settings and increased font size on the title bar but it didn't increase button size only the font size.

Any way to increase button size?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-11-24
> **ubu88 said:**
> Why is there so little option in System settings - Appearance? What were they thinking? You have only Wallpapers choice.



I don't think your last sentence is acceptable for this forum.

For your information, Gnome's developers wrote the Appearance panel and were the ones who removed those features. Not Ubuntu.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-11-24
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I don't think your last sentence is acceptable for this forum. ....
I had "reported" the original post and suggested that it be moved as it's not really specific about asking for support but ... :(

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-11-24
I agree with 3rdalbum about your last sentence. Perhaps you fail to understand the nature of Open Source development. Ubuntu is a community gift. Space is left by the main developers for anyone to get involved in improving Ubuntu. Themes and wallpapers are an area where others can add value to Linux. So, too is the area of settings and configuration utilities.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-11-24
Original Post Edited  . Changes in  appearance preferences are as stated, made by Gnome.

---

