---
title: "Screen Not aligned or something"
date: 2005-11-17
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by softwarepirate on 2005-11-17
One fourth of the screen is missing with black and when i do a screenshot it shows the full screen, So how do i align this screen?:confused:

---

### Post by ngms27 on 2005-11-17
Sounds like the xorg.conf is configured incorrectly as I'd wager you can scroll the screen.

JonnyT

---

### Post by daveyl on 2005-11-17
[QUOTE=softwarepirate]One fourth of the screen is missing with black and when i do a screenshot it shows the full screen, So how do i align this screen?:confused:[/QUOTE]

Is this on a desktop monitor? Have you run other OS's on it without that problem?
Have you checked your monitor settings (ie manually centering  the screen using monitor calibration buttons)?
Tried using a different monitor?....
In short, are you sure its a ubuntu problem?
If it is, it sure is a weird one.....

---

### Post by linkunderscore on 2005-11-17
[QUOTE=ngms27]Sounds like the xorg.conf is configured incorrectly as I'd wager you can scroll the screen.

JonnyT[/QUOTE]

I think hes right, and while im not an expert, if you posted your xorg.conf here we could all take a look at it and see if we could help you.

---

### Post by MartinG on 2005-11-17
Using an Nvidia card I find the same thing depending which driver I use (nvidia or open-source). My monitor has an "auto" button which automatically realigns it; does yours have something similar?

---

### Post by softwarepirate on 2005-11-17
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"hp f1503"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"hp f1503"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by rosslaird on 2005-11-17
If you have a black band and the screen seems shifted to the right (or left), with parts of it invisible, this is typically a problem with the X server coordinates. You need to run a program called "xvidtune". Run it from a terminal, use the left and right buttons to move your screen into view, get it exactly right, then click "show". This will output a modeline to the terminal window. Copy the numbers and paste them into your xorg.conf file. Mine looks like this:

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-65
	VertRefresh	50-75
	Modeline "1280x1024"   108.00   1280 1356 1468 1688   1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync

Hope this helps.

Ross

---

### Post by softwarepirate on 2005-11-18
Um that didnt work.

---

### Post by rosslaird on 2005-11-19
With this kind of thing, it helps to give us a sense of exactly what you tried and what did not work. When you ran xvidtune, did the screen shift to the proper location? If it did, then your problem is in how you entered the modeline into your xorg.conf file. If the screen did not shift, then your problem is the monitor.

It's either your monitor itself (I doubt it) or the xorg.conf setup. Check the X log in /var/log/Xorg.0.log for errors. Check the syntax of your xorg.conf file. And post back with an update.

Ross

---

### Post by softwarepirate on 2005-11-26
My monitor is a hp pavilion f1503 And the source would be the same because the screen did not shift with xvidtune, And my monitor worked fine untill I installed linux.

---

### Post by softwarepirate on 2005-11-26
I fixed it. Nevermind. :] ;]

---

### Post by GiantsFanMan11 on 2006-04-02
I am having the same trouble.  I run xvidtune and shift the screen to where it fits.  Then I edit xorg.conf:

```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
HorizSync 30.00 - 80.00
VertRefresh 56.00 - 76.00
Modeline "1280x1024" 135.00 1280 1312 1456 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 + hsync + vsync
```

But, when I restart my computer, the monitor goes right back to the way it was.  The xorg.conf file keeps the changes, so I'm not sure what is going wrong.

There is also a Section "Screen" in xorg.conf.  Could something in there be countering the changes I have made?  Thanks.
Steve

---

### Post by GiantsFanMan11 on 2006-04-05
Also never mind.  For some reason now it works.  Huh...

---

