---
title: "12.04 Dual Monitor Nvidia"
date: 2012-08-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Puttycat on 2012-08-20
hi there!,

im having some problems with my dual monitor setup and was wondering if i could get some help? all i get is a white screen on the second monitor and a small "x" as a cursor.

i have done the following.

-cd /etc/X11
-sudo rm xorg.conf
-sudo nvidia-settings

and i tried enabling the second monitor with that and saving the new xorg config file but that didn't work either... and yes i did log out and back in, i even rebooted my pc... (T.T)

Nvidia detects the second monitor but Settings---> Displays  doesn't ... (T.T) 




# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 295.33  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Mar 30 13:37:33 UTC 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HannStar Display Corp AG191"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL E178FP"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 560 Ti"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 560 Ti"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-1: 1280x1024 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by tpt23 on 2012-09-04
I had this problem as well.  I solved it by using Twinview instead of seperate x screen.  This made both monitors work correctly; however the "Displays" application showed a single giant monitor named "laptop" instead of the two distinct monitors in nvidia-settings.  This made some applications use the wrong resolution and become unusable.

going back to the open source driver made everything work properly, but was noticeably choppier all around.

After some searching, I tried updating to the nvidia-current-updates in the testing feed (version 304.43-0ubuntu0.1), rebooted and now everything works perfectly.  The screen resolution can be set either via nvidia-settings or the display application.

It looks like this update is in the pipeline, so you can either wait for it or go grab it from the testing feed.

---

### Post by Puttycat on 2012-09-14
thank you very much... sorry it took me a while to get back to you... i'll try that as soon  as i have access to my desktop.

---

### Post by sateeshpnv on 2012-09-14
I too had the same problem when I used nvidia from 12.04 on Apple MacBook Pro 5,5 - with both external monitor, which supported EDID and a projector, which didn't provide EDID over DVI.

After upgrading to 304.43 from Ubuntu-X, external monitor worked fine, but projector got stuck at 640x480 resolution. After I added NoEdidModes to xorg.conf file, it went up to 800x600 only. The projector supports up to 1280x1024.

With nouveau, suspend/resume didn't work earlier. So, I'm not sure of going back to nouveau.

---

### Post by MacOsX74 on 2012-09-16
> **sateeshpnv said:**
> I too had the same problem when I used nvidia from 12.04 on Apple MacBook Pro 5,5 - with both external monitor, which supported EDID and a projector, which didn't provide EDID over DVI.

After upgrading to 304.43 from Ubuntu-X, external monitor worked fine, but projector got stuck at 640x480 resolution. After I added NoEdidModes to xorg.conf file, it went up to 800x600 only. The projector supports up to 1280x1024.

With nouveau, suspend/resume didn't work earlier. So, I'm not sure of going back to nouveau.

Have you tried to add a 1280x1024 modeline in xorg.conf. I had same problem with 
projector and adding the correct modeline gave me right resolution.

---

