---
title: "12.04.1 Update"
date: 2012-09-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by fjgaude on 2012-09-02
I installed 12.04.1 to a partition and all went as it should, desktop in Unity 3D. Loaded up a few apps, Thunderbird, etc. But when I updated the OS with about five items that Update Manager noted was there, rebooted, the box was back into Unity 2D. With another reboot I had no desktop at all, just the background.

I re-installed using the same USB flash drive, didn't update, loaded all my usual pieces. Rebooted several times, all okay!

Has anyone else had issues with updating the 12.04.1 release?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2012-09-03
install 12.04.1 and updates.... went smooth as silk, no problems at all.
amd-64//

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-09-03
I did a fresh installation yesterday on one of my machines without any problems (64 bit). It could help if you post your hardware specs to see if there is something that could cause problems.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-09-03
Hi!, **Figaude**.

I installed 12.04.1 generic-pae and updated the few items Update Manger recommended, and had similar problems after rebooting with Unity not displaying its Launcher bar properly.

I fixed  this with```
 sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```after which the display has given no troubles.

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2012-09-03
> **bogan said:**
> Hi!, **Figaude**.

I installed 12.04.1 generic-pae and updated the few items Update Manger recommended, and had similar problems after rebooting with Unity not displaying its Launcher bar properly.

I fixed  this with```
 sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```after which the display has given no troubles.

Chao!, **bogan.**

Thanks... I'll try your suggestion when I update next, on my Intel HD3000 box. Notice signature.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2012-09-04
Well, I went and did the 11-file update, and after rebooting I'm back into Unity2D. Amazing at this point in 12.04.

My main box is Intel HD3000 which seems to always work fine.

Any ideas, anybody?

---

### Post by Cynical on 2012-09-04
I'm assuming (but fairly certain) that your main box works fine because it is using open source drivers. Are you using proprietary drivers from nvidia or ati in the machine that is having issues?

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2012-09-04
> **Cynical said:**
> I'm assuming (but fairly certain) that your main box works fine because it is using open source drivers. Are you using proprietary drivers from nvidia or ati in the machine that is having issues?

No, no, main box is Intel HD graphics. Never an issue with them on Sandy Bridge CPUs. That's what I was pointing to with the 2D issue after updating today. I don't have any issues on other partitions with 12.04 and updating them for the last six or so months. It started with installing, clean 12.04.1. Go figure.

After trying everything, one thing at a time, and then rebooting, nothing worked, always returning to Unity 2D. Then...

Then in a Terminal I ran 'unity --reset' which immediately dropped me into a Log-In screen. I logged in and was with Unity 3D. I haven't rebooted yet, but the box suspends and resumes... happy camper for the moment. Notice my signature.

---

