---
title: "9.04 ATI Driver?"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by BlackIrish on 2009-04-28
I've just installed Ubuntu 9.04 and it works great upon starting it up!

The problem is that once I install the proprietary ATI 9.4 driver (I have a Radeon 4850) and do a restart, I get a "Video Mode Not Supported" on my monitor.

Is this because the ati drivers are still not compatible with 9.04 and I should wait for the 9.5 ati fglrx driver? Or is it something else?

---

### Post by BlackIrish on 2009-04-28
Any updates? :p

---

### Post by LIB53 on 2009-04-28
I've been looking up this issue for like a half hour (i have an ATi card too) now and it seems like we have to wait for the proprietary drivers to be compatible with Ubuntu 9.04. I tried installing them and they just screwed everything up. Other people have said the same thing. :(

---

### Post by keithld on 2009-04-28
I'd also like to hear some news on the ATI Drivers...

I had 8.10 running like a dream with my old Radeon 800 and I get a great deal on a 3650 and Boom, I got a few issues and kinda fixed one for now but I'd really like to have a better driver for this card and an update to Ubuntu 9.04 is way out of the question for now.

---

### Post by BlackIrish on 2009-04-30
I guess we all have the same problem then... The only thing we can do is wait a few more days (since it's May now) and get Catalyst 9.5 from the amd site :p

---

### Post by ov3rcl0ck on 2009-04-30
Reboot, get to the GRUB menu(esc key), go to recovery mode and either select "try to fix xserver", if that fails try the "netroot" option and use the evnyng tool to install the drivers(install with "sudo apt-get install envyng"). Once you get the xserver working(graphics working), follow the list bellow:
[LIST=1]
[*] Go to [http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx) choose your drivers and OS. Save it to your desktop.

[*] Now use the chmod command in terminal to allow the file to execute, +x that is (if you don't know the chmod command you better learn).

[*] Install the driver... of course.

[*] Open terminal and type "aticonfig --initial", some people say that the --initial parameter doesn't save the configs to your xorg.conf file so if you want run "aticonfig --initial --input=/etc/X11/xorg.conf" to be sure.
[/LIST]
If you're a newbie(no shame in that), then use envyng, with these step by step instructions:
[LIST=1]
[*] Open terminal (Applications>>Accessories>>Terminal).

[*] Type "sudo apt-get install envyng".

[*] Type "sudo envyng -t"

[*] hit "4" then enter (to make sure your other drivers are gone). DON'T RESTART!

[*] Relaunch envyng if need be(step 3), and hit "3" and enter. Choose to restart.

[*] You're done! Easy right?
[/LIST]
Have fun.

---

### Post by kcole on 2009-05-09
I'm having some severe issues with the driver for ati as well.
I'm going to try the envyng install that overclock suggested to see if that gets my xserver back.

I had totally lost video, save a white bar about 5 pixels wide horizontally on my screen.

I'll post any update to how it works out.  I may just try using the 9.2 ati driver, i had that working fine in 8.10.
I'm running a radeon 9600.

Could you possibly post a line for the proper setting of the chmod to run the ati driver?

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-13
ATI Driver + latest Ubuntu = DOES NOT WORK.
K? 
Thanks.

---

### Post by andho on 2009-05-15
I saw in some other thread that the problem was that the new version of xserver doesn't support earlier fglrx drivers and the latest fglrx driver is not compatible with the latest xserver.

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-15
Well that makes perfect sense, the latest driver doesnt work with the latest X.. LOL 
 
WOW

---

### Post by skymera on 2009-05-15
> **ap90033 said:**
> ATI Driver + latest Ubuntu = DOES NOT WORK.
K? 
Thanks.

I run Ubuntu 9.04 with a HD4870 and the latest ATi drivers.
Works fine.

Edit your xorg.conf

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-15
> **skymera said:**
> I run Ubuntu 9.04 with a HD4870 and the latest ATi drivers.
Works fine.
 
Edit your xorg.conf
 
 
Really? Do you think there is a difference since mine is a 4870x2? If you dont mind please please , tell me exactly what you did? Maybe I am stupid, or didnt do something. I seem to get guides or how tos that dont have all the info, I think you Linux Gurus assume we know some things and therefore leave out bits and pieces. :p

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-05-15
ATI dropped support of all old cards with version 9.4 of Catalyst and older versions of the Catalyst driver don't work with Ubuntu 9.04. So, you get to blame both, if you're on older hardware. :)

---

### Post by rizman on 2009-05-15
> **andho said:**
> I saw in some other thread that the problem was that the new version of xserver doesn't support earlier fglrx drivers and the latest fglrx driver is not compatible with the latest xserver.

That's not quite right. There are multiple threads around discussing the problem so I won't get into details, but here is a quick rundown.

1) Ubuntu 9.04 uses Xserver 1.6
2) Xserver 1.6 does only support the latest catalyst drivers i.e. 9.4
3) Since catalyst drivers 9.4, ATI does not support a lot of cards anymore. See [here]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.17&lang=English&rev=9.3&ostype=Linux%20x86")
So the latest fglrx drivers do work under Xserver 1.6, but only for non-legacy cards.

So there are 2 options here:
1) Use Ubuntu 8.04/8.10 with xserver 1.5 and catalyst 9.3 (or the open source drivers of course)
2) Stay with Jaunty and use the open-source drivers. I have an X700 card and those drivers work fine fir everything 2D. Compiz runs without a hitch. I can even run Nexuis for example. Although trying to run Savage2, the game complained about the lack of OpenGL 2.0 support. So you won't be able to do high-end/fancy 3D stuff. Maybe some other cards work better with the open source drivers in 3D, don't know.

I run Jaunty and I can just hope that someday ATI might change their mind.

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-15
> **t0mppa said:**
> ATI dropped support of all old cards with version 9.4 of Catalyst and older versions of the Catalyst driver don't work with Ubuntu 9.04. So, you get to blame both, if you're on older hardware. :)
 
**DUDE ATI [COLOR=black][SIZE=6]4870X2[/SIZE] [/COLOR]Hello? NOT AN OLD CARD sheesh**
 
Cost me $400 it is a Dual 4870 1 Gig on one card (thought everyone in the world knew that)

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2009-05-15
Is this any help? [http://blog.morrigan.ch/?p=52]("http://blog.morrigan.ch/?p=52")

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-05-15
> **ap90033 said:**
> **DUDE ATI [COLOR=black][SIZE=6]4870X2[/SIZE] [/COLOR]Hello? NOT AN OLD CARD sheesh**
 
Cost me $400 it is a Dual 4870 1 Gig on one card (thought everyone in the world knew that)

Yes, but I wasn't replying directly to you, there were half a dozen other people who posted before you and some of them even referred to their cards as "my old radeon xxxx". I run the 9.4 Catalyst with 9.04 as well and it is working for the most part - full screen videos cause the computer to freeze though. So, it does work for new cards, but just wanted to say that for old cards, there's no hope getting it up, like rizman said as well.

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-15
> **days_of_ruin said:**
> Is this any help? [http://blog.morrigan.ch/?p=52](http://blog.morrigan.ch/?p=52)
 
 
Dont think so looks like for dual monitors. I would be happy to have my one working.
 
(42 inch LCD 1080P)

---

### Post by daspedal on 2009-06-09
> **days_of_ruin said:**
> Is this any help? [http://blog.morrigan.ch/?p=52]("http://blog.morrigan.ch/?p=52")

got the same problem, also bought an 4870x2 instead of nvidia or sth ... well, i followed lots of instructions that "might" help, same with this one, also got different looking screens when booting my 9.04 (with graficcarddrivers of course)


even tried to install the driver and kill the xsessionmanager and got to this screen after ubuntu was reloading and here is a "screenshot" of what had happened:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=1169&pictureid=4219]("http://ubuntuforums.org/picture.php?albumid=1169&pictureid=4219")

...as you see, there is a black field (splittet left-/rightside), maybe loginwindow :?:

there is also a video of booting process - fail on youtube (for those who haven't seen yet) -> [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sFzRUkQS7_U]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sFzRUkQS7_U")

---

### Post by fast-Eddie on 2009-06-09
I just installed 9.04 64 bit and was able to get the ATI driver working. I use 2 x HD3850's in Crossfire. As per one of the previous notes, I went to the amd site and followed the latest instructions on there, rebooted and it worked. 

Prior to this, I tried activating the fglrx driver via the 'Proprietary Hardware' icon that kept popping up. I was able to successfully install the driver but when I rebooted, the PC would go straight to a command prompt with an error "No screens found". I wasn't too sure how to fix this so didn't try.

By following the instructions on the amd site, the driver was installed however in the 'Proprietary Hardware' section, it still says that the driver is not activated so it must be using different drivers.

---

### Post by Arcanide on 2009-06-10
So does this mean that I can safely install the 9.4/9.5 Catalyst drivers from ATI on my Ubuntu 9.04 system with an ATI Radeon HD4870?  I am hesitant to try unless I know I will at least be able to log in again.

---

### Post by fast-Eddie on 2009-06-11
It should be okay as long as you follow the instructions on the amd support site and not install it via the Administration->Hardware Drivers in Ubuntu. As mentioned, when I did it that way, every reboot failed.

Good luck!

---

### Post by Nathan.zhu on 2009-08-15
I'm use ATI HD 3400 series card in Thinkpad R400 laptop, I try some way to let it works but always failed, 9.7 is released , is there any body get it works for ubuntu system?

---

### Post by vjk on 2009-10-06
Hi, i have ati radeon HD 3200 and laptop hp compaq 6735s. I have same problem. My friend have same laptop, but he hasn't problem with ati drivers. I don't understand...[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon8.gif[/IMG]

---

