---
title: "Cups - its won, I just can't get it working"
date: 2006-02-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-05
I've tried everything to get my printer working, but no. It just switches from idle to stopped when I send jobs to it, worked once and now never again!

---

### Post by manicka on 2006-02-05
Tell us more. Which printer? What steps did you take to get it working?

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-06
Well I have a hp deskjet 5150, which I installed in Kubuntu using settings ->peripherals ->printers.

I've followed a few guides on now to configure cups but I've looked at so many I'm rather lost on which one. 

No wait.. its was these 2 guides...

[http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/netos/article.php/10951_2233051_1](http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/netos/article.php/10951_2233051_1)

[http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/netos/article.php/10951_2236011_2](http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/netos/article.php/10951_2236011_2)

All things seemed to be ok.. with the printer, printing. Then I rebooted and tried to print a little later and now it won't work!

---

### Post by manicka on 2006-02-06
hmmm, I've never used kubuntu to add a printer. I'll move this thread to the kubuntu desktop forum to see if any kde experts can help you out there.

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-06
thanks...

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-07
bump.. anyone?

---

### Post by 0xBulbizarre on 2006-02-07
If you have a parallel port printer I had the same problem... I'll give you some tips here.
If you have a USB printer, these tips may still be valid, but you may have to adapt some things...

I had a permission problem (permission denied by cups)
my printer was available at /dev/lp0 but cups had no write permission
/dev/lp0 permissions are like:
-rw-rw---- user:root group:lp

My problem was that cups was running under user:group lpadmin:lpadmin, I had to change that in /etc/cups/cupsd.conf to have cups run under group lp, so that it could write to /dev/lp0.

When you have changed /etc/cups/cupsd.conf, restart cups doing a /etc/init.d/cupsd restart


hope it helps

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-02-07
Delete the printer in the settings, and add a new one, naturally with the same settings.

Make sure that the printer is switched on with the computer. This seems to minimize this problem. I had it too..

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-07
Right I've tried deleting the printer but the same problem just comes back. Send a job the printer when its idle and it goes to a stop status. Try to restart the printer server and it tells me cups is not running:
```

lp        6722     1  0 23:50 ?        00:00:00 /usr/sbin/cupsd -F

```
Which as you can see is running fine... and owned by lp.

So what next? maybe my cupsd.conf is wrong? Below is the file details and contents.

```
daniel@grinch:~$ ls -l /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
-rw-r--r--  1 cupsys lpadmin 19221 2006-02-07 23:12 /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
daniel@grinch:~$ cat /etc/cups/cupsd.conf
# CUPS configuration file, generated by CUPS configuration tool.
# This tool is part of KDEPrint, the printing framework for KDE
# since version 2.2.2 and is used by the CUPS supporting module
# in KDEPrint. The predecessors to KDEPrint in former KDE releases
# were KUPS and QtCUPS; they are deprecated and no longer maintained.
#
# Author: Michael Goffioul
#
# Web site: http://printing.kde.org/
#
########################################################################
#                                                                      #
# This is the CUPS configuration file.  If you are familiar with       #
# Apache or any of the other popular web servers, we've followed the   #
# same format.  Any configuration variable used here has the same      #
# semantics as the corresponding variable in Apache.  If we need       #
# different functionality then a different name is used to avoid       #
# confusion...                                                         #
#                                                                      #
########################################################################
#

# Server

# Server name (ServerName)
#
# The hostname of your server, as advertised to the world.
# By default CUPS will use the hostname of the system.
#
# To set the default server used by clients, see the client.conf file.
#
# ex: myhost.domain.com
#
#ServerName myhost.domain.com

ServerName grinch

# Server administrator (ServerAdmin)
#
# The email address to send all complaints or problems to.
# By default CUPS will use "root@hostname".
#
# ex: root@myhost.com
#
#ServerAdmin root@your.domain.com

ServerAdmin daniel

# Classification (Classification)
#
# The classification level of the server.  If set, this
# classification is displayed on all pages, and raw printing is disabled.
# The default is the empty string.
#
# ex: confidential
#
#Classification classified

Classification none

# Allow overrides (ClassifyOverride)
#
# Whether to allow users to override the classification
# on printouts. If enabled, users can limit banner pages to before or
# after the job, and can change the classification of a job, but cannot
# completely eliminate the classification or banners.
#
# The default is off.
#
#ClassifyOverride off


# Default character set (DefaultCharset)
#
# The default character set to use. If not specified,
# defaults to utf-8.  Note that this can also be overridden in
# HTML documents...
#
# ex: utf-8
#
#DefaultCharset utf-8

DefaultCharset UTF-8

# Default language (DefaultLanguage)
#
# The default language if not specified by the browser.
# If not specified, the current locale is used.
#
# ex: en
#
#DefaultLanguage en

DefaultLanguage en

# Printcap file (Printcap)
#
# The name of the printcap file.  Default is no filename.
# Leave blank to disable printcap file generation.
#
# ex: /etc/printcap
#
#Printcap /etc/printcap

Printcap /var/run/cups/printcap


PrintcapFormat BSD

# Security

# Remote root user (RemoteRoot)
#
# The name of the user assigned to unauthenticated accesses
# from remote systems.  By default "remroot".
#
# ex: remroot
#
#RemoteRoot remroot

RemoteRoot remroot

# System group (SystemGroup)
#
# The group name for "System" (printer administration)
# access.  The default varies depending on the operating system, but
# will be sys, system, or root (checked for in that order).
#
# ex: lpadmin
#
#SystemGroup lpadmin

SystemGroup lpadmin

# Encryption certificate (ServerCertificate)
#
# The file to read containing the server's certificate.
# Defaults to "/etc/cups/ssl/server.crt".
#
# ex: /etc/cups/ssl/server.crt
#
#ServerCertificate /etc/cups/ssl/server.crt

ServerCertificate /etc/cups/ssl/server.crt

# Encryption key (ServerKey)
#
# The file to read containing the server's key.
# Defaults to "/etc/cups/ssl/server.key".
#
# ex: /etc/cups/ssl/server.key
#
#ServerKey /etc/cups/ssl/server.key

ServerKey /etc/cups/ssl/server.key

# Access permissions
#
# Access permissions for each directory served by the scheduler.
# Locations are relative to DocumentRoot...
#
# AuthType: the authorization to use:
#
#    None   - Perform no authentication
#    Basic  - Perform authentication using the HTTP Basic method.
#    Digest - Perform authentication using the HTTP Digest method.
#
#    (Note: local certificate authentication can be substituted by
#           the client for Basic or Digest when connecting to the
#           localhost interface)
#
# AuthClass: the authorization class; currently only Anonymous, User,
# System (valid user belonging to group SystemGroup), and Group
# (valid user belonging to the specified group) are supported.
#
# AuthGroupName: the group name for "Group" authorization.
#
# Order: the order of Allow/Deny processing.
#
# Allow: allows access from the specified hostname, domain, IP address, or
# network.
#
# Deny: denies access from the specified hostname, domain, IP address, or
# network.
#
# Both "Allow" and "Deny" accept the following notations for addresses:
#
#     All
#     None
#     *.domain.com
#     .domain.com
#     host.domain.com
#     nnn.*
#     nnn.nnn.*
#     nnn.nnn.nnn.*
#     nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn
#     nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn/mm
#     nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn/mmm.mmm.mmm.mmm
#
# The host and domain address require that you enable hostname lookups
# with "HostNameLookups On" above.
#
# Encryption: whether or not to use encryption; this depends on having
# the OpenSSL library linked into the CUPS library and scheduler.
#
# Possible values:
#
#     Always       - Always use encryption (SSL)
#     Never        - Never use encryption
#     Required     - Use TLS encryption upgrade
#     IfRequested  - Use encryption if the server requests it
#
# The default value is "IfRequested".
#
#<Location [resource_name]>
#
# You may wish to limit access to printers and classes, either with Allow
# and Deny lines, or by requiring a username and password.
#
#
## Anonymous access (default)
#AuthType None
#
## Require a username and password (Basic authentication)
#AuthType Basic
#AuthClass User
#
## Require a username and password (Digest/MD5 authentication)
#AuthType Digest
#AuthClass User
#
## Restrict access to local domain
#Order Deny,Allow
#Deny From All
#Allow From .mydomain.com
#
## Use encryption if requested
#Encryption IfRequested
#</Location>

<Location />
Encryption IfRequested
Satisfy All
Order deny,allow
Deny From All
Allow From 192.168.1
</Location>
<Location /jobs>
AuthType Basic
AuthClass User
Encryption IfRequested
Satisfy All
Order allow,deny
</Location>
<Location /admin>
AuthType Basic
AuthClass System
Encryption IfRequested
Satisfy All
Order deny,allow
Deny From All
Allow From 192.168.1
</Location>

# Network

# Hostname lookups (HostNameLookups)
#
# Whether or not to do lookups on IP addresses to get a
# fully-qualified hostname.  This defaults to Off for performance reasons...
#
# ex: On
#
#HostNameLookups On

HostnameLookups Off

# Keep alive (KeepAlive)
#
# Whether or not to support the Keep-Alive connection
# option.  Default is on.
#
# ex: On
#
#KeepAlive On

KeepAlive On

# Keep-alive timeout (KeepAliveTimeout)
#
# The timeout (in seconds) before Keep-Alive connections are
# automatically closed.  Default is 60 seconds.
#
# ex: 60
#
#KeepAliveTimeout 60

KeepAliveTimeout 60

# Max clients (MaxClients)
#
# Controls the maximum number of simultaneous clients that
# will be handled.  Defaults to 100.
#
# ex: 100
#
#MaxClients 100

MaxClients 100

# Max request size (MaxRequestSize)
#
# Controls the maximum size of HTTP requests and print files.
# Set to 0 to disable this feature (defaults to 0).
#
# ex: 0
#
#MaxRequestSize 0

MaxRequestSize 0m

# Client timeout (Timeout)
#
# The timeout (in seconds) before requests time out.  Default is 300 seconds.
#
# ex: 300
#
#Timeout 300

Timeout 300

# Listen to (Port/Listen)
#
# Ports/addresses that are listened to.  The default port 631 is reserved
# for the Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) and is what is used here.
#
# You can have multiple Port/Listen lines to listen to more than one
# port or address, or to restrict access.
#
# Note: Unfortunately, most web browsers don't support TLS or HTTP Upgrades
# for encryption.  If you want to support web-based encryption you will
# probably need to listen on port 443 (the "HTTPS" port...).
#
# ex: 631, myhost:80, 1.2.3.4:631
#
#    Port 80
#    Port 631
#    Listen hostname
#    Listen hostname:80
#    Listen hostname:631
#    Listen 1.2.3.4
#    Listen 1.2.3.4:631
#
#Port 631

Listen 127.0.0.1:631

# Log

# Access log (AccessLog)
#
# The access log file; if this does not start with a leading /
# then it is assumed to be relative to ServerRoot.  By default set to
# "/var/log/cups/access_log".
#
# You can also use the special name syslog to send the output to the
# syslog file or daemon.
#
# ex: /var/log/cups/access_log
#
#AccessLog /var/log/cups/access_log

AccessLog /var/log/cups/access_log

# Error log (ErrorLog)
#
# The error log file; if this does not start with a leading /
# then it is assumed to be relative to ServerRoot.  By default set to
# "/var/log/cups/error_log".
#
# You can also use the special name syslog to send the output to the
# syslog file or daemon.
#
# ex: /var/log/cups/error_log
#
#ErrorLog /var/log/cups/error_log

ErrorLog /var/log/cups/error_log

# Page log (PageLog)
#
# The page log file; if this does not start with a leading /
# then it is assumed to be relative to ServerRoot.  By default set to
# "/var/log/cups/page_log".
#
# You can also use the special name syslog to send the output to the
# syslog file or daemon.
#
# ex: /var/log/cups/page_log
#
#PageLog /var/log/cups/page_log

PageLog /var/log/cups/page_log

# Max log size (MaxLogSize)
#
# Controls the maximum size of each log file before they are
# rotated.  Defaults to 1048576 (1MB).  Set to 0 to disable log rotating.
#
# ex: 1048576
#
#MaxLogSize 0

MaxLogSize 1m

# Log level (LogLevel)
#
# Controls the number of messages logged to the ErrorLog
# file and can be one of the following:
#
#     debug2:     Log everything.
#     debug:     Log almost everything.
#     info:      Log all requests and state changes.
#     warn:      Log errors and warnings.
#     error:     Log only errors.
#     none:      Log nothing.
#
# ex: info
#
#LogLevel info

LogLevel info

# Jobs

# Preserve job history (PreserveJobHistory)
#
# Whether or not to preserve the job history after a
# job is completed, canceled, or stopped.  Default is Yes.
#
# ex: Yes
#
#PreserveJobHistory Yes

PreserveJobHistory On

# Preserve job files (PreserveJobFiles)
#
# Whether or not to preserve the job files after a
# job is completed, canceled, or stopped.  Default is No.
#
# ex: No
#
#PreserveJobFiles No

PreserveJobFiles Off

# Auto purge jobs (AutoPurgeJobs)
#
# Automatically purge jobs when not needed for quotas.
# Default is No.
#
#AutoPurgeJobs No

AutoPurgeJobs No

# Max jobs (MaxJobs)
#
# Maximum number of jobs to keep in memory (active and completed).
# Default is 0 (no limit).
#
#MaxJobs 0

MaxJobs 0

# Max jobs per printer (MaxJobsPerPrinter)
#
# The MaxJobsPerPrinter directive controls the maximum number of active
# jobs that are allowed for each printer or class. Once a printer or class
# reaches the limit, new jobs will be rejected until one of the active jobs
# is completed, stopped, aborted, or canceled.
#
# Setting the maximum to 0 disables this functionality.
# Default is 0 (no limit).
#
#
#MaxJobsPerPrinter 0

MaxJobsPerPrinter 0

# Max jobs per user (MaxJobsPerUser)
#
# The MaxJobsPerUser directive controls the maximum number of active
# jobs that are allowed for each user. Once a user reaches the limit, new
# jobs will be rejected until one of the active jobs is completed, stopped,
# aborted, or canceled.
#
# Setting the maximum to 0 disables this functionality.
# Default is 0 (no limit).
#
#
#MaxJobsPerUser 0

MaxJobsPerUser 0

# Filter

# User (User)
#
# The user the server runs under.  Normally this
# must be lp, however you can configure things for another user
# as needed.
#
# Note: the server must be run initially as root to support the
# default IPP port of 631.  It changes users whenever an external
# program is run...
#
# ex: lp
#
#User lp

User lp

# Group (Group)
#
# The group the server runs under.  Normally this
# must be lpadmin, however you can configure things for another
# group as needed.
#
# ex: lpadmin
#
#Group lpadmin

Group lpadmin

# RIP cache (RIPCache)
#
# The amount of memory that each RIP should use to cache
# bitmaps.  The value can be any real number followed by "k" for
# kilobytes, "m" for megabytes, "g" for gigabytes, or "t" for tiles
# (1 tile = 256x256 pixels).  Defaults to "8m" (8 megabytes).
#
# ex: 8m
#
#RIPCache 8m

RIPCache 8m

# Filter limit (FilterLimit)
#
# Sets the maximum cost of all job filters that can be run
# at the same time.  A limit of 0 means no limit.  A typical job may need
# a filter limit of at least 200; limits less than the minimum required
# by a job force a single job to be printed at any time.
#
# The default limit is 0 (unlimited).
#
# ex: 200
#
#FilterLimit 0

FilterLimit 0

# Directories

# Data directory (DataDir)
#
# The root directory for the CUPS data files.
# By default /usr/share/cups.
#
# ex: /usr/share/cups
#
#DataDir /usr/share/cups

DataDir /usr/share/cups

# Document directory (DocumentRoot)
#
# The root directory for HTTP documents that are served.
# By default the compiled-in directory.
#
# ex: /usr/share/cups/doc-root
#
#DocumentRoot /usr/share/cups/doc-root

DocumentRoot /usr/share/cups/doc-root

# Font path (FontPath)
#
# The path to locate all font files (currently only for pstoraster).
# By default /usr/share/cups/fonts.
#
# ex: /usr/share/cups/fonts
#
#FontPath /usr/share/cups/fonts


# Request directory (RequestRoot)
#
# The directory where request files are stored.
# By default /var/spool/cups.
#
# ex: /var/spool/cups
#
#RequestRoot /var/spool/cups

RequestRoot /var/spool/cups

# Server binaries (ServerBin)
#
# The root directory for the scheduler executables.
# By default /usr/lib/cups or /usr/lib32/cups (IRIX 6.5).
#
# ex: /usr/lib/cups
#
#ServerBin /usr/lib/cups

ServerBin /usr/lib/cups

# Server files (ServerRoot)
#
# The root directory for the scheduler.
# By default /etc/cups.
#
# ex: /etc/cups
#
#ServerRoot /etc/cups

ServerRoot /etc/cups

# Temporary files (TempDir)
#
# The directory to put temporary files in. This directory must be
# writable by the user defined above!  Defaults to "/var/spool/cups/tmp" or
# the value of the TMPDIR environment variable.
#
# ex: /var/spool/cups/tmp
#
#TempDir /var/spool/cups/tmp

TempDir /var/spool/cups/tmp

# Browsing

# Use browsing (Browsing)
#
# Whether or not to listen to printer
# information from other CUPS servers.
#
#
# Enabled by default.
#
#
# Note: to enable the sending of browsing
# information from this CUPS server to the LAN,
# specify a valid BrowseAddress.
#
#
# ex: On
#
#Browsing On

Browsing On

# Browse protocols (BrowseProtocols)
#
# Which protocols to use for browsing.  Can be
# any of the following separated by whitespace and/or commas:
#
#     all  - Use all supported protocols.
#     cups - Use the CUPS browse protocol.
#     slp  - Use the SLPv2 protocol.
#
# The default is cups.
#
# Note: If you choose to use SLPv2, it is strongly recommended that
#       you have at least one SLP Directory Agent (DA) on your
#       network.  Otherwise, browse updates can take several seconds,
#       during which the scheduler will not response to client
#       requests.
#
#BrowseProtocols cups

BrowseProtocols CUPS

# Browse port (BrowsePort)
#
# The port used for UDP broadcasts.  By default this is
# the IPP port; if you change this you need to do it on all servers.
# Only one BrowsePort is recognized.
#
# ex: 631
#
#BrowsePort 631

BrowsePort 631

# Browse interval (BrowseInterval)
#
# The time between browsing updates in seconds.  Default
# is 30 seconds.
#
# Note that browsing information is sent whenever a printer's state changes
# as well, so this represents the maximum time between updates.
#
# Set this to 0 to disable outgoing broadcasts so your local printers are
# not advertised but you can still see printers on other hosts.
#
# ex: 30
#
#BrowseInterval 30

BrowseInterval 30

# Browse timeout (BrowseTimeout)
#
# The timeout (in seconds) for network printers - if we don't
# get an update within this time the printer will be removed
# from the printer list.  This number definitely should not be
# less the BrowseInterval value for obvious reasons.  Defaults
# to 300 seconds.
#
# ex: 300
#
#BrowseTimeout 300

BrowseTimeout 300

# Browse addresses (BrowseAddress)
#
# Specifies a broadcast address to be used.  By
# default browsing information is broadcast to all active interfaces.
#
# Note: HP-UX 10.20 and earlier do not properly handle broadcast unless
# you have a Class A, B, C, or D netmask (i.e. no CIDR support).
#
# ex: x.y.z.255, x.y.255.255
#
#BrowseAddress x.y.z.255
#BrowseAddress x.y.255.255
#BrowseAddress x.255.255.255

BrowseAddress 192.168.1.255

# Browse order (BrowseOrder)
#
# Specifies the order of BrowseAllow/BrowseDeny comparisons.
#
# ex: allow,deny
#
#BrowseOrder allow,deny
#BrowseOrder deny,allow

BrowseOrder allow,deny

# Implicit classes (ImplicitClasses)
#
# Whether or not to use implicit classes.
#
# Printer classes can be specified explicitly in the classes.conf
# file, implicitly based upon the printers available on the LAN, or
# both.
#
# When ImplicitClasses is On, printers on the LAN with the same name
# (e.g. Acme-LaserPrint-1000) will be put into a class with the same
# name. This allows you to setup multiple redundant queues on a LAN
# without a lot of administrative difficulties.  If a user sends a
# job to Acme-LaserPrint-1000, the job will go to the first available
# queue.
#
# Enabled by default.
#
#ImplicitClasses Off

ImplicitClasses On

# Use &quot;any&quot; classes (ImplicitAnyClasses)
#
# Whether or not to create AnyPrinter implicit
# classes.
#
# When ImplicitAnyClasses is On and a local queue of the same name
# exists, e.g. "printer", "printer@server1", "printer@server1", then
# an implicit class called "Anyprinter" is created instead.
#
# When ImplicitAnyClasses is Off, implicit classes are not created
# when there is a local queue of the same name.
#
# Disabled by default.
#
#ImplicitAnyCLasses Off

ImplicitAnyClasses Off

# Hide implicit members (HideImplicitMembers)
#
# Whether or not to show the members of an
# implicit class.
#
# When HideImplicitMembers is On, any remote printers that are
# part of an implicit class are hidden from the user, who will
# then only see a single queue even though many queues will be
# supporting the implicit class.
#
# Enabled by default.
#
#HideImplicitMembers On

HideImplicitMembers Yes

# Use short names (BrowseShortNames)
#
# Whether or not to use "short" names for remote printers
# when possible (e.g. "printer" instead of "printer@host").  Enabled by
# default.
#
# ex: Yes
#
#BrowseShortNames Yes

BrowseShortNames Yes

# Unknown
configfileperm 0600
runasuser Yes
include cupsd-browsing.conf
daniel@grinch:~$                                                              
```

Also this is cupsys id details so it is part of the lp group:
```
daniel@grinch:~$ id cupsys
uid=100(cupsys) gid=104(lpadmin) groups=104(lpadmin),7(lp),20(dialout)

```

---

### Post by 0xBulbizarre on 2006-02-08
so please, is it a parallel port or USB printer ??
through what device in /dev do you access it ?
what are the permissions on this device ?? (use ls -l /dev/device)

---

### Post by 0xBulbizarre on 2006-02-08
so basically, you should change the line:
Group lpadmin
in cupsd.conf to:
Group lp

and restart cups

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-08
right its a usb printer:

```
daniel@grinch:~$ ls -l /dev/usb
total 0
crw-rw----  1 root lp 180, 0 2006-02-08 10:28 lp0
daniel@grinch:~$ ls -dl /dev/usb
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 0 2006-02-08 10:28 /dev/usb
daniel@grinch:~$

```

And I changed cupsd.conf entry to lp, then restart it
```

daniel@grinch:~$ sudo invoke-rc.d cupsys restart
Password:
 * Restarting Common Unix Printing System: cupsd                         [ ok ]
```

But now the printer does not go straight to stopped rather it just hangs on
[COLOR="Blue"]State: Processing... (accepting jobs)[/COLOR]
With the test page just sitting in the printer queue.

So what next?

Thanks so far... :-D

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-08
Nope your right I'd changed SystemGroup by mistake...

Thanks!... ;) \\:D/

Next is samba! :mrgreen:

---

### Post by iffy9 on 2006-02-08
You should spend more time out on your bike, rather than playing with 'puters!! Fancy seeing you here.

Ian

aka Iffy216 (SV650.org)

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-08
[QUOTE=iffy9]You should spend more time out on your bike, rather than playing with 'puters!! Fancy seeing you here.

Ian

aka Iffy216 (SV650.org)[/QUOTE]

lol.. its more learning for work then pleasure.. though I get more time to fiddle with this as its in the house. The bikes in a garage down the road and has over a days work to sort... :-D 

lol... funny seeing you here too. \\:D/

---

### Post by maxomai on 2006-02-13
This thread also helped me get my printer going. Thanks a ton!

---

### Post by 0xBulbizarre on 2006-02-13
[QUOTE=maxomai]This thread also helped me get my printer going. Thanks a ton![/QUOTE]

Hey man, you're very welcome !

take and give back, that's the rule here !

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-14
I feel less stupid now..

---

### Post by beetlish on 2006-02-15
I changed the group and user in cupsd.conf as mentioned but still the problem exists.

Here's a part from my /var/log/cups/error_log:

```

D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Loading NimbusMonL-Bold font from /var/lib/defoma/gs.d/dirs/fonts/n022004l.pfb... 2279520 842326 1702808 407542 0 done.
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Loading NimbusMonL-Regu font from /var/lib/defoma/gs.d/dirs/fonts/n022003l.pfb... 2396664 930917 1682712 355166 0 done.
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Error: /ioerror in --.outputpage--
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Operand stack:
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] 1   true
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Execution stack:
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] %interp_exit   .runexec2   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   2   %stopped_push   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   false   1   %stopped_push   1   3   %oparray_pop   1   3   %oparray_pop   1   3   %oparray_pop   .runexec2   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   2   %stopped_push   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   0   3   %oparray_pop   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   --nostringval--   --nostringval--
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Dictionary stack:
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] --dict:1056/1417(ro)(G)--   --dict:0/20(G)--   --dict:121/200(L)--
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Current allocation mode is local
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Last OS error: 32
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] ESP Ghostscript 7.07.1: Unrecoverable error, exit code 1
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] renderer return value: 1
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] renderer received signal: 1
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Process dying with "Possible error on renderer command line or PostScript error. Check options.", exit stat: 3
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] error: Illegal seek (29)
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Possible error on renderer command line or PostScript error. Check options.
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] tail process done writing data to STDOUT
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] KID3 exited with status 3
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] KID4 finished
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Renderer exit stat: 3
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Renderer process finished
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Killing process 9824 (KID3)
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Process dying with "Error closing renderer", exit stat: 3
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] error: Bad file descriptor (9)
D [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] [Job 2] Error closing renderer
E [15/Feb/2006:09:52:42 +0200] PID 9821 stopped with status 3!

```

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-02-15
could you post your cups.conf and the ls -dl /dev/lp0 or /dev/usb/lp0 if its usb.

Though I must say you have a lot of post script errors... you sure you are using the right printer driver? and that you have the printer installed correctly?

---

### Post by beetlish on 2006-02-17
I found the answer in this topic:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=87164&highlight=cups+deskjet](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=87164&highlight=cups+deskjet)

So not my bad at all. :p

---

### Post by jal on 2006-02-25
[QUOTE=0xBulbizarre]
If you have a USB printer, these tips may still be valid, but you may have to adapt some things...
I had a permission problem (permission denied by cups)
[/QUOTE]

Thanks for the hint 0xBulbizarre,
I had a printer problem with my USB printer, the symptom was 
*Connection to CUPS server failed. Check that the CUPS server is correctly installed and running. Error: connection refused.*

I needed to change the group for 
/dev/usb/lp0
to match with the SystemGroup specified in
/etc/cups/cupsd.conf
then bounce the cups server.

---

### Post by tregeagle on 2006-03-15
Yay!!
[QUOTE=0xBulbizarre]...
I had a permission problem (permission denied by cups)
my printer was available at /dev/lp0 but cups had no write permission
/dev/lp0 permissions are like:
-rw-rw---- user:root group:lp

My problem was that cups was running under user:group lpadmin:lpadmin, I had to change that in /etc/cups/cupsd.conf to have cups run under group lp, so that it could write to /dev/lp0.

When you have changed /etc/cups/cupsd.conf, restart cups doing a /etc/init.d/cupsd restart

hope it helps[/QUOTE]

It did help thanks. 
CUPS has given me lots of trouble but I am s-l-o-w-l-y getting the hang of it. For the record I am using an HP Laserjet 5P connected via a parallel port and I still have not managed to enable sharing over samba yet. Not losing any sleep over it though.

---

### Post by barmaley on 2006-03-26
Hallo, people

I have a simiar problem with HP DeskJet 990C to which I'm connected via SAMBA. The printer itself is connected to a Win2k comp.

It is at work and I need this fu...ing printer badly.
I have editted the cupsd.conf file where I uncommented a line "Group lpadmin" and replaced the lpadmin with lp.
Afterwards I restarted the cupsys.
It did not help.
I have also edited /etc/pnm2ppa.conf as was suggested in the thread mentioned here, but it did not help either.
The printer is stopped.
I'm a newbie and may be Im not aware of something very simple.
Please, help

P.S.
Next day: I solved it, it works. Just some crazy misunderstanding between SAMBA and CUPS. Removed, reinstalled, configured and back to network printing. Although, I did not have to use your suggestions - thanks for yous advices.

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-03-28
I found that samba didn't help...
Got it working with CUPS first then went back and sorted Samba.

---

### Post by Cyorxamp on 2006-03-29
Hey folks,

I have a problem with CUPS too with a Lexmark - I don't think it's Lexmark specific (not anymore anyway) could be simple to fix.

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=151997](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=151997)

---

### Post by lgmdaniel on 2006-03-29
I have heard of some problems with Lexmark, namely getting the linux drivers. So untill Lexmark release some supportable and useable drivers then your problems may not go away. I can't really help more than that I'm sorry.

---

