---
title: "Partition icon on desktop not showing partition label"
date: 2007-08-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Tangee on 2007-08-26
When I first installed, my 3 windows partitions automatically mounted and displayed icons on the desktop, naming the links after the partition labels, but after I did something (was a long time ago, can't remember what :( ) one partition link is now called hda1, despite the fact that the others are still named after the partition labels...

any idea how I can fix this? its not a major problem but I would like to know :)

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-08-26
Can we see the ouput of the command ```
cat /etc/fstab
``` please?

---

### Post by Tangee on 2007-08-26
sure:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=98bf0f0c-8ccd-42d4-b790-26f6199f516e / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults 0 1
/dev/hda5 /media/hda5 ntfs-3g defaults 0 1
/dev/hda6 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda4 /media/hda4 ntfs-3g defaults 0 1

```

its hda1 i want to fix btw...

i don't know if this changes things, but it was originally listed by UUID, but I had to re-enter it for some reason... *blkid* doesn't list it with a UUID so I just went for the good old /dev entry

---

### Post by Tangee on 2007-08-26
hmm...seems to be working now after a reboot...

all I can think that I did was to enter a volume.label value in the device manager...but I rejected that as it didn't seem to do anything at the time!

---

### Post by unluckyluke on 2007-08-28
Hi everybody! I'm experiencing the same kind of troubles Tangee described. In fact, rebooting my Feisty seems not to solve the problem, since I have been experiencing this over the last three weeks.

The content of my fstab is this:
proc                /proc                  proc              defaults                                                                  0     0
/dev/sda1       /                          ext3              defaults,errors=remount-ro                                   0     1
/dev/sda3       none                   swap            sw                                                                           0     0
/dev/sda5       /media/sda5       auto              defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46,auto,users,rw     0     1
/dev/sdb1       /media/sdb1       ntfs-3g          defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46,auto,users,rw     0     1
/dev/sdc5       /media/sdc5       auto              defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46,auto,users,rw     0     1
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660  user,noauto                                                            0     0

ls /dev/disk/by-label/ only shows one of the three hard disks, the only one which shows the assigned label on the desktop when mounted. What am I supposed to do to fix this?

Can anyone please give me a hand? Tnx!!

---

### Post by Tangee on 2007-08-28
what i think solved it for me was going into device manager, finding the hard drive in question, and looking for (i think) the volume.label property (if not that, something similar) and assigning it again...don't know how i lost it in the first place...

---

### Post by unluckyluke on 2007-08-29
Thanks for your suggestion, Tangee: reassigning labels worked! I installed mtools and ntfsprogs, and I used them to reassign labels via console. The result was perfect!!!

Tnx againg!

---

