---
title: "[22.04] Dual Monitor - fails to suspend"
date: 2023-02-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ranchhand2 on 2023-02-26
Ubuntu 22.04.1 Kernel 5.19.0-32
Currently using xorg, but issue was the same under wayland.
Dual monitor setup, with one using HDMI and the other DVI.  Power settings are to blank the screen after 5 minutes of inactivity, which should then allow the monitor to go into standby.

If the monitors are plugged in individually, everything works as expected.  However, if using both monitors, after the 5 minutes of inactivity, they will both fade to black.  One monitor will then go into standby, followed by the second monitor.  When the 2nd monitor goes into standby, the 1st monitor wakes up. Then the 2nd monitor wakes up.  After a minute or so, both monitors will fade to black again, however this time the monitors will both remain powered up with the backlight still on.

My issue is similar to the one in [this thread]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2483409"), except this user was using a single monitor setup.  Using the `xset +dpms` command suggested in that thread had no effect for my situation.

---

### Post by ranchhand2 on 2023-03-01
I think I used incorrect terminology on the title, should have said dual monitors fail to enter *standby* rather than *suspend*.

When the whole computer enters a suspend state, both monitors will immediately go into standby, as expected.  But if it is only the screen that is blanked, both monitors will attempt to enter standby, but end up waking each other up instead.

---

