---
title: "NetworkManger xubuntu anyone"
date: 2007-06-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by hoodwink on 2007-06-16
I posted this question o the Gutsy forum, but there aren't many xubuntu users there, and I'm not convinced that this is a Gutsy-only problem.

Here's the background I installed Gutsy (the gnome variant) and then installed xubuntu-desktop on my laptop (thinkpad r51, Atheros wireless chip). NetworkManger activates my card (network is unsecured) just fine, and running under gnome an icon for the NM gui appears in the systray. When I installed Feisty kubuntu and then installed xubuntu-desktop, KNetworkManager appeared in the systray when running the xfce4 session, but running the Gutsy xfce4 session as installed above, there is nothing for NM in the systray. 

One user suggested running nm-applet, but when he does that he gets 2 icons in the systray after reboot and has to kill one.

Do any of you xubuntu heavies know how to solve this problem?

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2007-06-16
I would use wicd instead of Network Manager. It is WAY better (to me at least) and has a lot more features. :)

---

### Post by kugn on 2007-06-16
Xubuntu doesn't have NetworkManager by default. You'll have to apt-get it

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-06-16
Have a read through this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=448952](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=448952)

*nm-applet* should launch NM in Xubuntu, as someone has already suggested to you.  There are suggestions on how to remove the excess icons generated by this too.

PS: NM is not standard in Xubuntu, but will be installed if you installed xubuntu-desktop from Ubuntu.

EDIT: This was for Feisty.

---

### Post by hoodwink on 2007-06-18
> **ugm6hr said:**
> Have a read through this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=448952](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=448952)

*nm-applet* should launch NM in Xubuntu, as someone has already suggested to you.  There are suggestions on how to remove the excess icons generated by this too.

PS: NM is not standard in Xubuntu, but will be installed if you installed xubuntu-desktop from Ubuntu.

EDIT: This was for Feisty.
Thanks for the response. Will review the reference and try on my laptop.

---

