---
title: "8.04 don't boot afte uppgrade of kernel"
date: 2008-07-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-07-28
i upgraded Ubuntu 8.04 today. After the reboot, the boot of kernel 2.6.24-20 halt after:
Checking 'hlt' instrukctions... OK

kernel 2.6.24-19 workes fine.

What is wrong? Why do not kernel 2.6.24-20 work? How fix?

Azyx

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2008-07-28
There have been many threads about the -20 kernel causing problems. It's not ready for general release yet. If you don't want these sorts of problems, disable the proposed repository in Synaptic. The proposed repository is only there for testers to test proposed packages before they are released generally. This one will clearly fail, and when a stable -20 kernel is ready for everyone to use, it will be issued through the ordinary repositories.

In the meantime you can use the -19 kernel quite happily. Everyone else is. :wink: You might as well uninstall the -20 kernel.

---

### Post by Azyx on 2008-07-28
> **coffeecat said:**
> There have been many threads about the -20 kernel causing problems. It's not ready for general release yet. If you don't want these sorts of problems, disable the proposed repository in Synaptic. The proposed repository is only there for testers to test proposed packages before they are released generally. This one will clearly fail, and when a stable -20 kernel is ready for everyone to use, it will be issued through the ordinary repositories.

In the meantime you can use the -19 kernel quite happily. Everyone else is. :wink: You might as well uninstall the -20 kernel.

Thanx. I didn't know rhat was activated :o/

---

### Post by AliG on 2008-07-28
how do i uninstall kernel 20??

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2008-07-29
Reboot and select the previous kernel from the Grub loader list. Once you reach a command line or graphical environment, uninstall -20 with Synaptic or with aptitude.

---

