---
title: "[9.04] Compiz cylinder deformation not working"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-28
Is there any bugs in the deformation plugin?

I have enabled cylinder deformation, but it only worked one time. Now it's gone.  I tried changing the settings, activating/deactivating, but it doesn't work.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-02
Never mind. I figure it out. It seems that it only works if compiz draws the desktop, so the Wallpaper plugin must also be enabled.

---

### Post by xtracool_protik on 2009-11-16
For watever reason wallpaper is not working at my laptop -- however cylinder deformation was working which stopped (maybe after I upgraded to 9.10 or maybe after I first tried enabling wallpaper plugin)
 I've unticked gconf-editor-->nautilus--> preferences-->show desktop so thats not the issue
 Other thing I don't have system-->preferences--> session.
 Well now I don't have deformation working with wallpaper plugin

 I use Intel X3100 and compiz info shows xgl not supported
 I heard Ubuntu changed Intel drivers for 9.10 however I still couldn't get "Heroes of Newerth" running which is completely another issue. Nor can I get deformation or wallpaper plugin :(

 Would appreciate if anyone replies

---

### Post by xtracool_protik on 2009-11-17
BUMP

Noone had the same issue? :(
I would just like to know if many of u have same problem or its only me.
So please post if u have/had same problem with wallpaper or graphics, its fine if u don't have solution:)

Thank you
Regards

---

