---
title: "9.04 - One-hand (left-handed) access to shutdown PC"
date: 2009-04-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by potatan on 2009-04-16
Since upgrading to 9.04, I have lost the ability to shutdown my PC using just my left hand.  No laughing at the back please.

I used to be able to press ALT-F1 to open the panel menu, press "S" for System, then "S" for the shutdown applet, followed by "Enter" to shutdown the system.

Now I find that the Shutdown option has been removed from the System menu.

So what I would like to know is how I can put it back?  Many thanks.

p.s. I know I can shutdown using the User Switcher Applet, but that involves using the mouse.  I also know I can press CTRL-ALT-DEL, but that involves using two hands.  What I want is a left handed way of doing this.

Alternatively, a way of remapping the "Alt Gr" key so that it generates the same code as the left hand "Alt" key, would enable me to CTRL-ALT-DEL with one hand also.

Cheers

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-04-16
You could add "sudo halt" or "sudo shutdown -h now" to the menu.

---

### Post by potatan on 2009-04-17
> **StuartN said:**
> You could add "sudo halt" or "sudo shutdown -h now" to the menu.

Thanks, but that's a little bit too immediate if I hit it by accident.  I know I could add a +3 option rather than "now" to shutdown in 3 minutes, but then I'd have to issue a "sudo shutdown -c" to stop it if I click the menu item by mistake.

What I would like is the command to load the GUI applet(?) that gives the options to shutdown, hibernate etc.

I can add this launcher to the panel that brings up the shutdown window I'm talking about, but what is the command line for that, so I can add it to the System menu?

Cheers

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-04-17
> **potatan said:**
> Thanks, but that's a little bit too immediate if I hit it by accident.

You could add a confirmation before the shutdown by putting this in a script, making the script executable and calling the script from the menu. (You could also add $REPLY == "l" to logout, "r" to restart, etc)

```
read -p "Shutdown (y/n)?"
[ "$REPLY" == "y" ] || sudo shutdown -h now

```

As for the dialogue that appears under System->Shut Down..., I can't see any process or executable.

---

### Post by Aearenda on 2009-04-17
I think you need to add ```
gnome-session-save --shutdown-dialog
```to your menu.

---

