---
title: "12.04LTS usb doesn't mount"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by MorayJ on 2012-04-29
Hi,

I upgraded to 12.04 and my usb stick doesn't mount. I think I had this problem before, in 11.10, and found a fix after a while, but can't find it now. Did a fresh install so any fixes gone.

Real drag - tried installing "usbmount" which then allowed it to mount automatically, but made everything root.

This is the output when usbmount is not installed [edit added for clarity]- seems to be making it a scsi drive!?

```
[   66.472025] usb 1-5: new high-speed USB device number 5 using ehci_hcd
[   66.613451] scsi2 : usb-storage 1-5:1.0
[   67.685536] scsi 2:0:0:0: Direct-Access     Kingston DT 101 G2        PMAP PQ: 0 ANSI: 0 CCS
[   67.686201] sd 2:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg2 type 0
[   68.528355] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] 30695424 512-byte logical blocks: (15.7 GB/14.6 GiB)
[   68.531966] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Write Protect is off
[   68.531972] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Mode Sense: 03 41 00 00
[   68.535596] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] No Caching mode page present
[   68.535602] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
[   68.546086] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] No Caching mode page present
[   68.546093] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
[   68.585474]  sdb: sdb1
[   68.595192] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] No Caching mode page present
[   68.595199] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
[   68.595206] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI removable disk

```

Anyone know a fix?

Thanks
MorayJ

---

### Post by grapnell on 2012-05-01
Confirming, I have the same problem.  Upgraded to Precise, and now USB cardreader doesn't mount.  'lsusb' shows that the cardreader is detected, but it does not mount the drives, and I can't access it.

Anyone know a fix?  Installing usbmount did nothing for me.

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-05-01
I have an intermittent problem autoloading USB 'thumb' drives as well, running Ubuntu 12.04-desktop-amd64 on an HP G72 laptop.

---

### Post by rchar66 on 2012-05-01
I'm having the same issue with my wireless USB mouse and keyboard. After upgrading to 12.04 LTS. Initial boot, keyboard works, mouse doesn't. Re-boot, mouse works, keyboard doesn't. Re-boot again, keyboard works again, mouse doesn't...again!

What's going on?!

Does anybody have any idea?

Richard

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-05-01
There is [this bug report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/992023)... anyone have a current launchpad account to confirm?

Nevermind, did it myself.

---

### Post by rchar66 on 2012-05-01
I just looked at that bug report and all it confirmed is, if you upgrade to the 3.4 kernel, you'll still have USB mounting issues.

The person that tried said it didn't work and they still have the same problems.

Richard

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-05-01
Yes, but now Canonical is at least *aware* that the problem exists...

---

### Post by frncz on 2012-05-01
'disk utility' shows the usb mounted. If you unmount the usb in 'disk utility', then Nautilus will allow you to mount it, and manipulate the content in the normal way.

---

### Post by makis83 on 2012-05-02
> **frncz said:**
> 'disk utility' shows the usb mounted. If you unmount the usb in 'disk utility', then Nautilus will allow you to mount it, and manipulate the content in the normal way.

I can't even run it. I type 'disk' in dash, click on 'disk utility' icon but nothing happens.
P.S. Ubuntu 12.04 x64

**Added**:
I tried to run 'disk utility' via command line:
> max@XaJia6yga:~$ palimpsest
**
libgdu:ERROR:gdu-pool.c:2374:device_recurse: assertion failed: (depth < 100)
Aborted (core dumped)

This bug is described [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/571038"). What am I supposed to do?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-05-02
usb mount always puts the usb under

/media/usb*

---

### Post by rchar66 on 2012-05-14
Has there been any new developments on this whole USB mounting issue?

Again, for me, it's only trying to get a wireless mouse and wireless keyboard to work properly.

I'm not having any issues with USB thumb drives or USB hard drives. Those are working fine for me.

Richard

---

### Post by rchar66 on 2012-05-15
bump

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-05-15
I don't know, man.  I haven't had any problems lately, but then, I haven't been using my computer at work lately, either, which is when I usually use my USB drives.

---

### Post by MorayJ on 2012-05-15
I don't know if they've sorted out the USB drive. I'm currently using Fedora as too much of a bug to not have USB.

Thinking that I'd like the stability of an LTS, but now thinking I also want to keep up with Gnome shell developments, so maybe LTS ain't for me anyway.

Still, be good to know if this got fixed

---

### Post by samthurston on 2012-05-17
updated to current as of today, tried a USB thumb drive and it does show up in disk utility but not available anywhere for use.

Tried to mount my android phone (which I actually need to fetch files from for working right now) and it doesn't work at all, not even disk utility.

How did we end up breaking something as absolutely critical and basic as USB support in an LTS release?

This may be the last straw for me and Ubuntu.  Precise's been out for almost a month and still no fix? Willy-nilly replacement of subsystems for no apparent reason breaking core functionality is just BAD.

---

### Post by MorayJ on 2012-05-18
I can only assume that this has only happened to a select band of us considering the lack of urgency.

I'm amd64 - don't know if it's just on that or something, or maybe usb isn't a part of a lot of peoples' workflows.

Anyway, going to see what havoc the Beefy Miracle update (Fedora) brings me on Tuesday or thereabouts. If it's ok, probably stick with that for the time being. They're bringing Gnome shell 3.41 I think.

Tried Debian and their stable is still on Gnome 2. I know a lot of people have complained about the new Gnome, but I found going back was like being on roller skates and then someone demanding that I run the skates on tracks!

Been a while since I did some distro hopping anyway, so it could all be good...

---

### Post by satish_j on 2012-05-18
well,i do not have any usb mount problems on a fresh install of 12.04
Do you have 'Mount Helper' service running in Startup applications??

---

### Post by MorayJ on 2012-05-18
I've not got it installed at the moment, but good to know if this might be the issue if anyone else is still battling...

---

### Post by lukem on 2012-05-27
All my usb devices seem to mount OK after a reboot, but after several days or weeks, nothing that I plug in seems to get mounted.  I am using Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.  Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by on110 on 2012-06-03
whenever I boot with usb drive plugged in, I cannot see and use it from ubuntu. I have to unplug and plug it in again to use. Ubuntu 12.04 x64.

---

### Post by BartlomiejSkwira on 2012-06-30
After several weeks working with 12.04 I also face the same problem. No usb pendrive/disk automounts (usb mouse works fine though).

edit: **go to solution instead**

As a **workaround** I've started to mount manually, the old-fashioned way;

```
#create dir
sudo mkdir /media/some_dir
#mount, if your usb drive filesystem is ntfs you don't have to type it in the 'sudo mount....' command
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /media/some_dir
#to unmount
sudo umount /media/some_dir
#unmounting a usb hard drive doesn't stop it from spinning, I dont't know how to acomplish this :/

#to get the path to your device (usually sth like /dev/sdb1 or /dev/sdc1
sudo blkid
```

**Solution:**
From Mikhail's [comment #46]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-disk-utility/+bug/571038/comments/46")
```
I've uploaded a package to ppa but I don't know how long it would take and if it is okay it was unsigned.
Here is a step-by-step instruction for 11.10. Make sure you are in sudoers list (https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Sudoers)

sudo apt-get install apt-src
apt-src install udisks
cd udisks-1.0.4/
wget -O - https://launchpadlibrarian.net/76141626/git_diff_final.patch | patch -p1
apt-src build --installdebs udisks
echo udisks hold | sudo dpkg --set-selections
```

Unfortunately I also had a problem with partition table (disk utility showed a huge - kazillion TB - empty partition at the end of disk, GParted showed the whole disk as unallocated). So I used 'testdisk' to analyze partitions. It found the inconsistency and wrote a new partition table. This fraked up GRUB, so I booted with an installation cd (Ubuntu 12.04), downloaded boot-repair, run the repair, reboot, and everything is ok now!! HURRAY! These steps can probably be done faster/better by someone more experienced.

---

### Post by MorayJ on 2012-07-28
If it's any consolation to anyone, plugging my camera into Fedora reports it as a SCSI drive and freezes up the shell totally.

If I go to a console I can access the mounted drive - maybe it's a kernel thing where they decided to screw around with usb. Bit embarrassing really to have an operating system that can't do a simple thing like that.

---

### Post by KhanTG on 2012-08-02
I have tried multiple installs of 12.04 on a Dell e510... when installing and running from Live, everything works without flaw.  once the install is completed and machine runs from its native HDD, there is NO USB activity at all... no KB, Mouse, drives, nothing.  Is this going to continue to be the future of Ubuntu?  or can someone up there fix this?  I'd give more info if I could, but nothing works.

Edit:  There is no PS2 option for this machine, any ideas are welcome

---

### Post by lauren12 on 2012-08-05
could someone please tell me what to do so the usb ports start to work again in ubuntu precise  :confused:

---

### Post by kyserbyte on 2012-09-04
Hi all,

I have solved a similar problem with Ubuntu Server 12.04 LTS.
My problem consist in a error on mount an external usb mass storage at boot time when the storage is plugged-in at this time.
The problem for my distribution is what the kernel don't load the "usb-storage" module driver on boot, and this is necessary for the correct functioning of the usb mass storage.
The solution is to force the kernel to load this module at boot time adding the module name at "/etc/modules" file like this:

```
$ sudo nano /etc/modules
```

and add a new line with...

```
usb-storage
```

Now the usb storage is correctly loaded and recognized and you can add the autoload commands in "/etc/fstab" file.

Test this solution and let me know if it work correctly.

Regards,
KyserByte^!

---

### Post by treesurf on 2012-09-14
> **kyserbyte said:**
> Hi all,

I have solved a similar problem with Ubuntu Server 12.04 LTS.
My problem consist in a error on mount an external usb mass storage at boot time when the storage is plugged-in at this time.
The problem for my distribution is what the kernel don't load the "usb-storage" module driver on boot, and this is necessary for the correct functioning of the usb mass storage.
The solution is to force the kernel to load this module at boot time adding the module name at "/etc/modules" file like this:

```
$ sudo nano /etc/modules
```

and add a new line with...

```
usb-storage
```

Now the usb storage is correctly loaded and recognized and you can add the autoload commands in "/etc/fstab" file.

Test this solution and let me know if it work correctly.

Regards,
KyserByte^!

I have added the usb-storage to the modules file, but I don't know how to add the autoload commands to the /etc/fstab file.  Any help would be appreciated!

---

### Post by treesurf on 2012-09-15
New bug report filed here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1051346](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1051346)

Please check this if you are affected by this bug.

---

### Post by kyserbyte on 2012-09-17
> **treesurf said:**
> I have added the usb-storage to the modules file, but I don't know how to add the autoload commands to the /etc/fstab file.  Any help would be appreciated!

Well,
this is an exemple of an entry line (my entry) on fstab file

```
/dev/sdb1 /mnt/store/shared auto auto,user,rw,exec 0 0
```where:
- '/dev/sdb1' is the 'device file' where your disk is mapped. This depends on number of disks you have.
You can to know this using the 'dmesg' command on the shell after you have plugged in the disk.

- '/mnt/store/shared' is a directory where you want to mount the disk on the file system. This directory must exist at the mount time and/or at tehe boot time if you use fstab.

- for the rest you can copy the same and you can document on fstab file semantic for more insights.

---

### Post by sourcejedi on 2012-10-06
I'm reporting a bug for the specific issue noted by kyserbyte (probably the same one affecting grapnell and on110).  I noticed it independently on my system.  If anyone wants to mark the bug as affecting them, Launchpad will consider the bug "confirmed", which might help with getting it looked at.  Please check that the description of the bug match what you're experiencing first though.  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1062796](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1062796)

---

### Post by sourcejedi on 2012-10-06
Ok, at least in my case this was caused by me, setting  ```
MODULES=dep
``` in /etc/initramfs-tools/initramfs.conf  My workaround was to undo my change (set it back to MODULES=most).  IMO the real problem is the config used to build the kernel.  As well as CONFIG_USB_STORAGE, it includes CONFIG_BLK_DEV_UB and CONFIG_USB_LIBUSUAL.  I believe disabling the last two options will fix this specific issue.  (LIBUSUAL is a shim to allow UB and USB_STORAGE to co-exist, but it's not great and has caused problems in the past.  UB is "Low Performance USB Block driver".  I don't think UB does anything useful on Ubuntu.  AFAIK it's only intended for embedded systems, where you don't need the full USB_STORAGE and want to save a few K of memory).

---

### Post by X3lectric on 2012-10-24
For a fix

as root run in terminal

```
echo usb-storage >> /etc/modules
```

No need for fstab entries. Evrythhing is automated and automounted from now on. :popcorn:

---

