---
title: "Dash to panel query"
date: 2022-09-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pantazi on 2022-09-16
Recently installed dash to panel, all ok, set up to my liking-ish. However no icon appears in the panel when mounting a USB or SD card, it takes an extra click to travel through the files folder first and highlights that icon before I can continue.

Not a problem but this didn't occur with dash to dock. Looked through the relevant Deconfig editor but nothing there. I tried ```
 gsettings set org.gnome.shell.extensions.dash-to-panel show mounts true 
```, but that didn't work.

I'm on gnome 3.36.8 and 20.04.5 LTS

This appears at the top of the gnome extensions page:

[COLOR=#555555][FONT=Cantarell]Your native host connector do not support following APIs: v6. You should probably upgrade native host connector or install plugins for missing APIs. Refer to [/FONT][/COLOR][the documentation]("https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GnomeShellIntegrationForChrome/Installation")[COLOR=#555555][FONT=Cantarell] for instructions.[/FONT][/COLOR]

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by tea for one on 2022-09-16
I'm sure that Dash to Panel has never shown an icon when inserting external media.
However, there is a pop-up message with the Volume name and an option to [COLOR="#0000FF"]Open with Files[/COLOR] (screenshot attached)
Insert USB  or SD and click on Open with Files (Extra click not required).
This message is probably generated by gnome-shell.

---

### Post by pantazi on 2022-09-16
Thank you T41,   yes I have that but I just found it strange that there is no icon after seeing it in the dock since I started five years ago. Not a problem though.
 Nice desert scene by the way!

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2022-09-16
I suggest you install "Places Status Indicator" OR  "Removable Drive Menu" extension to open and also unmount removable drives.

---

### Post by pantazi on 2022-09-16
Thanks Dennis N, they appear to do the same as suggested by tea for one.

---

