---
title: "xorg.conf issue"
date: 2010-09-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-12
I installed 10.04 desktop the other day and everything worked fine, until I booted that is.  My monitor said "out of scan range".  I did some searching around and found that this could be caused by the xorg.conf file.  However, when I booted using the "nomodeset" command I found that I had no xorg.conf at all.  After MORE searching, I found that running the command:  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg  should fix the missing xorg.conf.  This didn't do anything.  On top of everything else, once I reach the desktop environment through "nomodeset" I have no internet, and I cannot shutdown without typing a command out in terminal.  This has happened on three different installs of 10.04 that I have tried.  Please don't say search the forums because I have :)   Thanks in advanced, xeno

---

### Post by anglican on 2010-09-13
> **xenorecor said:**
> I installed 10.04 desktop the other day and everything worked fine, until I booted that is.  My monitor said "out of scan range".  I did some searching around and found that this could be caused by the xorg.conf file.  However, when I booted using the "nomodeset" command I found that I had no xorg.conf at all.  After MORE searching, I found that running the command:  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg  should fix the missing xorg.conf.  This didn't do anything.  On top of everything else, once I reach the desktop environment through "nomodeset" I have no internet, and I cannot shutdown without typing a command out in terminal.  This has happened on three different installs of 10.04 that I have tried.  Please don't say search the forums because I have :)   Thanks in advanced, xenoTo generate an xorg.conf file you need to boot into recovery mode and run:
```
sudo Xorg -configure
```which should generate a default xorg.conf file for your card/monitor. It looks like there is a problem with reading the h-sync/v-sync range for your monitor so you may then need to edit the deault /etc/X11/xorg.conf file generated by the above command to add/edit the Monitor section, something like:
> Section "Monitor"
                 Identifier      "Your_Monitor_Name"
                 HorizSync       31.0 - 70.0
                 VertRefresh     40.0 - 75.0
                 Option          "DPMS"
EndSectionPutting in appropriate values for your particular monitor (the manual and/or google will help here).

H

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-13
I tried that and messed around with it for a while.  I now have the xorg.conf file in /etc/X11 and have it edited to use the VESA driver, another forum said to use that for nVidia cards that weren't working.

NOW however, everything is the same.  I still have that same message on my monitor "out of scan range".

I have tried stopping gdm on startup, to no avail.

Anything else you can think of?

Also, if it helps:  When I startup under "nomodeset" ubuntu will run through code, screen will flicker come back and run through the rest of the verbose code.

When I start regularly verbose, no "nomodeset" and "quiet", "splash" disabled, it runs through code, flickers and never comes back.

---

### Post by anglican on 2010-09-14
> **xenorecor said:**
> I tried that and messed around with it for a while.  I now have the xorg.conf file in /etc/X11 and have it edited to use the VESA driver, another forum said to use that for nVidia cards that weren't working.

NOW however, everything is the same.  I still have that same message on my monitor "out of scan range".

Then you haven't found the right values for your monitor. Try the values I used in my example above and then lower the upper range to 60.0 for HorizSync and 65.0 for VertRefresh. Keep lowering them until you get a combination that works. I'd do this by booting in recovery mode, logging in and (after editing xorg.conf) starting gdm with:
```
sudo service gdm start
```If it doesn't work, you can get back to the text console with [CTRL]-[ALT]-[F1] where you can kill gdm with [CTRL]-C... and try different values for your monitor. BTW what model monitor is it? I don't think that using the VESA driver will help, I'd use the open source "nv" driver (then maybe the propritary "nvidia" one once you've got it working).
> **xenorecor said:**
> 
I have tried stopping gdm on startup, to no avail.

Anything else you can think of?

Also, if it helps:  When I startup under "nomodeset" ubuntu will run through code, screen will flicker come back and run through the rest of the verbose code.

When I start regularly verbose, no "nomodeset" and "quiet", "splash" disabled, it runs through code, flickers and never comes back.I don't think bootoptions will help at all here, xorg.conf is where I'd concentrate my fire.

H

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-14
xorg.conf isn't usually required, but we live in an imperfect world.  What resolution do you require?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-09-14
sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

then reboot

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-14
> **dino99 said:**
> sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

then reboot

Why would I remove the file when Ubuntu wouldn't start without it in the first place?

[QUOTE=anglican]If it doesn't work, you can get back to the text console with  [CTRL]-[ALT]-[F1] where you can kill gdm with [CTRL]-C... and try  different values for your monitor. BTW what model monitor is it? I don't  think that using the VESA driver will help, I'd use the open source  "nv" driver (then maybe the propritary "nvidia" one once you've got it  working).[/QUOTE]

I've tried to get into the console using ctrl+alt+F1 and it doesn't work.  My monitor is a old old old [Dell Ultrascan P990]("http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/monitors/p990/").  VESA drivers work when I run backtrack linux so I just figured it would be the same.

[QUOTE=anglican]Then you haven't found the right values for your monitor. Try the values  I used in my example above and then lower the upper range to 60.0 for  HorizSync and 65.0 for VertRefresh. Keep lowering them until you get a  combination that works[/QUOTE]

I've looked up my monitor specs in Everest for windows and the vertsync and horizsync are at the right values.

---

### Post by anglican on 2010-09-15
Perhaps a "screen" section in xorg.conf might help... maybe it's trying to select too high a resolution. Something like:
> Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Your graphics card"
        Monitor         "Your monitor type"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes          "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

H

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-15
> **anglican said:**
> Perhaps a "screen" section in xorg.conf might help... maybe it's trying to select too high a resolution. Something like:


H


Under "mode", do I put all resolutions that I want?  For example, "1600x1200" and "1024x768"

---

### Post by TwelveGauge on 2010-09-15
yes, but use a low one for now.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-15
Failing that, try a metamode.  Ensure you replace the sync rates and drivers etc with the relevant information.

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "Monitor0"
	VendorName "unknown"
	ModelName "unknown"
	HorizSync 24 - 82
	VertRefresh 50 - 75
Modeline "1600x1200_60.00"  161.00  1600 1712 1880 2160  1200 1203 1207 1245 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier "Device0"
	Driver "nvidia"
	VendorName "Nvidia Card"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device "Device0"
	Monitor "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth 24
		Modes "1600x1200"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-15
Grenage, thanks for that.  It works beautifully under "nomodeset" but still will not boot normally without the screen working.  I'm beginning to wonder if there could be something else wrong here.  Why would so many different configurations that half work, and Grenage's fully work, fail at a normal boot?  Could there be a service issue at startup? Something else along those lines?

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-16
I don't have much real config experience past xorg.conf, but have you tried using a different driver for the card?  I am guessing that for some reason, the KMS is having problems identifying capabilities.

You could add nomodeset to the default grub option so that it only boots with that option, but I don't know if you'd lose out on any features.

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-16
> **Grenage said:**
> I don't have much real config experience past xorg.conf, but have you tried using a different driver for the card?  I am guessing that for some reason, the KMS is having problems identifying capabilities.

You could add nomodeset to the default grub option so that it only boots with that option, but I don't know if you'd lose out on any features.


With nomodeset I loose all features.  No internet, no removable devices, not even an easy way to turn the computer off.

Update:  I think I found what might be causing all of this.  dbus cannot and will not start.  It simply does not exist on my system and I have not the slightest idea how to fix it.  Every post I find says to restart the service "dbus" but when I do that it says it fails and cannot connect to the socket.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-17
Hmm.  I've not had dealings with exactly this problem, but I've seen the odd post covering it.  I'll have a look around and see what I can dig up.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-17
This is a long shot, and it would probably be quicker to reinstall, but:

If you boot normally (no nomodeset), then Ctrl-Alt-F1, gan you get a prompt?  If so, log in and try to stop both hal and dbus; then try to start them again, but start dbus first.

This is really clutching at straws on my end.

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-17
> **Grenage said:**
> This is a long shot, and it would probably be quicker to reinstall, but:
 
If you boot normally (no nomodeset), then Ctrl-Alt-F1, gan you get a prompt? If so, log in and try to stop both hal and dbus; then try to start them again, but start dbus first.
 
This is really clutching at straws on my end.
 
No prompt, I've tried that before.  probably just going in for a reinstall.  Thanks for all your efforts guys!

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-17
-

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-17
Sorry we couldn't get it sorted.  A reinstall always feels like a defeat, lol.  Since it's a new install anyway, it's not too bad.

Most of the stuff I read about dbus having problems was quite old, and based around hal starting before dbus.  Recommendations seem to involve changing the bootup script so that hal takes longer to initialise.

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-17
Haha yes reinstall does feel like defeat. But it's alright. I would rather have that then giving up Ubuntu anyways. And if dbus does still give errors I will give that solution a try. Best one is heard so far.

---

### Post by TwelveGauge on 2010-09-17
yeh, there are somethings that are too obnoxious to fix imo...and if you need your computer, you don't have many options.

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-18
> **TwelveGauge said:**
> yeh, there are somethings that are too obnoxious to fix imo...and if you need your computer, you don't have many options.

I agree, Ubuntu works better on my computer then windows does most of the time so I like to use it for everything but typing up school work.  Ubuntu is a necessary part of life :guitar:

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-18
So here is something new.  I installed 9.10 because I didn't want to bother with 10.04 anymore.  Everything went great I have a screen and everything.  However, I had no xorg.conf again so I built one using 

```
sudo Xorg -configure
```

and got the xorg.conf but when I booted my top and bottom bar were both missing. All I got was the wallpaper.  Does this sound like an easy fix?

---

### Post by Grenage on 2010-09-19
Ahoy. :)

Only bother with an xorg.conf if you really need one; it's a legacy way of controlling things now.

---

### Post by xenorecor on 2010-09-19
> **Grenage said:**
> Ahoy. :)

Only bother with an xorg.conf if you really need one; it's a legacy way of controlling things now.

Ah, you learn something new everyday eh?  Thanks!

---

