---
title: "12.04 Very ugly Splash screen"
date: 2013-08-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by elpiel93 on 2013-08-29
Hello,
My question is simple why this happens:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]245815[/ATTACH]

I'm with new instalation of Ubuntu 12.04, I think I only have changed the order in my boot loader
I tried to put a theme and set it to be default - this happens again...

I had problems when I updated to kernel 3.11 with my nVidia drivers and the I went to 3.9 (witch I run now)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-08-29
Ubuntu sits on top of Linux which uses a command line interface. What you are seeing is the underlying Linux and its messaging method for debugging purposes.

Several steps have to be gone through before we get to a graphical log in screen. The first step is to load Linux. The second is for Linux to run a series of commands to create an OS.

The Ubuntu splash screen tries to hide much of this stuff but as a Linux distribution is made up of components developed by various groups of developers I do not find it surprising that we see through the cracks sometimes.

Nvidia drivers are proprietary and there is not much the Ubuntu developers can do about issues with proprietary software. Stopped using Nvidia drivers about a year ago. I use Nouveau an open source driver.

Regards.

---

### Post by elpiel93 on 2013-08-29
Thanks for the reply,

Now the question:[B]
What has gone wrong and how can I fix this?[/B]

I really hate it. I want to see, if possible, my theme or at least the Ubuntu theme witch is by default.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-08-29
There are splash screen fixes posted on the web and you may want look for one up to date for 12.04 . I would steer clear of the 2010 versions. I am using one currently but it is not official . I have seen different versions and the instructions vary slightly.

---

### Post by lah7 on 2013-08-29
I had the exact same problem! It's to do with Nvidia's propreitary drivers as grahammechanical has pointed out.

One way I overcome this problem was increase the screen resolution, here's how:

[B][COLOR=#b22222]A word of warning, be very careful modifying your boot settings!
[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000080]_If you prefer a graphical way:_[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000ff]
[/COLOR][/B]I used a third party program available for download called **Grub Customiser** which allows you to change the resolution and other minor tweaks, there's some details here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10340183#post10340183](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10340183#post10340183) on how to install it.
[B][COLOR=#000080]

_If you're okay with using the terminal, here's the quick way:_[/COLOR]

1.[/B] Open the terminal by pressing **CTRL+ALT+T **and type:
```
[FONT=Ubuntu Mono]sudo nano /etc/default/grub[/FONT]
```

**2.** Find the line and remove the **#**.
```
#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480
```

**3. **Change the resolution to one that's supported by your monitor. For instance, mine's:
```
GRUB_GFXMODE=1920x1080
```

**4.** Press **CTRL+X** to exit then **Y** to save, then type:
```
sudo update-grub
```

When you next reboot, you should find the graphical "Ubuntu" logo appear once again. Depending on your hardware/monitor, it might look a bit stretched... or at least that's what it's like on my display.

---

### Post by elpiel93 on 2013-08-29
Hi,
I've tried every thing even with the 
GRUB_GFXMODE

Didn't helped.. Any other proposals?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-08-29
I use this on 13.04 with Nvidia 3.13 , The screen resolution in the commands/syntax will have to changed to your monitors native resolution.  

_Use with care and be sure you can revert changes from any other methods before starting . _

```
}Run in Terminal

1.sudo apt-get install v86d

2.gksu gedit /etc/default/grub

3.Replace Line: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

New Line: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nomodeset video=uvesafb:mode_option=1280x1024-24,mtrr=3,scroll=ywrap"

5.Replace Line:#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

New Line:#GRUB_GFXMODE=1280x1024
6.Save & Close

7.gksu gedit /etc/initramfs-tools/modules

8.Add Line: uvesafb mode_option=1280x1024-24 mtrr=3 scroll=ywrap
Save & Close

9.sudo update-grub2

10.sudo update-initramfs -u



11.Restart 
```

---

### Post by elpiel93 on 2013-08-30
It WORKS! :lolflag: Thank you very much for your supplied answer!!! :biggrin:

I have one more question connected with Grub2:
> 
sudo update-grub2

Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.9.11-030911-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.9.11-030911-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-39-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-39-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-37-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-37-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-23-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-23-generic
Found Windows 8 (loader) on /dev/sdb4
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.9.11-030911-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.9.11-030911-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-39-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-39-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-37-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-37-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-23-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-23-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Windows 8 (loader) on /dev/sdb4
done


I did it somewhere along the way.. I have only moved Windows 8 right after Ubuntu 12.04 3.9.11 and this happens?

Regards

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-08-30
I have a Win 7 dual boot and can't help with that question. Since it is not related to the splash screen you may want to start a new thread ,

---

### Post by spakatak on 2014-04-19
Thanks so much Frogs Hair. Used your solution with Mythbuntu 14.04 and Nvidia card and works a treat!!

---

