---
title: "Xfce Menus"
date: 2005-12-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Kheldar on 2005-12-10
I normally use Gnome and just recently tried XFCE Desktop Manager. I saw a noticeable spped increase while using it. I would like to switch to it, just one problem...

How do you edit the xfce menu? I saw the configuration tool for it but it does not show all the apps (that I had on my gnome list). Note: If I use the menu it does show all the stuff that was installed via gnome, it's just the editor does not show it all.

Anyone??

Thanks

---

### Post by taurus on 2005-12-10
You can add whatever you want to the bottom panel in xfce!

---

### Post by psychicdragon on 2005-12-10
The menu, and menu editor in Xfce are a little harder to configure than in Gnome. The Xfce menu is generated automatically, unless you have your own customized menu located at **~/.config/xfce4/desktop/menu.xml**. If you take the time, you'll find that the Xfce menu allows for more customization than in Gnome.

I've attached my menu file, if you want to take a look at it.

---

### Post by Kheldar on 2005-12-10
[QUOTE=psychicdragon]The menu, and menu editor in Xfce are a little harder to configure than in Gnome. The Xfce menu is generated automatically, unless you have your own customized menu located at **~/.config/xfce4/desktop/menu.xml**. If you take the time, you'll find that the Xfce menu allows for more customization than in Gnome.

I've attached my menu file, if you want to take a look at it.[/QUOTE]


So what I will have to do it edit the menu.xml file with a text editor and set it to my default menu. Where will the find all the entries that are in the current xfce menu so I can make it a little easier to modify the file ....

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by psychicdragon on 2005-12-10
Run the program **xfce4-menueditor**. This will allow you to modify the default menu.

---

### Post by Kheldar on 2005-12-10
[QUOTE=psychicdragon]Run the program **xfce4-menueditor**. This will allow you to modify the default menu.[/QUOTE]


Got it. Now the only thing left is where does it store all the autogenerated data (ie: <include type="system">), so I can just cut and paste what I need ....

I tried searching for it but no go .....?? :confused:

---

### Post by Kheldar on 2005-12-10
[QUOTE=Kheldar]Got it. Now the only thing left is where does it store all the autogenerated data (ie: <include type="system">), so I can just cut and paste what I need ....

I tried searching for it but no go .....?? :confused:[/QUOTE]


Got it! the Xfce4 Appfinder shows all the programs and the command line to run them so now I can set it up the way I want it. Thanks for all the help psychicdragon!

:D

---

