---
title: "10.04 does not come up.  No display after boot."
date: 2010-07-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by JimGvo on 2010-07-28
I installed Kubuntu 10.04 on my wife's machine after an unsuccessful attempt at getting a Nvidia geforce 6200 board to display anything larger than 800x640.  All went well until I rebooted.  Nothing.  The disk light flashes for a while and then comes on solid.  The screen flickers briefly  and displays the "no signal" message for a short time.  C-A-F1 doesn't bring up a terminal window.  Booting the recovery results in the same no display.  I booted the live CD and looked at the syslog and the X logs (kdm and X) and didn't see anything that stood out as a problem.  If my wife can't get to her email pretty soon, I'm a dead duck.  I don't know what to do at this point.  C-A-Backspace doesnt' do anything either, but then I'm vaguely aware that's been removed for some stupid reason.  It's one of the more valuable debuging tools.  Anyway I'm guessing the C-A-F keys have gone away also, so I have no idea how to boot this system.

Any help would be most appreciated.  I'm guessing the X config is not right, but I can't find the xorg.conf file any longer or I'd copy the one that works from the live CD.  Can anyone help there?

There are copies of the logs on [http://jim.lynch.name/Xorg.0.log](http://jim.lynch.name/Xorg.0.log) and [http://jim.lynch.name/kdm.log](http://jim.lynch.name/kdm.log)


Thanks,
Jim.

---

### Post by JimGvo on 2010-07-29
So I've booted the live cd, mounted / and /boot, duped the /dev mounted /proc and did a chroot to the root device.  I then did an aptitude update;aptitude dist-upgrade.  I also installed and started the sshd process.

Now I get a login screen, however when I enter the password it clears the screen after a few seconds and displays the login screen again.  If I enter a bad password I get the same effect however a red box appears around the user and pw to let me know it's wrong.  

So I went off and downloaded the NVIDIA-Linux-x86-256.35.run file from the Nvidia site and installed it.  Now I get a bigger login screen but it behaves like before.  Flashes and returns the login screen.

Here's the last part of the kdm.log

> (==) Using config directory: "/usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d"
QFont::fromString: Invalid description 'Serif,20,5,0,50,0'
QFont::fromString: Invalid description 'Sans Serif,10,5,0,50,0'
QFont::fromString: Invalid description 'Sans Serif,10,5,0,75,0'
QInotifyFileSystemWatcherEngine::addPaths: inotify_add_watch failed: No such file or directory
QFileSystemWatcher: failed to add paths: /tmp/1211329518/.config/ibus/bus
Bus::open: Can not get ibus-daemon's address.
IBusInputContext::createInputContext: no connection to ibus-daemon
QFont::fromString: Invalid description 'Serif,20,5,0,50,0'
QFont::fromString: Invalid description 'Sans Serif,10,5,0,50,0'
QFont::fromString: Invalid description 'Sans Serif,10,5,0,75,0'
QInotifyFileSystemWatcherEngine::addPaths: inotify_add_watch failed: No such file or directory
QFileSystemWatcher: failed to add paths: /tmp/0531228103/.config/ibus/bus
Bus::open: Can not get ibus-daemon's address.
IBusInputContext::createInputContext: no connection to ibus-daemon


From what I can tell the ibus isn't necessarily related.  I did install the ibus module but I can't start it from a remote connection.

So I couldn't find anything very interesting in the system logs, so I looked at the user logs and behold!  A message that may account for the difficulties:
> Xsession: X session started for sue at Thu Jul 29 07:01:18 EDT 2010
<unknown program name>(1272)/: KUniqueApplication: Cannot find the D-Bus session server:  "Failed to connect to socket /tmp/dbus-D7pS2ltI3R: Connection refused" 

<unknown program name>(1254)/: KUniqueApplication: Pipe closed unexpectedly. 

Unfortunately google didn't help me understand the problem.  

So given that can anyone help?

Thanks,
Jim

---

