---
title: "10.04 and Memory sticks and digi cameras?"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
I plug my memory stick (2gb generic) in my computer and it does recognise it and I can view the contents but I cannot delete anything? Any ideas. 

Also I plug my camera in and it does not even recognise it!

I have just upgraded to 10.04 from 9. Using Ubuntu 9, they both worked fine no problems.


Mr G

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
it appears non of my external drive can be edited /deleted or files added. I try and unmount and get a unable to unount usb1 error "umount: /media/usb1 is not in the fstab (and you are not root)" in more details.

Any idea's

---

### Post by Scunizi on 2010-05-02
Find the mount points for those devices.. typically in /media/disk or /media/disk-1 etc.. sometimes /media/usb etc.. once you know the mount point you will have to change the ownership of the drives.. make sure they are plugged in and then 

sudo chown -R <username>:<username> /media/<mount location>

Now test read/write capability .. if it still doesn't work then 

sudo chmod -R 777 /media/<mount location> 

That changes permissions for the owner and everyone .. some will object to the 777 permissions but on external devices like usb keys, drives etc you typically need access to them on different machines.. possibly linux machines.. 777 will give access to everyone.. windows doesn't honor unix/linux permissions settings.

---

### Post by julio_grr on 2010-05-02
Changing permissions can't work on a vfat file system.
The problem is that root mounted the partition and only root can unmount it.
I've been searching for a solution for that since I upgraded to Lucid Lynx and nobody seems to agree on what the solution is.

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
> **Scunizi said:**
> Find the mount points for those devices.. typically in /media/disk or /media/disk-1 etc.. sometimes /media/usb etc.. once you know the mount point you will have to change the ownership of the drives.. make sure they are plugged in and then 

sudo chown -R <username>:<username> /media/<mount location>

Now test read/write capability .. if it still doesn't work then 

sudo chmod -R 777 /media/<mount location> 

That changes permissions for the owner and everyone .. some will object to the 777 permissions but on external devices like usb keys, drives etc you typically need access to them on different machines.. possibly linux machines.. 777 will give access to everyone.. windows doesn't honor unix/linux permissions settings.

Julio is right I am afraid. tried both of those options already. although I am fishing around in the dark and dont know really what I am doing. 

I have managed to unmount them. by going to the /media directory and I think "sudo umount /media/sdb1" 

however I now cannot mount them!!! and get this error. I get this same error in terminal and gnome interface

Unable to mount sdb1
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdb1,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try

annoying... 

This is a copy of fstab file too. just for info.. as I think this might be important

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'vol_id --uuid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc                                       /proc          proc         defaults                    0  0  
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=168bc27c-5ed0-46ff-9a73-5b3d7fa428ca  /              ext3         relatime,errors=remount-ro  0  1  
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=7f515276-bcb5-4e15-9383-fcc9c2968c84  none           swap         sw                          0  0  
/dev/scd0                                  /media/cdrom0  udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8,rw    0  0  
/dev/sdb1                                  /media/sdb1    vfat         default                     0  0  
/dev/sdb5                                  /media/sdb5    vfat         default                     0  0  
/dev/sdg1                                  /media/sdg1    vfat         default                     0  0  


       dmesg | tail  or so

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
> **julio_grr said:**
> Changing permissions can't work on a vfat file system.
The problem is that root mounted the partition and only root can unmount it.
I've been searching for a solution for that since I upgraded to Lucid Lynx and nobody seems to agree on what the solution is.

it is easy to unmount. getting them back is also a problem

I unmounted by going to terminals and going to my /media folder and using the sudo umount command.

"sudo umount /media/sdb1" .. I think that is what I typed anyway.

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
when I remove the disk and plug it back it, I get this error.

Failed to mount "UDISK 2.0"
mount: only root can mount /dev/sdg1 on /media/sdg1.
CLOSE

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
[another guy here having the same issue... I feel better for knowing I am not alone.. ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9220146#post9220146")

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
and if this helps. this is fdisk -l command results

Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0a1b0a1a

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       60050   482351593+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2           60051       60801     6032407+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           60051       60801     6032376   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdg: 4047 MB, 4047372288 bytes
37 heads, 36 sectors/track, 5934 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 1332 * 512 = 681984 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x2409c07a

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdg1               7        5935     3948480    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
omitting empty partition (5)

Disk /dev/sdb: 1000.2 GB, 1000204886016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 121601 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x66ec42e7

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1       81254   652672723+   c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sdb2           81255      121601   324087277+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sdb5           81255      121601   324087246    b  W95 FAT32

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
I have the external usb hard drive mounted again now. go figure. turning it on and off worked a treat however still cannot update anything. Root is good and I have no user rights at all. so back to square one

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
update.... If I go to terminal and type  "gksudo nautilus"

this opens up an explorer screen with root privileges. I might be able to do so some thing from here. watch this space

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
going in through nautilus does allow me to delete/rename etc however I still cannot change access rights on folders for my normal account, so although I have a work around. this is still a pain.

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-02
kinda found a solution for me anyway...... THIS DID NOT WORK!!!  false alarm the permissions now on the drive are all over the place. I cannot create folders but I can delete! 

go to fstab

so terminal mode.. cd /etc/
sudo gedit fstab

Mine stated this... 

/dev/sdb1            /media/uni     vfat         defaults                            0  0 

change "defaults" to   "uid=your uid,gid=your gid"

my iud/gid say is jones so mine looks like this now...

/dev/sdb1              /media/uni     vfat         uid=jones,gid=jones                     0  0

solution came from here... [click here  ]("http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/misc/49305-i-am-su-root-i-cannot-change-ownership.html")


However I am still having problems mounting a mem stick usb and a digi camera. but I will look at those tomorrow.

Mr G

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-03
got another soultion... this time in the fstab file replace the default option with this line

 iocharset=utf8,umask=000

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-03
some what annoyingly, privileges keep dropping off the drives. don't know why. Bring back Ubuntu 9.04

---

### Post by julio_grr on 2010-05-03
I got fed-up with usbmount, went to the webpage and saw it wasn't updated anymore.

apt-get remove --purge usbmount
apt-get install pmount.

Problem solved. At least for me.

-- 
Julio

---

### Post by frak2 on 2010-05-04
Hi!
I also did pass from 9.10 to 10.04 and I can not anymore write to my external hard drive.
I am stuck!!! I tried that last solution, but it tells me I do not have the rights. I am in a loop and see no exits. 
Please, can someone tell me where to click to be able to write to external disk ou usb key again?

Thank you!

---

### Post by mclode on 2010-05-05
I had a similar problem after upgrading from 9.10 to 10.04. USB disks would mount as /media/usb1,2... etc, but I did not have permission to unmount them.

I removed the /media/usb* mount points:
sudo rm /media/usb
Now my USB devices mount automatically, with a meaningful name - and I can unmount them.

On another machine, after upgrading 9.10 to 10.04, I could only mount USB devices using System > Administration > Disk Utility. On that machine I removed the "fuse" directory from my home directory. I do not know what side effects this may have, I have not had any problems yet.

(I posted this on another thread, but I can not find it now)

---

### Post by Mr Gates on 2010-05-06
Is this a fault then and does any one know if it can be fixed in a ubuntu upgrade?

at the moment, I am still having issues but I have changed all sorts, so I am going to delete ubuntu 10.04 and reinstall an older version. one that works.

---

