---
title: "10.10 freeze...kind of..."
date: 2011-03-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-18
Greetings.

I have been experiencing a problem with ubuntu 10.10.

The GUI is freezing but not all the elements in the GUI. For example, if i open the browser, i get use it. If i open other program, i can use it. BUUUT, i can't access the three menus (Aplications, Locations, System) and the background apps that have an icon in the upper bar...
Another issue is that, when this freeze happens, i can't type normally in the keyboard. It has much lag.

Thanks in advance for the help.:)

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-19
anyone??? Do i need to post here any additional info??? hello?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-19
> **dead_devil_66 said:**
> anyone??? Do i need to post here any additional info??? hello?
I guess most people here are getting tired of Compiz issues, sorry!
I have to admit, I read your post already yesterday.

As I said, it seems to be an issue of your window manager. Are you running Compiz, having desktop effects enabled? If so, try running Metacity instead:
- press Alt+F2
- enter:
```
metacity --replace
```
Also:
- What video card/chip do you have?
- What video driver are you running?
- How did you install those?

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-20
[LIST]
[*]Video card: Nvidia 8600M GT
[*]Drivers version: 260.19.06 (at least, that's what it's written in the Nvidia X Server Settings)
[*]I installed through ubuntu software center.
[/LIST]

this issue seems to be happening randomly...it didn't happen today or yesterday, during the night

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-20
Thanks. You may try to upgrade the driver through Xorg-Edgers' PPA, it offers more recent drivers than the offical repos:
[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-24
Many thanks for the help, Krytarik.

Do i need to uninstall the drivers that i installed through software center?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-24
> **dead_devil_66 said:**
> 
Do i need to uninstall the drivers that i installed through software center?
No, it has just been upgraded now.

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-24
Ok Krytarik, thanks for the advices. :D

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-26
Hello again.

Seems i got the same issue just moments ago... :(

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-26
> **dead_devil_66 said:**
> 
Seems i got the same issue just moments ago... :(
That's a bummer! Then please check the file "~/.xsession-errors" for related error messages.

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-28
here:

[http://pastie.org/1726607](http://pastie.org/1726607)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-28
> **dead_devil_66 said:**
> here:

[http://pastie.org/1726607](http://pastie.org/1726607)
Your settings in "/home/echo66/.nvidia-settings-rc" are obviously incorrect, it seems to be a common issue of "nvidia-settings".
```
ERROR: Cannot open display 'echo66-G1S:0.0'.
```That display name doesn't exist.

Also see here (first google result): [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=778260](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=778260)

Simply remove that file, and run "System -> Administration -> NVIDIA X Server Settings" to create a new one, you may want to change its settings, if you had custom ones before.

That should fix the issue.

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-03-28
I have erased the file and created a new one. This is the content of the new file:

[http://pastie.org/1729073](http://pastie.org/1729073)

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-04-02
so....any clues???? :(

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-02
> **dead_devil_66 said:**
> so....any clues???? :(
Eh?! I was waiting for a feedback if the new nvidia-settings file fixes the issue! Does the issue still occur then?

---

### Post by dead_devil_66 on 2011-04-03
yes, it does.

That is the actual content of the file...

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-03
How about the "~/.xsession-errors" log now?

---

