---
title: "13.10 How to get into Unity Session ?"
date: 2014-02-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Oshima_Kenji on 2014-02-06
Hi
I was just installing unity desktop via terminal command's 

sudo apt-get install unity

and downloaded the rest of 56,7 mb of archives.
Well, I got no problem when it was downloading and installing via terminal.
It was finished, but, when I was logging out my xubuntu session and trying to log in again to unity
I got no Unity or Unity 2D Session from the setting button on the top right side of the screen.
How can I get logged into Unity Session for this 13.10 Xubuntu ?

Thanks a lot for the help and the answer.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-02-06
I think you get to the session choice by clicking the appropriate icon or possibly drop-down box in the dialogue box where you put your password, unless things in lightdm have changed since 12.04.

Apologies if I'm wrong about this; I am using xubuntu 12.04.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-02-06
Yes, it isn't in Settings. Click the round little icon in the top right of the log-in display.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-02-06
I think that you need more than Unity. You also need Compiz for Unity is a Compiz plugin. And we do not get Unity 2D any more. As a fall back mode it has been replaced by llvmpipe which is part of the Nouveau open source video driver. You may need to install Ubuntu Desktop to get what you want.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-02-06
> **grahammechanical said:**
> I think that you need more than Unity. You also need Compiz for Unity is a Compiz plugin. And we do not get Unity 2D any more. As a fall back mode it has been replaced by llvmpipe which is part of the Nouveau open source video driver. You may need to install Ubuntu Desktop to get what you want.

Surely they would all be dependencies of unity, and therefore installed with unity by default, so there should be no problem over that.

Or am I misunderstanding things here?

---

### Post by Oshima_Kenji on 2014-02-21
Well. I heard my installation method was wrong
My brother said, I have to get the full desktop by typing in terminal :

"sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop"

But I don't want it.
If I used this method, I'm going to have double libre office application, and perhaps other application, indeed.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-02-21
> **Oshima_Kenji said:**
> Well. I heard my installation method was wrong
My brother said, I have to get the full desktop by typing in terminal :

"sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop"

But I don't want it.
If I used this method, I'm going to have double libre office application, and perhaps other application, indeed.

You won't get duplicates of packages that are already installed.  They may be updated, but that's all that should happen.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-02-21
The Compiz core is a Unity 5. dependency which is the version of Unity that came with 12,04 and includes Unity 2D. This is not the same Unity version in Ubuntu 13.10. As I remember there were/are possible extra steps involved in getting Compiz working on Xubuntu .Installing the Ubuntu desktop may help . 


_Not for 13.10_
[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-set-up-compiz-in-xubuntu-1210-or.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/11/how-to-set-up-compiz-in-xubuntu-1210-or.html)

---

