---
title: "Screen Resolution Problems"
date: 2005-07-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by serioussam on 2005-07-27
Hell i m using DELL LCD Panel 15", I want my resolution to be 1027*768 but its not changing at all from 640*480 heres the config of my xorg.confm, i edited it already as i saw instructions on the site but all in vain. Pls check this >>>

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E151FPb"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"DELL E151FPb"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" 
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" 
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" 
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" 
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" 
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by maruchan on 2005-07-27
Quoth your monitor's user manual:

> 

Horizontal scan range

30 kHz to 61 kHz (automatic)

Vertical scan range

56 Hz to 76 Hz (automatic)

You might want to add those specs to your xorg.conf file and see what happens.

---

### Post by serioussam on 2005-07-27
[QUOTE=maruchan]Quoth your monitor's user manual:



You might want to add those specs to your xorg.conf file and see what happens.[/QUOTE]
 Well i added those lines and now my GUI form of ububtu wont start at all :(

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-07-27
Does it looks like this now?

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E151FPb"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-61
	VertRefresh	56-76
EndSection

```

---

### Post by majikstreet on 2005-07-27
I have this exact same problem, and I have the scan ranges and it won't start at all either.

No, really, I have an intel 82845G video card and the E151FPb dell 15" monitor,  too.

This is too weird!

---

### Post by maruchan on 2005-07-27
Well, do you have Knoppix or another live CD that boots you into 1024x768? If so, just get it running and copy the relevant parts of the config file over to your Ubuntu partition.

---

### Post by majikstreet on 2005-07-27
[QUOTE=maruchan]Well, do you have Knoppix or another live CD that boots you into 1024x768? If so, just get it running and copy the relevant parts of the config file over to your Ubuntu partition.[/QUOTE]
 That's a good idea, I believe I have an old Knoppix, let me try that later (Friday-- traveling!).

---

### Post by serioussam on 2005-07-27
Well how can i fix it now as i cant open GUI at all ](*,)

---

### Post by maruchan on 2005-07-27
Serioussam, do you have the Ubuntu LiveCD? Just load it up and use it to restore your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by jones_jj on 2005-07-27
This is from another forum posting but I would seriously try this:

I suggest going to console mode (Ctrl+Alt+F1) and "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg".
After that, go back to your WM (Ctrl+Alt+F7) and reinitialize it (Ctrl+Alt+BackSpace).

After you do this, I would suggest restarting the box and crossing your fingers.   :) 

I have been having issues with the i810 onboard video cards that are in the Dells.  But the above has worked for me on my personal laptop which is an old Dell Inspirion.

Hope it works for you.

---

### Post by majikstreet on 2005-07-27
[QUOTE=jones_jj]This is from another forum posting but I would seriously try this:

I suggest going to console mode (Ctrl+Alt+F1) and "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg".
After that, go back to your WM (Ctrl+Alt+F7) and reinitialize it (Ctrl+Alt+BackSpace).

After you do this, I would suggest restarting the box and crossing your fingers.   :) 

I have been having issues with the i810 onboard video cards that are in the Dells.  But the above has worked for me on my personal laptop which is an old Dell Inspirion.

Hope it works for you.[/QUOTE]
 Will try the above tonight-- Will also post back with results. If this doesn't work I'll try the Knoppix solution that maruchan suggested.

majikstreet

EDIT:
I ran dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and I got into X, but no cigar as far as the screen resolution. I'm happy that I'm in X, though!!!  \\:D/ 

I will try reconfiguring X with Knoppix......

Also, I tried 855resolution.deb, but unfortunatly it said something about VBIOS unknown. So it can't start it says......

---

### Post by serioussam on 2005-07-29
[QUOTE=Artificial Intelligence]Does it looks like this now?

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E151FPb"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-61
	VertRefresh	56-76
EndSection

```[/QUOTE]
 Thanx a lot, the problem has been solved out by that :)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-01
My pleasure ^^

---

