---
title: "11.04 AMD watermark"
date: 2012-03-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by som1special2 on 2012-03-26
Just installed 11.04 and have watermark in corner stating "unsupported hardware". Anyone know how to get rid of this?

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-03-26
Is this a joke? Ubuntu has no such non-sense.

Check your BIOS, it may be something in there. Also, could you tell us exactly what is the hardware on your machine.

---

### Post by qamelian on 2012-03-26
> **som1special2 said:**
> Just installed 11.04 and have watermark in corner stating "unsupported hardware". Anyone know how to get rid of this?
It sounds like you have an AMD/ATI graphics card that is too new for the version of the proprietary (FGLRX) driver included with 11.04. You should be able to get rid of it by installing a newer version of the driver using on of the methods described here:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu)

Specifically, you should go to:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_drivers_manually](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_drivers_manually)

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-03-26
> **qamelian said:**
> It sounds like you have an AMD/ATI graphics card that is too new for the version of the proprietary (FGLRX) driver included with 11.04. You should be able to get rid of it by installing a newer version of the driver using on of the methods described here:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu)

Specifically, you should go to:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_drivers_manually](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_drivers_manually)

I knew it had to be something proprietary, Ubuntu wouldn't do such a thing.

som1special2: manual install can be tricky and it may break after kernel updates (you may have to reinstall the driver every time). You should also consider the option of staying with the default driver (it will not give you a "watermark" even if the hardware isn't fully supported). Also consider moving to 11.10 or even waiting a few weeks for the new 12.04, they should have the newer AMD driver available via the Software Center.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-03-26
I've answered so many questions about ATI cards and drivers it seems as though it is my lot in life.

Here's my suggestion (and those who have seen many of my posts may be shocked...):

If you don't need anything "pretty", I would simply uninstall the fglrx driver and use the open source driver for now.

Don't go to the trouble of installing a newer driver at this point with the release of Precise right around the corner.

The version of the fglrx driver in the Precise repos (for now) is 12.4 Beta, while the latest available on AMD's website is 12.2.  (12.3 may be skipped.)

This is generally in keeping with AMD's habit for several years of giving the candy to Canonical on the sly before everyone else gets it.

---

### Post by som1special2 on 2012-03-27
Got it fixed. Removed "additional drivers" option and installed proprietary AMD driver in terminal. Watermark is gone as well as Unity now. I don't care about Unity as long as the mark is gone; it was an eyesore. Thanks for all the help!

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-03-27
> **som1special2 said:**
> Got it fixed. Removed "additional drivers" option and installed proprietary AMD driver in terminal. Watermark is gone as well as Unity now. I don't care about Unity as long as the mark is gone; it was an eyesore. Thanks for all the help!

Glad you had your issue resolved.

Just a word of caution. Keep an eye on the updates and next time you see "linux-headers" updated you will probably have to reinstall the driver in the terminal. So long as you know how to manually reinstall the driver from a terminal, you should be OK.

---

