---
title: "8.10 Nvidia Issues"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by radioraheem on 2008-11-01
I have an AMD X2 4600+ desktop that is having massive issues with nvidia drivers, using both PCI and PCI-E cards, after trying to install 8.10.

As long as leave the xorg.conf as it is post initial install, the system works fine.  But as soon as I try to enable the nvidia driver the system restarts and x will not run.  dpkg-reconfigure of the x server yields a mostly blank conf file.  

Envy also seems to be having a lot of problems running.  The text mode spits out some python errors (which I will be happy to provide if anyone wants to see them) and the menu says a gnome GUI version of it is not available at all.

Short of removing the video card entirely and switching back to the motherboard's onboard video, or reinstalling ubuntu completely there doesn't appear to be a way I can find to get it to revert to a working X config.

Oddly, searching the forums for '8.10 nvidia' or any permuation of it gave me zero results.

I'm happy to run 8.10 with the stock driver, but I miss my desktop effects :(

Anyone have any ideas?  Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by pigphish on 2008-11-03
look under ibex or intrepid and nvidia and you'll find tons. seems to be a bug.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-04
Not sure which NVIDIA driver you were using but I contacted NVIDIA and received this in response. Hope it helps, as I chose to remain in Hardy until this driver is released as part of an update.

> 
There is a beta driver, version 96.43.09, which supports the kernel and X server 
shipped with Ubuntu 8.10.  There is an Ubuntu package for it, but it's currently 
in intrepid-proposed, which means you won't get it automatically unless you 
enable the "proposed updates" checkbox in the "software sources" control panel.

Hope that helps!

Aaron

---

### Post by radioraheem on 2008-11-05
I tried the beta driver, and while there was some improvement (a correctly configured xorg.conf, for example) it still resulted in FAIL.  X will not start.

I finally gave up and reverted to 8.04.  Even the basic generic driver (vesa I think) runs better in 8.04 for my setup.

Oddly, my machine at work (Intel e4500) with a nvidia 7300 card had no issues whatsoever working with 8.10.   

Regardless, thanks for the suggestions.  I will move it back to 8.10 when some update magic has been accomplished.

---

### Post by SocratesTNR on 2008-11-24
Try this search on google:

nvidia 96 problems ubuntu 8.10 site:ubuntuforums.org

You'll have about 7000 hits; welcome to the hell that is the NVIDIA club.

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-24
> SocratesTNR 	 		**Re: 8.10 Nvidia Issues**
 		Try this search on google:

nvidia 96 problems ubuntu 8.10 site:ubuntuforums.org

You'll have about 7000 hits; welcome to the hell that is the NVIDIA club. 	


"You'll have about 7000 hits; welcome to the hell that is the NVIDIA club". This is somewhat of an unfair statement. I've been running with NVIDIA cards for quite some time in Ubuntu (since FF) with extremely positive results. Only since the release of 8.1 have I experienced driver problems. I truly believe this issue will get resolved proior the next big update. At least I hope so - if not Hardy 8.04 works great with the proprietary video driver installed by Envy.

---

### Post by SocratesTNR on 2008-11-24
Sorry, it's just that I lost Sunday doing the 96.43.09 thang...

Quite an introduction for a n00b :-)

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-24
I understand - I really do. I also found it a little frustrating when advised that 8.1 didn't support my video card - Yet.;-)

---

### Post by jhutton on 2008-11-24
OK, I'll confess, it's all my fault.  My Name is Murphy, and the Laws of the universe couldn't resist.  I just bought a used Nvidia card this weekend to replace an onboard card that would not support desktop effects.  I had heard that Nvidia was highly recommended...  Then, while I was at it I upgraded to 8.10.

So, I'm gaining lots of practice in editing xorg.conf.   I have had some success getting title bars and menus to show up again... 

But my desktop cube now works!  What else do I need?  :)

---

### Post by SocratesTNR on 2008-11-24
I was amazed at how much I learnt too - how to edit xorg.conf, root terminals, and user permissions, quite useful really, but I've lost the wobbly, stick windows which I'd grown to love in such a short time...

Windows is beginning to seem like a distant and dim memory...

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-24
> jhutton 	 		**Re: 8.10 Nvidia Issues**
 OK, I'll confess, it's all my fault. My Name is Murphy, and the Laws of the universe couldn't resist. I just bought a used Nvidia card this weekend to replace an onboard card that would not support desktop effects. I had heard that Nvidia was highly recommended... Then, while I was at it I upgraded to 8.10.

I was wondering who's fault this was - now we know for certain. You should post prior to replacing any more components, at least that way we can plan.:p

---

### Post by Gralgrathor on 2008-11-29
Hi, 

After a few days of reading ons and tons of online forums, *-ing around with removing and installing drivers, editing xorg.conf, running several configuration-programs and such, I've now begun randomly posting at said forums in the hope of a reply that will allow my box to get up and running again.

Well, to be sure, I'm able to reach 1182x892, but I'd really like to get back up to 1600x1050.

Here's the story:

I am running a Kubuntu 8.10 install on a box with a NVIDIA Geforce 7300 SE card, hooked to an Acer 22" TFT screen. The system installed perfectly from the livecd, and I had no problem enabling the appropriate nvidia-drivers and setting the maximum resolution when the system prompted me after install. Up to about three days ago there were no problems with the graphics whatsoever. Then I foolishly allowed ubuntu to perform an automatic upgrade, and suddenly all higher resolutions had disappeared.

I'm sorry to say that I only found out my backup-script didn't run after throwing away the original xorg.conf, but there you go. I didn't think it'd be this hard to reconfigure the display anyway.

Please, has anybody come across a solution that doesn't involve waiting for a fix or update to solve the problem?

Thank you,

G.

---

### Post by amadeujr on 2009-10-18
Well.. these days I got a similar problem: 
  My external video output is a 22" LCD Monitor but the Xorg doesn't accept 1600x1050 resolution anymore. I don't know why! 

So I saw my /var/log/Xorg.0.log and my nvidia proprietary driver reports my VideoRAM size as 512MB !! BUT, my Geforce Go 6150 just use 128MB in maximum bios configuration. So, I tried the following configuration in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "Above" " Monitor1"
EndSection
Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce Go 6150"
    VideoRam       131072  
EndSection

And with this configuration all it's working again! I get the 1600x1050 resolution back!! Great!

I hope to help you.

---

