---
title: "Disk Volumes on desktop"
date: 2007-07-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by john8791 on 2007-07-30
I have a dual boot XP/Ubuntu andI recently used Automatix2 to enable NTFS r/w and mount my NTFS volumes.  They show up on the desktop as hda1 (my "C:" drive) and "My_Music" which Ubuntu must have somehow imported that label from Windows when I installed Ubuntu in the first place.  I would like hda1 to show up as "Winxp_c".  Where are these labels kept and how do you change them?  I don't see them in the /etc/fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hdb1
UUID=c6721632-8828-468d-8fb6-211c8c9f4ef0 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hdb5
UUID=7a7ddf71-45bf-4280-95cc-7a96acf70463 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hda5   /media/hda5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hda6   /media/hda6   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

---

### Post by mcduck on 2007-07-30
The name comes from the name of the directory where you mount the drive.

For example your hda1 is now mounted with this line into /media/hda1:
```
/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```

Create a directory /media/Winxp_c ("sudo mkdir /media/Winxp_c"), and then change that line to this:
```
/dev/hda1 /media/Winxp_c ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
```
After that you can remove the empty and now unused /media/hda1.

This works for all drives mounted with fstab. For removable drives the best way is to set volume labels for your drives/partitions, and the label is then used as name for the desktop icon (and mount point)

---

### Post by john8791 on 2007-07-30
Great, I will try that.  I am still confused on the other issue though: why is it that one of my NTFS (XP) drives already has a label, "My_Data", that does not appear in /etc/fstab?  When I installed Ubuntu, did it set a volume label to this hard drive like it would for a removable drive?  Where do I find this?

Thanks again!

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2007-07-30
> **john8791 said:**
> Great, I will try that.  I am still confused on the other issue though: why is it that one of my NTFS (XP) drives already has a label, "My_Data", that does not appear in /etc/fstab?  When I installed Ubuntu, did it set a volume label to this hard drive like it would for a removable drive?  Where do I find this?

Thanks again!

If you want it to appear as "Winxp_c" - all that is required is to change the Volume Label in Windows.  There is no need to change the mountpoint as such.

In Windows - open My Computer and right-click C: - select rename.  Change that to *Winxp_c*.  Press return.

Then try booting back into Ubuntu.  Certainly works with Xubuntu anyway.  You can change names in Ubuntu with [http://www.debuntu.org/device-partition-labeling](http://www.debuntu.org/device-partition-labeling) (but it is much easier in Windows!)

---

### Post by john8791 on 2007-07-30
Thanks!  Makes total sense now.

---

