---
title: "18.04 LTS Slow system"
date: 2018-12-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by 7-123 on 2018-12-09
Greetings,

Unable to figure out why the system is so slow with the new build.

Metrics:
Open Chromium: 7 seconds
Open calculator: 3 seconds
Open picture folder of 50 pictures: takes more than 10 seconds to show the thumbnail as images.

Hardware:
Motherboard: ASRock X470 Taichi AM4
CPU: AMD RYZEN 7 2700X 8-Core 3.7 GHz (4.3 GHz Max Boost)
Memory: CORSAIR Vengeance LPX 16GB (2 x 8GB) 288-Pin DDR4 SDRAM DDR4 2933 (PC4 23400)
Hard Drive (System): SAMSUNG 970 PRO M.2 2280 512GB PCIe Gen3. X4, NVMe V-NAND 2-bit MLC
HD 2: Crucial SSD SATA
HD 3: Kingston SSD SATA
Video card: GIGABYTE GeForce GTX 1050 Ti DirectX 12 GV-N105TG1 GAMING-4GD 4GB 128-Bit GDDR5 PCI Express 3.0 x16 ATX

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
GNOME Shell 3.28.3  with compiz (basic features like brightness, annotate, no fancy animation or alike)

Disk Benchmark shows advertised read/write speed.

On first installation: ubuntu can see the m.2 but said: Unallocated, Unrecognized Disk Label.
Used gparted that used DOS to make it accessible, formatted ntfs.
Installed ubuntu and manually allocated 16GB as swap

The system installed, but slow.

Re installed with no interference, has now 2 GB swap (that never uses)

Still slow

Any solution ?

With all that, disk benchmark shows the advertised speed:

[IMG]http://www.krenty.com/disk.png[/IMG]


Does this suggest, the system is slow not for hardware reasons and points to Ubuntu ?

Thanks

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-12-09
Hello!

Please use the default font, size and weight unless there is a compelling reason to draw attention to a specific part of your post.

Thanks.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-12-09
While an older card, many versions of Asrock have had issues with Asmedia ports.
Do you have any drive plugged into one of those. One user had issues with just a DVD drive in the Asmedia port.
       Asrock Z170 ASmedia port issue
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2345564](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2345564)

---

### Post by MoebusNet on 2018-12-09
@7-123

Have you updated the OS since install? There have been quite a few updates since 18.04.0; even 18.04.1 has had a number of updates. That  could be making a difference. Just a suggestion...

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-12-09
What, if any, video driver did you install?  Where did you get it from?

---

### Post by 7-123 on 2018-12-09
> **oldfred said:**
> While an older card, many versions of Asrock have had issues with Asmedia ports.
Do you have any drive plugged into one of those. One user had issues with just a DVD drive in the Asmedia port.
       Asrock Z170 ASmedia port issue
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2345564](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2345564)

the 2 other SATA SSD are connected to ports 1 and 2 of the 6 ports provided (Not 5 or 6)

---

### Post by 7-123 on 2018-12-09
> **MoebusNet said:**
> @7-123

Have you updated the OS since install? There have been quite a few updates since 18.04.0; even 18.04.1 has had a number of updates. That  could be making a difference. Just a suggestion...

Yes, all updates

---

### Post by 7-123 on 2018-12-09
> **Autodave said:**
> What, if any, video driver did you install?  Where did you get it from?

Via terminal
Nvidia 390 
Was available and was not used, used Nouveau before.

Slow with either or

---

### Post by dbergst on 2018-12-11
Just a thought but you might want to check the running processes when the system is idle.  The top command should suffice for this.

---

