---
title: "MSN 2008\2009\2010 on Ubuntu 9.10"
date: 2010-01-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Nicolas.Perrault on 2010-01-27
Hello everyone and thanks for taking the time to read my post. I would like to install the actual MSN (not aMSN) on Ubuntu 9.10. I know this is possible as I have googled it. It says that I should use Winetricks and install this and that, but some components are just not available to install.

Is there another way? Can anyone help me out on this? Thanks in advance! ;)

---

### Post by Nicolas.Perrault on 2010-01-28
Anyone? This is pretty important.

When I try to run

 $ msiexec /i Install_{508CE775-4BA4-4748-82DF-FE28DA9F03B0}.msi

it says command not found...

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2010-01-28
> **Nicolas.Perrault said:**
> Anyone? This is pretty important.

When I try to run

 $ msiexec /i Install_{508CE775-4BA4-4748-82DF-FE28DA9F03B0}.msi

it says command not found...

because msiexec is a windows command, and .msi is a windows install package.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-28
which guide/howto did you use?

---

### Post by texaswriter on 2010-01-28
> **Nicolas.Perrault said:**
> Hello everyone and thanks for taking the time to read my post. I would like to install the actual MSN (not aMSN) on Ubuntu 9.10. I know this is possible as I have googled it. It says that I should use Winetricks and install this and that, but some components are just not available to install.

Is there another way? Can anyone help me out on this? Thanks in advance! ;)

[http://allforlinux.com/2009/08/msn-in-linux/](http://allforlinux.com/2009/08/msn-in-linux/)

This is probably the website you got that from. To clarify [I believe], you have to run that from the option in wine to run a Windows Command.. That would be done by running winecfg.  I actually use Crossover for the bottles effect, so I can't be 100%. 

Anyways, good luck and let me know if that helps. 

BTW, have you tried Pidgin... If you don't need all the addons to WIndows live messenger /MSN, Pidgin works great and is in the repositories... Plus you can use it for all IM's: yahoo, msn, etc...

---

### Post by Nicolas.Perrault on 2010-01-30
> **texaswriter said:**
> [http://allforlinux.com/2009/08/msn-in-linux/](http://allforlinux.com/2009/08/msn-in-linux/)

This is probably the website you got that from. To clarify [I believe], you have to run that from the option in wine to run a Windows Command.. That would be done by running winecfg.  I actually use Crossover for the bottles effect, so I can't be 100%. 

Anyways, good luck and let me know if that helps. 

BTW, have you tried Pidgin... If you don't need all the addons to WIndows live messenger /MSN, Pidgin works great and is in the repositories... Plus you can use it for all IM's: yahoo, msn, etc...


How can you turn the option that let's you use Windows commands on? I tried Pidgin, and it's very good, but, call me stupid if you like, but I'm used to MSN, and would very much like to keep it. Thanks for your help :D

---

### Post by texaswriter on 2010-01-30
Eh, windows commands more or less work as slash commands. For example, /nudge nudges the person. I personally am not into alot of the special functions in MSN as they are usually superfluous to conversations, but feel free to them out. 

Here are some links to help you out:
[URL="http://linux.derkeiler.com/Newsgroups/comp.os.linux.misc/2008-03/msg00878.html"]
http://linux.derkeiler.com/Newsgroups/comp.os.linux.misc/2008-03/msg00878.html[/URL]

[http://developer.pidgin.im/ticket/7789](http://developer.pidgin.im/ticket/7789)

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pidgin_%28software%29](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pidgin_%28software%29)

Good luck with that. 

Btw, it's hard to say how many of the extra special commands you'd actually get working **if** you managed to install MSN. It depends on what hardware they depend on and how well Wine integrates that functionality as would be expected. Wine *does not* automatically port any hardware you have into a given program running in the compatibility layer. I know printers typically work seamlessly. Graphics cards work well in opengl. Sound more or less works great with Alsa. I imagine microphones would work. Given that range, it is possible to say that many extra features would work supposing you got MSN installed. 

I generally have bad luck getting Microsoft software installed. Unless I have a POL script or Crossover supports it, I don't usually touch it. POL script was the only way I could get AOE2 running, Crossover is the only way I have ever gotten MS Office successfully installed [and registered]. Actually, AOE1 did install with few problems I believe, except the game uses a colored font scheme that apparently is unimplemented in WINE so font contrast is horrible. 

Anyways, people have tried, just not many. 
[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=127](http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=127)

Good luck and be sure to contribute your results back to winehq and this thread too.

---

### Post by Nicolas.Perrault on 2010-01-31
Okay cool, I'll try that out. By the way, how did you get Age of Empires II running on Ubuntu? It's funny but that was another of my problems...:o

---

### Post by texaswriter on 2010-01-31
> **Nicolas.Perrault said:**
> Okay cool, I'll try that out. By the way, how did you get Age of Empires II running on Ubuntu? It's funny but that was another of my problems...:o

```
$ sudo aptitude install playonlinux
[sudo] password for ----: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Reading extended state information      
Initializing package states... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  cabextract{a} imagemagick{a} libwxbase2.8-0{a} libwxgtk2.8-0{a} 
  playonlinux python-wxgtk2.8{a} python-wxversion{a} 
  ttf-mscorefonts-installer{a} winbind{a} wine{a} wine-gecko{a} 
0 packages upgraded, 11 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 32.2MB of archives. After unpacking 131MB will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] y

```You probably have wine installed already, I hadn't yet installed it on this new install of Karmic. Anyways, after you install **P**lay**O**n**L**inux, hereafter referenced as POL, Applications> Games> PlayOnLinux  

Let it do its thing.... There might be another window in the background, that's POL [just the first time running]. Click Install, find your game... POL is basically a poor man's Crossover. If a game is possible to get running in WINE [not crossover], POL is the quickest way to get there, supposing you have a POL script for it. It will put a program in its own bottle. To install say a game and its expansion, you'll have to figure out how to install in a previously used bottle [typically self-explanatory]. 

BTW, I think I had a problem getting Conqueror's expansion pack installed... Not quite sure about that. Either that AND/OR one or more patches. It's MS software, and as far as I am concerned they make all their software to not work with Linux [my personal opinion lol]. So, usually I don't try unless it is really worth it: ala Age of Empires or MS Office.... etc.

---

