---
title: "11.10 Where is the normal menu?"
date: 2012-02-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by muddysmind on 2012-02-04
Just wondering where is the menu to access the installed programs the dash home thing is utterly useless.
I have 10.10 on my desktop and it's fantastic but now I have my new lenovo laptop
and could not get 10.10 to work on it (wireless was not working) so I upgraded
to 11.10 and now wireless works fine but the desktop is unusable.
Can you easily get a normal sensible menu?

Thanks and sorry for the confusion but I've been toying with this for a couple weeks now and can't figure out where the menu is.

---

### Post by Pengwyn44 on 2012-02-04
Click on the top icon in the Launcher and you will find it. An alternative is to click on the same icon and enter the name of the program that you want.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-02-04
> **Pengwyn44 said:**
> Click on the top icon in the Launcher and you will find it. An alternative is to click on the same icon and enter the name of the program that you want.
That is still not the same menu as in 10.10!  That is the dash, which the OP has already said is useless to him.

@OP
Try Xubuntu or Lubuntu instead.  They use the xfce desktop, or lxde desktop, which are both slightly different but are now the nearest to gnome 2 that we have.

---

### Post by muddysmind on 2012-02-04
Thanks Pengwyn44 for giving it a try.
That is the new non-menu menu thing they have for 11.10 which is about as helpful as a slip-n-slide in a snow storm.

Was trying to find a normal menu like 10.10 where you click and it lists accessories, internet, media and you mouse down and it displays all installed programs.
Hard to "search" for programs when I've no idea what's installed lol.

Not sure what Canonical was thinking this new UI is highly unusable.
Perhaps there is a way to go back to 10.10 and use the wi-fi drivers from 11.10?

---

### Post by muddysmind on 2012-02-04
> **ajgreeny said:**
> That is still not the same menu as in 10.10!  That is the dash, which the OP has already said is useless to him.

@OP
Try Xubuntu or Lubuntu instead.  They use the xfce desktop, or lxde desktop, which are both slightly different but are now the nearest to gnome 2 that we have.

doh! One of those, why didn't I think of that already moments.
Thanks AJ.
Too bad the default UI is so illogical.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-02-04
Hi! **muddysmind**,

You Posted:> Can you easily get a normal sensible menu?Answer: Yes!

Login to Gnome Classic.

And /Or:

Install "Classicmenu Indicator" and you get the old text version [slightly modified] that you can edit with 'MainMenu' as before. [ Google it ]

It works with both Ubuntu &  Gnome Classic log-ins, and if you want it both ways run Ubuntu 2D from the GUI, that will give you a Launch Pad as well as a Menu.
For Gnome Classic you may have to install 'gnome-session-fallback'. [Gnome Session Manager in Software center.]

Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by JRV on 2012-02-04
To install classicmenu-indicator open a terminal and enter the following commands:

```

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:diesch/testing
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install classicmenu-indicator

```

Log out and back in. Click on the Ubuntu icon on the upper right side of the screen near the clock.

---

### Post by 720iD on 2012-02-05
thanks for these info's.
I dont get the new style desktop either.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-02-05
HI!, JRV.

THANKS, saved me searching for a link.

Chao!, bogan.

---

