---
title: "14.04 LTS - workspace previewer question"
date: 2016-04-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-04-14
I upgraded to 14.04 LTS (64-bit) from 12.0x recently. I just noticed that the workspace switcher has 8 preview snap shuts for 4 workspaces. For each workspace, one preview snap shut depicts whatever browser and terminal sessions I have opened and the other showing the desktop background (this one doesn't appear to serve any purpose). Is this by design and, if so, what is the reason?

Follow up:

It has been 3 days after I made the post above. I turned on my laptop to Ubuntu and made a 49MB update. Now that the workspace Switcher doesn't work anymore: the preview shows 2 snap views for one workspace. I rebooted the Ubuntu and it is still the same: the workspace feature is broken on my install of Ubuntu.


Follow up:

It has been 5 days without expert inputs. And after a few times of reboot, the 8-snap-shuts workspace preview came back. After some playing around with the workspace switcher previewer, I go to know some features that are related to my original question.

It appears that the second snap shut for a workspace might have been designed for two-display setups. This may be why the second snap shut preview doesn't function with my laptop, a single display setup. Furthermore, on my single-display laptop, if I drag an open window to the right side beyond the display boarder, it would show up in the second preview snap shut in the workspace switcher. I can also (in the previewer) drag an open window from one snap shut to the other (of the same workspace). This explains why 4 workspaces show up in previewer with 8 snap shuts - it is meant for 2-display setup.

---

