---
title: "problems with nvidia x server settings"
date: 2008-06-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-06-19
I'm working on setting up a dual display but am having trouble with my Nvidia x server settings. 
I just installed a e-Gforce 6200 card and when ever I plug both my VGA monitors into it they go blank but only after ubuntu has loaded. I can see the bios and grub menu but nothing after that. 
But that's not the main problem here. I figure I can muddle through that once I get into the Nvidia x sever settings but for the time being when I open it I get an error message that reads, "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."
When I follow the instructions and run 'nvidia-xconfig' as root then all hell breaks loose and I wind up needing to boot into recovery mode to get it straitened out. 
My current working xorg.conf reads:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"pc104"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated.

---

