---
title: "9.04 removing GDM disables admin tools and more"
date: 2009-07-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by shellbr on 2009-07-07
Hello,

I've been running 8.04 about a year and recently installed 9.04.  It's a clean install on a seperete PC.  In 8.04, I had disabled GDM so I could boot straight to the console.  I tried that in 9.04 and it took away my sound card (no longer appears in ALSA, Pulseaudio, etc...), I can not mount drives or use any admin tools under X.  I am able to open a terminal or issue commands with sudo before going into X to get drives mounted.  I also used "sudo usermod -a -G audio myusername" to add me to the audio group and that got my sound working.  I later removed myself from that group and the sound card disappeared again.  I re-enabled GDM and everything returned back to working normally.  I get sound and access to admin tools.  I went to terminal and checked the output of "groups" and they are exactly the same weather GDM is enabled or not so I don't understand why I have a different access level when GDM is running.  None of this happened in 8.04, all it did was remove the GUI-based login.  Anyone have ideas on what's going on here?  Thanks.

---

### Post by shellbr on 2009-07-21
I'm surprised no one seems to experience this.  Or I am the only one wanting to disable GDM under 9.04 Jaunty?

I've been able to reproduce the loss of admin rights on 2 machines and inside a VMWare host.

---

### Post by XanTrax on 2009-07-21
I actually experienced this exact same scenario.  I didnt spend much time troubleshooting it but I ultimately wound up just adding GDM back to the startup via

sudo update-rc.d gdm defaults

On a side note, when you were in console and wanted to start the desktop enviornment, did you execute "startx" or "gdm"?

---

