---
title: "12.10 Fn keys and hot keys are switched."
date: 2012-12-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by proudpedestrian on 2012-12-05
I recently got a new laptop and installed 12.10 on it. I noticed right away that the "hot keys" on the F keys didn't always do what was pictured and also I noticed that the "hot keys" and the function keys were reversed.  e.g. to close a window I have to hit alt-fn-F2 instead of just alt-F2.  This is pretty annoying because I've been using the same keyboard shortcuts for years and I don't really want to have to re-learn them.

I would also like to switch what the hot keys do, for example the F3 key is pictured as increase screen brightness but it really puts the computer to sleep. I would like to change this back to increase the brightness

I looked in keyboard shortcuts settings but these options are not in there.  I also downloaded gconf-editor but was unable to find where to change the shortcuts on it.  (they weren't at apps \ metacity \ keybinding_commands like others described)

any help would be greatly appreciated :)

---

### Post by proudpedestrian on 2012-12-08
bump

---

### Post by debodas on 2012-12-09
So pressing function + f3 will increase screen brightness then?
I don't know the answer, but I'll have a look for you and see if I can find anything.

---

### Post by debodas on 2012-12-09
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/24916/how-do-i-remap-certain-keys](http://askubuntu.com/questions/24916/how-do-i-remap-certain-keys)

Could this help?

---

### Post by soccnut on 2012-12-11
Do you mean that the Fn key acts like it is "pressed by default" so in order to use a shortcut without the Fn key, you have to "unpress" it?

If i am not wrong, it is not possible to remap Fn key since it is a hardware button.

I had such an experience before, the solution was to go into BIOS and change a setting that modified the Fn key behaviour.

---

