---
title: "10.04 Login - Switch back to Gnome default after installing Xubuntu"
date: 2011-12-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by amhainen on 2011-12-13
I had an installation of Ubuntu 10.04. I installed the following in the order listed:

[LIST]
[*]kubuntu-desktop
[*]xubuntu-desktop
[*]lubuntu-desktop
[/LIST]

Kubuntu and Lubuntu both asked which desktop manager I wanted and I chose 'gdm'. However, when I restart the Xubuntu splash and login screen is active.

How can I get the normal Gnome or gdm like when I only had Ubuntu installed? Thanks for the help.





(P.S. For anyone else who installs all the desktops and hates the KDE mouse, just run 'sudo update-alternatives --config x-cursor-theme'. Choose the DMZ white, logout/login, and the annoying theme and animations are gone :)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-12-13
For re-choosing GDM as the display manager, run:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
```For re-choosing the default boot splash, see this earlier post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11524869#post11524869](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11524869#post11524869)

Regards.

---

### Post by amhainen on 2011-12-13
Thanks, Krytarik. That sort of worked: the shutdown and boot up shows the purple Ubuntu screen, but the login is the same Xubuntu variant. I picked GDM at the dpkg-reconfigure gdm prompt. I'm not that familiar with this, but I would guess that Xubuntu uses gdm and rethemes it?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-12-13
> **amhainen said:**
> ... but the login is the same Xubuntu variant. I picked GDM at the dpkg-reconfigure gdm prompt. I'm not that familiar with this, but I would guess that Xubuntu uses gdm and rethemes it?
Right! [Xubuntu]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/xubuntu-desktop") uses GDM as the default display manager, too. Forgot about that, and assumed it would use XDM. :D

Anyway, here is how to reset the concerning settings of GDM:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11047924&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11047924&postcount=5)

ADDITION: For resetting all background settings at once, you can use this command (just noticed the missing details reg. that):
```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /desktop/gnome/background
```

---

### Post by amhainen on 2011-12-13
Thanks so much! Before I read your reply, I ran:

```
sudo apt-get purge gdm
```

That sort of worked...during the purge, it asked me to pick a new DM. I chose LDXM or whatever, but that didn't work as it looks like gdm might have been a dependency elsewhere. The purge failed, but I noticed that it had purged all the Xubuntu gdm theme-ing junk. I then ran

```
sudo apt-get install gdm
```

I also reconfigured. Everything worked out. I think if the gdm purge would have worked, I might have broke more stuff. So I might have gotten lucky. I have another 10.04 machine I want to tweak out with all the desktop environments, so I'll try a more informed approach with all the info you gave.

Btw, I did some digging and found that you've helped a lot of people with similar issues. Thanks again, Krytarik, for all your help and relevant information :)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-12-14
After you mentioned the "[xubuntu-gdm-theme]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/xubuntu-gdm-theme")" package, I've come to suspect that it changes the default settings of GDM, and indeed it does. So my previously given commands for resetting them wouldn't help. :P

But (for your other machine) you can simply remove that package after installing "xubuntu-desktop", as it isn't a "dependency" of it, only a "recommended" package (actually of "[xubuntu-artwork]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/xubuntu-artwork")", which *is* pulled in as a "dependency" of "xubuntu-desktop"). Btw., if you want so, you could also remove "[xubuntu-plymouth-theme]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/xubuntu-plymouth-theme")", as the very same applies to it as well.

---

