---
title: "9.10 Hangs after inactivity"
date: 2009-10-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bchamberlain on 2009-10-14
After 30 minutes or so of inactivity, my new installation of 9.10 hangs and becomes unresponsive.  The mouse can still move but I cannot click on anything.  Also, when I try to run the update manager, it claims I need a partial upgrade, then fails to download the necessary files.  I am working on an e-machines desktop.  The only post install changes I have made is replacing the mail client with Thunderbird, installing flash, and setting up my wireless card with ndiswrapper (running a US Robotics card).  I am at work at the moment so if anyone needs more info about my computer or me to post log files, I would be glad to do so.  I have disabled my screensaver and any power saving settings.  If anyone has any ideas, I would love to hear them.  Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by asui4tong on 2009-11-02
My custom built desktop has the same problem. My Comapq Presario 2100 laptop doesn't have this problem though.

---

### Post by daggerx on 2009-11-02
Mine hangs and the mouse wont move at all (complete lockup), anyone heard of a resolution yet?

---

### Post by davidproberts on 2009-11-02
I'm having this problem too. Hangs after random amounts of inactivity and is entirely unresponsive.

---

### Post by asui4tong on 2009-11-03
I somehow got it fixed but I have no idea how and why. It hangs with and without activity. What I did was when I got fed up and logged in using gnome fail safe, it hung; I tried KDE, it hung; I then tried xterm and run firefox, it hung too; Reinstall firefox; Got back to Gnome. For some reason everything works. When I tried to start SCIM before I did all these it errored on "creating X11 front end.." but now it works too.

---

### Post by bchamberlain on 2009-11-04
I fixed mine.  I had a pre-release version of 9.10 and it was freezing up periodically.  The mouse would move but I could not click on anything.  Key combos didn't work and I would end up having to restart.  I couldn't upgrade because the update manager would report that it couldn't download the proper files.  I burnt the official 9.10 release to disk and tried to install it.  That installer would hang.  I tried to install Linux Mint 7.  That installer would hang.  I tried to install 9.04 - another hang.  Each time my caps lock and num lock lights on the keyboard would flash.  From reading forums, I discovered that flashing lights = kernel panic.  This probably means a hardware failure somewhere.  I reseated my RAM, removed my pci cards, and unplugged any usb devices.  No more hangs on install.  I installed Linux Mint 7 and it has been running smooth ever since.  Turns out the problem was a U.S. robotics wireless pci card.  Replaced it with a different brand from newegg, and have not looked back since.  I assume that since linux mint is running fine now, 9.10 would as well.  Hope this helps.

tl;dr - It was being caused by a faulty pci network adapter.  Run an update, then check your hardware.

---

### Post by pki on 2009-11-14
Hi.

Had the same issue. Hangs after some minutes. The mouse was movable, keyboard useless. Remote vogin via ssh was possible.

Fixed changing the graphics driver from intel to i915.

---

### Post by quickmouse on 2010-02-09
I have the same problem. 

Discovered it happens only when I run firefox. Try to upgrade to FF3.6 also does not help. So currently live with it using opera & chrome as my browser.

---

