---
title: "10.04 Shutdown Confirmation feature-bug"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by PeggySue on 2010-05-04
When shutting down 10.04 you are forced to deal with a confirmation window.  In previous releases it was possible to switch this off, e.g. right click shutdown button or using gconf-editor.  I can't remove this feature bug in 10.04.

Anyone figured out how to do this yet please?

---

### Post by Nico M on 2010-05-04
I have the same problem on 10.04 64bits and UNE.:(

---

### Post by Nico M on 2010-05-04
I always forget this and get stuck after each update...every 6 month...

GCONF-EDITOR MUST NOT BE RUN USING SUDO !

If you run it with sudo you don't modify your user config, but root config. So You can't see any effect.

A lot of admin tool have to be run using sudo so you take the habit of adding sudo everywhere, but don't do it here !

For your shutdown confirmation problem, uncheck the key /apps/gnome-session/options/logout_prompt

Sorry if it's not the answer to your problem, I hope it will help anyway.

---

### Post by MathUHenry on 2010-05-06
ah, Thank you!!!

---

### Post by MathUHenry on 2010-05-06
Correction, that should be:

/apps/indicator-session/suppress_logout_restart_shutdown

(not gnome-session)

Also, it doesn't seem to apply right away. I rebooted a couple times before it started working right.

---

### Post by kaspin on 2010-05-13
[FONT="Comic Sans MS"][SIZE="2"][COLOR="RoyalBlue"]Thanks very much Nico M and MathUHenry.
I did both changes in gconf-editor (unchecked the key /apps/gnome-session/options/logout_prompt and also checked the key /apps/indicator-session/suppress_logout_restart_shutdown). Shutdown and restart now work perfectly. In fact it takes just 50 seconds from when I press reboot, for Ubuntu to shut down and fire up again (including 5 seconds Grub delay).
Windoze loses out again.........
kaspin[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by Slave2Metal on 2010-05-13
Ubuntu tweak will also suppress the message.

---

### Post by digajack on 2010-07-08
[SIZE=2][COLOR=Black]I too found this "confirm shutdown" pop-up to be very annoying. Thanks for the tips guys. I removed it through the [/COLOR][/SIZE][FONT=Comic Sans MS][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black]gconf-editor[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black] (GUI which I have only recently discovered) using this info ( /apps/indicator-session /suppress_logout_restart_shutdown). Removed it immediately. Cheers:D
[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

