---
title: "12.10 missong icons"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by chubbtech on 2012-10-21
Just upgraded from 12.04 32bits to 12.10 64bits and very pleased to see my scanner (canon 9000F) finally woarking.  The Dash home however is missing a few icons, actually the ones that used to look like folders (home, workspace switcher, mounted drives, trash) also missing are icons in system settings: Appearance, Brightness&lock, Keyboard Layout, Language support...

Although mousing over the dash home pops up the dialog for the missing buttons, and the names appear in the system settings, I'm wondering if this was caused by a direct upgrade (vs clean install) 

thx for listening  :)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-10-21
Upgrades have been known for missing items occasionally . Install synaptic and check for them. How did you get from 32 to 64 bit upgrading?  This has not possible previously.

---

### Post by chubbtech on 2012-10-21
Actually I downloaded the iso for 64 bit and installed over 12.04 32bit.  Having backed up my data it was quite easy...dunno why it "forgot" my other users but their data is still on disk. So formating apparently was not necessary. :)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-10-22
By installing over a previous install without formatting the old folders and files are not deleted. This is acceptable when re-installing an existing release. But changes are being made with every release of Ubuntu. Configuration files are being put into different places. It could be that the OS is now confused as to which configuration files it should use.

The Dash is a case in point. The 12.10 Dash is very different from the 12.04 Dash. What you may think of as missing icons may actually be a redesigned Dash.

My Dash home (open Dash) shows recent searches for applications and files and folders. Those icons that look like folders are long gone from the 12.10 Dash and I have been using 12.10 all through the development cycle.

Regards.

P.S. As regards your other users. You need to recreate them in System Settings>User Accounts. If you give them the same user name and passwords then the OS will pick up the home folders of those users and also the configuration set by those users.

---

### Post by chubbtech on 2012-10-22
Thanks for the info.  :)

---

### Post by chubbtech on 2012-10-22
[ATTACH]225928[/ATTACH]

not sure about the Dash...I'm talking about the sidebar :/

---

