---
title: "8.10: Where is XFCE ?"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by reglacken on 2008-11-04
Have 8.04 on previous computer, using XFCE, Just loaded 8.10 to newer computer.

apt-get install XFCE says could mot find package.

How to get XFCE ?

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-04
Have you tried with lower case letters?  Otherwise, you can always install xubuntu-desktop.

---

### Post by m_duck on 2008-11-04
I think the basic xfce package is xfce4 so, apt-get install xfce4 should work

---

### Post by reglacken on 2008-11-04
Used google.

sudo apt-get install ubunto-desktop

Thanx...reg

---

### Post by jpuhalski on 2008-11-05
I did what taurus suggested, installed xubuntu-desktop, i used synaptic package manager.

what i'm trying to find now is how to add more desktops.  it defaults to two and I would like to have four.  anyone know how to do that.

thanks
john

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-05
> **jpuhalski said:**
> I did what taurus suggested, installed xubuntu-desktop, i used synaptic package manager.

what i'm trying to find now is how to add more desktops.  it defaults to two and I would like to have four.  anyone know how to do that.

thanks
john

Just place a cursor over one of the desktops at the bottom right corner and click the right button.  Go to Preferences and increase the number of workspaces to 4 or whatever value you want.

---

### Post by OrangeCrate on 2008-11-05
For anyone else interested in adding Xfce to Ubuntu, here's a good tutorial on how to do...

**Installing Xfce on Ubuntu**

[http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/xubuntu](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/xubuntu)

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2008-11-05
> **jpuhalski said:**
> I did what taurus suggested, installed xubuntu-desktop, i used synaptic package manager.

what i'm trying to find now is how to add more desktops.  it defaults to two and I would like to have four.  anyone know how to do that.

thanks
john

In Xfce, you set the number of workspaces via *Settings Manager -> Workspaces and Margins*.

---

### Post by sumitkum7 on 2010-04-03
To remove wine first uninstall it from sypnatic package manager.  It will still show applications installed under wine in the applications menu.  To remove from there go to system>preferences>main menu>select the -- icon and click delete.  The -- symbol is for applications that are installed under wine.  They should be gone from the applications menu..voila

---

