---
title: "V10.10, time issue when going back to Windows OS"
date: 2011-03-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Mika076a on 2011-03-27
Hi all, 

New here and new to Ubuntu. I'm looking forward to reading and learning from you guys! I have a problem I can't seem to figure out. 

When I boot the Ubuntu hard drive the clock and date are correct, then when I  restart and go to my Windows hard drive, my Windows time is always 5  hours incorrect. When I first boot Windows my clock is correct(after I reset it) this only  happens after I have rebooted from an Ubuntu session and just restarted the box to go to  Windows. Any ideas?

Mik

---

### Post by Mika076a on 2011-03-27
A buddy helped me find this and it does work. I did the Linux mod.

**Multiple Boot Systems Time Conflicts**

 Operating  systems store and retrieve the time in the hardware clock located on  your motherboard so that it can keep track of the time even when the  system does not have power. Most operating systems (Linux/Unix/Mac)  store the time on the hardware clock as [UTC]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time")  by default, though some systems (notably Microsoft Windows) store the  time on the hardware clock as the 'local' time.  This causes problems in  a dual boot system if both systems view the hardware clock differently.  
The  advantage of having the hardware clock as UTC is that you don't need to  change the hardware clock when moving between timezones or when  Daylight Savings Time (DST) begins or ends as UTC does not have DST or  timezone offsets. 
Changing  Linux to use local time is easier and more reliable than changing  Windows to use UTC, so dual-boot Linux/Windows systems tend to use local  time. 
Since Intrepid (8.10), UTC=yes is default. 
 
**Make Windows use UTC**

 **Note:**  This method was not initially supported on Windows Vista and Server  2008, but came back with Vista SP2, Windows 7 and Server 2008 R2. 
To make MS Windows calculate the time from the hardware clock as UTC. 

[LIST]
[*]Create a file named [WindowsTimeFixUTC.reg]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuTime?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=WindowsTimeFixUTC.reg") with the following contents and then double click on it to merge the contents with the registry: 
[/LIST]

Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00

[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\TimeZoneInformation]
     "RealTimeIsUniversal"=dword:00000001 
**Make Linux use 'Local' time**

 To tell your Ubuntu system that the hardware clock is set to 'local' time: 

[LIST=1]
[*]edit /etc/default/rcS 
[*]add or change the following section # Set UTC=yes if your hardware clock is set to UTC (GMT)
UTC=no
[/LIST]

---

