---
title: ".Xmodmap woes"
date: 2007-01-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by waldemar on 2007-01-05
I'm running ubuntu/gnome x86.  I want to swap the ctrl and alt keys on my keyboard as well as add bindings for extra keys that my keyboard has.  I can do this manually using setkeycodes to define the keycodes, and then creating an .Xmodmap in my home directory and running "xmodmap .Xmodmap" from a shell.  I'd like to have the settings automatically take effect upon login.

Unfortunately something in ubuntu/gnome cancels out my xmodmap changes after they're set during login.  I know that .Xmodmap is being read during login because if I make a mistake in it then I see an error message in .xsession-errors.  However, even if I make no mistake in it then the settings do not take effect.

Past threads in this forum suggested adding "xmodmap /home/<myusername>/.Xmodmap" to the Startup Programs sessions preference.  This doesn't work because then the xmodmap changes come after the keyboard shortcuts preferences are read in and then the keyboard shortcuts don't work for the extra keys defined in the .Xmodmap. 

What do I need to reconfigure or turn off to get ubuntu/gnome to stop messing up my xmodmap settings? ](*,)

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2007-01-05
I don't know about treating the problem, but I'll bet you can fix it with a cronjob.

```
crontab -e
```
This should hopefully open your crontab file in an editor.  Then add the following to your crontab:
```
* * * * * /usr/bin/xmodmap /home/waldemar/.Xmodmap
```
This runs the command every minute.  
```
man crontab
```
and 
```
man cron
```
for more info.

---

### Post by waldemar on 2007-01-05
The cron job doesn't work here for the same reason using Startup Programs doesn't work -- the change is done too late.

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2007-01-05
Yes, but the cronjob should run all the time.  Maybe whatever is overriding your Xmodmap is also running continuously?  Or somehow it bypasses xmodmap settings altogether?

Just to be clear, you can run xmodmap manually and it works, right?

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2007-01-05
Duh, when running from cron, you need the display option, otherwise it doesn't know which X server to talk to.

```
xmodmap -display :0 ~/.Xmodmap
```

---

### Post by tomchuk on 2007-01-06
Running a cron job *every* minute for something that only needs to be run once on login is a bit ugly. gnome-settings-daemon would be very happy to run your .Xmodmap for you on login, all you have to do is ask nicely:
```

gconftool-2 --list-type string --type list --set /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/general/known_file_list "[.Xmodmap]"
gconftool-2 --list-type string --type list --set /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/general/update_handlers "[.Xmodmap]"

```

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2007-01-06
> **tomchuk said:**
> Running a cron job *every* minute for something that only needs to be run once on login is a bit ugly.

It's not just a bit ugly, it's very ugly.

---

