---
title: "HELP - cannout automount or eject CD/DVD"
date: 2006-07-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jackkerouac on 2006-07-28
Hello.

My automount has suddenly stopped working on both my CD and DVD drives. Also, I cannot eject the disks in the drives as I get the following error:

```

Error: this program needs to be installed suid root
eject: unmount of `/media/cdrom0' failed

```

Any ideas?

---

### Post by s_h_a_d_o_w_s on 2006-07-28
try

eject

or

sudo eject

?

---

### Post by jackkerouac on 2006-07-28
when I try sudo eject, I get:

```

Cannot create link /etc/mtab~
Perhaps there is a stale lock file?

eject: unmount of `/media/cdrom' failed

```

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2006-09-17
I had a similar problem to this, and I think I found a fairly easy solution. 

First, start a terminal and "sudo gedit /etc/fstab" and change the "noauto" on the line for your CD/DVD (cdrom0 or cdrom1) drive to "auto", save and exit.

Next, go to the User and Groups section of the Admin panel, from the desktop it's

SYSTEM -> ADMINISTRATION -> USERS AND GROUPS

Find your username in the USER list and highlight it. Click on the Propeties button and go for the User Privileges. From there you can REMOVE the right to access CD-ROM drives and click OK. Click OK again to bring youself out of the User and Groups panel totally. The computer should pause for a moment as it makes a few changes. 

So, from there, you should be back at your desktop. All you have to do now is go back through the User and Groups panel again to reinstate (re-tick) the CD-ROM access rights box you just deselected. Click on OK, and OK again to bring yourself back out of the User and Groups panel - you should be back at the desktop. Now restart your computer.

This should write the changes back and you should hopefully (!) have normal rights to your CD/DVD drive! Don't ask me why this seems to work, but it looks like it resets any rights to access and/or mount your CD/DVD drives. I couldn't even see DVD disks, but I could see audio CDs from the same drive (weird?), I made the changes I described above and I can now play/open/burn any media I wish. 

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by j3cakes on 2006-11-24
(re: ejecting) I had the same problem last night but I think it's because I've got the drive set to 'nouser' in fstab, which I think is wrong.

can anyone confirm that? (I'm at work so I can't test it)

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2006-11-24
I'm no expert, but having "nouser" in your fstab file is a reasonable indicator that NO USER can use that drive. 

Here's the lineup for my drives:

/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/           /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
/dev/hda1	/media/windows	ntfs	nls=utf8,umask=0222	0	0


Might be worth changing that "nouser" to "user" ;) 

I think my problem came up when I installed SELinux whilst I was running on 6.06. All my user rights changed when SELinux changed the configuration on everything. Now I'm on 6.10, I'm not making that mistake again....

---

### Post by arekun81 on 2007-02-18
Hello,

I am having the exact same problem that was described in this post, including the error message when I try to eject the CD...

Error: this program needs to be installed suid root
eject: unmount of `/media/cdrom0' failed

I am also unable to eject USB flash drives, external USB hard drives, iPODs, and pretty much any other storage media I connect to my computer, unless I do "sudo umount /media/mountpoint" from the terminal.

I had just copied my OS (Ubuntu 6.11) to a new hard disk when I noticed this happening.  It seems ridiculous that I can mount, read, write external media but cannot unmount unless I'm root.

I tried the above suggestions including removing my user privileges and then reinstating them, but  it had no effect.

Here's a copy of my /etc/fstab...

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=61a09666-2134-4f2e-b823-3d77819a1296 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=8E74E71F74E70933 /media/files ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=bce892c6-aa61-4daf-a106-e734dcedf81d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,auto 0 0


Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by arekun81 on 2007-02-18
I'm impatient.



Using Synaptic, I reinstalled several packages and now it works...

hal
hal-device-manager
gnome-volume-manager
mount
pmount
ntfs-3g

I'm not sure which one did the trick but I'd guess it was pmount, since the description for that one said it manages mounting and unmounting external devices without privileges.



Hope this helps anyone in a similar situation.

---

### Post by raziv on 2007-02-20
Hi all,

I'm having the same problem: auto-mounting of usb flashdisk (disk-on-key) stopped working, and trying to manually mount it from the "computer:///" nautilus folder gives the error:


```

error: this program needs to be installed suid root
error: could not execute pmount
```

This is in sequel with a series of problems I've had after messing around with my /usr directory, namely the permissions of the files in it. First I noticed sudo must be "set user ID", and also some file in cups for pdf printing.
All problems were solved after setting the "set user ID" flag in the right files' permissions. 

The error message complains about being unable to execute pmount - so I opened a root nautilus window:

```

sudo nautilus
```

found the

```

/usr/bin/pmount
```

file , right-clicked on it, selected
```

properties
```

, switched to the
```

permissions
```

tab,and checked the
```

set user ID
```

box.

This solved the problem of mounting - opening the usbdisk from the "computer:///" folder now worked. Trying to eject the usbdisk failed, though... and I'm not sure what will solve that one - the error message was not that helpful:
```

Error: this program needs to be installed suid root
eject: unmount of `/media/usbdisk' failed
```

I found the "eject" program in /usr/bin/, but performing the same suid-trick didn't work...any suggestions, anyone?

- Raziv

---

### Post by raziv on 2007-02-20
Problem solved - pumount is also supposed to be suid - simply repeated the same process as was done for pmount, and "eject" started working again.
It seems that a few more suid-surprises are waiting for me in the future - any suggestions for obtaining a list of all the files in a normal ubuntu installation that are supposed to be suid?

- raziv

---

