---
title: "16.04/GNOME Flashback, latest update and now cabn't add workspaces"
date: 2020-02-18
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Michael Steinberg on 2020-02-18
I have been running 16.04, figuring on going to 20.04 when it's out, but the latest kernel upgrade has left me with a problem. I am stuck with a single workspace, which makes my working life hard. I can set it to three workspaces on the tweak tool but I have no access to either of the others. I have only one workspace showing in the panel app, and when I try to set preferences there for three workspaces instead of one the change doesn't happen. I can't change anything in the panels, either--Alt-right-click does nothing now. Even the Panel settings app fails to load. So the problem may be with the panels? I've rebooted with older kernels but the problem persists.

(sorry for typo in title)

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-02-18
It may be as simple as the wrong key combos. The default GNOME behaviour has been changed to vertical switching rather than horizontal. So, the proper key combo is <Ctrl>+<Alt>+<Up/Down> rather than <Left/Right>.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-02-18
Just a FYI:  You do realize GNOME on 16.04 is EOL (as of April 2019)

See [https://ubuntugnome.org/](https://ubuntugnome.org/) or [http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2019/03/01/ubuntu-16-04-6-lts-released/](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2019/03/01/ubuntu-16-04-6-lts-released/) 

> [COLOR=#333333]Maintenance updates are provided for 5 years for Ubuntu Desktop, Ubuntu Server, Ubuntu Cloud, Ubuntu Base, and Ubuntu Kylin. All the remaining flavours are supported for 3 years.[/COLOR]

You can use `ubuntu-support-status` to view the support status for your actual installed system, including listing supported and/or unsupported packages.

---

### Post by Michael Steinberg on 2020-02-18
No, and that's annoying. I don't like the idea of changing distros every two years; I thought I'd be good for four.

---

### Post by Michael Steinberg on 2020-02-18
Thanks, Duckhook, but that wouldn't explain the absence of other workspaces or the inability to change anything in the panel.It may be that I'm just using an outdated version of Gnome, but it worked fine this morning before the update. And in fact CTL-ALT-up and down arrows do nothing.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-02-18
> **Michael Steinberg said:**
> No, and that's annoying. I don't like the idea of changing distros every two years; I thought I'd be good for four.

In fact, the main LTS distro is good for 5 years, but the flavours like Xubuntu, Lubuntu, etc have varying shorter lifespans. You are not even using a flavour because 16.04 did not offer Flashback except as a custom DE. The default DE for 16.04 is Unity.

> **Michael Steinberg said:**
> Thanks, Duckhook, but that wouldn't explain the absence of other workspaces or the inability to change anything in the panel.It may be that I'm just using an outdated version of Gnome, but it worked fine this morning before the update. And in fact CTL-ALT-up and down arrows do nothing.

Since I've left 16.04 behind for more than 2 years now, I'm going by memory, which isn't at all useful to you here. Furthermore, as already noted you are using GNOME, not Unity, so I'm afraid I can't help any further.

If you do decide to upgrade, I would strongly recommend a fresh virgin install rather than an upgrade. Given the customizations that you have made to your system, a network upgrade will more than likely choke. 20.04 is due out in another couple of months. If you can't wait, then one strategy would be to install 19.10 now and upgrade to 20.04 at its first point release, which should give the new LTS time to work out its bugs. Remember though: if you want 5 years, you must stick with the defaults in the main flavour and not install Flashback or make other wholesale customizations.

---

