---
title: "16.10 Unity 8 On Screen Keyboard Help"
date: 2016-10-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kyaustad on 2016-10-22
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]I have Ubuntu 16.10 freshly installed on a Toshiba Satellite Click 2 hybrid tablet. I dual boot with windows sadly. But regardless of the poor linux support for Bay Trail integrated graphics i've been loving the Unity 8 preview session! I think it is just great. I have had a couple problems though i was hoping someone could help with. DISCLAIMER: I know this is a preview and really more of a demo than an early access test of sorts. So maybe some of my questions can't be answered. But i appreciate any effort to help so first:
[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]1: When in Unity 8, there is no onscreen keyboard when I am using my satellite without my physical keyboard. The touch works perfect but no on screen keyboard. In settings it says: "On-Screen Keyboard" and says zero and when i click on that setting it is just a blank screen. I tried installing onboard through Libertine but that doesnt integrate the input with the Unity 8 desktop sadly. Is there a way to get an onscreen keyboard in the 16.10 Unity 8 preview?
[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]2: I have had troubles installing snaps. Just a general question, is there a snap app store for the unity 8 preview yet or should i just keep using uappexplorer? and when i do install a snap, such as vlc it has no logo and when i launch it in unity 8 it doesnt open and just crashes closed. Any advice?[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]Thank you for any help you can offer! Best of wishes[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]ka[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

