---
title: "multiple monitors + beryl / multiple soundcards"
date: 2007-05-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by guernicaaa on 2007-05-12
okay, two main problems here.  Whenever I use "nvidia-settings" to set up my other monitor with the Twinview setting, it works perfectly.  But when I restart, it goes back to one monitor mode and the second is disabled in the nvidia-settings.  Yes, I've hit Apply and Save X to configuration to my /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  Still, nothing.

Problem 2 - I've got 3 sound cards, an onboard Realtek 97 or something, and M-Audio Delta 1010LT that I use for recording (so really no output), and a Creative Audigy 2 ZS.  In my volume control panel, when I do "Change Device" I get the list
0: M-Audio Delta 1010LT (Alsa Mixer)
1: Audigy 2 ZS [SB0350] (Alsa Mixer)
2: Nvidia CK8S (Alsa Mixer)
3: SAA7134 (Alsa Mixer)
4: ICE 1712 - multitrack (OSS Mixer)

I want the Audigy to be my main output, so naturally, I select that as the main device.  But when I restart, the device either changes or I get no sound.  What's going on?

---

### Post by nicepants on 2007-05-15
i'm not sure about the sound problem, as there are no sb x-fi drivers available, so i'm waiting for the sb live! i just bought for twelve bucks to arrive. =)

as for the nvidia problem, are you running nvidia-settings as a user, or are you using sudo to start it? if you're running it as a user, it'll default to saving it to ~/, and you won't have the permissions to save it in /etc/X11. just cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf, if it looks like the default, it's not saving it. the one nvida-settings generates is structured differently and i believe it's commented at the top as being generated by nvidia-settings.

---

