---
title: "10.10 Remote Desktop"
date: 2010-11-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by gousta on 2010-11-09
Hello to everyone!

I installed ubuntu 10.10 yesterday on my server [noparse](previous windows 2008)[/noparse] and because it's only a server, I've got no monitor to use it.

The plan is simple and I've being using this for 2 years without any problem

I need a remote connection to the ubuntu from my iMac. Not another session or something, I need to see the exact same thing as it would appear on a monitor.

Connection is made using a 1Gbit lan connection (passes through several switches [that's no issue])

Ubuntu machine IP is: 192.168.1.100
Ubuntu machine Username: box

No need for port forward cause I don't want this to be accessible from the internet.

I tried to System -> Preferences -> Remote Desktop (I enabled all the necessary options) and when I type from my VNC Viewer from my mac "192.168.1.100" it quickly pops up an "Connection refused message"

Consider everything Default. I've not even opened a terminal.
If there are some steps to get a new ubuntu installation to have a vnc server, please tell me all.

If I didn't explain something enough, ask me.

Thanks everyone in advance.

---

### Post by gousta on 2010-11-09
Anyone ?

---

### Post by irv on 2010-11-09
I remote into my server from my desktop and laptop. Here is a screen shot of my setting in my remote on my laptop and on my server.
[ATTACH]175110[/ATTACH]   [ATTACH]175111[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-09
I use SSH to access my (headless) server.

There really is no need to run VNC on it, since you can just forward X over SSH to access a GUI if you need to.

You said that you need to see what would be on the monitor, but didn't specify what you'd be running on the machine that requires a GUI.

If you are using vino (the default VNC server in Ubuntu) it doesn't start unless you are logged into the console itself.

---

### Post by gousta on 2010-11-09
Okay

Every solution seems good to me as I don't know how to setup both.
I formated again my server so know I have a fully clean ubuntu 10.10 machine.

I perform a full update and you can take it from here.
What actions should I perform so I can view my ubuntu (you can decide whether to use SSH or vino)

Also, I should note that the server logs in automatically to the only one user of the machine.

So each time it boots, it logs in and run the default installation programs.

Now what?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-09
You haven't really said what you need a GUI for.

If it's a server, having it autologon is a bit of a security risk imo.

---

### Post by gousta on 2010-11-09
This is a file server, a webserver with multiple ftp accounts on it.

I Can't have a monitor on it and I need to connect with VNC.

With the new clean installation I logged in with vino successfully.
I can't understand why I couldn't with the previous installation.

Should I perform an update or leave it as it is?

The thing is, will I be able to remotely connect to the server if the automatic login is disabled?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-09
You'd be able to connect via SSH (if you install it), and that's all you really need.

If you need help configuring it, there are web frontends like ebox and webmin.

There really isn't anything I can think of one a web server/ftp server that would require a GUI.

---

### Post by irv on 2010-11-09
Here is some links to URL that might be helpful to read.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VNC]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VNC")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=122402]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=122402")
[http://www.debianadmin.com/administer-your-ubuntu-server-remotely.html]("http://www.debianadmin.com/administer-your-ubuntu-server-remotely.html")
This is just a place to start. This is how I learn to do things, this way I find things that work best for me.

---

### Post by gousta on 2010-11-09
Thank you very much! I have it running perfectly now.

Now I need to setup the rest, webserver is not the problem. Sharing the NTFS discs on the ubuntu is.

Samba setup information?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-09
Are those NTFS drives on the system now?

If they are, you'd need to mount them to be able to access them.

---

### Post by gousta on 2010-11-09
Yes, the one (DATA) is mounted successfully,
the other one (DATA2) displays this message when trying to mount:

```
Error mounting: mount exited with exit code 12: Failed to read last sector (1953517708): Invalid argument
HINTS: Either the volume is a RAID/LDM but it wasn't setup yet,
   or it was not setup correctly (e.g. by not using mdadm --build ...),
   or a wrong device is tried to be mounted,
   or the partition table is corrupt (partition is smaller than NTFS),
   or the NTFS boot sector is corrupt (NTFS size is not valid).
Failed to mount '/dev/sdc2': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sdc2' doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS.
Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/sda, not /dev/sda1)? Or the other way around?
```

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-09
See if you can access either of those drives on a Windows box and run chkdisk on them.

---

