---
title: "(12.04) Luks full system encryption: system lock-up"
date: 2013-03-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nienaber on 2013-03-13
**_Problem:_**

My system periodicity locks ups where it it is completely unresponsive. You can't ssh into the machine, you can't use keyboard or mouse. The only way to get it back up and running again is the hard reset the system. As a result some of the files that I was busy editing would then be corrupted completely. 

I have not been able to isolate the issue as there are no logs available to indicate the possible problem, I am therefore turning to the community to hopefully find a way to trouble shoot this issue.

**_System specifications:_**

**Kernel**: 3.2.0-36-generic (#57-Ubuntu SMP Tue Jan 8 21:44:52 UTC 2013)
**CPU**: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-3330 CPU @ 3.00GHz
**RAM**: 16GB
**Harddrive**: 
            **SSD**: ST1000DL002-9TT1 ( root file system ) /boot and operating system "/"
            **Other:** Kingston SVP200S (Terra byte drive) - /home /swap
**Swap size**: 16GB
Motherboard: Intel motherboard (I don't have the specifics but I could dig it up if it would be useful)
Video card: Onbard intel 

I am running a **full system encryption** using **luks** with the operating system and **/boot** (unencrypted) partitions on the SSD drive. The terra-byte drive is also fully encrypted using luks and mounts the **/home** and **/swap**.

Running standard Ubuntu installed drivers no propitiatory drivers are manually installed.

Any helps would be greatly appreciated. If you need any specific dumps just let me know and I will add them.

Thanks

---

### Post by TincoAndringa on 2013-07-18
We are having the same problem, also on 12.04 with home partition encrypted. We experience this problem on all four machines in our cluster. The crashes happen every few days. All machines run 24/7 database tasks. We haven't been able to extract any information about this problem from the machines, they absolutely freeze. The kvm shows no kernel panic on the monitor, and no console remote or hands-on responds to input. One application logged something about "cpu hard lock" before it crashed, but we're not certain that is relevant. We also employ netconsole, and rsyslogd, to no avail.

This problem occurs on both kernel 3.8.0-25-generic and kernel 3.5.0-36-generic (x86_64). Processor is Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-3770 with a large amount of ram.

---

