---
title: "Stuck at 640 x 480 Resolution"
date: 2005-08-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by chriskirk on 2005-08-14
Hey Guys,

I just installed Ubuntu and booted it up...

Now at the login screen the resolution is about 1024 x 768 or bigger and its really big almost like too big to really see anything but I can login successfully

I have ubuntu running and I am using it to post this at the moment, but my screen resolution is stuck at 640 x 480 and I cannot change it at all!
I went into System > Preferences > Screen Resolution and the only resolution available for me to select is 640 x 480!

Any help would be appreciated GREATLY!

-Chris

---

### Post by bjweeks on 2005-08-14
Have you installed the video drivers? If you need help with that go to [http://ubuntuguide.org](http://ubuntuguide.org).

---

### Post by Buffalo Soldier on 2005-08-14
myself having problem with my monitor. so, definitely not the man to give you advice on fixing display related problem. But I do know that giving more information will make it easier for people who know how to fix this to help you.

(assuming you're a newbie, I apologise if I'm wrong)

For example, what display card are you using? your monitor spec? and most important is the content of your **xorg.conf** file. It's in the **/etc/X11/** folder.

The command that you can use in the console (or some people like to call command line) is ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```.

---

### Post by chriskirk on 2005-08-14
Hey,

Ya I definately am a linux newbie...

Okay my monitor is an hp pavilion mx70 and 17inch, I do not know what video card I am using since this is a really old PC, but is there a way to look that up?

And finally my xorg.conf file

[PHP]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"MX70"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"MX70"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection[/PHP] 

Thanks again for your help so far!

---

### Post by duminas on 2005-08-14
Please issue the following command at the terminal:
```
sudo ddcprobe | grep monitorrange
```What you get from this will be two ranges of numbers. In the case of my monitor, these are **30-58 50-120**.

Once you have these values, edit the "Monitor" section of your xorg.conf to include these two lines:

```
HorizSync	30-58
VertRefresh	50-120
```
Of course, replace these numbers with those the first command reports to you.

If you need help, issue the first command and post the results back.
Not sure if this will help, but adding these to my config helped me with various monitor problems, so it's worth a shot.

---

### Post by roland on 2005-08-14
I have searched on google for a while for the so-called horizontal sync and the vertical refresh rate of your monitor, because these values are important and missing in your configfile. What you could try is editing the file as Buffalo Soldier said a few posts back. **Please make a backup first!** For example, put it in your home folder.

I have quoted the important section below.

```

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"MX70"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

```

In this section you have to add the following lines between the [font=courier]Section "Monitor"[/font] and [font=courier]EndSection[/font], and correctly aligned with the Identifier and Option.

```

	HorizSync    30.0 - 70.0
	VertRefresh  50.0 - 120.0

```

Now save the file, and restart the X server by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Backspace. Your screen may flicker.

I have found a manual of your screen [here](http://h10032.www1.hp.com/ctg/Manual/bph06493.pdf) on pages 25-26.

If the unexpected happens (your screen blanks or you see only flickering), you have to press Ctrl-Alt-F2 and log in with your own username. Then type the command [font=courier]killall Xorg[/font]. Then type the command [font=courier]sudo cp -f /home/username/xorg.conf /etc/X11/[/font]. Now reboot your computer (read footnote below if you like to). Your monitor should work now.

The following is for your information only.

This section:
```

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"MX70"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

defines the possible resolutions for your screen. If you say you don't like the very small text on your monitor, you can delete the "1280x1024" everywhere. Now your screen is 1024x768 all the time, which creates bigger characters.

Footnote: You may think that rebooting Linux never happens, that is true. You only have to do that now, because it is the easiest way :)

---

### Post by chriskirk on 2005-08-14
Hey Guys!

You are all so awesome =D WOOHOO! Its fixed :D.

Now I can say that I am THRILLED with Ubuntu! I had booted it up originally but I couldn't get the resolution fixed so I booted up fc4 but I decided to try Ubuntu again and boy am I happy that I did because Ubuntu is awesome :D

Thanks so much for helping me adding the things to the xorg.conf file worked =)

-Chris

---

### Post by Buffalo Soldier on 2005-08-14
glad u've manage.

---

