---
title: "11.4 - new desktop unusable"
date: 2011-06-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bunty_ on 2011-06-12
Jiust upgraded to 11.4. The new desktop looks amazingly polished, really professional. Clearly a large amount of work has gone into it.

Only one problem - it's counter intuitive. I find it very difficult to work with. [http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/icon_sad.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/icon_sad.gif)
So different to 10.4.

How do I get back to 10.4 desktop?

thanks
b

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-06-12
There is no way to degrade an upgrade to the previous one. You might need a fresh install in that case.

Why don't you try the 'Ubuntu Classic' session that looks exactly like the one in 10.04.

From the Login Screen, click your user name. Sessions option would appear in the bottom of your screen. Choose 'Ubuntu Classic' and Login.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-06-12
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Why don't you try the 'Ubuntu Classic' session that looks exactly like the one in 10.04.

From the Login Screen, click your user name. Sessions option would appear in the bottom of your screen. Choose 'Ubuntu Classic' and Login.

+1. 

@bunty_ that's good advice from sikander3786. Rather than re-install the older version, use the classic gnome desktop that comes with 11.04 anyway. It's not much changed from the 10.04 version.

I have another suggestion. When you've got some time, log into the Unity desktop by choosing "Ubuntu" at the login screen instead of Ubuntu Classic. Then explore the Unity desktop following the first link in my signature. You may come to prefer it. There are many who disliked it at first but who came to prefer it as they got used to it. I'm one of those. At least you like the look of it, which is a good start. And I disagree that it's counter-intuitive. It's different from what you're used to, that's all, but it has its own logic which makes sense when you understand it. 

Once you've found your way around Unity and want to customise it somewhat have a look at my second link, and also the first link in sikander3786's sig which leads to his excellent website which I can warmly recommend.

**EDIT**: I enjoy snail painting too, but I find they always run away too fast and smudge the patterns I'm trying to create. :redface:

:wink:

---

### Post by kellemes on 2011-06-12
> **bunty_ said:**
> Jiust upgraded to 11.4. The new desktop looks amazingly polished, really professional. Clearly a large amount of work has gone into it.

Only one problem - it's counter intuitive. I find it very difficult to work with. [http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/icon_sad.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/icon_sad.gif)
So different to 10.4.

How do I get back to 10.4 desktop?

thanks
b

As said.. logout, choose Ubuntu Classic from the Session Option..

Have to say I agree with you totally, it looks fantastic but it's not intuitive at all. You don't **have** to get used to it simply because the folks from Ubuntu (and many others) think it's so great. Just use one of the many other window-managers.
Maybe in time Unity will become intuitive, I'll be the first to start using it.

---

