---
title: "5.1 surround sound is only 2.1...."
date: 2005-09-25
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rah on 2005-09-25
I have my front left and right speakers working, and my subwoofer, but the rear speakers and the centre speaker are mute.

I've tried looking at alsamixer, unmuting things, turning the volume up, but it hasn't made a difference.  Curiously, the only things in alsamixer that make any difference at all are "PCM" and "Surround" -- which both affect the volume completely i.e. if I turn either of them off then I hear nothing at all -- and "Duplicate", which when muted also mutes everything.

Can anyone help me out?

EDIT:  My soundcard is NVidia CK804, integrated with my motherboard.  Someone over at LinuxQuestions.org has led me to believe that this may be my problem, and that I need a stand-alone sound card in order for Linux to be able to take advantage of 5.1.  Can anyone confirm that this is the case?

---

### Post by rah on 2005-09-25
Let me ask this another way:

For those of you that do have 5.1 surround sound setups, do *any* of you have integrated soundcards, or are they all stand-alone cards?

Before I rush out and buy a new piece of hardware, I want to make sure that it will actually fix my problem. :)

---

### Post by DancingSun on 2005-09-26
Well, my Altec Lansing 4.1 speakers only have one analog connection and one digital coaxial connection.  Using the analog connection, only the front speakers and sub-woofer works.  However, I can turn on the Dolby Surround on my speaker system to get some surround effects.

To get discreet 5.1 surround sound (center speaker is emulated via the front speakers on my Altec Lansing speaker system), I have to use Dolby Digital, which only works through the digital coaxial connection.  That being said, I've failed to find a way to enable digital out on my integrated sound solution, which also uses the NVidia CK804 with Realtek ALC850.

So, I finally went and bought an old Soundblaster Live! PCI soundcard.  I'm happy to say that Dolby Digital works, even though it would be better if the integrated solution worked in the first place.

The reason that I chose the Soundblaster Live! is because it does hardware mixing, which will also eliminate all the "no sound in <app>" problems that I got from using the integrated sound from the motherboard.  That means, I don't need an asound.conf file to enable software mixing.

---

### Post by xterminus on 2005-09-26
I own an asus board with the nforce2 chipset, which means it has a pretty cool soundcard (the soundstorm), which isn't well supported in linux.

For about a year, i used a sblive like you to do sound and pass through dolby digital to the speakers when playing dvd's.  I recently tried the nvidia nforce oss drivers again though, and it worked for the first time though.  Now I have a dolby digital signal being sent to the speakers 100% of the time.  It's kinda nifty, i don't know of another sound card out there that will do something similar.  Most soundcards will only send a dolby signal when the input is ac3 (like from a game or dvd).  The soundstorm actually re-encodes your mp3s and whatnot on the fly into a dolby digital signal - which is why I bought the motherboard in the first place.

Of course, it took me 2 years to get it working ;(

---

### Post by Chareos on 2005-11-01
I've the same soundcard on my nforce4.

That USED to WORK PERFECTLY in Hoary after some thinkering... 5.1 sound and everything fine.


Then I moved to Breezy...
now the best result I can achieve is a 4.1 sound from front, center (no speak, only sounds), speak from rear left and mute rear right.


THAT MUST WORK, I just can't find how.
I tried to remap channels in .asoundrc but no good results.

---

### Post by barsanuphe on 2005-11-09
ive got exactly the same pb. 
speaker-test -c6 
gives mixed up channels.

HOWEVER when trying 

speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6  

it works fine.
then i try vlc and the channels are mixed up again.

aynone hae a clue of how to fix this?

---

### Post by jeffbacon on 2005-11-13
I have the exact same problem.  On a Via sound chip integrated into MB.

---

### Post by Pipeline on 2005-11-14
I have the same problem, i have a nforce2 and 5.1 speakers, but only works 2.1. 
Somebody can help me?

Thank`s!

PD: i`m sorry my english is poor, becouse i`m spanish.

---

### Post by ibuntoo on 2005-11-16
I have a Creative Audigy LS. Under Windows XP, it can output a digital signal to my digital amplifier. This is via a 3.5mm port --- 3.5-to-mono-RCA --- coax port on my amplifier. i.e. single cable. I can use  VLC to watch avi files that include AC3, and DVDs. The amplifier receives the AC3 information. If I listen to audio CDs, PCM information gets sent to the digital amplifier, and I get Dolby Pro Logic II (a.k.a. Dolby Surround). 

Under Breezy, I only get Dolby Pro Logic II sound with the same audio setup, and using VLC. 

I have tried enabling the Applications > System Tools > Volume Control prefs and settings, and SPDIF out there. I have also tried alsamixer (which I think is the same thing). 

I have also System > Prefererences > Multimedia Systems Selector to choose between Alsa, OSS and ESD; but I'm not sure what I am doing there... 

I do have a SB Live! card lying around the house, but I think that only does 4.1 digital output--I might be wrong. 

Any ideas as to how to get the AC3 data off the computer, via the single cable to the amplifier. 

Just FYI, I think an alternative to using the single cable, is to plug 3x analog stereo cables to the back of my Audigy LS, to the amplifier analog inputs (front, L, R, surround L, surround R and woofer). This also worked in Windows, but anything with just 2-channel info (i.e. stereo) does not benefit from Dolby Pro Logic II/Surround.

---

### Post by MemoryDump on 2005-11-17
I'm also having the same prob.. can only get 2.1 sound with my Audigy 2 SZ... I was just recently using Suse10 and everthing was working fine.. Alsa is just picking it up..
also I noticed that when I move the TREBLE & BASS levels I get no sound changes.. I've even tried using the alsamixer from a terminal..

any ideas?
-MD

---

### Post by DaJL on 2005-11-29
I have the same problem with a soundblaster live  with alsa..  I only get sound out of my 2 front speakers and the sub.  I have spend hours  and hours trying to get it to work with alsa  and it never worked. 

However it works nicely with  the OSS drivers.

---

### Post by isecore on 2007-05-05
Sorry about reviving such an old thread but I could really use some help here with a similar problem.

Here's the story:

I have a computer with a Creative Soundblaster Audigy2 ZS. A few months back I decided to give Ubuntu a serious go at replacing Windows on my desktop. I installed Edgy and everything was peachy - I even got genuine 5.1 AC3 surround from DVD's and avi's encoded with it. All I had to do was tell the various mediaplayers to output in 5.1 rather than stereo.

However, I got greedy and tried in my naivety to solve some other issues by pre-upgrading to Feisty. This was back in february and it wasn't ready for upgrade then. This completely borked my system and I reluctantly did a reinstall and reformat of Edgy, with some knowledge gained. 

However, after reinstalling there was no surround-sound from my speakers. No matter how much I tried tickling things it wouldn't play back anything except stereo sound. DVD's are downmixed to stereo, and even when choosing 5.1 in VLC all I get is some weird stereo-output where it mutes the center channels (voice and such) and outputs it to all speakers at once. I didn't really feel like messing with it and have accepted it so far.

Now I feel that I want working 5.1-surround.

This Edgy-install has worked fine for me, and when Feisty went live I did upgrade to it and everything went fine. Except of course that my sound still was only stereo even though it cheerfully reported that it was 5.1. My ears are however not convinced, and I've been searching the forums to no avail.

So, if anyone has any ideas or pointers to give me as to how to get my Audigy to start doing real 5.1 surround again I would be much appreciated.

Also, for the record - I don't have a digital setup. My speakers are hooked to the Audigy2 through three analog connections (L/R, C/Sub and RR/RL). Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Alien.col on 2008-07-06
Oh my god same problem here, has anybody found a fix for this

---

