---
title: "11.04 missing toolbars and launcher"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jamedfor on 2011-04-28
Hey Guys,
I just installed the new 11.04 release, and everything was fine until I tried to edit the compiz settings to a cube as opposed to the foursquare.  Now, I have no bar at the top, no launcher, etc.  Hotkeys for launching terminal and such are disabled.  I have no borders around windows, so I cannot close them, move them, or resize them.  Basically, I can only see my desktop background and the stuff on it.  I did manage to change the settings back to a foursquare before leaving the settings menu, but the problem is still here after restarting a couple of times.

Thanks!
John

---

### Post by Naater on 2011-04-28
Hey! I have the same problem! I can temporarily fix that until we figure out to enable unity again!

first thing you have to log out or restart.

then on the login screen select your name/account (don't login yet)

now look down at the panel there.

select the tab that says "ubuntu" I believe thats right.

and then select from that menu "ubuntu classic"


then login.


It should look normal again with the panels but you won't have the new unity :(. From there I'm think of a way to enable it again.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-28
See here on how to enable "Desktop Cube" instead of "Desktop Wall", in the same key you need also to add "unityshell", since it has been disabled when you switched to "Desktop Cube":
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10734118#post10734118](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10734118#post10734118)

Greetings.

---

### Post by jamedfor on 2011-04-28
OK.  Now I just need to get a terminal window...  my computer auto-logs on when I turn on the computer.  I don't know how to log out, just get to the switch users screen.  There I can change to classic, but because my session never ended I'm still in unity.

PS. Ctrl Alt T doesn't work either.

---

### Post by Naater on 2011-04-28
Ok I have some more info! If you want to enable unity again you do so with CCSM (compiz config settings manager). Run "ccsm" or go to "system" then "Preferences" the "compiz config settings manager". With that open search for "unity" and the plugin should come up for you to enable it. all done for now.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-28
You don't happen to have configured Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to kill the xserver, right?

If not, press Ctrl+Alt+F1 to switch to a console, then run these commands to end your running session and reboot:
```
sudo service gdm stop
sudo reboot
```Then boot into "recovery mode" and do the changes there. Then reboot again.

@Naater: How do you run those command or go through the menu while being still logged in to Unity? I believe the Compiz settings you set through its GUI in "Ubuntu Classic" don't apply to Unity.

---

### Post by rasturn on 2011-04-29
right click on desktop and create a launcher name "whatever", browse to usr/bin/ccsm , then double click on icon and it will open ccsm gui re-able unity, i ignored conflicts reboot and everything is back to normal
but unity will show up in classic 'gnome' as well like merged together but you can just disable it in classic.
i can't make it work like before it did the same thing you did

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-04-29
> **rasturn said:**
> right click on desktop and create a launcher name "whatever", browse to usr/bin/ccsm , then double click on icon and it will open ccsm gui re-able unity
Yeah, I, too, thought of that some time after posting. Good to know that it works - again!

---

### Post by jamedfor on 2011-04-29
Thanks for the help guys, problem solved!  I feel like quite the linux noob...

---

### Post by ps2k on 2011-05-06
I was running 10.10 and GNOME desktop. I was very happy with that. Last sunday I did upgrade to 11.04, since then I ran into troubles. Initially the upgrade did not go properly. After that I tried to upgrade from the command line using "sudo apt-get dist-ugrade". That seem to have upgraded properly. But after rebooting I don't see any toolbars, task bar but just plain desk top. With one or two icons I had before. By the way I had auto-login setup before. Now how could I switch to ubuntu-classic to get back to GNOME. I think Unity is junk. I will warn my friends not to attempt to upgrade to 11.04.
 
Could some body please help me.

---

### Post by demilord on 2011-05-06
> **ps2k said:**
> I was running 10.10 and GNOME desktop. I was very happy with that. Last sunday I did upgrade to 11.04, since then I ran into troubles. Initially the upgrade did not go properly. After that I tried to upgrade from the command line using "sudo apt-get dist-ugrade". That seem to have upgraded properly. But after rebooting I don't see any toolbars, task bar but just plain desk top. With one or two icons I had before. By the way I had auto-login setup before. Now how could I switch to ubuntu-classic to get back to GNOME. I think Unity is junk. I will warn my friends not to attempt to upgrade to 11.04.
 
Could some body please help me.

At the login screen when you click your name you see the bottom taskbar where you can choose for the Classic Gnome .

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-06
> **ps2k said:**
> By the way I had auto-login setup before. Now how could I switch to ubuntu-classic to get back to GNOME. I think Unity is junk. I will warn my friends not to attempt to upgrade to 11.04.
So, you're judging a product before even having tested it, or seen for yourself!?

To choose "Ubuntu Classic" *demilord's* instructions are basically correct. However, that of course doesn't work for you because you have autologin enabled.

To get to the login screen first:
a) Press Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to kill the xserver if you enabled that key combination before.
b) Create a launcher at your desktop for the command "gnome-session-save --logout" and launch it.

---

### Post by ps2k on 2011-05-06
You are right, since auto login is setup I can not switch to classic. This was exactly my question, how to access the login screen settings?
Your reply gave me some relief but unfortunately I can't try the option "Ctrl+alt+back space" because I don't have this key combination setup before. I tried the option "b". That does log me out but, there is no desk top mode at the bottom of the screen. I can see only time and universal access button. In 10.10 desktop option used to be available. 
I have been using Ubuntu since 8.04 on couple of machines. I used Redhat/Fedora flavors before. I like Ubuntu better for my use. I did 9.04, 10.04 and 10.10. I didn't have issues like this before. What else can I say about 11.04? Please let me know if there is any other way.
Anyway thanks a lot for you and demilord.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-06
> **ps2k said:**
> I tried the option "b". That does log me out but, there is no desk top mode at the bottom of the screen. I can see only time and universal access button.
Make sure to click at your username before looking for the "Session" options.

---

### Post by ps2k on 2011-05-07
I appreciate your quick reply. I'm now able my desktop working properly. I tried some different username at the login prompt then I could see the desktop option at the bottom. I selected classic, after that switched the user back to my original user. After the login the tool bar is back. Thanks a lot. You saved me from re-installing or downgrading.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-07
You're welcome!

---

### Post by nagromlt on 2011-07-29
> **Krytarik said:**
> You don't happen to have configured Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to kill the xserver, right?

If not, press Ctrl+Alt+F1 to switch to a console, then run these commands to end your running session and reboot:
```
sudo service gdm stop
sudo reboot
```Then boot into "recovery mode" and do the changes there. Then reboot again.

@Naater: How do you run those command or go through the menu while being still logged in to Unity? I believe the Compiz settings you set through its GUI in "Ubuntu Classic" don't apply to Unity.

same problem, when i tried this whole screen went blank...  had to get back via ctrl+alt+f6

i remember i had problems with this (the a+c+f(x)) when i had Satanic on 10.04.  it used to show tty1 tty2 tty3 for all of them until i got back to the regular screen.  this time they are all blank till i get back to c+a+f6...  strangeness

---

### Post by nagromlt on 2011-07-29
> **Krytarik said:**
> @Naater: How do you run those command or go through the menu while being still logged in to Unity? I believe the Compiz settings you set through its GUI in "Ubuntu Classic" don't apply to Unity.

I was messing around with compiz settings when mine took a crap.  I was testing opacity settings (which I couldn't get to work with Unity anyways) and then I decided to revert to default settings.  After I did this my troubles began.

trying to get into term 1 just gives a monitor reading of "OUT OF RANGE".  SO I'll have to log out and come back in.  I'm gonna try to start in classic...

---

### Post by zirch on 2011-08-10
> **rasturn said:**
> 
but unity will show up in classic 'gnome' as well like merged together but you can just disable it in classic.
i can't make it work like before it did the same thing you did

I had the same problem. But after resetting the compiz settings, it was back to as it was. Unity only shows up in the default ubuntu mode, and not in classic.

To reset compiz, run these in the terminal:

gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compiz
gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compiz-1
gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compizconfig-1

Afterwards, just reset unity or reboot.

However, please take note that this will reset everything, so whatever you've changed, you'll have to redo. I also found that my firefox browser's settings (including the addons settings) were reset.

---

### Post by red101 on 2011-08-12
Hey thanks man! The whatever thing worked!

---

### Post by rpremuz on 2011-09-01
> **zirch said:**
> However, please take note that this will reset everything, so whatever you've changed, you'll have to redo. I also found that my firefox browser's settings (including the addons settings) were reset.

Zirch, the three commands you provided were really helpful in solving this problem. But I'd say they can't reset the user's Firefox settings. (If that happened in your case, it must have been caused by something else.)

-- rpr.

---

