---
title: "8.04 text selection broken in KDE"
date: 2009-06-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by chip616 on 2009-06-14
OK, I've searched the forums, but found nothing recent on this.

There are times when I try to use the mouse to select text and it fails to work correctly.  It will skip several words, or fail to highlight anything at all.  Sometimes the text selection works if I go slowly, and sometimes it just plain works.  Other times I can successfully make a selection, but as soon as I release the mouse button, what I had selected goes back to being unselected.  I find no rhyme nor reason to it.

This problem shows up in kate, thunderbird, firefox, and Open Office.  I don't use a lot else.

The point is that this almost has to be a KDE problem rather than an application problem, as it is not limited to one application, or one family of applications.

In addition, I get weird happenings with application windows as well.  Sometimes clicking the title bar (once only) will expand the window to full screen.  Sometimes I am unable to resize windows by clicking and dragging the borders.  They select, but will not move (and this is when they are NOT in full-screen mode).

Something is wonky, and it is getting worse.  I have this same issue on several different machines that I own, all running Kubuntu 8.04, so it is not machine specific either.  All my machines are up to date with all available patches installed.  Some machines have wired mice, others have wireless, and they are from at least three different manufacturers.

Suggestions, anyone?

Thanks.

Frank.

---

### Post by chandra on 2009-07-01
I can add my experience to this, chip616.

On Jaunty 9.04, when I mouse-select and paste, sometimes, I do not get anything and Klipper then shows a blank line. The selected text appears one line below on Klipper history.

This problem is especially annoying because it happens during editing in Kate and, what is more, it does not happen always.

I wonder if anyone has found a workaround.

---

### Post by lost2 on 2009-11-18
Hi,
I have the same problem but I'm using 9.10 (after a fresh install, replacing 8.04). On 8.04 it never behave like that.

Sometimes I can't select, drag some window, minimize or just click.
It's really frustrating.
 
If some one got a solution it would be much appreciated.

Thx.

---

### Post by chip616 on 2009-11-18
All:

FWIW, my problem has 'gone away' with subsequent updates.

Frank.

---

