---
title: "11.04 on Acer Aspire One 751h"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by azile19 on 2011-04-28
Has anyone tried installing 11.04 on an Acer Aspire One 751h yet?  

I had 10.04 on this machine, and I remember a great deal of pain and agony trying to get the screen resolution to 1366x768.  When I upgraded, I seem to have been thrown back into the same boat.  The resolution is currently set to 1024x768 with no other available options.  The thread [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne/AO751h#1366x768%20psb%20module") hasn't been updated yet and I am curious to see if anyone has tried to deal with this problem yet.  

I apparently can't install unity on this machine either.  Does anyone know what sort of hardware limitations cause this problem?

---

### Post by mutinystudios on 2011-04-28
Sadly no. You should get net book edition maybe thats the problem.

---

### Post by azile19 on 2011-04-28
When I originally installed ubuntu on this machine, I tried the netbook remix.  The GUI was paaaaaaaaaaaaainfully slow.  For whatever reason, the full version ran much better.

---

### Post by azile19 on 2011-04-28
My best guess is that I just have to sit around and wait until someone makes an update for the psb driver.

---

### Post by matt_mccarron on 2011-04-29
Hey,

I just installed it fresh today, and it appears to be the same as 10.04 that I had previously...

Same video sketchiness, so-so audio playback...a bit slower???  Haven't used it enough yet, but it has frozen and crashed twice.... oh and the unity desktop doesn't work either...

Oh, and the closing the lid problem, where the thing shuts down/freezes if you close the lid, that's still there and doing that...

Is there a replacement for the poulsbo driver?

am i forgetting something?  I think the netbook is mostly junk, so i'm definitely not blaming the OS...


good luck...

---

### Post by azile19 on 2011-04-29
I had gotten around the lid closing problem by setting it so that closing the lid turned off the screen rather than trying to hibernate.  It's the hibernate that really doesn't work and causes the freezing.  

I feel like I can get this thing back to at least semi-useful if I can get a replacement poulsbo driver.  Does anyone know how long it might take before the correct repositories are set up?  If this is going to be a few months, I may just downgrade to 10.10 where I know I can make this machine bend (at least slightly) to my bidding.

And I agree with you, the netbook is junk, it's definitely not the OS.  One of these days I'll front the cash for a real laptop....

---

### Post by unik107 on 2011-08-15
hi, i installed ubuntu 11.04 on Acer aspire one d255 last week. it was good for a while but i had issues because of the resolution and others. i went online to see why and i discovered that i had to find proper so for netbook like Joli OS, ubuntu netbook remix, meeGo and others. you can find something about it at wikipedia. i think this will help
I used Joli os, it was great but now i'm using fedora 15, it does have the same issues has ubuntu 11.04

---

### Post by im.saravanan on 2011-08-17
hi friends. Installed ubuntu 11.04 on acer aod 250 netbook.  It works out of the box. Wonderful.

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2011-08-17
I had incredible problems with Unity on my atom 270 eeepc.  I think there is a workaround for the intel video card problem that leads unity/compiz to crash it.  At any rate, I then tried to go with Ubuntu Classic which was also sluggish.  Ubuntu and Kubuntu still work well on my 330 but 11.04 is too taxing for my 270.

I'm now using Xubuntu sans compiz which works much better.

---

### Post by crgutierrez on 2011-10-17
1. based on a fresh 11.04 install
2. did the 11.10 upgrade online (very slow process):)
3. and then followed [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1792777](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1792777)

and so far, so good :popcorn:

---

