---
title: "no desktop"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by widggman on 2011-04-30
So i just installes 11.04 and i rebooted my computer. But now i am stuck in console mode... Nothing visual. I reinstall my NVidia driver but it didn't help.

So how do i start.this Unity desktop?

UPDATE:
When i run /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p it stops with an "Aborted".

---

### Post by manzdagratiano on 2011-04-30
Try in your console mode to issue:

```
sudo X -configure
```

Your computer might be one that needs an xorg.conf file for the video card to function. I have had to do that sometimes with my nvidia GeForce 8400. After rebooting you will hopefully have a GUI>

---

### Post by widggman on 2011-04-30
It doesn't work... I have the 260.19.36 driver for my GeForce 9800 GTX+.

For X -configure, it fails to load modules nvidia and vmwgfx.

Open /dev/fb0 No such file or directory

Number of created screens does not match number of detected devices.

---

### Post by manzdagratiano on 2011-04-30
I suggested looking at this in another thread with the same problem as yours:

[https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=51637](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=51637)

It seems like the default 'vesa' driver may be trying to be loaded along with your nvidia driver, and is bad. Removing it from xorg.conf should fix things apparently.

Also, don't worry about the fb0 module - that is the framebuffer module, which is not built into the kernel by default. nvidia is not compatible with the default framebuffer anyway (yet again, as of Natty. Previously, installing v86d with uvesafb - framebuffer in userspace - helped out).

---

### Post by widggman on 2011-04-30
I tried to modify the xorg.conf but there is nothing about the vesa in it... It's the xorg.conf file generated by nVidia that was working fine for 10.10... It stopped working only on 11.04.

I even downloaded the last nVidia driver and it worked!!!!

---

