---
title: "AMD HD6950 5x1920px"
date: 2011-04-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by tep200377 on 2011-04-06
Hi!

I just installed Ubuntu on my dads new computer, and it has a ASUS HD 6950 Graphics Card with 6 outlets (2 DVI and 4 Displayports )

It all runs fine and dandy, but in low resolution. Is there any way I can make X handle 9600x1280 virtual screen? It has 2GB of GDDR5 ram.

( ATI control panel wont let me any higher than (7200px) 1440x5 )

I appreciate any ideas ;) 

Thanks.

:confused:

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-06
What happens if you disable the proprietary driver. AMD is moving to a full Open Source Driver, which means that soon (months - couple of years) you will not need anything additional drivers. In many cases, the default drivers work better than the ones from the "additional drivers" menu.

It is also possible that you don't detect the monitor right.

---

### Post by ChrisWells on 2011-04-06
I use ATI (4870) and disabling the proprietary driver was the best thing I did in Ubuntu, I just use the built in one now. No tearing at all (as opposed to constant tearing no matter what settings) and it lets me choose proper refresh rates now as well. It might work for you it seems to be a completely different change

---

### Post by tep200377 on 2011-04-07
Cheers guys!
I'll have it a go!

But when I had a clean install, and activated the "hardware driver" it all went black. So I had to download the driver from AMD wich worked great but not with 1920x1200 on all the screens.

Are you suggesting that I do not activate the hardware driver that Ubuntu suggest right after the install?

---

