---
title: "12.04 Unity configuration help"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mclizardman on 2012-04-28
I installed Ubuntu 12.04 and noticed that the Unity configuration was a little different. I can only set the launcher to be all ways hidden, or all ways closed until moused over. I liked it in previous versions where it was visible on the desktop or when a window overlapped it. Is there a way to set it back to the way it used to be? Thanks.

---

### Post by Sableyes on 2012-04-28
Could try this - 2d Unity Settings : [http://marianochavero.wordpress.com/2011/10/14/unity-2d-settings-ui-for-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/](http://marianochavero.wordpress.com/2011/10/14/unity-2d-settings-ui-for-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/)

or this - MyUnity: [https://launchpad.net/myunity](https://launchpad.net/myunity)

Or Ubuntu Tweak :)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-04-28
> **mclizardman said:**
> I can only set the launcher to be all ways hidden, or all ways closed until moused over. I liked it in previous versions where it was visible on the desktop or when a window overlapped it.
Please see the first answer here:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/109249/how-do-i-configure-the-launcher-to-dodge-windows](http://askubuntu.com/questions/109249/how-do-i-configure-the-launcher-to-dodge-windows)

Regards.

---

### Post by bradleyjones on 2012-04-28
I also found myself missing this feature, although now through settings->appearance or through myUnity you can easily change the size of the launcher I have found that reducing it to 38 pixels and leaving it visible is working quite nicely

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2012-05-06
Let's say that on the launcher I have icons for applications, games, web tools, and system configuration - how do I add a spacer on the launcher between the different categories so it is easier to see the icon categories?

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2012-05-08
Okay, this has been asked several times on the web and no one seems to know so I inserted plain blank gray icons as spacers.  However, I am thinking that black icons might be a better spacer.

---

### Post by Fedtbiksen on 2012-08-24
Hi there, well I'm quite new to Ubuntu and I'm working on a small network, where I am the administrator and there are a number of computers that will be used by some guys, who will only be using the guest-login.

Now, here's the problem: I've made a customized menu (launcher), and want to be able to make this available for the users as well as for me. But every time I customize the launcher under the guest-login, it reverts to standard when I shut down the computer, or log off. 

Is there any way to prevent this reversion from occurring? If so, please help me, cause I'm kind of lost here... :confused:

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2012-08-24
> **Fedtbiksen said:**
> Hi there, well I'm quite new to Ubuntu and I'm working on a small network, where I am the administrator and there are a number of computers that will be used by some guys, who will only be using the guest-login.

Now, here's the problem: I've made a customized menu (launcher), and want to be able to make this available for the users as well as for me. But every time I customize the launcher under the guest-login, it reverts to standard when I shut down the computer, or log off. 

Is there any way to prevent this reversion from occurring? If so, please help me, cause I'm kind of lost here... :confused:

Point of the guest login is that it doesn't touch any files...making it so it saved the launcher state would defeat the point of that.

A better solution might be to make an actual account for them to use, giving it as few permissions as possible. If you're worried about disk space, you can set disk quotas on a per-user basis.

---

