---
title: "Re-populate/Re-configure xorg.conf"
date: 2009-05-10
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ajmedfor on 2009-05-10
I had been running 9.04, and Compiz and Emerald ran fine. Upon plugging in my wireless keyboard/mouse, X crashed. After rebooting everything worked fine, except for desktop effects. I did some digging and it seems that my xorg.conf was somehow erased. Its contents are: > # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

I have tried uninstalling/reinstalling xserver-xorg, ubuntu-desktop, x-window-system-core, x-common, and also the sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg and dpkg --configure -a commands, but the xorg.conf still will not re-populate with my correct configuration (Dell D630 laptop with Intel GM965 graphics card)

Is there some easy way to automatically regenerate this file into the state it was in when Ubuntu installed? I know I could do everything manually, but that is a hassle I prefer to avoid dealing with.

---

### Post by shaloken on 2009-05-10
In your /etc/X11, do you have something like xorg.conf_backup02522421...?
You can check in your repertory to check if there is some sort of backup and check what there are inside the files

---

