---
title: ".ICEauthority permission changed"
date: 2006-05-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by scotty boy on 2006-05-08
I tried to log on this morning only to be told that my session had lasted less than 10 seconds and to try again.

This continued and i looked at the .xsession-errors log for that attempt.  I can't remember the error line exactly (nor can I get it now, it has been overwritten) but it was along the lines of:

```
.ICEauthority: Unable to read .ICEauthority
```

Quick to realise this was a permissions issue, I logged into the failsafe terminal and changed the permission of the file back to my default user.

```
sudo chown user .ICEauthority
```

Everything worked fine, I logged in no problem.

I know this doesn't require support, but I was wondering if anyone knew why this happened, or how I could prevent it in the future?

---Martin

---

### Post by louis_nichols on 2006-05-08
I've also seen it a couple of times, but dunno why it happens. In my case, I had reasons to suspect crashes or hardware reboots, but I've never been able to replicate it.

I usually just delete the file to get things back on track.

---

### Post by scotty boy on 2006-05-08
There were no obvious problems the day before, the only thing I can think of is if it was maybe a bad exit from "sudo nautilus".  I was editing files on my webserver directly /var/www/.

--- Martin

---

### Post by louis_nichols on 2006-05-08
I think that may be a reason. I remember reading a discussion somewhere on the forum recommending to use gtksu rather than sudo when running gnome apps, preciselly because using sudo might change permissions within the user's home folder.

---

### Post by scotty boy on 2006-05-08
:D cheers, I'll keep that in mind.

--- Martin

---

### Post by SkyNet2029 on 2006-05-08
the permission change occurs whenever sudo calls my xserver to start, is what I have had happen here more times than I can recall. I too just delete the file to keep things normalized.

---

### Post by ronmarley1 on 2006-05-08
I had this same problem and remember reading in the forums somewhere about using sudo or gksudo to run K3b, or something like that.  Sorry I'm not more specific...

---

