---
title: "11.04 vs 10.10"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rickc1970 on 2011-05-01
I'm thinking about upgrading to 11.04. Has anyone encountered any common bugs? Would it be better to wait till a few updates come out?

---

### Post by movieman on 2011-05-01
My experience is that if you have a system that works it's always best to wait a couple of weeks for the new release to settle down before upgrading. I only installed 11.04 because I had to replace the hard drive in my laptop so I was looking at new installation of something regardless.

---

### Post by jprobe on 2011-05-01
> **movieman said:**
> My experience is that if you have a system that works it's always best to wait a couple of weeks for the new release to settle down before upgrading.

^bump

---

### Post by rickc1970 on 2011-05-02
Thanks for the input..Everything except the built in web cam works right now. im not real worried about the webcam as i don't use it so I think i'll wait and see how it works for the ones that try it

---

### Post by taavi on 2011-05-02
I went back to 10.10 because systray is now broken and Skype doesn't play well with Unity. Couldn't fallback to classic gnome either. 

11.04 doesn't get my hands up sadly. Gnome > Unity

---

### Post by domex on 2011-05-06
> **taavi said:**
> I went back to 10.10 because systray is now broken and Skype doesn't play well with Unity. Couldn't fallback to classic gnome either. 

11.04 doesn't get my hands up sadly. Gnome > Unity

Yeah same here, i like how it looks but the performance lags in unity. I will wait and see.

---

### Post by -RAX- on 2011-05-06
I try the update script in a virtual machine and it failed unrecoverably. I had to reinstall it from scratch. Back-up your data before upgrading.

Plus Unity is nice and shiny but not very good in terms of productivity. If you are using Ubuntu for work I also suggest you to stick the 10.10 for a while.

---

### Post by layr on 2011-05-06
I'd recommend sticking to 10.10 too. The 11.04 consumed more system resources compared to 10.10 and... Gnome2>Gnome3>Unity. But that's just my personal opinion :)

---

### Post by NekoDesu on 2011-05-06
not a big fan of upgrading vs reinstalling, have seen several colleagues stumble over bad upgrades

do love the 11.04 Xubuntu release though :)

---

### Post by ben2talk on 2011-05-06
I had a bumpy upgrade - needed to switch to the non pae kernel (option at the OS selection screen for 'old os' - and used Startup manager to make it default).

very quickly dumped unity and set 'classic desktop'

Spent a day getting things set up as normal for me again, and it doesn't really feel any different - so I'd hold on.

---

### Post by theKuch on 2011-05-06
I upgraded without thinking and am very disappointed.

I can't seem to control anything I want in the setup. I seem to be limited to 4 workspaces, there is no easy way to see which applications are running in any one workspace (the program menu down the side is not friendly at all though pretty), the menu bar being at the top of the screen instead of on the active window is counter-intuitive after all these years, and with a big screen takes too long to navigate to (if I am working in a specific window I'd like to stay there), the backgrounds in all the wokspaces are the same, etc

---

### Post by iindikaa on 2011-05-07
I also upgraded without thinking. Hoped it will be a better one. But feels that the older one was more user friendly. I can't resize the windows, can't find things as same as before. Is there any detailed manual for the new version

---

### Post by CyberNerdz on 2011-05-07
Don't do it ! You can see here in the forum that majority of new and old Ubuntu users are not happy with Unity. Some even passionately dislikes it. It took me 2 months evaluating linux distros to determine which I would be switching to. 

Obviously I liked Ubuntu 10.10 the most but 11.04 Unity has just been a nightmare. I told myself that I will give it a chance and use Unity for a week without switching to classic. Although now I'm more comfortable using Unity, I still find working around numerous task tedious and less productive. 

Gnome was a lot more intuitive and you could figure out what each program/setting does by just going through each one. With Unity, you need to remember the correct name or term of the program/setting then search for it. I will not recommend Unity to new users or users migrating to linux distro.

---

### Post by buster2209 on 2011-05-07
> **rickc1970 said:**
> I'm thinking about upgrading to 11.04. **Has anyone encountered any common bugs?** Would it be better to wait till a few updates come out?

Many people have encountered a bug called 'Unity'.  

I heard this will fixed in 11.10.... ;)

---

### Post by triceratops on 2011-05-07
Nobody ever said that anyone must use 11.04 with Unity.  I'm still using xfce and lxde, and have no plans to change my DEs.  That said, it's harder (but not that much harder) to update to 11.04 with a less common DE.  

The only problems I've had so far with 11.04 is weird little problems, such as the deletion of the log file in Firestarter on my lxde machine.  Interestingly, each one of my machines has a different little problem.  For example, Firestarter is working fine with the xubuntu machines but not the lubuntu machine.    ???  Who knows.  So long as iptables is set correctly its not a big deal.

I have the sneaking suspicion that Canonical will eventually phase out kubuntu and xubuntu in favor of moving everyone to Unity.  I'm already thinking of hopping to another distro.  Still, no other distro has the repositories and support of the *ubuntu family.  Maybe kubuntu and xubuntu will become independent projects without Canonical support, much like lubuntu.  Wait and see.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-07
10.10 was a great release for me and 11.04 / Unity installed and is running very well also . I'm not running Skype or wireless so I have no comment on that. I have my cube up and running and haven't had any problems with Unity YET. I don't think Unity is going away , so I thought it deserved an honest try.

---

### Post by walt.smith1960 on 2011-05-07
10.10 to 11.04 is not a minor upgrade.  I can have more than one O.S. partition installed simultaneously.  I've found 10.10 quite stable so I didn't mess with that, it's still intact and functional.  If I have a task where I don't have time to tinker, that's the O.S./partition to use.  Then a clean install of 11.04 for exploratory purposes.  If it fails, restart and nothing lost, no harm done and reinstall if it's too messed up.  20-30 Gigs is plenty of space for an Ubuntu installation.  Capacious disks are cheap...you could create 10 50 GB. partitions on a disk that costs $50 U.S. There is a limitation is 4 primary partitions but there are ways around that.  I use a boot manager which will support 100+ primary partitions.  Ubuntu can also be installed in an extended partition so you can partition your disk to have 3 primary partitions and a large extended partition. In that extended partition can exist several volumes.  Most recommend a swap partition.  I don't use hibernation or suspend-to-disk so I create a swap *file* instead. That saves one partition. I use suspend-to-ram which doesn't require a swap partition or just shut down.  Ubuntu boots fast enough that it's not a huge time waster to shut down then start back up if I don't want to suspend-to-ram.

This is how I handle it and I'm no expert but whatever you decide, I would not regard 11.04 as bulletproof at this point.  The underlying O.S. is probably solid but the default user interface is.........different.......... and there are people who have had display problems., applets are missing from previous releases etc. etc.   I'm using 11.04 in both Unity and Classic modes and haven't had any major problems but i don't stress my system either.  it's nice to have one solid install and one that if it breaks doesn't induce  cardiac arrhythmia.

---

### Post by domex on 2011-05-09
Well here i go again about to upgrade to 11.04 again, i know im just an upgrade freak:) but i will use the classic login  instead this time.

---

### Post by Allavona on 2011-05-09
From Gnome to Unity is a drastic change, and being Human, we are inherently resistant to change.

Unity is an infant in a large field of mature Desktop Environments, once its off the bottle and past the toddler years, it may be just what everyone is looking for.

---

### Post by domex on 2011-05-09
> **Allavona said:**
> From Gnome to Unity is a drastic change, and being Human, we are inherently resistant to change.

Unity is an infant in a large field of mature Desktop Environments, once its off the bottle and past the toddler years, it may be just what everyone is looking for.

Good point!:D

---

### Post by goyle on 2011-05-09
So far i can say i don't like Unity, for my own personal reasons it just doesn't sit well with me.

As some wise guy once said, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it"

---

### Post by jeremychristopher on 2011-05-11
Ubuntu 11.04 has the Unity interface which I really find hard to get used to. So I switched to the Gnome classic, but it's still in 11.04. In addition, there have been issues installing x11 mouse themes in Ubuntu 11.04. It has been experiencing some conflicts with Compiz. I really do hope they get this fixed soon. It was fine in the 10.10 version, I just don't know why this had gone wrong in the latest version.

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-11
With decades of windows use (inc dos) and very little use of other linux setups other than maverick and natty.
I think unity is an excellent gui. It took me awhile to work out where things were before I started using the search option in the dash.
There are a lot of ways to bring apps up, it just requires a case of breaking old habits.

I have learnt a lot over the last month or so about my linux system, through unity.
I would never drop back to a standard gnome or similar gui.

I wanted a fresh start from using windows XP for ten years and unity is the best thing out.

---

### Post by gfern on 2011-05-11
I quite frankly LOVE UNITY. There are a few strong points that really could lead the way and take linux to another level. I particularly like how wasy it is to search for apps or files - the fact that it shows apps available for download is a fantastic feature. It's a new platform so it may take one or two new editions to get everything running smooth, but the concept is right on the target.

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-12
I think the left panel has to be icon/shrinked using [ccsm]("http://wiki.compiz.org/CCSM").
In ccsm goto `unity options' and change panel width.

---

### Post by pianoplayer123 on 2011-05-12
If you don't like unity then just pick "Ubuntu Classic" at the bottom of the login screen. I personally love unity, but maybe thats just me :P

---

