---
title: "C compiler won't work"
date: 2006-01-12
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pursey on 2006-01-12
been trying to install GRASS6, which is an open source GIS programm.
I have found the apt-get sources for GRASS6 and it is trying to install but then stops when it is trying to build the dependencies. It is looking for a package called gdal1.2.6 (which is the library for spatial analysis). Basicly it cannot find the file or it is broken. 
Now i have been trying to compile it myself (at packages.debian.org you can download the .tar.gz). 
When trying to run the ./configure it tells me that the c compiler cannot create the output tables. I did run it with sudo. Here is what message i get (note this happens with every other file i try to compile)


[I][INDENT]checking build system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking host system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking target system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... configure: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.[/INDENT][/I]


hope someone can help me with this so i can start using grass at home instead of having to run to university all the time

---

### Post by hillbilly on 2006-01-12
Did you try compiling a sample C program ? How does it go ? And could you also post the relevant error message from config.log ?

---

### Post by pursey on 2006-01-12
i know what you mean by compiling sample c programs but not really sure how to do this since i have never done this (not experienced in programming and compiling c). 
Anyways, i have looked through the config.log and will post the relevant section:

[I][INDENT]It was created by configure, which was
generated by GNU Autoconf 2.59.  Invocation command line was

  $ ./configure

## --------- ##
## Platform. ##
## --------- ##

hostname = chris
uname -m = i686
uname -r = 2.6.12-10-386
uname -s = Linux
uname -v = #1 Thu Dec 22 11:37:10 UTC 2005

/usr/bin/uname -p = unknown
/bin/uname -X     = unknown

/bin/arch              = i686
/usr/bin/arch -k       = unknown
/usr/convex/getsysinfo = unknown
hostinfo               = unknown
/bin/machine           = unknown
/usr/bin/oslevel       = unknown
/bin/universe          = unknown

PATH: /usr/local/bin
PATH: /usr/local/sbin
PATH: /sbin
PATH: /usr/sbin
PATH: /bin
PATH: /usr/bin
PATH: /usr/bin/X11
PATH: /usr/games

## ----------- ##
## Core tests. ##
## ----------- ##

configure:1551: checking build system type
configure:1569: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:1577: checking host system type
configure:1591: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:1599: checking target system type
configure:1613: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:1674: checking for gcc
configure:1690: found /usr/bin/gcc
configure:1700: result: gcc
configure:1944: checking for C compiler version
configure:1947: gcc --version </dev/null >&5
gcc (GCC) 4.0.2 20050808 (prerelease) (Ubuntu 4.0.1-4ubuntu9)
Copyright (C) 2005 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

configure:1950: $? = 0
configure:1952: gcc -v </dev/null >&5
Using built-in specs.
Target: i486-linux-gnu
Configured with: ../src/configure -v --enable-languages=c,c++,java,f95,objc,ada,treelang --prefix=/usr --with-gxx-include-dir=/usr/include/c++/4.0.2 --enable-shared --with-system-zlib --libexecdir=/usr/lib --enable-nls --without-included-gettext --enable-threads=posix --program-suffix=-4.0 --enable-__cxa_atexit --enable-libstdcxx-allocator=mt --enable-clocale=gnu --enable-libstdcxx-debug --enable-java-gc=boehm --enable-java-awt=gtk --enable-gtk-cairo --with-java-home=/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.4.2-gcj-4.0-1.4.2.0/jre --enable-mpfr --disable-werror --enable-checking=release i486-linux-gnu
Thread model: posix
gcc version 4.0.2 20050808 (prerelease) (Ubuntu 4.0.1-4ubuntu9)
configure:1955: $? = 0
configure:1957: gcc -V </dev/null >&5
gcc: '-V' option must have argument
configure:1960: $? = 1
configure:1983: checking for C compiler default output file name
configure:1986: gcc    conftest.c  >&5
/usr/bin/ld: crt1.o: No such file: No such file or directory
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status
configure:1989: $? = 1
configure: failed program was:
| /* confdefs.h.  */
|
| #define PACKAGE_NAME ""
| #define PACKAGE_TARNAME ""
| #define PACKAGE_VERSION ""
| #define PACKAGE_STRING ""
| #define PACKAGE_BUGREPORT ""
| /* end confdefs.h.  */
|
| int
| main ()
| {
|
|   ;
|   return 0;
| }
configure:2028: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.[/INDENT][/I]

i can see that gcc is looking for either the file conftest.c or crtl.o....

---

### Post by hillbilly on 2006-01-12
Yeah it is. And that is the loader which loads your object files to be linked with the C libraries.

Well ok lets take it step by step. First create a sample program *test.c* like this:


> 
#include <stdio.h>

int main () {
  printf ("Test File\n");
  return 0;
}

Now compile this sample file:
> $/> gcc test.c

See if an output a.out is created and it runs properly. If this is created and on running a.out, you get an output "Test File", then that means there isnt a problem with your compiler or loader and so you would have to debug the source code that you are compiling.

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2006-01-12
Have you done

```

sudo apt-get install build-essential

```

yet?

**Edit:**

Wait - grass looks like it will install fine here.  Have you enabled the extra repositories, as detailed [here](http://www.psychocats.net/linux/sources.php)? Do this and you can install it all with one command and no compiling! :)

---

### Post by pursey on 2006-01-15
thanks the two of you, got the compiler working with the help of another friend, and grass is installing as well with the extra repositories. I did have the official grass sources from packages.debian.org but as it seems the packages service is down.

---

