---
title: ".xprofile gets executed and then overridden by some system settings probably - ideas?"
date: 2009-06-06
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by planetLars on 2009-06-06
Hello,

I use a .xprofile for [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7404056&postcount=5"). Find more about .xprofile [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#Setting xrandr commands in .xprofile"). Basically it's some X11 settings that should get applied after login. Though they do get applied they get overridden some seconds later by a system setting I guess. Gnome maybe?

Has anyone got any idea to solve this he/she wants to share?

Best Regards

Lars

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-06-06
I thought that I had previously seen .xprofile being sourced by /etc/X11/Xsession, but I can't find it now, so I don't know when (or even if, actually) it gets sourced.

However, both .xsessionrc and .gnomerc (if you use gnome) are indeed sourced during session startup. Try using one of those files for this instead. If that doesn't work and your setting is still being over-ridden, then try adding an entry for this to 'Preferences->Startup Applications'.

---

### Post by planetLars on 2009-06-07
Hi,

.gnomerc has the same issue. "Preferences->Startup Applications" worked!

Thanks!!

Best Regards

Lars

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-06-07
I remembered where .xprofile is sourced ... it's in /etc/gdm/Xsession (net /etc/X11/Xsession). This happens very early in session initialization. Both .xsessionrc and .gnomerc are also sourced fairly early, though they both come well after .xprofile.

My guess is that gnome-session itself is over-riding the xrandr setting now in a way that it didn't in earlier releases. It's probably worth a bug report if there isn't one already, since the X/Config/Resolution wiki page says that .xprofile is a reasonable place to put the xrandr call.

---

### Post by planetLars on 2009-06-08
Hi, thanks for your reply! I don't know enough about how Gnome/Ubuntu should work, thus I refrain from filing a bug report (even though the wikis entry means it should work while it doesn't so it would be a bug). The forums are some sort of reference too so anyone looking for it may find it here.
If you like you can file the bug report though!

Best Regards

Lars

---

