---
title: "9.10 Sporadic Restarts"
date: 2009-12-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by robinson0120 on 2009-12-20
Hey, all. I have an issue with a recent installation of 9.10 that's given me all sorts of trouble but finally settled into a pretty stable setup aside from one problem- the sporadic restarts mentioned in the subject. 

The restarts are instant- the screen just goes blank (or, as just happened recently, flashes with pinkish static for a second) and my laptop reboots. Fortunately, 9.10 seems to load very quickly (the fastest I've ever seen from an OS, actually), and I can get right back to work. 

In the past day, my computer restarted after:

1) I closed the laptop lid [even though at this point I had changed my settings to merely blank the screen]

2) I downloaded something in the Ubuntu Software Center [actually, a few things at once, which I'm guessing may have set something off]

3) I played a Youtube video, and the audio/video were slow to load, and, almost the moment they started, resulted in a restart

4) Firefox was loading windows from a previous random restart.

I was using 9.04 before this and didn't have any major problems aside from very rare freezes and an inability to reliably suspend/hibernate my computer.

The important part here, I think, is that I have a Lenovo Y530 Ideapad (and am running the AMD64 version of 9.10 Karmic Koala). From what I've been able to tell, Lenovo/IBM computers seem to be having quite a few issues with Ubuntu, including the suspend/hibernation deal, so I'm guessing it's a hardware/driver deal, but I honestly have no idea.

One other thing is that, when I attempted to install 9.10 earlier, a few errors resulted after freezes and whatnot which apparently culminated in low memory errors. Again, this only seemed to pop up when I was running 9.10 (I tried to upgrade earlier, wasn't really able to, and just went back to 9.04- this time I installed 9.10 cleanly using a fresh install). 

Any suggestions or comments are welcome! Thanks kindly in advance.

---

### Post by robinson0120 on 2009-12-24
In case people are still having this issue and manage to find this post, I believe a fix exists.

Read toward the bottom of this bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/324894](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/324894)

As far as I can tell, something about the (now current) 9.10 update did not jive well with a few Lenovo/Acer models, resulting in freezes and restarts (I think due to graphics/driver problems?).

In any event, the solution there (updating your kernel) seems to work.

(Solved, and thanks to everyone who contributed to the new kernel!)

---

