---
title: "6.06 crashes... ALOT!"
date: 2006-09-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by chamlyn on 2006-09-24
System:
Intel P3 733
600+ MB RAM
Nvidia Geforce 4400Ti
HD0 = 40GB (Ubuntu 6.06 only)
HD1 (wiped clean, not currently mounted) = 80GB

I downloaded and installed 6.06 about a month ago.  I did Automatix and went through the Add/Remove, looking mainly for things to help me in Programming (C/Python) and webpage development (replacing Dreamweaver).  I also went through the steps of adjusting my screen resolution to 1440x900 using the autodect method... though I was having crashing problems before that.

Pretty much crashes on average, once an hour of use.

So I went out and bought the Official Ubuntu book, wiped HD0 and reinstalled it from the DVD in the book.  Got through all the set up stuff, no Automatix, no screen resolution tampering, no Add/Remove messing around.  Just websurfing.  Still crashing frequently.

I should describe my "Crashing".  Ubuntu completely freezes (with the exception that I can still move the mouse).  All animation stops, the num-lock/caps-lock don't lightup the keyboard, Ctrl-Alt-Delete (when I had Automatix install it) didn't work, clicking the X in the corner didn't do anything.  Left it for 5 minutes, no change.  Frozen.

Please, any suggestions?
thank you for your time.

---

### Post by wombat20 on 2006-09-24
If it's happening on a clean install, my guess is a hardware problem.  Tricky to know what it might be.

Likely suspects could include:
1. A dodgy memory module.
2. Overheating processor - is it covered in dust or has the fan fallen off/stopped working?
3. HD - is it very old?  Could you try using the other one?

The only way to be sure if a component is faulty is to shutdown, take it out and try another one - not easy I know, especially on a limited budget.  :/

---

### Post by chamlyn on 2006-09-24
That's kind of what I figured as well.  The HD is probably 5 years old and the RAM is a hodgepodge of different brands.  Processor should be fine.  I actually vaccumed the entire case out 6 months ago, so the fans should be fine and dust isn't a problem.

I'll try the other HD for now.

on that note, any way to copy everything from HD0 to HD1?

Thanks for the suggestions.

---

### Post by CaveRat on 2006-09-24
Not for sure, but maybe try using Xubuntu instead of Ubuntu. Perhaps it would be less taxing on your P3 733. I could be wrong. Just a thought.

---

### Post by 2pacalypse on 2006-09-24
I had the same prob when i just started out with linux. turned out it was merely a CPU overheat. try checking the temp of your CPU/GPU and simlular things, if they are over 60 Degress Celcius they might start causing problems.

furthermore, it can be from Hardware as those who posted before me noted i think its probably RAM problem

---

