---
title: "12.04 Unity:  switching between windows within a workspace"
date: 2013-01-19
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Dr Kayak on 2013-01-19
For example:  I have two terminal windows open in a workspace; I open firefox, which gets auto-maximized to obscure the terminal windows; and I want to toggle through the three windows in the workspace.

Initially, as indicated in System Settings > Keyboard > Navigation, ALT+ESC would 'switch windows directly', as desired.  Later, after I installed 'ccsm' and enabled Grid (in an attempt to disable window auto-maximization), ALT+ESC no longer has any effect -- unless I happen to invoke it while focused on a terminal window, when I get the message, "Display all 2629 possibilities? (y or n)".  Pressing the super key now reveals a *different* array of shortcuts from those I see in the keyboard System Settings mentioned above, and none of them appears to do what ALT+ESC used to do.

ALT+TAB appears to cycle between the windows in the workspace and a 'show desktop' option.  If you stop on the latter, you have to manually restore the other windows by re-cycling and stopping on each one of them individually (I think; I have actually 'lost' windows this way).  There must be a better way.

The bigger question is, what tools should I be using to address things like this?  The System Settings are so sparse that I finally gave in and installed 'ccsm', which is referred to in many web solutions (as are ubuntu-tweak, myunity, gconf.editor, dconf.editor, and others).  But what has precedence over what?  Shouldn't the keyboard shortcuts indicated in the System Settings be the ones that are operative?

Thanks in advance.

---

