---
title: "11.04 trash missing"
date: 2011-12-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nocturnal1 on 2011-12-24
I'm using Ubuntu 11.04 Natty, and my trash bin is missing from the bottom panel. I tried adding it back by:
right clicking -> Add to Panel 
But nothing happens. I was able to add it to the desktop with gconf-editor:
[http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/add-the-trash-can-icon-to-your-ubuntu-desktop/](http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/add-the-trash-can-icon-to-your-ubuntu-desktop/)
But no trash shows up in it when I delete something. (either by right click or drag-and-drop ) and when I right click on the desktop trash can to empty it, "Empty Trash" is ghosted out.
The only way I can remove trash now is through the command line with:
```

cd ~/.local/share/Trash/files
rm TheTrashFile.x

```and for directories:
```

rm -rf TheTrashFile.x

```

---

### Post by lolpenguin on 2011-12-25
I don't think that the trash will show if it is full or empty in the Panel. Unity does that, though many people don't like Unity.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-25
lolpenguin is correct , the trash appears in the launcher on the left in unity . Reset the panels to default with the following command and try to add it from add to panel again .```
gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel && killall gnome-panel
```

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-25
Or reset the icons:
```
unity --reset-icons
```

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-25
I think OP is using is using Classic in 11.04 .

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-25
Indeed, if he speaks for a lower bar....
Unless he is not sure for the name of the launcher.

---

### Post by nocturnal1 on 2011-12-27
Sorry, Frog Hair was right. I'm running in "Classic no-effects" mode, I should have said that.  Due to other very strange errors involving files, I have just re-installed Ubuntu. Thank you all for your help. I'll refer back to this post if it happens again.

---

