---
title: "Xubuntu: Can't mount USB HDD (not even root can)"
date: 2007-04-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by duelle on 2007-04-20
I unmounted my USB HDD because I changed some things in fstab and the changes didn't seem to show up, so I though unmounting/remounting might help. However, I can't remount the device. The icon is still on the desktop but when I try to mount it says "**Cannot mount volume** - Failed to access '/dev/sdb1/': Not a directory". When trying to mount in a terminal I get the same message. Both times I tried with root (gksu thunar and sudo). I know it would most likely mount it again if I restart my computer, but I want to be able to mount/unmount while I'm using it. Also, when not root it says I don't have the privileges to mount the volume and I'm wondering how I can fix that also.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-04-22
> **duelle said:**
> I unmounted my USB HDD because I changed some things in fstab and the changes didn't seem to show up, so I though unmounting/remounting might help. However, I can't remount the device. The icon is still on the desktop but when I try to mount it says "**Cannot mount volume** - Failed to access '/dev/sdb1/': Not a directory". When trying to mount in a terminal I get the same message. Both times I tried with root (gksu thunar and sudo). I know it would most likely mount it again if I restart my computer, but I want to be able to mount/unmount while I'm using it. Also, when not root it says I don't have the privileges to mount the volume and I'm wondering how I can fix that also.

Post your fstab file.

---

### Post by duelle on 2007-04-22
Here's my fstab file:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=fe3157b7-5193-4ae3-b464-c2e1f7096f7a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=8A00464800463C07 /media/TinyDrive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=6030699C30697A44 /media/Scalawag ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=4e21542c-5a2f-4106-8777-66e962e94dca none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sdb1/ /media/EXTERNAL ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
```

The only problem I can see is that all the other drives have UUID's and my External (sdb1) doesn't.

---

### Post by duelle on 2007-04-22
I figured out why, I had a backslash after sdb1, and apparently shouldn't have. Now everything works fine.

---

