---
title: "8.10. No capital letters or symbols after update"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ohmannomma on 2008-12-22
HELP please, after an update my keyboard doesnt input any symbol and the shift key is not working.
I can only use capital letters keeping the caps lock switched on.
I dont know if it is scim or something else.. for sure is something delivered by the official updates. 
It is one year i am using ubuntu for desktop too, but sometimes it is really disappointing.. please create stability around these things and you will eat all windows products.
ciao

---

### Post by keithld on 2008-12-22
I had the same problem for a while and could not figure it out.. I tried going to System > Preferences > Keyboard > Layout and changing the Keyboard model a few times and then choosing my Layout and picking "Apply System-Wide" to no avail...

It finally fixed itself after a few shutdowns and startups... I'm not sure if when FSCK was run buy the system that fixed it or not...

So basically I have no solution for you except maybe wait until you have shutdown the system a few times and see if it clears it self up...

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-12-22
If you have a **~/.fonts.conf** file, rename it to something else, then log out and in again. If that doesn't help, try creating a new user and see if it happens to him as well.

---

### Post by ohmannomma on 2008-12-22
where that file should be located -question mark
coz i dont see it in the root folder.
thanks

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2008-12-22
```

nano ~/.fonts.conf

```

It's in your home folder.

---

### Post by ohmannomma on 2008-12-22
nano gives me an empty files, so i guess that file doesnt exist.
also I dont think that this is an issue of the font but of the keyboard layout itself, since i cannot use the shift but i can use the caps lock...

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-12-23
Try creating a new user then. If you can't do it via the graphical UI, you should be able to boot up in recovery mode and drop to a root shell. (Adding sudo to these commands just in case you do it when logged in as yourself.)
```
$ sudo useradd *newusername*
```
You may also want to reset your X configuration file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf). Do note that this will disable any proprietary drivers (like nvidia) and other _**X**_ options you may have set up, but 8.10 relies much less on explicit settings than any earlier release so you should be fine.
```
$ cd /etc/X11
$ sudo mv xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup0812
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Anyway, if it works you'd just have to compare the file with the backup and copy/paste appropriate details.

---

### Post by ohmannomma on 2008-12-23
nop, its not working.. i ve had already booted with esc in recovery mode but nope aswell..
i solved now creating a new user. in that user the keyboard and the tv are working,,how can i transfer it to my old users /question mark

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-12-23
I'm sorry, so is it working or not working?

I'd say the easiest way would be to gradually copy old settings from your user - one at a time - to your new one, and see at what point you manage to copy the "bad" parts. Just open up a file manager, set it to show hidden files, and copy one (or at the very most a few) directory(-ies)/file(s) to your new user. Make note of the name(s) of what you copied, then log out and back in again. If your keyboard input is suddenly screwed, you know to avoid that part, and you can safely copy the rest.

Once your new user has all of your good old settings, rename your old user to something else, and let the new user take its place.

---

### Post by ohmannomma on 2008-12-25
its working for the new user but i would like to understand what happened and if somebody had the samr problem..

---

### Post by jesuspresley on 2009-01-10
Have you considered this source for the problem:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1009128](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1009128)

> **jcats said:**
> Well, after some poking around, I realized that I am the problem. While playing around in Compiz, I bound the shift key to one of the applications. So, it worked for Compiz, but nothing else. OOOPS!...

I had the same issue.
I disabled Compiz and VOILA! Shift key works again.

---

