---
title: "16.04 LTS - how to open multiple XTerm/UXTerm windows"
date: 2018-02-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-02-27
I have installed 16.04 LTS last weekend - I have been using release 14.0x for a couple of years.

With the 16.04 LTS, the XTerm only allows for one open window. Right-click on the XTerm icon (in the Launcher bar) gives 2 options: "XTERM" and "Unlock from Launcher." After one XTerm window is opened, right-click on the same XTerm icon gives the same 2 options but selecting option XTerm doesn't bring up a second XTerm window.

In release 14.0x, I use Terminal, with which right-click on the icon gives options including for a new window which is what I use for multiple terminal windows.

Please advise.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-02-27
xterm is old. you should have gnome-terminal

alt+f2 -> gnome-terminal
it's called terminal in the applications, i usually press the win/super key & start typing ter... & it shows up

i mostly use the drop down terminal extension/addon for gnome & the normal terminal for reading man/help pages

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-02-27
You should be able to open multiple apps for anything by middle *mouse button* clicking on the app's launcher icon.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-01
The middle button on the mouse works on the XTerm icon.

Installed gnome-terminal, which is the same in the 14.04 LTS release that I like. The middle button doesn't work with the icon but the New Terminal option shows up in the right-click menu.

Thanks for the inputs.

---

