---
title: "600x800 blues"
date: 2008-05-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by justaguylinux on 2008-05-27
Hello trying to get hp510 set up with some screen resolution other than 800x600. the detect display wont work and have also tried the kds desktop with same results. at this time the pc is dual booting with xp and no problems with screen under xp. i have not had much command line Linux stuff but have tried suse and red hat a few years back now trying to get a linux i can live with.thanks for any advise. will be doing weekly reports on my web radio[ www.ezhelp.org]("http://www.ezhelp.org") show each week has i progress stop in for a listen as i explore the world of linux on the show each sunday @1100 est.
the chat room on the show works under firefox and the streaming under konqueror. still working on that to have all under one browser.
thanks:guitar:

---

### Post by Xiong Chiamiov on 2008-05-27
Don't advertise here; you might get your post deleted instead of answered.

What kind of video card do you have?  NVIDIA, ATI, onboard Intel?  What model?

Since this is a multimedia question (you said yourself the DE doesn't matter), you should really post [over there]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=334").

---

### Post by issih on 2008-05-27
This is all second hand, as I've never had a laptop with this chipset, but I did recently read about someone having this exact problem with the intel 915 graphics chipset (I can't for the life of me think where I read it I'm afraid). A brief google says that your laptop does use the 915 chipset.

The solution they used was to install the package 915resolution from synaptic, (System->Administration->Synaptic Package Manager) but reading the description of that package, and assuming you are on a relatively recent build of ubuntu (which are you using?) you apparently shouldn't need it, first check you have the package xserver-xorg-video-intel installed, as thats what seems to be recommended, if you do, then maybe give the 915resolution package a shot

Hope thats useful, if I've been to technical, just say, and I'll try and walk you through it a bit more :)

good luck

---

### Post by justaguylinux on 2008-05-27
will try that also the problem is with desktop, the laptop i did install under windows and no problem
the ver is 8.04 and the desktop is the one i did dualboot with that has the 800x600
i also saw something about the intell 915. my chipset is intell 82810E on the desktop

---

### Post by justaguylinux on 2008-05-28
Thanks  issih i installed the 915 package and loged out with a restart of x-server and now i have a whole bunch of setting. :popcorn:
no more 600x800 blues. i might just get the hang of this linux thing

---

### Post by issih on 2008-05-29
Glad you got it sorted :)

---

