---
title: "HOWTO get kernel 2.6.17 in dapper (backported from edgy)"
date: 2006-09-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by hexion on 2006-09-03
Hello.

At last I managed to install 2.6.17 in dapper with all my hardware working, and I want to share it because so many people want to have it (it gives much speed improvement).

I used info in this [HOWTO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217657&highlight=2.6.17"), so I recomend read that post before.

Just follow this steps:

**First: Download linux sources from edgy repos**

> sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.DAPPER
sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
There, using replace tool, replace all texts "dapper" to "edgy". Save changes.
> sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install linux-source-2.6.17

**Second: Restore your previous sources.list and uncompress linux sources**
> sudo cp /etc/apt/sources.list.DAPPER /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo aptitude update
cd /usr/src
sudo tar -xvjf linux-source-2.6.17.tar.bz2
sudo unlink linux
sudo ln -s linux-source-2.6.17 linux
cd linux

**Third: Import kernel configuration**
> sudo cp /boot/config-`uname -r` .config

Here, you can improve kernel configuration. I suggest reading this [HOWTO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217657&highlight=2.6.17") in order to do that. Read STEP 4.
Notice, you don't need to do that... Just importing kernel configuration as above is enough.

**Forth: Compile new kernel**
> sudo -s -H
make-kpkg clean
make-kpkg -initrd --revision=386 kernel_image kernel_headers modules_image

You can change 386 for: k7 (amd k7 or amd64 in 32bit mode), 686 (pentiums), k8 (amd64 in 64bit mode) ... Again, read the suggested post.

Important: When compiling, installer will ask you for several questions. If you don't know what to do, just press ENTER, because all questions have a default answer (the one in caps)

**Fifth: Install new kernel**
At this step we have to install kernel modules generated in last step.
Notice this can be different for you, just go /usr/src and install the .deb generated by your system.
At least it's neccesary one for kernel-image and other for kernel-headers.
For me it was:
> cd /usr/src
dpkg -i kernel-image-2.6.17.6-ubuntu1_386_i386.deb
dpkg -i kernel-headers-2.6.17.6-ubuntu1_386_i386.deb
dpkg -i fglrx-kernel-2.6.17.6-ubuntu1_8.28.8-1+386_i386.deb

**Last step: Reboot and enjoy :)**
> sudo reboot


**IMPORTANT: TROUBLESHOOTING**
I had a couple of issues with this procedure. You may have these, or others... post them and we can manage them all.

_a) When compiling, I got an error from prism2._

I think it's a problem with sources and maybe you don't have this problem.
What I did was: I edited /usr/src/linux/drivers/net/wireless/Makefile to delete the line that compiles prism2 (I don't have this chipset so I could do this)
Then edited /usr/src/linux/drivers/net/wireless/Kconfig and did the same (line 525:  source "drivers/net/wireless/prism2/Kconfig")
Compiled again and no errors (as it would't compile prism2 anymore).

_b) After rebooting, I didn't have wireless (acx driver)_

NOTICE you have to do this when running 2.6.17 kernel, if not it won't work.
I made this simple trick:
> cd /lib/modules
sudo cp -R 2.6.15-26-386 `uname -r`
sudo modprobe acx
sudo reboot
Change 2.6.15-26-286 for your previous kernel name. You can see the alternatives by doing "  ls /lib/modules  "
When I rebooted, I had wireless again :)

_c) Usplash doesn't work. Either, no verbose at all while booting._

Actually I don't know how to fix this.


--------
--------

Nothing else... I hope this is usefull for somebody.
And remember, post your experiences here so we all can help the rest.
Cheers :mrgreen:

---

### Post by Azathoth_ on 2006-09-03
A good howto by my brother

---

### Post by tymek666 on 2006-09-03
> **hexion said:**
> 

b) After rebooting, I didn't have wireless (acx driver).
I made this simple trick:

Change 2.6.15-26-286 for your previous kernel name. You can see the alternatives by doing "  ls /lib/modules  "
When I rebooted again, I had wireless again :)



Thanks a lot for this :)
I haven't problems with compiling kernel, but i couldn't get my acx card working with new kernel.

---

### Post by Ramses de Norre on 2006-09-03
Could you give your .config for the 2.6.17 kernel? Because there seem to be many new things and it takes hours to answer lines like this: ```
MASQUERADE target support (IP_NF_TARGET_MASQUERADE) [N/m/?] (NEW)

```
And I am sort of guessing what to answer too..

---

### Post by hexion on 2006-09-03
> **Ramses de Norre said:**
> Could you give your .config for the 2.6.17 kernel? Because there seem to be many new things and it takes hours to answer on lines like this: ```
MASQUERADE target support (IP_NF_TARGET_MASQUERADE) [N/m/?] (NEW)

```
And I am sort of guessing what to answer too..

Ramses, if you don't know what to answer, just click ENTER. That will asume you chose default answer.

If you use my .config probably you'll get errors for it is made for my system. You better click ENTER to all answers and that will work.

---

### Post by hexion on 2006-09-03
> **tymek666 said:**
> Thanks a lot for this :)
I haven't problems with compiling kernel, but i couldn't get my acx card working with new kernel.

Try this:
> cd /lib/modules
sudo cp -R 2.6.15-23-386 `uname -r`
sudo modprobe acx
sudo reboot

Change 2.6.15-26-386 for your previous kernel (or list /lib/modules to see the folders you have and choose one).

That worked for me, after rebooting I had my acx working.

---

### Post by hexion on 2006-09-07
How can I move this thread to "how to" section? (it doesn't seem to be read here)

---

