---
title: "10.04 gets slower and slower after its been running a while"
date: 2010-08-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by bluedalmatian on 2010-08-07
Im experiencing a strange problem with 10.04. When it first boots up its reasonably quick (as snappy as Gnome ever has been) but after its been running for a day or two it gets ununsably slow and has to be rebooted.

I dont see how it can be anything to do with my hardware as it runs OK when first started. Ive monitored RAM usage and it doesnt seem to differ much. There's always the same amount unused.

Any ideas?

Thanks

---

### Post by Finalfantasykid on 2010-08-07
How much ram do you have, and how much is being used when it is slow?

Also you mentioned that the amount of ram used is not the problem, but how much swap are you using?  This might be why the amount of ram used is ok, because it is all on the swap instead.

---

### Post by bluedalmatian on 2010-08-09
1.4GB of swap. 512MB RAM. Youre probably going to say thats not enough, but its plenty when the system has only been running for a couple of days.

I always use free -m to check RAM which is currently showing 483MB used, yet Ive just looked at the System Monitor utility which says 277MB.

I wondered if something had a memory leak, and was therefore gradually tying up real RAM and forcing everything onto the swap

---

### Post by MiThRaZoR on 2011-10-10
I'm having the exact same problem with 11.04.

I don't know what the problem is.

I have 4GB of RAM. And how do I check swap?

---

### Post by morr_rva on 2011-10-11
Swap used is part of the 'free' command.

Swapping at any instant in time is in the 'vmstat' command output, under the 'si' and 'so' columns.  It also shows the swap used, but I find it's easier to read in the 'free' command output.

---

