---
title: "11.10 Questions"
date: 2012-03-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by richiegriffin on 2012-03-16
Hi,

I have an Intel Celeron 450 (single core processor) that says it's 64 bit in the specs.

Can I run 64 bit version of Ubuntu 11.10? I'm confused by literature on the download page.

I'm currently running 32 bit 11.10 with 500GB of free space and 2GB of RAM but things seem kind of lagging and slow...

Anyone know if 9.10 or 10.04 are better than 11.10 or are they equally as buggy and weird? I used to run XUbuntu 9.10 a while back and it was pretty good. Anyway, I've been trying to run an ISO disk image on a DVD-R of 10.04 64 bit version but I can't get it to boot... I set the boot order in the BIOS and press F12 on startup to select the DVD/CD drive and it just proceeds to load the 11.10 that is currently installed. I got the 10.04 ISO from ubuntu's own website. I tried doing the 32 bit version of 10.04 and the same thing happens...

Insights from people with experience in this would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2012-03-16
I am using Xubuntu 11.10 64bit on my laptop and it works perfectly.

Rodney

---

### Post by sudodus on 2012-03-16
Most of the time it works to boot from a CD or DVD drive. But things can go wrong, so there are a few things to check.

- Have you checked that your optical drive can read a DVD disk (it might be 'CD only')?
- Have you tried to boot another computer from your DVD disk?
- Have you checked the iso file with md5sum?
- Have you checked the CD, that all files are correctly written?

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-03-16
sudodus +1

Also, your problem with 10.04 may be solved with 11.10 . The easiest way to know is to make a 11.10 CD (or live-USB) and try booting on it.

I recommend you first try a 11.10 32bits disk, because it is compatible with both 32 and 64bits hardware. If 11.10 32bits works on your hardware, you can try the 11.10 64bits (which won't work if your hardware is 32bits).

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-16
>  things seem kind of lagging and slow...

What video card and how much video memory does it have?

This will have an effect on performance. And the Celeron was never the fastest kid on the block. And single core.

It could be that you need a different version of Ubuntu. A version that will run just fine on your machine.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-03-16
On Celeron with 2GB of RAM, I would go for 32-bit. 64-bit will probably run, but any advantage of the speed would probably be negated by the fact that 64-bit uses more RAM.

Ubuntu 10.04 may work, but 11.10 would be too heavy for such an old machine. In your case, I would go with either Xubuntu or Lubuntu. Lubuntu should perform the best on old hardware, although it may lack some features.

If the DVD doesn't work, you can try the install CD.

---

