---
title: "Screen Resolution"
date: 2006-01-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Pep864 on 2006-01-24
I am a total NOOB to linux.  When I start ubuntu, sometimes it will run in 640x480 and sometimes in 1024x768.  When it starts in 640x480, I have no option to change it to.  What causes this and more importantly what can I do to fix it?
I am running an intel 82915G Express Chipset Family Graphics Controller.

Thanks 
Pep

---

### Post by rjwood on 2006-01-24
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` You should probably let x select your options for you unless you know what you are doing.. If you are going to attempt to set the resolution yourself make seur you have your monitor info handy for input--otherwise don't mess with it.  Good Luck!

---

### Post by ankur_iitk on 2006-01-24
[QUOTE=Pep864]I am a total NOOB to linux.  When I start ubuntu, sometimes it will run in 640x480 and sometimes in 1024x768.  When it starts in 640x480, I have no option to change it to.  What causes this and more importantly what can I do to fix it?
I am running an intel 82915G Express Chipset Family Graphics Controller.

Thanks 
Pep[/QUOTE]

I am facing a similar problem ... my screen upon rebooting displays black borders from all sides .I have looked over various forums and have tried their forums but couldn't find any suitable solution. my system is intel915 ... below is wt my xorg.conf file reads:

kindly send some suggestions, TIA
ankur
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation i915 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-140
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation i915 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by rjwood on 2006-01-24
ankur--it sounds like you have your resolution set too high.. That is probably the reason for the borders.

---

### Post by opiston on 2006-01-25
Hi, I also have the same problem.
My situation might be a little different from yours though.
My video card is intergrated with my motherboard, and I don't know if ubuntu detects my video card.

If I start ubuntu without my monitor plugged into the machine, then the resolution will be 640x480 (I cannot change to anything higher or lower, is 640 x 480 the lowest?); however, if I start ubuntu with my monitor plugged in, then the resolution will be 1280 x 1024.

For now, I will have to plugin my monitor when starting ubuntu. (The reason that I don't have my monitor plugged in is because I have a KVM switch.

Opiston

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-01-25
[QUOTE=opiston]Hi, I also have the same problem.
My situation might be a little different from yours though.
My video card is intergrated with my motherboard, and I don't know if ubuntu detects my video card.

If I start ubuntu without my monitor plugged into the machine, then the resolution will be 640x480 (I cannot change to anything higher or lower, is 640 x 480 the lowest?); however, if I start ubuntu with my monitor plugged in, then the resolution will be 1280 x 1024.

For now, I will have to plugin my monitor when starting ubuntu. (The reason that I don't have my monitor plugged in is because I have a KVM switch.

Opiston[/QUOTE]
That's probably due to some four-letter-acronym.  DPMS, perhaps?  I forget.  Anyway, it's the protocol whereby X asks your videocard "what is the highest supported resolution on the monitor plugged in to you".  If there's no monitor plugged in, who knows what the answer is ;)  
X does that so that it doesn't set some crazy high resolution and fry your monitor.  Not that it **would** fry your monitor, necessarily.

Edit: **No**!  It's "ddc"!  I'd try commenting out the  ```
Load "ddc"
``` line in your xorg.conf.  I'm not sure if that'll fix it, but it might ;)

---

