---
title: "12.04 permission Issues."
date: 2012-05-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Androide259 on 2012-05-08
Sorry for the long post

Hi i have a problem where i cannot share a folder, when i try to share the folder i get an error saying "'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare add: cannot share path /media/backup/music as we are restricted to only sharing directories we own.
    Ask the administrator to add the line "usershare owner only = false" 
    to the [global] section of the smb.conf to allow this". This is the same for everything in the drive, if i have a look at the drive permissions it says "The permissions of "Backup" could not be determined". I have shared folders from this drive before so the only thing i can think of that i changed is i tried to mount an iso using gmount-iso. It asked me to specify a mount point location, I had no idea what this ment so i created a folder on the hard drive "backup". It gave an error saying that the hard drive was mounted as read only, The hard drive is NTFS, so i launched NFTS configuration tool, For some reason it said that the drive WAS read only, so i changed it to read/write, Then i tried to restarted the computer. It froze as soon as it got to the purple ubuntu screen, i pressed the restart button on my computer and it restarted and booted back into ubuntu. I tried to mount the iso again but it gave me the same error, so i started up NTFS configuration tool again and it said that i had read/write permission, But it also dissplayed 2 of the same entries for my hard drive (Backup). I am also unable to unmount the drive, I get the following error message "Error unmounting: umount exited with exit code 1: helper failed with:
umount: only root can unmount /dev/sdb1 from /media/backup". The problem of freezing while shutting down/restarting is still occurring, And i do not need to mount the iso anymore.

I am at a loss to what to do. If anyone could help me i would appreciate it.

---

### Post by Androide259 on 2012-05-09
OK the Problem of ubuntu not shutting down properly has righted itself. All i need now it to get the permission problem fixed.

---

### Post by asaaki on 2012-06-29
Did you manage to get permissions?

---

