---
title: "11.04, Unity and Dual Montors"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ffeingol on 2011-04-30
I'm trying to decide if I should upgrade to 11.04.  Right now I have it running on my netbook and it's OK.  I'm a bit concerned about Unity with my dual monitor setup.  While I'm working I need (not want) at least 3 different browsers open and at least a few terminals.  This does not really seem possible in Unity.  I know that I can set my session to 'Ubuntu Classic' but who knows how long that will be supported.  Just trying to find out if I'm heading down a bad path.

Thanks

---

### Post by ffeingol on 2011-05-01
Wow, kind of surprised that there are no replied.  I'm really just looking for feedback on how Unity works with dual monitors (as a start).

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-05-01
> **ffeingol said:**
> Wow, kind of surprised that there are no replied.  I'm really just looking for feedback on how Unity works with dual monitors (as a start).

Perhaps your question isn't completely clear.

Dual monitors working well here with Unity.

If you have a specific query, please post.

---

### Post by jpthank on 2011-05-01
unity and dual monitors should be fine. have you try to do the configuration properly?

---

### Post by teachop on 2011-05-01
Multiple monitors is one of the areas that has caused me some headaches in Unity.  I have Intel i3 with integrated core graphics.  I have it working well enough for evaluation, but not exactly like intended.

My bigger concern would be that many applications and windows open, such as multiple terminals open, is not what Unity is good at managing.  I personally find window management clumsy without the traditional window list.  It is more like the default Windows7 operation (or mac), if you have used that.  As a result, I use Unity for testing and evaluation, but boot into Xubuntu 11.04 to actually work.

I would play with it on a live CD and see how you make out.  (have wireless problems that are unresolved, doesn't make a difference what I boot into on that front)

---

### Post by themainliner on 2011-05-01
> **jpthank said:**
> unity and dual monitors should be fine. have you try to do the configuration properly?

You FAIL as you didn't read the question.

Dual monitors work. 

Beyond that I can't really comment, I do not like the top bar (what the hell are they calling that?) on each of my screens, but that's a purely personal and aesthetic choice.

Oh, I will comment. If you want as much flexibility and control over where this are displayed and how the interface appears on each (any) of your monitors look elsewhere. Unity is rigid and customisation light.

---

### Post by gobbledigook on 2011-05-01
deleted as i'm an idiot :)

---

### Post by ffeingol on 2011-05-01
OK, sorry if I was not clear.

Right now I have 2 monitors running at 1680x1050.  I need to have multiple browsers open (not different tabs) because I need to be able to see what's in one browser while I work in the other (tech support system).  I also need to have multiple terminals open (ssh into different systems).  When I use 11.04 / Unity on my netbook everything is maximized / full screen so it does not appear you can easily have multiple browsers or terminals open.

I did try doing a live boot off CD to test.  When I run that way it immediately goes into Ubuntu classic and not Unity.  Not sure what's going wrong there.

Thanks

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-05-01
I'd suggest that you will be able to do the same in 11.04 as you did previously/currently on your dual monitors.

Main difference for me is gaining vertical space by not having a bottom panel, and the side Unity launcher autohides when a window touches it. Applications needn't be full screen, so you are fine on that score.

Using Super + W to scale and choose applications or Ctrl + Alt + Arrow keys to switch workspaces also means easy and quick switching. 

If you want a couple of screenshots, let me know and I'll do you a few.

---

### Post by ffeingol on 2011-05-01
I'd love a couple of screenshots (if possible).  I don't really use multiple desktops (that's why I have multiple monitors).

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-05-01
> **ffeingol said:**
> I'd love a couple of screenshots (if possible).  I don't really use multiple desktops (that's why I have multiple monitors).

I use workspaces even with dual monitors to separate out work / play / communication / ect.

Here are a few screenshots for you, they are large images (each more than half a meg) so I've uploaded them to dropbox, you should be able to view with these links.

[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/my_usual_setup.jpg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/my_usual_setup.jpg)
[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/scale.jpg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/scale.jpg)
[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/unity_launcher_autohidden.jpg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/unity_launcher_autohidden.jpg)
[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/unity_launcher_showing.jpg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1008329/unity_launcher_showing.jpg)

---

### Post by ffeingol on 2011-05-01
@howefield,

Thank you much.  Looks like it will work fine.  No worries about the big images (for me), I have a 10 mbps connection so they just take seconds to download.  I'll prob. be brave later this afternoon and upgrade and I get some work done.

---

### Post by teachop on 2011-05-01
> **howefield said:**
> Here are a few screenshots for you
Wow that is a lot of pixels, nice.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-05-01
I'm sure you don't need reminding about backing up any data that you wouldn't want to lose ;-)

Another thing I like to do before upgrading the operating system is image the disk with Clonezilla, gives me a "get of of jail free" card in the unlikely event of something going wrong.

Good luck.

---

### Post by RandomNoise2 on 2011-05-03
I was able to run it on dual monitors, but nothing more.  My systems all use three or four monitors and we've had to revert to classic gnome.  Not only did Unity cause some pretty strange behavior with xorg and the nvidia drivers, it doesn't seem to account the extra real estate.  I'm not quite sure how to describe it except to say it's like the designers didn't seem to imagine a quad monitor setup.  I would even say that the designers may never have used multiple monitors so maybe they don't understand the requirements.

---

### Post by Captain Lightning on 2011-05-03
I wasn't impressed with the two top panels on my dual monitor setup, and I had some problems pop up so I went back to classic on that computer.

Also there used to be a function in compiz - window management - extra wm actions - "Move window to next output" in 10.10 down. 

This was a handy shortcut for moving windows to other screen with the keyboard. I can't find it in 11.04 and I'm a bit disappointed. I may start a new thread about it.

---

### Post by hfw on 2011-05-03
I have been successful running multiple monitors using nvidia and twinview. 

I used to be able to run separate x sessions, but have not been able to do that with Unity.  Has anyone had any success with multiple x sessions?

Thanks,
Hal

---

### Post by ffeingol on 2011-05-03
Just to follow up.

I did upgrade and things went 'pretty' smooth.  11.04 did not like/use the NVIDIA drivers I had loaded from 10.10 so I lost all special effects.  I disabled that driver and started using te Experimental 3D support for NVIDIA cards.  It's 'OK' but now I have an issue where the indicator icons on the right monitor move off the screen (see thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747561](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1747561)).

I also lost the use of .sshmenu and that is a bigger issue as I have 50+ Linux servers I need to ssh into.  Still looking for a good alternative for that.

---

### Post by wildflower1975 on 2011-05-17
I'm not sure if this is a Unity bug or just a setting somewhere, but the launcher is on the Left hand side of my Right monitor, and the Ubuntu/Start button is on the Left of my Left Monitor.

I have to move the mouse to the extreme left to have the Launcher appear in the middle of the desktop.

I'm using the standard NVIDIA driver.

Have I got the primary screen mixed up?

[IMG]http://wildflower.geek.nz/Desktop.png[/IMG]

---

