---
title: "9.10 freezing"
date: 2010-02-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by ats51 on 2010-02-09
I have been using Ubuntu since 6.10 and I love all that it offers, however since putting 9.10 64bit on my newly built desktop I have been plagued by a freezing. It occurs mainly when I am printing, although not always, sometimes it is during start up. This makes me think it is either a memory or a graphics problem. I am using x2 2gig DDR3 memory stick, so to test them I have tried using only one of each - however the freezing then occurs almost immediately upon loading the gnome panel, which is much worse! I am unsure where to go from here. 

If it is a graphics card problem i am a little lost, but the following post may help:

> alex@Emile:~$ sudo lspci |grep -i vga
[sudo] password for alex: 
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Device 9710

[IMG]http://img35.imageshack.us/img35/2176/photoqc.jpg[/IMG]

the image here is not of my machine, but the black and green lines across the screen are very similar to what it looks like when my machine freezes.

thank you for all your help, this is most frustrating!

---

### Post by dE_logics on 2010-02-09
This problem got eliminated when I switched to Gentoo. And now everything works like a charm...even Blender.


Turn off compiz and see.

Right click on the desktop>(I think it's the last tab...it's one of them)>none (last option).


Sorry, I'm on xfce (and it's cause I have an ATI, may be turning to xfce might help).

---

