---
title: "11.04 - Make Compiz Default Window Manager?"
date: 2011-05-13
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by BrantlyMedders on 2011-05-13
Ok, I'm having a bit of a problem here.

I finally waded through all the graphical issues that have been reported when upgrading 10.10 to 11.04.  I've managed to get the nvidia drivers installed and working (even though Jockey still reports that nvidia-current is installed but has not been activated).

Whenever I log into an Ubuntu Classic session, GNOME defaults to using metacity as the window manager.  In order to get my compiz effects working, I have to open a terminal and do "compiz --replace".  After that, everything appears to work normally including on screen notifications, the cube, etc.

I've though of including a "compiz --replace" script in Startup Applications as a possible workaround, but is there a better way to handle not having compiz started by default?  Is there something in gconf-editor or similar that I can edit in order to make GNOME default to using compiz?

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-14
Modify "/usr/share/gnome-session/sessions/classic-gnome.session" from this:
```
[GNOME Session]
Name=Classic GNOME
Required=windowmanager;panel;filemanager;
Required-windowmanager=gnome-wm
Required-panel=gnome-panel
Required-filemanager=nautilus
DefaultApps=gnome-settings-daemon;
IsRunnableHelper=/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test --compiz
FallbackSessionsID=GNOME2d
GNOME2d=2d-gnome
```
To this:
```
[GNOME Session]
Name=Classic GNOME
Required=windowmanager;panel;filemanager;
Required-windowmanager=compiz
Required-panel=gnome-panel
Required-filemanager=nautilus
DefaultApps=gnome-settings-daemon;
```
Since the settings are system-wide, you need to gain root access therefore:
```
gksu gedit /usr/share/gnome-session/sessions/classic-gnome.session
```
Greetings.

---

### Post by BrantlyMedders on 2011-05-14
Worked like a charm.  Thank you.

---

### Post by sawtoothX on 2011-05-15
Hello,

I also had this problem with the Ubuntu classic session and played around with gconf-editor switching /desktop/gnome/session/required_components.windowmanager from "metacity" to "compiz --replace".

It did make a change: at next login I had no window manager functionality whatsoever. I could see the windows (without frames), could not always type in a terminal, could not move, resize etc.

Then, I noticed that another account had the value "gnome-wm" for the above gconf key and had the effects enabled.

Changing my key as well fixed the effects problem and now I believe I have compiz running. I can configure the effects via the compiz configuration manager. In fact, trying to run gnome-wm --replace in a terminal yields a complain from the compiz executable.

Can somebody kindly explain this? Is gnome-wm supposed to point to compiz? And why does this simple thing fix the problem, or should I indeed attempt the above fix by Krytarik? I am just trying to understand what metacity/compiz/gnome-wm are supposed to do.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-15
Yeah, it seems like "gnome-wm" is meant to pull "compiz".

And yeah, I'm not sure what effect the Gconf keys are still having on what 'required components' will be run, since they are also specified by the session settings now. Prior to the final release of Natty we had success by just setting every respective Gconf key to Compiz, specifically the "windowmanager" key:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1730485](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1730485)
```
gconftool-2 /desktop/gnome/session/required_components/windowmanager --type string --set compiz
gconftool-2 /desktop/gnome/applications/window_manager/current --type string --set /usr/bin/compiz
gconftool-2 /desktop/gnome/applications/window_manager/default --type string --set /usr/bin/compiz
```But that seems not to work anymore. Could you please try both ways and report if the Gconf way still works, at least for you!?

---

### Post by armedmonkey on 2011-06-20
> **Krytarik said:**
> Modify "/usr/share/gnome-session/sessions/classic-gnome.session" from this:
```
[GNOME Session]
Name=Classic GNOME
Required=windowmanager;panel;filemanager;
Required-windowmanager=gnome-wm
Required-panel=gnome-panel
Required-filemanager=nautilus
DefaultApps=gnome-settings-daemon;
IsRunnableHelper=/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test --compiz
FallbackSessionsID=GNOME2d
GNOME2d=2d-gnome
```To this:
```
[GNOME Session]
Name=Classic GNOME
Required=windowmanager;panel;filemanager;
Required-windowmanager=compiz
Required-panel=gnome-panel
Required-filemanager=nautilus
DefaultApps=gnome-settings-daemon;
```Since the settings are system-wide, you need to gain root access therefore:
```
gksu gedit /usr/share/gnome-session/sessions/classic-gnome.session
```Greetings.


this doesn't work; it gives me the borderless windows. :(

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-06-20
> **armedmonkey said:**
> this doesn't work; it gives me the borderless windows. :(
Make sure that
- the setting "CompizConfig Settings Manager -> Window Decoration -> Command" is set to "/usr/bin/compiz-decorator"
- those plugin is enabled
- the package "compiz-gnome" is installed

Greetings.

---

### Post by armedmonkey on 2011-06-20
Check on all three, but it still doesn't work. I'm able to get compiz running, mind you, just not automatically as the default window manager

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-06-20
The non-working window decorator is consistent then with your observation mentioned in the other thread you are running:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1786396](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1786396)
> **armedmonkey said:**
> When I run compiz --replace, it freezes on "starting unity-window-decorator"
If you run "gtk-window-decorator --replace" through the Alt+F2 dialog, it also doesn't succeed?

Also, I noticed that you have an Nvidia GeForce Go 7300, which is blacklisted for Unity, because it doesn't work well with the proprietary driver, at least. You said, you are running the "recommended" driver, which one is that then, the nvidia-173 or nvidia-current (v270)? If the latter, you may try the other one, because the nvidia-270 is causing issues at quite a number of systems.

You may also try the "experimental" driver that may be offered in Additional Drivers. This is the 3D-capable version of the "nouveau" driver. If it isn't offered, you may install it manually, its package is called "libgl1-mesa-dri-experimental".

---

### Post by armedmonkey on 2011-06-21
I've actually solved that problem by downgrading to the nvidia 173 drivers. Compiz works fine for me now, but if I do what you suggested, I get the borderless windows.

---

