---
title: "18.04 Dock/Launcher Missing"
date: 2018-05-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by donblanco on 2018-05-11
Booted up this morning and surprised to find my dock missing. Checked settings, fiddled with turning on/off the hiding option, changed screen resolution and scaling, etc. Nothing brings it back.

It *is* still there. The only menu option still showing on the desktop is Activities - clicking that, I can see the dock on the left and launch anything I want/need. Keyboard shortcuts all work as well.

I'm just not sure why the dock decided to disappear from the desktop! It's not a critical issue, but it's definitely annoying. 

Last thing I installed was Thunderbird, I just can't imagine how/why that would have any relation to this issue. Also, haven't seen any similar issues here in the forum on 18.04. Halp!

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-05-11
sudo apt install gnome-shell-extension-ubuntu-dock

---

### Post by donblanco on 2018-05-11
Tried that and nothing installed. Rebooted and everything is fine. Maybe just a glitch?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-05-11
Are you using any shell extensions not from the repository ?

---

### Post by donblanco on 2018-05-11
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Are you using any shell extensions not from the repository ?

Not that I'm aware of. I've been pretty happy with the default Gnome environment and whatever default WM this is

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-05-11
Possible solutions [here]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/56313/how-do-i-reset-gnome-to-the-defaults") , but use with caution.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-05-11
Post the output from this
```
dconf dump /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/
```
It should give us some insight into the current settings.

---

### Post by donblanco on 2018-05-12
> **deadflowr said:**
> Post the output from this
```
dconf dump /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/
```
It should give us some insight into the current settings.

```
[/]
dock-fixed=true
dock-position='LEFT'
dash-max-icon-size=48
```

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-05-12
Weird, I would think it should be more.
What does
```
cat /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/10_ubuntu-dock.gschema.override
``` 
show?
This should give you what the defaults should be.

Also, do you have any extra extensions installed?
Either through software center or from the extensions web site?

---

### Post by rogueranga on 2018-05-27
I have the same issue. I can reproduce it every morning when my PC starts. Its actually my HTPC and it is shutdown everynight remotely, then the power is turned off at the wall. I have the bios set to boot ubuntu when the power is applied to the box. I'm not sure if how it was shutdown or started would make a difference. I do not have any extensions and when i restart it, the dock comes back.  Here is the output from the commands:


```

dconf dump /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/
[/]
dock-fixed=true
dock-position='LEFT'

cat /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/10_ubuntu-dock.gschema.override

[org.gnome.shell.extensions.dash-to-dock]
dock-fixed=true
intellihide-mode='ALL_WINDOWS'
icon-size-fixed=true
custom-theme-shrink=true
custom-theme-customize-running-dots=true
running-indicator-style='DOTS'
custom-theme-running-dots-color='#e95420'
custom-theme-running-dots-border-color='#e95420'
extend-height=true
transparency-mode='ADAPTIVE'
scroll-action='switch-workspace'
click-action='previews'
shift-click-action='launch'
middle-click-action='launch'
shift-middle-click-action='minimize'

```

---

### Post by Ross Gayler on 2018-08-15
Is there any update on this issue? 

My 18.04 installation was fine, but recently the dock has started disappearing at some random time in a session. It is still visible on the left if I hit the super key. Otherwise, rebooting gets it back. The fact that this only started happening recently makes me suspect that it's because of something I installed, but I have no idea what.

FWIW here is the output requested above:
```
ross@doppio:~$ dconf dump /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/
[/]
dock-fixed=true
dock-position='RIGHT'
dash-max-icon-size=32
ross@doppio:~$ cat /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/10_ubuntu-dock.gschema.override
[org.gnome.shell.extensions.dash-to-dock]
dock-fixed=true
intellihide-mode='ALL_WINDOWS'
icon-size-fixed=true
custom-theme-shrink=true
custom-theme-customize-running-dots=true
running-indicator-style='DOTS'
custom-theme-running-dots-color='#e95420'
custom-theme-running-dots-border-color='#e95420'
extend-height=true
transparency-mode='ADAPTIVE'
scroll-action='switch-workspace'
click-action='previews'
shift-click-action='launch'
middle-click-action='launch'
shift-middle-click-action='minimize'
```

Any suggestions on what to try to diagnose this would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks
Ross

---

### Post by yeousunn-fac on 2018-09-04
Same issue here as @Ross 
The issue started after I updated ubuntu from 16.04 to 18.04. Every morning when I login to the machine the Dock/Launcher is gone. I can still access it through window button. After restart ubuntu runs normal with the launcher. But next morning its the same. 

~$ dconf dump /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/
[/]
dock-fixed=true
dock-position='BOTTOM'
dash-max-icon-size=20

~$ cat /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/10_ubuntu-dock.gschema.override
[org.gnome.shell.extensions.dash-to-dock]
dock-fixed=true
intellihide-mode='ALL_WINDOWS'
icon-size-fixed=true
custom-theme-shrink=true
custom-theme-customize-running-dots=true
running-indicator-style='DOTS'
custom-theme-running-dots-color='#e95420'
custom-theme-running-dots-border-color='#e95420'
extend-height=true
transparency-mode='ADAPTIVE'
scroll-action='switch-workspace'
click-action='previews'
shift-click-action='launch'
middle-click-action='launch'
shift-middle-click-action='minimize'

---

### Post by jeffs7180 on 2018-09-07
After a recent update a couple days ago to 18.04.1 LTS I find that the dock will disappear awhile after bootup.
Opening a terminal window using Ctrl+Alt+T and entering the following commands I get:

dconf dump /org/gnome/shell/extensions/dash-to-dock/

<No Output Generated>

cat /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/10_ubuntu-dock.gschema.override

[org.gnome.shell.extensions.dash-to-dock]
dock-fixed=true
intellihide-mode='ALL_WINDOWS'
icon-size-fixed=true
custom-theme-shrink=true
custom-theme-customize-running-dots=true
running-indicator-style='DOTS'
custom-theme-running-dots-color='#e95420'
custom-theme-running-dots-border-color='#e95420'
extend-height=true
transparency-mode='ADAPTIVE'
scroll-action='switch-workspace'
click-action='previews'
shift-click-action='launch'
middle-click-action='launch'
shift-middle-click-action='minimize'

The annoying workaround is to click on "Activities" and then seeing the miniaturized dock. Not sure
what in the recent upgrade caused the dock to start disappearing. Changing dock settings has no effect.
I can get the dock back (For a short time ) only by rebooting. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by horsti88 on 2018-09-11
Same Problem here; newly installed 18.04, made updates (and installed Virtualbox SW and Extension Pack), now the dock
is not showing exept for the "activities"-button.

---

### Post by chelmite2 on 2018-11-02
Same problem on 18.10.

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2018-11-03
I'm not sure how relevant this bug report is (very little information given by the reporter) but:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-shell-extension-ubuntu-dock/+bug/1801494](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-shell-extension-ubuntu-dock/+bug/1801494)

seems to imply that the dock does not appear for some unknown reason. I've asked the reporter for further information.

For what its worth, I don't see this here on either Ubuntu 18.04 or 18.10.

---

### Post by lukas-glowania on 2018-11-12
I tried to work around this issue by installing the underlying 'Dash to dock'-extension and disabled 'Ubuntu dock'. But 'Dash to dock' also disappears in the same way, so i guess the error has something to do with 'Dash to dock'.

---

### Post by lukas-glowania on 2018-11-29
With [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1137/gnome-shell-extension-reloader/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1137/gnome-shell-extension-reloader/) it's very convenient to restart 'Ubuntu Dock'.

---

### Post by delfunc on 2018-12-09
Was seeing the same issue, when messing with Dock settings I discovered the dock showed back up when I switch the position from the left side of the screen to the right.  Then found out that it would display on the bottom too, but when I switched it back to left it disappeared again.  I have dual monitors and usual just have the dock on the main, but changed it to display on all to experiment.  The dock would show up on left, bottom, or right on my 2nd monitor, but only on bottom and right on my main.
Figured it had to be monitor/video interface issue so a reset my main monitor, and used its built in screen re-size and the dock began showing up on the left again.  I had previously adjusted the monitor display size to confirm that part of the desktop wasn't just off screen, so it was something in the reset and auto resize that got it behaving correct again.

---

### Post by fr33z0n3r on 2019-02-16
I saw this issue, after messing with my monitor cables.  I only have a single  monitor.  I was trying to get my DVI to work on my AMD RX550 card -  which will not display while logged in (but does at bios).

 Both cables are currently plugged into the same monitor (diff ports of course) in my attempt to switch from HDMI to DVI-D.
 My ubuntu session was active in 18.04.1, and I only replugged the DVI cable and wiggled the HDMI cable.

After I rebooted, things eventually went back to normal.  But there were some dark moments in trying to reboot cleanly.

---

### Post by martin30002 on 2019-06-30
Same issue here with 19.04 and while I was reading the comments, I remembered that a few weeks ago for testing I switched my monitor cable from HDMI1 output to HDMI2 output on the computer and then back to HDMI1. This could be the reason why the dock disappeared. Maybe there is a second virtual screen on the left.

---

