---
title: "Unable to resolve hostnames..."
date: 2006-06-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by pbaehr on 2006-06-15
I recently installed some things (namely: apache2, PHP5, MySQL, Ruby, Rails) so that I could play around with a website I'm developing. I've set most of these things up in Windows before (apache, PHP, MySQL) so I was relatively comfortable with it. I followed a guide from the wiki to help out.

Some time later, my computer lost the ability to resolve domain names. I can, for example ping 72.14.207.99 without trouble but if I try to ping google.com it can't resolve. The same applies to web browsing.

I tried uninstalled the packages I installed (to the best of my ability) and the problem persists.

Can anyone point me in the right direction? It looks to me like I am missing critical information in /etc/resolv.conf

```

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
```

My other machine (running debian sarge) has this in that file:
```

search
nameserver 192.168.0.1

```

Where 192.168.0.1 is, of course, the IP address of my router. But, as the file warns, if I try to edit it by hand it is overwritten. How do I edit it? ](*,)

---

### Post by frup on 2006-06-15
ok i probably sound stupid but if you go into system > admin > networking
you can go to DNS mine has 202.27.184.3,202.27.184.3 and my router which is 10.0.0.2

---

### Post by ayoli on 2006-06-15
if you dont want ttmanually edit resolv.conf use: gksudo network-admin then pick the DNS tab and add your router ip here or/and DNS provided by your isp.
cheers.
ps: network-admin is also accessible from menu system > administration > network

---

### Post by pbaehr on 2006-06-15
SO SIMPLE!

Here I am messing around with configuration files when the answer was super easy. Thanks so much for the quick response, both of you.

Also, ayoli, thanks for the CLI command since I'm connecting via SSH so I don't have the normal menus.

These forums are the best I've ever used.

---

