---
title: "10.10 Environment acting squirelly"
date: 2011-06-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by markymark64 on 2011-06-16
I don't know any other way to describe it. I have Ubuntu 10.10 installed and before yesterday everything was working flawlessly. Then my mouse started acting erratic and after a few battery changes I narrowed it do to adobe. This is because I was experiencing freezes with my desktop as well as my browser. I use firefox as my default and I couldn't open up tabs or even close the browser. Only way for me to close the browser as to use the windows command ctrl d to minimize firefox, right click and close it. After running ubuntu tweak and then update manager I noticed it pulled down a new version of adobe. Everything worked like a charm until today. Now I have the same problem. I looked to see what updates were being pulled down that could be causing this weird behaviour. The only thing I can figure is jitsi. However, I've never really used this application. 

Any thoughts? It's frustrating to use ubuntu right now cause I can't do any work. This browser is open in another workspace and if I open another application this will freeze. My taskbar is basically frozen so after I post this I'll have to use ctrl d to minimize this and then right click to close it again.

---

### Post by markymark64 on 2011-06-16
My fault. I finally figured it out. It was the mouse and the dock. Took me awhile to identify it but when I realised I needed to use keyboard shortcuts to operate apps which were launched by the mouse I unplugged the receiver to the mouse, plugged it back in and moved it closer to my wireless mouse. I guess the receiver signal must have changed and it just needed to be shifted around. Phew, that was scary. lol:P

---

