---
title: "11.04 some compiz errors"
date: 2011-07-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by swimon on 2011-07-27
I wonder if anyone else has this, or know how to fix it.

1. I've binded compiz' "scale - initiate window picker" to the top right corner. But it just seems to stop working randomly until I restart my pc. Why does this happen?

2. Scale - "initiate windows picker for windows group" doesn't seem to work at all? For example I open two firefox windows, touch the keys I've set up (super + c) but nothing happens?

Grtz!

---

### Post by swimon on 2011-07-29
No one? This keeps happening to me. Especially the scale bind error is annoying.

If there is no fix, is there maybe a command to restart compiz in the terminal or something? (so I don't have to reboot my pc everytime?)

grtz

---

### Post by kcyanks1 on 2011-07-31
I've had issue #1 as well.  Any suggestions would be great.  Thanks so much.

---

### Post by swimon on 2011-08-04
good to hear i'm not the only one. 

I'm wondering if the command "compiz --replace" would be a good idea if the problem arises again?

---

### Post by swimon on 2011-08-06
compiz --replace 

doesn't fix this problem.

what process should be restarted to fix it?

Grtz

---

### Post by kcyanks1 on 2011-08-07
> **swimon said:**
> compiz --replace 

doesn't fix this problem.

what process should be restarted to fix it?

Grtz

Thanks for trying things and updating the thread.  Unfortunately, I don't know any more than you do here.  I was thrilled to find the thread but unfortunately so far no solutions.  Hopefully it's a bug that will be updated soon.

---

### Post by swimon on 2012-01-11
> **kcyanks1 said:**
> Thanks for trying things and updating the thread.  Unfortunately, I don't know any more than you do here.  I was thrilled to find the thread but unfortunately so far no solutions.  Hopefully it's a bug that will be updated soon.

Woops, just when you say something like that, I forget to update the topic :D

The problem doesn't seem to occur anymore here. It seems that the problem only occurred when I was changing settings in CCSM, as long as I don't change anything in the settings in ccsm during a session, everthing will work fine.

---

