---
title: "./configure does not work"
date: 2006-07-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by FreDeas on 2006-07-24
I'm trying to ./configure ... make ...etc but when I type ./configure it posts "no such file or directory". At sudo ./configure posts command not found.
  I have install build-essential, what else should I install?

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-07-24
Maybe you need to change to the directory of the source you just unpack!!!  For instance, if you download xyz.tar.gz.  Then you would do something like

```

tar xvzf xyz.tar.gz
cd xyz
./configure
make 
sudo make install

```

---

### Post by Lord Illidan on 2006-07-24
What are you trying to install? As a rule, to run ./configure , the folder must have a configure file inside it.

Always read the files named INSTALL and README before you do anything.

Now, can you give us the list of files inside the folder?

---

### Post by FreDeas on 2006-07-24
It's aprogram named xword. The files are :
crossword-check-all.png  crossword-clock.png  layout-rtb.png  xword
crossword-check.png      crossword-solve.png  LICENSE
I did make ./configure inside the folder. But in either way shouldn,t the error message be sth else? Command not found prompts that I don't have the right tools to build inside my pc, or not?

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-07-24
Perhaps you can just run xword directly from there!!!  Try

```

./xword

```
Otherwise, what is the output of this command (in xword directory)?

```

ls -la

```

---

### Post by abelstern on 2006-07-24
Is 'xword' a directory? Or an executable, perhaps? In the first case, 'configure' will be inside it, in the latter, maybe it is already compiled? Then you could might be able to run it with './xword'.

---

### Post by FreDeas on 2006-07-24
You're right its already compiled...

---

