---
title: "(12.10) Ubuntu Desktop session shows wallpaper; freezes"
date: 2013-05-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by W-Unit on 2013-05-09
Hi all,

I recently completed some updates (I don't recall which ones) and was notified that I needed to restart the PC to finish updating.

Once the restart was complete, I attempted to log into a Ubuntu Desktop session as normal. My wallpaper was there, but no other components (sidebar or top menu bar) are visible. This behavior has continued after several more restarts.

Don't know if this is related, but just prior to this issue occuring, I had disabled ATI FireGL via Additional Drivers.

Selecting a Xubuntu session allows me to log in just fine

How can I get the regular Ubuntu Desktop session working again?

P.S. in the meantime (and for future reference), if I do accidentally start a Ubuntu Desktop session again before I get this fixed, is there any way to end the session from the console? (I mean the console that is accessed by pressing CTRL+ALT+F1). Presently, if I make this mistake, I've been having to restart the PC entirely... Seems there should be a command line way to force all logged in users to log out or something. :)

Thanks!

Update: KDE also works fine.

---

### Post by W-Unit on 2013-05-22
Anyone? :confused:

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-23
When Ubuntu loads to a desktop wallpaper without Unity (top panel and launcher) appearing it usually is a sign of a video driver issue. You can right click the desktop and select Change Desktop Background. That will open System Settings and that should allow you to access Additional Drivers and experiment with different video drivers.

These are the commands to use the terminal to shutdown or reboot 

```
sudo shutdown -r now
```
```
sudo shutdown -h now
```

the r switch = reboot. The h switch = halt. A time is needed and now = imediately.

Regards.

---

