---
title: "Nvidia low resolution problem with 8.10"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by mdurkin on 2008-11-01
I seem to be having an issue with nvidia drivers after installing 8.10 (clean install). I have a 6150 on the motherboard and a Gericom LCD screen (little known brand).
Basically I don't seem to be able to set a resolution above 1024x768. My screen can display 1280x1024, but this is not available in nvidia-settings or screen resolution.
I tried adding to xorg.conf a Subsection for display, but it seems to be ignored. I suspect the monitor is not sending the correct resolution information but I was expecting to be able to force something by editing xorg.conf.
There are a few other threads going on similar problems, but the solutions there don't seem to work for me (I have followed them and nothing changes).
Does anyone know how I can force a particular resolution?
I tried using nvidia-settings to gen a new xorg.conf, and then editing the resolution. It doesn't seem to do anything, but I've attached the file below. Help!!!


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Mon Oct 13 15:00:58 UTC 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6150"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
#    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_60 +0+0"
Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_50 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by mdurkin on 2008-11-01
bump.
looks like I'm not the only one...

---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2008-11-01
Yeah, the publication of 8.10 demonstrates an immediate need for an 8.10.1; particularly for all of us who long ago could not envision the future and thoughtlessly bought systems containing Nvidia cards.  Why was 8.10 published with such a glaring omission as support for such a wide set of video cards?

---

### Post by radioraheem on 2008-11-01
same here, big problems with nvidia drivers.

link to description of mine:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966727](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966727)

---

### Post by amorangi on 2008-11-01
Did you try ```
sudo display-config-gtk
``` to set your monitor capabilities?

---

### Post by mdurkin on 2008-11-02
*display-config-gtk* is no longer part of ubuntu in 8.10 - unless there is a way to install it - I searched the packages and it seems to have been removed - I assume deliberately.

---

### Post by 0x029a on 2008-11-02
i have low resolution problem with trident cyberblade on my toshiba p2010 laptop. on hardy heron displayconfig-gtk did the trick, but not this time..

i've tried to install downloaded displayconfig-gtk_0.3.4.deb package, but w/o success. it doesnt work on 8.10. any ideas?

---

### Post by alejandron on 2008-11-03
Do you have VirtualBox installed?

---

### Post by Tamlynmac on 2008-11-04
I contacted NIVIDA and found the only available driver is in beta and received this response.

> There is a beta driver, version 96.43.09, which supports the kernel and X server 
shipped with Ubuntu 8.10.  There is an Ubuntu package for it, but it's currently 
in intrepid-proposed, which means you won't get it automatically unless you 
enable the "proposed updates" checkbox in the "software sources" control panel.

Hope that helps!

Aaron

I chose to wait until it's released in an update and will continue to use Hardy. However, it may be worth the endeavor for those that have already switched...

---

### Post by raven on 2008-11-15
Check this site you might find a solution

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html)

---

