---
title: "9.04 No gnome after updates"
date: 2009-07-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by efef on 2009-07-01
Hi all

I just updated my ubuntu 9.04 with a quite a lot of updates (around 70 mb), and it was 27 days since I last updated.

My problem is that Ubuntu starts up fine but after I enter username and password I only see the mouse pointer on a completely black screen (expect for the mouse pointer). 

I then tried starting up in the previous kernel (one of the upgrade was a kernel upgrade) but same results.

When I try to get a terminal with CTRL+ALT+F1-6 I get nothing but a black screen.

I then tried using the newest kernel to start up in Gnome failsafe mode, and here ubuntu complains that gnome desktop environment could not be found?!? 

So it continues to the failsafe terminal, which works. And this where I am stuck atm :(

Anyone that could advice me how to verify the gnome installation? For some reason I dont get an IP so I cannot do apt-get... (this is posted from another laptop).

Any help would be appreciated as Im quite stuck.

---

### Post by efef on 2009-07-01
Ok, from the failsafe terminal I can start the nvidia-settings program without problems.

I can also start gnome-about, but if I try to start gnome-terminal I get an error "Failed to contact the GConf daemon; exiting".

So it does seem like gnome is not able to start. Before the update I had the nice windows effects enabled. I dont know is that is relevant. 

In any case, does anyone here know how to troubleshoot gnome?


I ran gnome-settings-deamon and got this error:
> (gnome-settings-deamon:3752): Glib-CRITICAL **: g_propagate_error: assertion 'src != NULL' failed

---

### Post by efef on 2009-07-01
FIXED!


I finally had the network working (might be easy for many of you - but not for us who are slightly terminal challenged :)) and did:
sudo apt-get install gnome

Actually quite simple now that I think about it. :oops:

Well, I suggest that the gnome package get a small program called gnome-verify-settings that can analyze the installation and suggest how to fix it.

---

### Post by Addikit on 2009-07-01
I subscribed to this thread curious to see how it would turn out (I had no advice)

It's funny how you were the only one replying and you fixed the issue yourself :) but good job =D

---

