---
title: "12.04 upgrade did not work correctly"
date: 2012-05-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Farinet on 2012-05-04
I upgraded via upgrade manager from lubuntu 11.10 to 12.04 and that does not work correctly.

Computer is a Samsung Netbook (NP 150).

For the moment, the main problem is, that lightdm does not work! When i choose lightdm as display manager that brings only to a kind of console which seems to freeze at "checking battery status". CTRL+ALT+F1 brings me to another console: "startx" does not start lubuntu but lxde. When i do there "sudo dpkg-reconfigure lxdm" and then choose lxdm as display manager i can start in lubuntu.

But that does not seem the way 12.04 is intended to work: lightdm should be the standard dm . . . Any ideas out there? 

TIA

---

### Post by mips on 2012-05-05
Post the contents of **/etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf**

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#For_release_12.04_and_on_.28LightDM.29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#For_release_12.04_and_on_.28LightDM.29)

**For release 12.04 and on (LightDM)**

You will need to create an /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf with these contents: (do this as root)

```
[SeatDefaults]
autologin-user=<YOUR USER>
autologin-user-timeout=0
user-session=**Lubuntu**
greeter-session=**lightdm-gtk-greeter**
```


**Stop autologin For release 12.04 and on (LightDM)**

You will need to edit the /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf with these contents: (do this as root)

Remove or comment out the following lines

```
autologin-user=<YOUR USER>
autologin-user-timeout=0
```

---

### Post by Farinet on 2012-05-05
Ok, **my** lightdm.conf looks like this:

> 
[SeatDefaults]
greeter-session=unity-greeter
user-session=Lubuntu


Clueless, why this happened during the upgrade . . .

UPDATE: Even changing the greeter-session to lightdm-gtk-greeter did not change. The prolem with lightdm remains the same as before.

---

