---
title: "10.10. Unable to login or start session with any user account"
date: 2011-08-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by fleggle on 2011-08-24
Hi,
Recently I deleted files from my root/share folder in an attempt to remove a program which had made the system virtually unusable. Upon reboot of the system I accessed the partition I had just edited and I found that I was unable to login using the login manager, every time I hit login it just returns me to the same screen displaying the message: unable to start session. 

Any ideas?

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-08-24
Do you know what you deleted? What were you trying to achieve and how did you try it?

I assume you have deleted a part of /usr/share (there is no root/share), that contains a lot of systems settings, so it will be difficult to recover.

From what I know now, a fresh installation will probably be the simplest option.

---

### Post by fleggle on 2011-08-24
Well the application I was searching for was userful-multiseat, following a search of 'userful' I proceeded to delete all the files that were found. As such not sure what files were mixed into the search. Used rootilus to browse with full root privileges. And i have considered a clean install but currently that is not an option.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-08-24
you used rootnautilus, so there is a chance that the files are in a trash folder. This should be the directory

/root/.local/share/Trash/

Try to go to a TTY by pressing CTRL+ALT+F, log in (don't use the numpad if your password contains numbers) and check the contents with

```

ls /root/.local/share/Trash/

```

you can place them back with mv commands etc.

If you don't know your way around in the terminal, first read this tutorial here: [http://linuxcommand.org]("http://linuxcommand.org")

I don't know the exact contents of the trash folder, but it seems that there is a "files" subdirectory with your files, and an "info" subdirectory which contains info about where the files came from.

---

