---
title: "14.04 launcher button assignments"
date: 2015-01-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by lidgaca on 2015-01-26
Hi,

So after being in the Mint camp for several years I've decided to give unity a go ... I can live with most things but one thing that makes my blood (and other bodily fluids ...) boil are the button assignments used on the launcher icons ...

This mb1 (first time) opens a new window, but mb1 (second and subsequent times) takes me to an already opened window is just too confusing. Yes I know I should use mb3, but I've been using mb1 for this operation for the last 30 years ... it's kinda ingrained in my fingers now. 

It's probably OK if you only ever have 1 copy of an app open ... but I typically run with 4 - 10 copies of term spread over multiple workspaces, workspace 1 are server consoles, wkspace 2 are tests, wkspace 3 are compiles ... etc. 

I want to re-define mb1 on the launcher icon to ALWAYS mean 'open me a new copy of this app on this workspace'. Does anyone know a away to do that ?


-- Chris

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-01-26
I think I understand what you're meaning.
But to be clear, you need to understand that the launcher icons also double as task manager functions.
Which is why after you open a window and repress the mb1 (this term confused me, so perhaps a quick mouse button 1 reference would have helped, I kept thinking motherboard) it goes back to the originally opened Window. Just like the task manager would. (When you right click you will notice functions common to a task manager, like quit)
Unfortunately, I do not know how or think you can reset the mb1 to do what you want.
Instead, maybe look into setting fixed window placements, and utilize the existing middle mouse button function of opening new windows.
(For fixed window placements install ccsm and go to Place Windows)

---

