---
title: "Windows Reinstalled &gt;&gt; GRUB gone !"
date: 2005-01-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-02
I can't boot ubuntu after having re-installed Windows 98. I read somewhere that Windows overwrites existing MBR files when it installs.

So ... how do I reinstall GRUB without completely re-installing ubuntu ?

I have 2 hard drives:

hda: Win98 (and this is where GRUB used to be)
hdb: ubuntu

Thanks - iminj

( go easy on me, I'm still a noob)

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2005-01-02
This should do the trick:

[http://ubuntuguide.org/#restoregrubmenuafterwindowsinstallation](http://ubuntuguide.org/#restoregrubmenuafterwindowsinstallation)

---

### Post by crane on 2005-01-02
[QUOTE=iminj]I can't boot ubuntu after having re-installed Windows 98. I read somewhere that Windows overwrites existing MBR files when it installs.

So ... how do I reinstall GRUB without completely re-installing ubuntu ?

I have 2 hard drives:

hda: Win98 (and this is where GRUB used to be)
hdb: ubuntu

Thanks - iminj

( go easy on me, I'm still a noob)[/QUOTE]

I found this if you want to give it a try 

[fixing grub](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/history/261362) 
It can be done just do a little googling!
Good luck :D

---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-02
Thanks for the 2 approaches.

I'm trying Rancoras' method first (Rescue Mode from Unofficial Ubuntu Guide) ... but I'm stuck at trying to gain root user access BEFORE I can restore GRUB.

I booted up using the ubuntu installation CD (4.10 warty). Just prior to the "Partition disks" step, I activated the console and did the following:

mkdir /ubuntu
fdisk -l /dev/discs/disc1/disc

NOW I'M STUCK !! The next step asks me to enter the following:

mount <wherever your ubuntu root device is> /ubuntu

I don't know what a root device is,  nor do I know where it is (or how to find it).

Anyone ? 

Thanks - iminj

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2005-01-02
It's the partition where your root filesystem is.  You should see it listed from the output of the command immediately before the step you are doing.

---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-03
Sorry, but this isn't working for me (yet).

I've tried various combinations of mount commands, but can't seem to get anywhere.  I've booted with a linux live CD, and found my grub menu.lst file which is as follows:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# Generated by grubconf-0.5.1
default=0
timeout=10

title Windows 98
#:1 <-- type: 0 => linux, 1 => windows, 2 => other
	rootnoverify (hd0,0)
	makeactive
	chainloader +1
title Ubuntu
#:2 <-- type: 0 => linux, 1 => windows, 2 => other
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.8.1-4-386 root=/dev/hdb1 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.8.1-4-386
savedefault
boot
title Ubuntu (Recovery Mode)
#:2 <-- type: 0 => linux, 1 => windows, 2 => other
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.8.1-4-386 root=/dev/hdb1 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.8.1-4-386
savedefault
boot
title Memory Test
#:2 <-- type: 0 => linux, 1 => windows, 2 => other
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Does this file provide the necessary info to gain root user access, and later to restore grub?  If so, what is the correct command to mount my root device? 

thanks - iminj

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2005-01-03
What was the output of this command?
```
fdisk -l /dev/discs/disc0/disc
```

---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-03
Thanks for helping me thru this .. it's VERY appreciated.

Here is output of fdisk -l /dev/discs/disc0/disc:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Disk /dev/discs/disc0/disc: 80.0GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 x 512 = 8225280 bytes

Device: dev/discs/disc0/part1
Boot: *
Start: 1
End: 9729
Blocks: 78148161
id: c
System: W95 FAT32 (LBA)

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I also ran fdisk command for disk1 ... ( I have a part1, part2 and part5). Let me know if you want to see the output of this as well.

Thanks - iminj

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2005-01-03
Yup, let me see the output for disc1 as well.  Looks like that's where ubuntu is.

---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-03
OK, here's fdisk output for disk1:

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Drive: /dev/discs/disc1/part1
Boot: *
Start: 1
End: 12703
Blocks: 6002136
id: 83
System: linux

Drive: /dev/discs/disc1/part2
Boot:
Start: 12704
End: 13328
Blocks: 295312+
id: f
System: W95 Ext'd (LBA)

Drive: /dev/discs/disc1/part5
Boot:
Start: 12704
End: 13328
Blocks: 295281
id: 82
System: linux swap 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
-iminj

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2005-01-03
You already tried this command for the mount?
```
mount /dev/discs/disc1/part1 /ubuntu/
```
That's where ubuntu is installed.

---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-03
YESSS !! I am in root access.

I never tried mount in this format before ... was trying "mount /dev/hdb1 /ubuntu" etc .... (all of course, in vain).

I have a screen with "grub>" , but not sure what to do next to restore my GRUB menu:

root (hd0,0) - returns: file system is fat, partition type 0xc
setup (hd0) -  returns: Checking if "/boot/grub/stage1" exists ...no
                                     Checking if "/grub/stage1" exists ...no

Should I assume that hd0,0 is the wrong location .... ?? How do I know which device/location to enter here?

-iminj

---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-03
FOLLOW-UP:

grub> root (hd1,0)
grub> setup (hd1)

successfully found:
 
boot/grub/stage1
boot/grub/stage2
boot/grub/e2fs/stage1_5
Its runs "embed /boot/grub/e2fs/stage1_5 (hd1)" .... 16 sectors succeeded
Runs "install /boot/grub/stage1 (hd1) (hd1)1+16 p (hd1,0)/boot/grub/stage2/boot/grub/meni.lst" ... succeeded
Done.

Looks pretty good so far.

When I enter "quit", remove the ubuntu CD, and reboot .... it boots into Windows, NO GRUB menu ....

Close, but not quite there yet.

iminj

---

### Post by miss tina on 2005-01-03
hello 
I know a trick that maybe can help yo in future, don't instal grub on your primary disk but do it on your second one... (if yo have one...)a linux distro never kills a windows but, win will kill linux bootloader after installation if its on disk one, even if yo install win on your 2nd disk( isn't posible with win98), Let your machine boot from the second one(bios settings) so if yo want to reinstall win, it w'll not delete the grub, switch back in bios to boot from disk 1 before installation of windowz, yo have to change some things in grub to boot your windows....if it isn't on the primary disk use 'map' 
[COLOR=YellowGreen]
title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.8.1-4-686
root            (hd2,0)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.8.1-4-686 root=/dev/sdb1 ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.8.1-4-686
savedefault
boot


title Windows XP
map (hd0) (hd1)
map (hd1) (hd0)
rootnoverify (hd1,0)
chainloader +1
makeactive[/COLOR]

the map stuff will let win think its booting from disk one wich has to be disk one for win98

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2005-01-03
[QUOTE=iminj]grub> root (hd1,0)[/QUOTE]
I think that's correct, at this point you're telling grub where your Ubuntu install is.
> grub> setup (hd1)
I think this should be (hd0), at this point you're telling grub where you want it installed (which I assume is the first disk).  If you have a working install, try
```
man grub
```
in a terminal to see exactly what those commands are doing.

---

### Post by iminj on 2005-01-03
Problem SOLVED.

grub> setup (hd0) did the trick !! 
I exited, and rebooted into my GRUB menu.

A "tip of the hat" goes to Rancoras, who so patiently stayed with me thru the process of solving this. THANKS.

I would guess that a high % of ubuntu users dual boot with some version of Windows. Since Windows is NOTORIOUS for requiring re-installation for a variety of reasons - the bootloader over-write problem is probably a widespread one. 

It would be nice to have a simpler, more intuitive process to re-install GRUB - or better still, a ubuntu software solution that PREVENTS Windows from trampling over users' MBR.

---

### Post by Rancoras on 2005-01-03
You're welcome.  :D

---

