---
title: "Hide files that start with ~$"
date: 2010-08-23
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by freelyx on 2010-08-23
Hey Guys,

Is there a hide file list in ubuntu where I can add files that start with ~$ and it work exactly like adding a dot in front of said files?

(My objective is to hide files that are automatically generated by solidworks and clutter the server...)

Thanks,
freekyx

---

### Post by KdotJ on 2010-08-23
Hey, while I don't know the answer to your actual question, I have a suggestion for a possible alternative.
How about you direct the created files to a folder, and have that folder as hidden by giving it a dot prefix?

Although, I don't know if it's possible to choose an output folder for the created files from solidworks?

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2010-08-23
> **freelyx said:**
> 
(My objective is to hide files that are automatically generated by solidworks and clutter the server...)


What do you mean "clutter the server". Hidden files are still there, they are simply not read by commands like "ls" and graphical tools like Nautilus and Dolphin. There is no global concept of hidden files in Linux (unlike windows), the rule for the files starting with a dot is more like a common convention.

Depending on what exactly you are trying to hide, you can check the type of program that you are using, Nautilus, Dolphin, Krusader, Thunar and see what kind of options they have. For terminal commands, you can try:

```
ls --hide=~\$*
```
or simply
```
alias ls='ls --hide=~\$*'
```
or add the above line to your .bashrc file.

---

