---
title: "11.04 terminal and app launcher"
date: 2011-08-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Z.K. on 2011-08-29
I added the terminal to the app launcher in 11.04 and it works, but if you click on it again, it won't bring up a second terminal.  Is there a way to get it open up more than a single terminal if it is in the app launcher?  Yes, I know I can use the app search and start another one that way, but that is unhandy.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-08-29
Try the middle-click, if you have a button/wheel therefore. Or if you need to emulate it, see here:

[http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/06/emulate-middle-click-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/06/emulate-middle-click-in-ubuntu.html)

Greetings.

---

### Post by Z.K. on 2011-08-30
> **Krytarik said:**
> Try the middle-click, if you have a button/wheel therefore. Or if you need to emulate it, see here:

[http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/06/emulate-middle-click-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/06/emulate-middle-click-in-ubuntu.html)

Greetings.

I think there is a little confusion here.  I am not talking about my mouse actions.  In the classic Gnome interface I can click the terminal icon and it brings up a terminal.  If I click it again, it brings up a second terminal and so forth.  

In 11.04 though I click the terminal in the apps bar and it brings up a terminal, but if I click it a second time, it goes to the same terminal instead of bringing up a second terminal.  If I need a second terminal I have to bring up the apps list and search for terminal again and then click terminal in the list to bring up a second terminal.  Very unhandy and so I was wondering if there was way to make the terminal that I added to the apps bar to bring up a separate terminal each time I click on the icon.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-08-30
> **Z.K. said:**
> I think there is a little confusion here.  I am not talking about my mouse actions.  In the classic Gnome interface I can click the terminal icon and it brings up a terminal.  If I click it again, it brings up a second terminal and so forth.  

In 11.04 though I click the terminal in the apps bar and it brings up a terminal, but if I click it a second time, it goes to the same terminal instead of bringing up a second terminal.  If I need a second terminal I have to bring up the apps list and search for terminal again and then click terminal in the list to bring up a second terminal.  Very unhandy and so I was wondering if there was way to make the terminal that I added to the apps bar to bring up a separate terminal each time I click on the icon.

Like Krytarik said, middle-click the icon if you want to launch another instance of a program instead of focusing on currently open window.

There is no way to change the behavior to launch a new window with left click, as the left click already has other functions (focusing an open window and moving you to it's desktop, or showing all the application's windows if there are more than one open) and making it open a new window instead would leave you with no way to do those things.

(Also if you have a terminal open already you can just hit Ctrl-n to open a new window)

---

