---
title: "5.04 text startup on 5.10"
date: 2005-11-28
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by missmoondog on 2005-11-28
how do get the default brownish boot splash screen on my computer? out of 5 computers i maintain, this one, after upgrading from 5.04 to 5.10, boots with the black & white scrolling text as in hoary. never has booted with the screen found in breezy. once it gets to the desktop, it is all breezy looking. i've been searching ever since i did these upgrades and nothing i've tried has done anything. also, maybe along the same lines, this computer is the only one that gets a warning at startup that says fatal: module ext2 not found. i've been searching for that one also. any ideas anybody?

thank you

---

### Post by NeoChaosX on 2005-11-28
Run this command
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure linux-image-`uname -r`
```
then reboot.

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2005-11-28
worked perfectly.

thank you

any idea what i did differently on this computer, which was my 4th one to be upgraded, to make it do that? thought i did everything the same on all of them except for the method of upgrading. this one was second one attempting to upgrade from a cd. first one worked perfectly.

thanks again

edit:
doing what you suggested also changed the "switching to run level" number when shutting down. for some reason it was at 6 (all other machines go to 0). now it is at 0 too!! cool!!

---

### Post by artinla on 2005-11-28
I would like to know the answer to that myself.  My system always had the text based boot splash after upgrading to breezy..  I ended up reinstalling Ubuntu for other reasons or I might never have known that the brown boot splash existed.

What specifically does the -reconfigure option do to the kernel image?

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2005-12-09
somewhat of an ongoing issue. now this computer starts up with brownish screen but when it gets to the mounting root file system part (third item it loads) it switches back to the black & white scrolling text. desktop is the default breezy screen still.

should I run that sudo dpkg-reconfigure linux-image-`uname -r` again?

---

