---
title: "Ubuntu 9.04 Resolution Problem"
date: 2009-06-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Jeanprixx on 2009-06-16
[COLOR=Blue]hi every one i need some help regarding my desktop resolution its current size is 800x600 and there is no other choices my OS is Ubuntu 9.04 (newly installed) i search the net a found something like editing the xorg.conf but I'm confuse on wich should i changed and what to put on. so i copy my xorg.conf and show you guys so you can tell me what too do. if i press monitors auto adjust it suggest changging my resolution to 1024X768

here's a screen shot of my Display setting i dont know why but i cant post the image so here is the link: [**Display Settings**]("http://img195.imageshack.us/i/screenshotqrq.png/") 
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/%5BURL=http://img195.imageshack.us/i/screenshotqrq.png/%5D%5BIMG%5Dhttp://img195.imageshack.us/img195/8633/screenshotqrq.th.png%5B/IMG%5D%5B/URL%5D[/IMG]
[/COLOR][IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/%5Burl=http://img195.imageshack.us/i/screenshotqrq.png/%5D%5Bimg=http://img195.imageshack.us/img195/8633/screenshotqrq.th.png%5D%5B/url%5D[/IMG]

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by days_of_ruin on 2009-06-16
Can you change the refresh rate? Sometimes changing that gives you different
resolution options.

---

### Post by ~sHyLoCk~ on 2009-06-16
Did you install your graphics driver? Which video card do you have?

---

### Post by Jeanprixx on 2009-06-17
> **~sHyLoCk~ said:**
> Did you install your graphics driver? Which video card do you have?

i use command lspci and found my
VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, INC. CN700/P4M800 Pro/P4M800  CE/VN800 [S3 UniChrome Pro]

i try to install driver for this but all i can get is for windows and it won't let me install the driver.

also when i 1st use it using Ubuntu 7.10 na resulotion works fine with 1024X786 resolution but when i re install and change it to Ubuntu Version 9.04 then the problem on resolution happens. :(

---

