---
title: "11.04 upgraded to ubuntustudio and lost the sleek desktop effects"
date: 2011-08-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by match417 on 2011-08-04
I upgraded to ubuntustudio last night while I was sleeping, and when I woke up this morning and restarted the laptop the sleek desktop environment was gone. I actually liked that layout. I can't find a way in the settings to re-enable it. I even uninstalled the ubuntustudio suite and restarted the system. Nothing changed. Do I have to reinstall 11.04?

I really love the new layout..
as a side note, I had a small bug with it when I tried to enable the compiz effects. when I enabled the rotating cube and restarted the system the menus were gone and it was only a blank desktop

---

### Post by match417 on 2011-08-04
I don't think I left enough info. Yesterday I wiped the partition i had 10.04-LTS on, and installed a fresh copy of 11.04. Last night before I slept I opened synaptic package manager and selected all of the ubuntustudio packages to upgrade to while I was asleep. This morning I restarted the laptop and the sleek desktop visualization effects were gone. Fancy sidebar dock, window effects, and the other fancy stuff. So I opened synaptic package manager again and uninstalled everything but the ubuntustudio audio/video/graphics program plugins. When I restarted it still looked the same. Now it just looks like my 10.04 install with a different wallpaper.

Are the visualization effects enabled in the compiz settings?

---

### Post by match417 on 2011-08-04
solved!

I reinstalled compizconfig-settings-manager because it wasn't checked in the synaptic package manager anymore. I was playing around with the new compiz settings yesterday before I installed ubuntustudio and I noticed a new thing that wasn't in 10.04, it is the "ubuntu unity plugin". When I looked in the compiz settings today noticed it had unchecked itself after I installed ubuntustudio. I checked it and then resolved the conflicts. I have sweet visuals again!

I will say again..SOLVED!

---

