---
title: "11.04 Add item to notification area"
date: 2011-04-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DryChili on 2011-04-04
Hello!

How can I add an item to the notification area? Right click and add does not work with natty!

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-04-04
In the Unity interface, the notification area is fixed - it only displays running daemons that support the appindicator spec. What are you trying to add, specifically?

---

### Post by truant on 2011-04-04
Yeah, I was wondering about this too.

I like to have a cpu/memory/etc monitor in my top panel, and a stickykeys notification applet and so on.

---

### Post by DryChili on 2011-04-05
I'd like to add a wheater applet and the system monitor (memory, cpu, network usage).

Why is that area fixed? In my eyes thats a regression and complete nonsense.

---

### Post by truant on 2011-04-05
Personal preferences for cpu, weather and so on applets aside, not having a Keyboard Status Notification is a SERIOUS accessibility issue.

Like, "I'm going back to Debian" kind of serious. I can't use my computer without stickykeys, and stickykeys without notifications doesn't work.

Ubuntu won't be the first OS I've chucked because of broken accessibility.  I shall be sad to see it go though.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-04-05
I can't imagine a major a11y item like that wouldn't be ported over to the Appindicator framework. That's just absurd. File a bug if it's not there yet.

---

### Post by mick222 on 2011-04-05
> **truant said:**
> 
Like, "I'm going back to Debian" kind of serious. I can't use my computer without stickykeys, and stickykeys without notifications doesn't work.


 Why not just use the classic desktop that will still be included, instead of throwing a hissy fit. Of course if you prefer Debian you should use it instead.

---

### Post by truant on 2011-04-05
> **Copper Bezel said:**
> I can't imagine a major a11y item like that wouldn't be ported over to the Appindicator framework. That's just absurd. File a bug if it's not there yet.

Way ahead of you.  :)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/751207](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/751207)

And Mick, calm down.  I'm not throwing anything. Of course I'll run Debian if that's what I prefer to do, and one of the best things about the whole FLOSS movement is that I get to make that choice.  I just think it's potentially a great shame that those of us with physical access problems might be excluded from using Unity, is all.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-04-05
> **truant said:**
> Way ahead of you.  :)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/751207](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/751207)

Excellent. = )

---

### Post by Dutch70 on 2011-04-05
> **truant said:**
> Way ahead of you.  :)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/751207](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/751207)

And Mick, calm down.  I'm not throwing anything. Of course I'll run Debian if that's what I prefer to do, and one of the best things about the whole FLOSS movement is that I get to make that choice.  **I just think it's potentially a great shame that those of us with physical access problems might be excluded from using Unity, is all.**

You're not. Not yet anyway, you can still login to the Gnome or classic DE, whatever it's called. At least until 11.10.

---

### Post by truant on 2011-04-05
> **Dutch70 said:**
> You're not. Not yet anyway, you can still login to the Gnome or classic DE, whatever it's called. At least until 11.10.

Unity, not Ubuntu.  :)

Anyway, I've just discovered the same issue exists in GNOME Shell, so it's off to their bugzilla I go..

---

### Post by DryChili on 2011-04-05
Copper if I undertand you correctly the interface to this notification area has changed. But customization is still possible. Is there any app around which shows cpu/mem/net usage?

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2011-04-05
Since my knowledge of Unity is all second-hand - I've used a highly customized Classic Gnome until very recently, and now I'm using Compiz Standalone with parts of Gnome - I'm actually not the person to ask. Unity *does* use a new notification area (called an Appindicator tray) and only applications designed to be compatible with that spec will be supported. It's fairly random - WebUpD8 has had some posts lately on applications that are newly supported, but it's likely to be a slow and incomplete process depending on what you're looking for. Something like StickyKeys is certain to be supported soon. Others are less likely, and the more "third-party" the applet, the less likely it is to be ported.

---

### Post by nLinked on 2011-04-05
> **DryChili said:**
> Copper if I undertand you correctly the interface to this notification area has changed. But customization is still possible. Is there any app around which shows cpu/mem/net usage?

I've ended up using indicator-sysmonitor for this. Not as good but better than nothing.

---

