---
title: "11.04 freezes with no reason.."
date: 2011-06-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-09
happend to me twice- once while browsing with chrome and once with firefox..the system just freezes, the mouse still move but nothing else is clickable.

ctrl+alt+backspace doesnt work,ctrl+alt+f1 does work-takes me to the command line evn. but i dont really know what to do next.

any suggestions on how to find the reason for the freezing ? and what to do next?

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-09
Can you log in in the terminal and run the command 
```
top
```

This will show all active processes, so you'll see whether some process takes all CPU power, or if someone takes all memory (which results in swap being used)

in the list of commands, each command has a PID and you can kill it with
```

kill* PID*

```

were off coarse, you need to use the right PID. If it is more than one process, you can also use killall, followed by the name of the program. e.g. 

```

killall bash

```

will kill all bash instances.

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-09
thanks alot for this!
 also after runing top you simply need to press on the k button and then it asks you for pid

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-09
> **genia said:**
> thanks alot for this!
 also after runing top you simply need to press on the k button and then it asks you for pid

Right, I always forget that feature.

Which process was the problem?

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-09
dont know cause it haven't freeze since my posting

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-10
it froze again last night with no particular reason..this time i didnt even had access to the cli.

how can i find the reason for the freezing?

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-10
If you don't have access to the cli, that's difficult.

does it happen sudden? or do you feel it coming (by blowing fans or slower speed)? 

You could setup a conky to monitor your cpu and ram. If you never used conky, do a search for conky-colors, that's a bash script that makes you a simple conky with some options.

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-10
no,all was fine and normal and then out of the blue it froze.
any way to analyze log of something?

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-10
> **genia said:**
> no,all was fine and normal and then out of the blue it froze.
any way to analyze log of something?

I don't think there are logs about what app uses how much memory and how much CPU. you may be able to create such a log yourself. I will look into it when I'm at my computer.

---

### Post by shafin on 2011-06-10
It was happening to me too. I had to use ctrl-alt-f1 and then sudo service gdm restart a lot. At the end, I decided to reset my compiz configurations, and that did the trick, no freeze ups till now.

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-19
it just froze again.
firefox was open with few tabs,i left the computer for few minutes and it froze.
tried the top command,killed FF and still nothing-only the mouse moved.
what to look in the log files? what should i search for?

---

### Post by phonky on 2011-06-19
have you tried shafin's tip to
reset your compiz configuration?

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-19
i did it a while ago, although i'm not sure i did it right

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-19
hi,

I think i had this too, just two days ago. It happened when I went to this site: [http://frontdoor.cloudapp.net/](http://frontdoor.cloudapp.net/)

BUT when I waited long (more than 2 minutes) everything was working again. And now, I don't have to wait anymore.

Is it the same problem with you?

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-19
the website works perfectly.nothing froze.

---

### Post by phz_swe on 2011-06-19
Can you isolate the problem more? Does it happen only on battery or only on AC? Does it happen only with WLAN or only with wired? Does it seem to be related to network activity or anything else?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-20
Hi, here is a link for common freezing problems in natty.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)

---

### Post by genia on 2011-06-21
phz_swe:
the last 2 times were while the computer was on AC power(with the battery inside),i dont use lan so i cant tell about it,it also doesnt seem to be network related..the last time i just left firefox open and went away for about 5 min and when i came back it froze with the mouse active,tried killing it using the top command wich also didnt helped.

wildmanne39,i will take a look at it now.

---

### Post by ElighCS on 2011-07-20
I'm having the same error in 10.10 on a new machine ASUS N53S. It seems to happen when I try to open a new tab.

---

### Post by ergo-proxy on 2011-07-24
I had something very similar. I wasn't able to move windows, nor resize them but I was able to move the cursor and the keyboard was working fine too. Anyway I did reset compiz/unity and reinstalled them too, I also removed my non-standard nautilius version as imo something was wrong with gtk <-> compiz. It did help. :KS

---

