---
title: "(12.04) Reverting back to older Intel 855GM drivers"
date: 2015-02-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by JoFu2k15 on 2015-02-08
I'm running xubuntu 12.04 on an old Amilo M 7400 with 512MB RAM and an Intel 855GM graphics card.
 I'd like to revert back to an older intel driver that is capable of using "AccelMethod" "xaa".

I noticed this article [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ReinhardTartler/X/RevertingIntelDriverTo2.4)

Is there some way to this with xubuntu 12.04? 
As far as I know "xaa" support has been removed from the intel driver with 2.8 so I need an older version;)

Any comments would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-02-08
Hi, welcome to the fora.

For this graphics card I suggest Lubuntu 14.10. It most likely works in first attempt but you can switch to UXA if you follow the method described in the link in my signature. I don't think XAA has advantages compared to UXA and EXA.

---

### Post by JoFu2k15 on 2015-02-10
I have some reasons to believe xaa may perform better. Then again it's only supposed to be a test, as I don't won't to tun that old software.  Video playback with VLC is unstable with Xubuntu 12.04, kernel 3.2.0.76 and "intel_drv.so" version 2.17.0 (xorg.log).  From the xorg.log I noticed XvMC is disabled, even the docs state it is supported. I will generate an xorg.conf with this setting enabled. [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/i386/xserver-xorg-video-intel/2:2.17.0-1ubuntu4.4](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/i386/xserver-xorg-video-intel/2:2.17.0-1ubuntu4.4)    I will keep trying different things. Crunchbag I think, Xubuntu seems to heavy for 512MB at this point anyway;) You put a lot of effort into your "Bringing old hardware back to life" thread. Thx!

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2015-02-10
weak cpu & low ram ouch !!!

you might be better off running 12.04lts till it ends in 2 years. i would run elementary luna on that.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-02-11
Xubuntu 12.04 is only a three years LTS, ending this april.

Please post the results when you have tested Lubuntu 14.10. I have good experience using 14.10 on old Intel graphics.

---

