---
title: "0.1.9999.2 beryl update"
date: 2007-02-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by jornahow on 2007-02-14
Having been burned by prior Beryl updates, I am holding off on this one until I hear from others braver than me.  Has anybody installed the 0.1.9999.2 beryl update?

Just as a side question, why is it that the updates are made available before there is a list of changes?  I never like to install an update without reviewing the changes.  It seems to me that the update and the list of changes should be available contemporaneously, not tagging along hours or days later like some lost sheep.:confused:

---

### Post by ctt1wbw on 2007-02-14
I'm holding off too.  Although I'm showing updates to Beryl 0.2.0 from Feb 12th.

---

### Post by floke on 2007-02-14
All fine with me, although am not using Nvidia!

Good luck

---

### Post by NickPresta on 2007-02-14
I updated with the i386 package and all is well (apparently). They fixed the black screen when using water effects too!

---

### Post by ronmarley1 on 2007-02-14
Things are fine with me on Intel 810 integrated on my Thinkpad laptop.

---

### Post by jornahow on 2007-02-14
Thanks for the feedback.  Glad to hear it's working for the most part.  Anyone with Nvidia updated?
I'm using 9746 beta on edgy 64.

---

### Post by iamhugeinjapan on 2007-02-14
Nvidia with AIGLX here, updated fine. (GNOME in Edgy x86)

---

### Post by astoltz on 2007-02-14
> **jornahow said:**
> Thanks for the feedback.  Glad to hear it's working for the most part.  Anyone with Nvidia updated?
I'm using 9746 beta on edgy 64.Yep, I've got the 9746 drivers and the latest Beryl.  No problems here.

---

### Post by highneko on 2007-02-14
No problems here using nvidia. If they're not showing a list of changes then I agree. They should definitely do that.

---

### Post by aldreis on 2007-02-14
NVIDIA 9746, Edgy Gnome x86. 
Everything seems to work flawlessy, AFAICT. ;-)

---

### Post by jornahow on 2007-02-14
Thanks for the responses.  I did the upgrade - there were no glitches.  I rebooted and all is working as before.  I haven't explored settings manager to see what if anything has changed - don't see any differences so far.  My practice with beryl, much as I like it, is to always revert to metacity before shutting down and only loading beryl from my desktop - just in case.  Beryl does seem to be more stable now than in he earlier versions however.  Seems like the Compiz v. Beryl argument is over and Beryl has now displaced Compiz for most who want 3D desktops.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2007-02-15
> **jornahow said:**
> ...
Seems like the Compiz v. Beryl argument is over and Beryl has now displaced Compiz for most who want 3D desktops.

Except for (at least one of) the [Beryl devs]("http://dev.beryl-project.org/~cyberorg/beryl/14/beryl-where-do-we-want-to-go/") :p.

---

### Post by JensenDied on 2007-02-15
Intel i810 drivers on 915 chipset works fine 

also i just install beryl and this is the first version used
even added some stuff on the intel drivers in the wiki hope they help someone

---

### Post by Kateikyoushi on 2007-02-15
Works fine on intel 855, although a bit slow.

---

### Post by luvinit on 2007-02-15
its super slow and jerky on my comp.

---

### Post by WijbrandSchaap on 2007-02-15
My screen blanked out. (nvidia 5700 LE) There were some vague outlines visible, but i couldn't  see any setting to tinker with, because of this white-out, had to ctrl+alt+Backspace, open an xterm and then completely autoremoved beryl.

---

### Post by jeremytaylor on 2007-02-15
It killed mine too. ATI with XGL. Just get a white cube :-(

Jeremy

---

### Post by betamax on 2007-02-15
Hi,

Same here running ATI.
Gonna try removing it and reinstalling...

---

### Post by shane.reid on 2007-02-15
working fine on ati x200m

---

### Post by jeremytaylor on 2007-02-15
Okay, it does work with the "use copy" option. Found this solution on the Beryl forums. Some people have complained that it results in serious slow downs but that doesn't seem to be noticeable on my radeon mobility x600.

Jeremy

---

### Post by ctt1wbw on 2007-02-15
> **shane.reid said:**
> working fine on ati x200m


Now THAT's good news.  it's what I have.

---

### Post by jornahow on 2007-02-15
I have noticed that since the update gdesklets cause some problems.  When I have a couple running (clock and weather) and rotate my cube, the cube goes dark in certain positions.  This does not happen when I stop the desklets daemon.

---

### Post by jornahow on 2007-02-16
I narrowed down the desklet problem.  When 3D effects - raised windows is enabled and window thickness is turned off in beryl settings manager, if the cube is rotated so that the raised desklet is edge on to the screen the desktop goes dark, but only while the cube remains in that position.  If edge thickness is turned _on_ the darken effect does not happen - curious.

---

### Post by luvinit on 2007-02-16
Ok I have managed to change the super jerkyness to super smooth by updating the nvidia driver. I used "envy" cus its easier. Found out some useful info on this forum

[http://www.fedoraforum.org/forum/showthread.php?t=146283&page=4&pp=15](http://www.fedoraforum.org/forum/showthread.php?t=146283&page=4&pp=15)


envy is located here

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by Maxtorm on 2007-02-17
One small bug I have seen since the update is when mousing over window controls.  I'm using the Blue Satin theme.  The window controls look normal until you mouse over them.  They don't throb (as they did before the update) and when you mouse out, the icons go completely white.

See attachments for example.

---

### Post by jasonxh on 2007-02-17
> **jeremytaylor said:**
> It killed mine too. ATI with XGL. Just get a white cube :-(

Jeremy

exactly the same here with x1300 fglrx driver

---

