---
title: "11.04, Natty, glxgears works ok, but not Unity, any ideas please??"
date: 2011-05-22
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Sun.Dial on 2011-05-22
**Ubuntu 11.04 Natty: glxgears works ok at 53fps, but not Unity 3D, and ideas please??** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		Setup: Toshiba M300 laptop, Ubuntu 11.04, Intel 855GM graphics

Hi,
I've persevered with this for 2 days searching for answers and trying many, but still no success.
On a previous installation of Ubuntu 9.10 I had similar problems with  Compiz, but managed to get all the 3D effects working in the end, so I  am assuming I will eventually succeed with 11.04 on the same laptop.

I have found recommendations referring to 'glasen' drivers for the 855  graphics, and following the instructions thought I would end up with an  'additional driver' for the Intel chips, but did not.

Other posts referred to 'glxgears' which works at about 53fps.

I have Ubuntu-Tweak installed and the option for Unity  in Compiz manager is checked.
None of the Compiz effects work.

When rebooted, the logon menu available after I click on my username  does not mention Unity by name, but the word Ubuntu is in italics, and  also Ubuntu Classic but in normal typeface.

When I first installed 11.04, the system informed me that I did not have  the correct hardware to run Unity at that point, and defaulted to the  desktop I am used to from 10.10, Gnome.

I would like to try Unity and so any help or advice would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks,
Sun

---

