---
title: "[SOLVED] Advanced Desktop Effects not working in Fresh install of Gusty Gibbon"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Backpacking_nerd on 2008-03-05
[SIZE="2"]Hello, 

Just this morning I installed Gusty Gibbon on a Lenovo ThinkPad T61 (fresh install, not an upgrade).  The last time I used Ubuntu was a few releases ago so I was excited to try to use Compiz as my new window manager (and enable the advanced desktop effects).  I have gone in and installed the Compiz Advanced Desktop Settings package (ccsm) and yet every time I go to System>Preferences>Appearance>Visual Effects and select "Custom" to change my visual effects I get an error that tells me "Desktop Effects could not be enabled."  The hardware itself is a Lenovo ThinkPad T61 running an Intel Core 2 Duo T7300 on a GM965 Express Chipset with the X3100 graphics controller.  I am running a Samsung 906BW screen off of my base station with dual head enabled, but advanced effects still doesn't work even if the laptop is on its own.  Below is a copy of my xorg.conf output.  I'll be happy with any advice I get!  

Thanks, 
-- 
backpacking_nerd





# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SyncMaster"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"SyncMaster"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x1440" "1440x900" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection[/SIZE]

---

### Post by hobo on 2008-03-07
Same here! thinkpad r61e

Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)

---

### Post by jonathanmotes on 2008-03-10
See this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=663848](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=663848)

Be sure to read the posts about enabling video playback after getting compiz to run.

---

### Post by dvd32sorin on 2008-03-10
Try ```
 compiz --replace 
``` in the terminal an copy/paste here the error.

---

### Post by Backpacking_nerd on 2008-03-13
Thank you for everyone that tried to help with this, however due to a hard-drive failure (I was using a pulled drive from another box) I was forced to rebuild the system and with that I went back to the dark side (Windows XP) on this machine.  I will continue to use UbuntuStudio on my desktop so I will not be leaving the community just yet. 


Thank you again, 

Backpacking_nerd

---

