---
title: "14.10 image program bug?"
date: 2014-11-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Hesediel on 2014-11-05
I have installed Xubuntu 14.10  i cant set as default real image viewers. I can set ristretto as a default program but the system still opens images with firefox. Ho to solve that?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-11-05
There seems to be a problem in 14.10 of many file-types opening by default in the "wrong" application and apparently there is a bug already lodged at launchpad regarding this
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunar/+bug/1382977](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunar/+bug/1382977)
There are also some other forum threads, so you are certainly not alone.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250940&p=13157292#post13157292](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250940&p=13157292#post13157292)
Try Elfy's solution in post #12, but change the file-type, of course to images.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2014-11-05
> **Hesediel said:**
> I have installed Xubuntu 14.10  i cant set as default real image viewers. I can set ristretto as a default program but the system still opens images with firefox. Ho to solve that?

In Xubuntu 14.10, I was able to set the default to Ristretto for an image type by:

Right click on image icon in file manager, and choose Open With > Open With Other Application > Choose Ristretto. Click open. This dialog also sets default application to Ristretto (note checked box on bottom). Next time, it will open files of that type when double clicked. You might have to reboot before it lists at the top of the menu, but after that it is fixed for good. 

I had do do this once for each different image type: jpg, png.

For other file types, I read should be fixed in an update soon.

---

