---
title: "9.10 - Gnome Panels Icons Not Words For Programs"
date: 2010-01-31
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Crucias on 2010-01-31
I have a netbook and the screen means i have to auto hide the bottom panel to access programs.

Problem is it pissed me off always expanding when i was near the bottom of the page. My solution was to put the panel on the left. Now when it expands i cannot see the names just ...

I could expand the panel pixels, but can i make it become symbol only? Like windows 7 taskbar? Im new to Ubuntu, i would need guidance.

Thanks for your patience,

Crucias

PS - I know about hiding the panel, just was looking for a more elegant solution

---

### Post by sxmaxchine on 2010-01-31
yea it is quite easy you just need to install dockbarx (i think it comes with a win7 like theme) then remove the windows switcher and add dockbar x to the panel.

[http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/DockbarX-Download-48207.html]("http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/DockbarX-Download-48207.html")

---

### Post by chewearn on 2010-01-31
Another way is to improve the behaviour of panel hiding.  Detail settings can be made in gconf-editor, under:
apps > panel > toplevels > *

Here are my personal modification.    I like the panel to hide completely (well almost, I can't made it hide beyond 1px), and be snappy rather than glide slowly up and down, making you wait.

1. auto_hide_size = 0
Therefore, the panel is hidden except for 1px strip

2. enable_animations = unchecked
The animation only slows it down.

3. hide_delay = 500
The panel hides itself after 0.5s

4. unhide_delay = 100
The panel shows itself after 0.1s

---

