---
title: "11.04, Gnome, Wobbly, bouncing after snapping"
date: 2011-06-16
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by fly2k on 2011-06-16
Hi!

Most times I use snapping windows (shift + move), the windows still continuously bouncing after the moving is done(the mouse button is released). The snapping work ok, the windows sticks to the screen edges ok, but once I released the mouse, the windows starts bounce and it make the whole snapping function completely unusable.

I use snapping feature under wobbly windows. Standalone plugin 'snapping windows' works ok, but I like wobbly windows :) It was ok before upgrade to 11.04.

Help me plz.

---

### Post by fly2k on 2011-06-21
up

I noticed the problem appears only at left or right sides of the screen.

---

### Post by ratamovic on 2011-06-23
Hi, I have the same problem with Wobbly windows snapping.
It was working (almost) right in previous release, but since Ubuntu 11.04, it is practically unusable. Windows keep bouncing all the time and actually never get snapped...

Any solution?

---

### Post by ratamovic on 2011-06-23
After some search, I guess this is related to this bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/751324](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/751324) and [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/797186](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/797186) and maybe some others...

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-24
Hi, the instructions that I use for the cube says to disable snapping windows when using wobbly windows, so I have never tried snapping.

---

### Post by nzjethro on 2011-06-24
Try playing around with the Wobbly Windows settings. I'm not on my Ubuntu machine now, so I can't check the specific setting, but I know when I was playing around with Wobbly Windows I found that one of the sliders in the Behaviour tab affect bouncineness. Play around with the sliders and try see if anything makes a difference.

---

### Post by ratamovic on 2011-06-24
Already tried playing with wobbly settings but nothing make it works right. And as I said, default settings were working perfectly in previous version...
Thanks anyway

---

