---
title: "10.04 - &quot;report incorrect urgency?&quot;"
date: 2010-09-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by RiskySeven on 2010-09-04
Hi All.  My GUI seems to be stuck in some sort of debug mode.  If a battery or network notification pops up in the upper right hand corner of my screen...there are lines thru the popup (sort of looks like nine slicing), and what looks like a debug message...."<urgencyLevel> - report incorrect urgency?".  I'm not sure what might have been done in the system to turn these on....I know they weren't always there.  Any idear how to turn these off?  Thanks.

---

### Post by tom4everitt on 2010-09-04
If you're like me you don't really care if the desktop settings are restored to defaults (i.e like they were when you first installed the system). 

In that case, my favorite recipe is to erase all configuration files for the desktop. Then when you restart the default ones will be recreated in their place. I find this to be a really convenient solution to many desktop-oriented problems (not caring of the drawback of losing my settings). 

So how to do this:
1. Open a terminal (You find it under Applications -> Accessories)

2. Run: 
```

rm -rf .gconf .gconfd .gnome2 .gnome2_private

```

Technically, the problem is probably just related to one of these folders, but I usually find it the easiest to just remove all of them.

3. Restart your computer (if you want you can restart only gdm, which is faster, by running
```

sudo restart gdm

```
in the terminal.)

---

### Post by RiskySeven on 2010-09-05
Tom, thanks for your reply.  I tried your recipe....everything seems to have reset, but the debug notifications are still there.  I'm wondering if I pulled down a package w/ some debug code or something?

---

### Post by tom4everitt on 2010-09-05
Hmm, then I don't know...

---

