---
title: "Geforce Go video drivers.  Need some help."
date: 2005-08-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by snoochems on 2005-08-07
Hi all.

I'm trying to slowly get my self into using ubuntu. It's installed on my laptop so i can take it to uni etc.

Anyways, i'm just taking it slowly, learning a few things when i get some time to kill.

I really want to get the video all sorted out though. The rest can wait, but it's a pain in the arse ATM as everything chugs around the place.

Anyways, i have no idea how to install anything on this OS yet, let alone video drivers.

Can someone walk me through this one just so i can learn the rest in comfort?

The laptop is a Dell Inspiron 8500.

---

### Post by GavinX on 2005-08-07
I take it that the Laptop uses an Nvidia card. If that is the case, follow the instructions here and all will be well. [http://www.ubuntuguide.org/#installnvidiadriver](http://www.ubuntuguide.org/#installnvidiadriver)

---

### Post by snoochems on 2005-08-08
Okay, i've managed to install the video drivers.

For the most part, there is far less 'chug' when scrolling around and moving windows.

But it still isn't totally gone.

Are there drivers specifically made for 'go' video cards that i need or what?

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-09
[QUOTE=snoochems]Okay, i've managed to install the video drivers.

For the most part, there is far less 'chug' when scrolling around and moving windows.

But it still isn't totally gone.

Are there drivers specifically made for 'go' video cards that i need or what?[/QUOTE]

Ok, exactly what Go card do you have?  How much memory is on there?

Can you try 'glxgears', how fast is your frame rate?

Can you post the output of glxinfo?

What is in your xorg.conf file (for the driver section)?

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2005-08-09
To see your xorg.conf:  gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Which procesor do you have? Perhaps you need to install the right kernel to get it chug-less



.:=The AI Dude=:.

---

### Post by snoochems on 2005-08-09
*Gets back on chair*

You guys blow me away... all right i will look into all that mumbo jumbo...

I do know, how ever, the Processor is a Intel P-M 2.4GHz, and the video card is a GF4go 4200 with 64MB of ram.

---

### Post by snoochems on 2005-08-09
Here's my xorg.conf:

[B]
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV28 [GeForce4 Ti 4200 Go AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-75
	VertRefresh	30-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV28 [GeForce4 Ti 4200 Go AGP 8x]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1920x1200"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1920x1200"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1920x1200"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1920x1200"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1920x1200"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1920x1200"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by snoochems on 2005-08-09
glxgears:
13562 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2712.400 FPS
13582 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2716.400 FPS
13542 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2708.400 FPS
12919 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2583.800 FPS

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-09
OK, the first error I see is :
 Load "dri" 
Should be commented out like this :
```

# Load "dri"

```

But that does not explain the slowness.

But there are a couple of things we can do to speed things up (requires some tweaking, so beware).

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-09
[QUOTE=snoochems]glxgears:
13562 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2712.400 FPS
13582 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2716.400 FPS
13542 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2708.400 FPS
12919 frames in 5.0 seconds = 2583.800 FPS[/QUOTE]

That sounds pretty good for that type of card...

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-09
Ok, one thing to try is Accellerated rendering.
Put a line 'Option "RenderAccel"' in xorg.conf like this:

```

Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NV28 [GeForce4 Ti 4200 Go AGP 8x]"
Driver "nvidia"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Option "RenderAccel"
EndSection

```

Then, restart the Xserver (or just reboot).

Note: RenderAccel is an extension from Nvidia, it is not 100% tested, it it causes crashes it should be removed.  On my laptop it is running fine though.

---

### Post by snoochems on 2005-08-09
Hey, i was thinking the slowness may be to do with the CPU.

It is a P4 2.4GHz that gets underclocked to 1.2GHz. 

Is there a chance that it's stuck at 1.2GHz all the time.

Is there a way to disable this underclocking in ubuntu?  I've looked in the BIOS and you can't disable it there.

---

### Post by snoochems on 2005-08-09
[QUOTE=Artificial Intelligence]

Which procesor do you have? Perhaps you need to install the right kernel to get it chug-less



.:=The AI Dude=:.[/QUOTE]

Can someone please explain to me by 'the right kernel'?

---

### Post by cjoshuav on 2005-08-09
Are you folks still going to be around when I do a clean install with my GeForce Go 6800 Ultra (256MB) card?

Joshua

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-10
Sure.

If I should miss your thread, send me a private message and I'll chip in.

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-10
[QUOTE=snoochems]Can someone please explain to me by 'the right kernel'?[/QUOTE]

Yes.

By default, Ubuntu comes with an i386 compiled kernel (which will in theory work on an 386 PC).  It is limited to something like 800 MB RAM.

There are a number of kernels compiled for other processors that support high memory and have optimisations specificly for thos processors.  In your case, you will need a 686 kernel (linux-686 in synaptic I think).

BTW, Did you try the RenderAccel option?

---

### Post by nocturn on 2005-08-10
[QUOTE=snoochems]Hey, i was thinking the slowness may be to do with the CPU.

It is a P4 2.4GHz that gets underclocked to 1.2GHz. 

Is there a chance that it's stuck at 1.2GHz all the time.

Is there a way to disable this underclocking in ubuntu?  I've looked in the BIOS and you can't disable it there.[/QUOTE]

try in a terminal 

sudo /etc/init.d/powernowd stop

Does it scale up now?

---

