---
title: "12.10 problems"
date: 2012-11-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by eddier on 2012-11-02
Additional Hard drives and removable items such as cd/dvd and memory sticks appear twice on the desktop !!

 Anyone else noticed this or have I snarfed my installation somehow? It seems to work ok otherwise.

Minor gripes, AWN has been dropped from repo's and synaptic is not installed. Both have been resolved. Cairo installed instead of AWN.

(Yes I prefer this type of dock!)

I had tried to install Voyager (12.10 based) but this failed miserably part way through after deciding I didnt have a network card,on 2 pc's.

eddie

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-11-02
Appear to be a known bug.

[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/xubuntu#TOC-Clean-up-your-desktop](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/xubuntu#TOC-Clean-up-your-desktop)

---

### Post by eddier on 2012-11-02
Thanks howefield. Desktop a bit tidier now! Allthough Thunars sidepane is still crowded,but I can live with that until a fix is found.

eddie

---

### Post by Lito00 on 2012-11-02
I say the same but xubuntu get install nautilus by default so you can use that, another way to fix its is with the comand 

1)```
alt+f2
```
2)```
xfdesktop --reload
```

the thunar problem sometimes fix it but another has not, i would recomend you nautilus try

```
nautilus
``` on the terminal

and you use it as the default file manager

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-11-02
> **eddier said:**
> Thanks howefield. Desktop a bit tidier now!

You're welcome, I stumbled on that fix after setting it up that way, nothing on the desktop, clean clear... and empty. Didn't realise it was a bug till you asked the question :)

> Allthough Thunars sidepane is still crowded,but I can live with that until a fix is found.

Mine was like that but somehow isn't now, perhaps when you reboot it will be ok.

---

