---
title: "12.04 Desktop Wallpaper\Background changer - Wallch"
date: 2012-05-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by drumour on 2012-05-01
If you are using 12.04 and are looking for a desktop background\wallpaper changer I recommend giving Wallch a try.
 The latest version is available via the Software centre or Synaptic.
 I disagree with the two current reviews in the Software centre, I have found it user friendly, easily configured and working smoothly with both Unity 3d and Unity 2d.
 I use it for my own backdround art only but it also has options for Live Earth and Picture of the Day...

---

### Post by ferd on 2012-05-01
> **drumour said:**
> If you are using 12.04 and are looking for a desktop background\wallpaper changer I recommend giving Wallch a try.
 The latest version is available via the Software centre or Synaptic.
 I disagree with the two current reviews in the Software centre, I have found it user friendly, easily configured and working smoothly with both Unity 3d and Unity 2d.
 I use it for my own backdround art only but it also has options for Live Earth and Picture of the Day...
Thank you so much for the tip. However, there does not appear to be a way to adjust for scale for this app. If there is, would you direct me to it? Thanks again. Found it.

---

### Post by temporos on 2012-05-07
I've noticed two *really* annoying problems with Wallch.
[LIST=1]
[*]**The app hangs out in the Launcher.** You can unlock it, but then you can't access the UI again without crashing it. A utility like this is supposed to work in the background unseen.
[*]**The display preference is stuck on "zoom."** You can change it in the Preferences window (I prefer "scale"), but even after you save it, the mode is reset to "zoom" the next time the background is changed.
[/LIST]
If it wasn't for these two issues, Wallch would be a really nice utility.

---

### Post by Max Blyss on 2012-05-07
Wallch has been working fine for me in 12.04...  A nice thing to have in your arsenal if your machine's going to be on all day.

---

### Post by temporos on 2012-06-05
> **Max Blyss said:**
> Wallch has been working fine for me in 12.04.

Your preferences aren't stuck on "Zoom?"  I'd really like to change it to "Scale," but it keeps changing itself back.

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-06-06
> **temporos said:**
> Your preferences aren't stuck on "Zoom?"  I'd really like to change it to "Scale," but it keeps changing itself back.

Yes, it's true, this is an i-want-to-hide-from-my-program's-users bug hehehe. We were in a hurry releasing Wallch 3.0 because of our finals, and such bugs appeared from nowhere :P

Anyway, we've fixed this bug and also, we have added the option to 'hide' the application when 'start' is pressed. If you have selected to minimize to tray, then it lays there if you press the start button. I guess that's what you want ;)

---

### Post by temporos on 2012-06-06
> **hakermania said:**
> Anyway, we've fixed this bug...

When is this update going to be available?  I'm still running 3.0, and Wallch never seems to show up in the Update Manager.  Do I need to un/reinstall for the update?

Also, do you know if Wallch will run under Lubuntu?  I haven't found any reliable info about this on Google.  :-?

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-06-07
> **temporos said:**
> When is this update going to be available?  I'm still running 3.0, and Wallch never seems to show up in the Update Manager.  Do I need to un/reinstall for the update?

Also, do you know if Wallch will run under Lubuntu?  I haven't found any reliable info about this on Google.  :-?

We are going to do many fixes on Wallch and we will provide them altogether, we don't like small changes -> new update, just like what firefox does nowadays.

The update will be available some time this summer. Omgubuntu.co.uk may inform you for it, but you have better check the site now and then (look my signature)

As for Lubuntu (LXDE), Wallch has already been tested there and works like a charm ;), so keep an eye for new updates :)

---

### Post by jockmullin on 2012-06-15
I have been using Wallch for a couple years on 11.10. Abt 2 wks ago upgraded to 12.04; everything went OK but today went into the Wallch GUI configuration and found everything in Arabic! No idea how that happened; but would like to change it to a language I know (English, French, Spanish, Portuguese).

If anyone has a hint how to do that would be pleased to hear.

Thanks, Jock.

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-06-15
> **jockmullin said:**
> I have been using Wallch for a couple years on 11.10. Abt 2 wks ago upgraded to 12.04; everything went OK but today went into the Wallch GUI configuration and found everything in Arabic! No idea how that happened; but would like to change it to a language I know (English, French, Spanish, Portuguese).

If anyone has a hint how to do that would be pleased to hear.

Thanks, Jock.
Hello, this is a known bug and sorry for this...
Removing the file
```

~/.config/Wallch/Preferences.conf

```
and restarting Wallch should fix the problem!

Sorry for the inconvenience!

---

### Post by jockmullin on 2012-06-17
Great, thanks for the quick and effective response. That did indeed fix it. 

Jock

---

### Post by Gaygerbil on 2012-06-18
I really have to test if Wallch actually works in Lubuntu, would be the first wallpaper changer I can actually get to work in this distro lol. Right now I've been using my own script though and it works like a charm through Openbox.

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-06-18
> **Gaygerbil said:**
> I really have to test if Wallch actually works in Lubuntu, would be the first wallpaper changer I can actually get to work in this distro lol. Right now I've been using my own script though and it works like a charm through Openbox.

Be patient for the next release :)

I am on Lubuntu right now and the developing application of Wallch works like a charm :D

---

### Post by basarix on 2012-07-01
Any time frame on the 4.0 version?

the 3.0 "zoom" bug is extremely annoying to the point of considering to replace wallch till the new version comes out.

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-07-02
> **basarix said:**
> Any time frame on the 4.0 version?

the 3.0 "zoom" bug is extremely annoying to the point of considering to replace wallch till the new version comes out.

Yes, I feel you! But,  hold your horses! I am planning to release a new PPA in launchpad and you will be able to download it through there. It will not be a normal stable release of Wallch. It will be something like Wallch 3.5 :)

But, be patient for another 1 week, until the showdown contest is over, because we participate and we have no time for Wallch, right now :)

---

### Post by maestro73 on 2012-07-06
Hi, I just installed Wallch but I can't make it work. I get a message that I gotta stop the running process, that is the actual wallpaper from the settings menu. What should I do?

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-07-06
> **maestro73 said:**
> Hi, I just installed Wallch but I can't make it work. I get a message that I gotta stop the running process, that is the actual wallpaper from the settings menu. What should I do?

Hello, please check if Live Earth Wallpaper or Picture Of The Day processes are running, from the Edit->Extras dialog. That should be it.

---

### Post by basarix on 2012-07-20
> **hakermania said:**
> Yes, I feel you! But,  hold your horses! I am planning to release a new PPA in launchpad and you will be able to download it through there. It will not be a normal stable release of Wallch. It will be something like Wallch 3.5 :)

But, be patient for another 1 week, until the showdown contest is over, because we participate and we have no time for Wallch, right now :)

are we there yet?

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-07-21
Yep! Forgot to update this thread! To install the testing series of Wallch and receive updates for them:
```

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:wallch/3+
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install wallch

```

**The new things till now**:
1) Wallch can sit on tray on startup preferences
2) Drag and drop works with folders
3) Option for timeout on startup preferences (Wallch first waits the timeout and then launches)
4) Option for first timeout and then change wallpaper (default is: change wallpaper, timeout, change wallpaper, timeout, ...)
5) Options --change, --start can take as arguments Wallch Album or Folder to work with. If not such arguments are being specified, then wallch works with the last list used by the user.
6) Options --merge-albums and --create-album from command-line added
7) Open current image's path
8) Multiselection on the list with the wallpapers has been enabled. Now you can select lots of wallpapers altogether and drag and drop them so as to move them, or press the Delete key so as to remove them
9) In the past, when Wallch run in the background and the user called the GUI, the process stopped and the GUI was shown. Now, unless the user doesn't work with the last list used by the user (but with an album or a folder), the process doesn't stop, but it migrates to the GUI.
10) New Contents file (accessible from F1)
11) Set Custom Command dialog, which enables Wallch to work in all major Desktop Environments, as well as enables the user to select its very own command for the wallpaper changing process, in case his Desktop Environment isn't listed by Wallch.

**Minor changes**:
1) Added an animation to the Preferences dialog

**What is about to be done**:
1) Better history dialog, with options for removing specific entries, open folder/copy path/properties of every specific entry
2) Properties with seek buttons (next-previous picture)

**In our to-do list**:
1) Better First-Run dialog
2) Icons instead of paths to be shown to the list by default. User can have the option through the preferences to switch from path mode to icon mode and vice versa.

Please don't hesitate to suggest new things you'd like to see and to report bugs at launchpad (see sig)

---

### Post by basarix on 2012-07-21
Now we're talking.....
i just tried on one of my boxes and the default style of wallpaper works like a charm...

now i just have to update all those other boxes stuck at zoom.....

thnx dude, great work there, and great tool you made btw...

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-07-21
> **basarix said:**
> Now we're talking.....
i just tried on one of my boxes and the default style of wallpaper works like a charm...

now i just have to update all those other boxes stuck at zoom.....

thnx dude, great work there, and great tool you made btw...

Thanks :)

We really couldn't develop Wallch as much as we wanted the past 9 months because of the preparation for our finals (we were finishing school) and then, when we finished, we participated in the Ubuntu Showdown Contest which lasted 3 weeks. After those, I worked again in Wallch!

---

### Post by Chogan on 2012-10-23
**it has some bugs**
i installed it in ubuntu 12.04 unity 2d, and it is good but with some bugs. in every startup it forget saved preferences and i should customise it again.
how can i solve this?

---

### Post by leon.vitanos on 2012-10-23
> **Chogan said:**
> **it has some bugs**
i installed it in ubuntu 12.04 unity 2d, and it is good but with some bugs. in every startup it forget saved preferences and i should customise it again.
how can i solve this?

we will release wallch 4.0 in November with a lot of the bugs fixed.. you can always report a bug at our launhpad page ([https://launchpad.net/wallpaper-changer](https://launchpad.net/wallpaper-changer)) so we fix it in 4.0 version..

customize ur settings however u like and hit Ctrl+Q to close wallch completely.. that will save ur settings :guitar:

---

### Post by Houmie on 2012-11-13
Hey guys,

I am using wallch 3.01 on Ubuntu 12.10.

When I go under extras and activate the Picture of the Day. After a reboot, it is no longer active and I have to activate it again.

How can I add this functionality to startup? So that it adds the picture of the day automatically upon login?

thanks,
Houman

---

### Post by leon.vitanos on 2012-11-13
> **Houmie said:**
> Hey guys,

I am using wallch 3.01 on Ubuntu 12.10.

When I go under extras and activate the Picture of the Day. After a reboot, it is no longer active and I have to activate it again.

How can I add this functionality to startup? So that it adds the picture of the day automatically upon login?

thanks,
Houman

Go to preferences->Start Up options and enable the picture of the day option :guitar:

---

### Post by Houmie on 2012-11-13
> **LeonTastyDev said:**
> Go to preferences->Start Up options and enable the picture of the day option :guitar:


Ahh I didnt see that. That was easy ;-) Thanks

Great app by the way. Keep it coming.  Only one thing the 1000 free pictures can't be downloaded. Server limit reached.  In times of cloud, things like this should be no problem. Maybe it could be distributed by Torrent instead?

---

### Post by leon.vitanos on 2012-11-13
> **Houmie said:**
> Ahh I didnt see that. That was easy ;-) Thanks

Great app by the way. Keep it coming.  Only one thing the 1000 free pictures can't be downloaded. Server limit reached.  In times of cloud, things like this should be no problem. Maybe it could be distributed by Torrent instead?

I am collecting some 1000 new ones.. 1920x1080 instead of 1440x1990.. because 90% don't have widescreen..

We will be sharing it via torrent so they will never be down..
I will post a link here when the torrent is up and running, be sure to subscribe at this topic or give me an email to contact u :popcorn:

---

### Post by Houmie on 2012-11-14
> **LeonTastyDev said:**
> I am collecting some 1000 new ones.. 1920x1080 instead of 1440x1990.. because 90% don't have widescreen..

We will be sharing it via torrent so they will never be down..
I will post a link here when the torrent is up and running, be sure to subscribe at this topic or give me an email to contact u :popcorn:

Sounds great. Looking forward to it.  Just a heads up regarding picture of the day.

I just have logged in and the picture of the day hasn't changed. (I still get the close up picture of a tree, even though the one on WIkipedia is now different)

```
ps aux | grep wallch
2342  0.0  0.1 654736 24416 ?        Sl   09:33   0:00 /usr/bin/wallch --picofday
```

This seems to be running correctly and I can see manually that picture of the day is activated, however no reaction.  I wonder if this is a bug or am I doing something wrong?

:confused:

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-11-14
> **Houmie said:**
> Sounds great. Looking forward to it.  Just a heads up regarding picture of the day.

I just have logged in and the picture of the day hasn't changed. (I still get the close up picture of a tree, even though the one on WIkipedia is now different)

```
ps aux | grep wallch
2342  0.0  0.1 654736 24416 ?        Sl   09:33   0:00 /usr/bin/wallch --picofday
```

This seems to be running correctly and I can see manually that picture of the day is activated, however no reaction.  I wonder if this is a bug or am I doing something wrong?

:confused:

Weird. Are you sure that you haven't set the time of POTD change to be late at night/afternoon etc? Because it will wait till then. I can confirm that the POTD has been updated by our server which provides the link around 07:00 Greece's time (GMT +2)

---

### Post by Houmie on 2012-11-14
> **hakermania said:**
> Weird. Are you sure that you haven't set the time of POTD change to be late at night/afternoon etc? Because it will wait till then. I can confirm that the POTD has been updated by our server which provides the link around 07:00 Greece's time (GMT +2)

So you were right, I had missed it that it was set at midnight. :D
It is working now.

So what happens if I set it to 7 AM, but the pc is turned off?  Does it still stack the job until its turned on, or would it try again at the day after?

---

### Post by hakermania on 2012-11-15
It should detect that the time has passed and it will attempt to download the POTD as soon as possible.

---

### Post by malspa on 2012-11-26
> **LeonTastyDev said:**
> customize ur settings however u like and hit Ctrl+Q to close wallch completely.. that will save ur settings

I could not get the "Timing Selection" to stick between sessions -- every time I logged into a new session, the delay reverted to my previous setting (10 minutes) instead of the current one (1 hour). Ctrl+Q does the trick. Thanks!

---

### Post by Houmie on 2013-06-18
Guys,

Have you noticed wallch doesn't work with Ubuntu 13.04 anymore?

Neither the Picture of the day nor the earth show any activity. It remains black.

Is there any update for this?

P.S. Here in UK Piratebay website is closed down. Is there any way to download the 1000 wallpapers elsewhere? I tried isohunt and it finds teh torrent, however the tracker sits on piratebay and hence it remains blocked.

Many Thanks,
Houmie

---

### Post by go2jimmys2 on 2013-08-23
For ubuntu 12.10/13.04 try this:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:wallch/3+
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install wallch
```

[HR][/HR]
 For ubuntu 12.04 what i did is to upgrade the dependencies for the program:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-sdk-team/ppa 
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

and then i installed the program from the .deb file which i downloaded from there:
(Download the version for your system architecture)

```
https://launchpad.net/~wallch/+archive/3+/+packages
```

---

