---
title: "Change resolution to 1024x768"
date: 2007-12-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by aflog on 2007-12-20
I have installed Xubuntu 7.10, and i have have the problem that the maximum resolution i can set in Xubuntu is 800x600. My monitor doesnt display the fonts etc well in this resolution and i would like to change it to 1024x768 (what i have on Win XP). Can i do this?

---

### Post by Damanther on 2007-12-20
What video card/driver are you using?

---

### Post by bharadwaj on 2007-12-20
hey try enabling the restricteddrivers this worked for me but on ubuntu

---

### Post by BillDozer on 2007-12-20
Most of the time a change of monitor (with the correct refresh rates) will do the trick. My KVM switch doesn't allow the connected PC's to read the monitor information and when I force ubuntu to use my a specific monitor, it always works.

Administration -> Screens and Graphics (or something like it, not at my Ubuntu box right now).

Edit: Sorry I can see that you use Xubuntu, I don't know it there, but it probably is something similair.

---

### Post by aflog on 2008-01-13
Sorry ive been so long to reply, but i had some problems but im back up running now, and still havent figured it out :S

My monitor is: Sony CPD-E200/E200E
I tried using the restricting drivers and it wont let me (says my hardware doesnt need it)
I tried fiddling with "Screens And Graphics" (under settings ;)) but no results.

Thanks for your help

Jden

---

### Post by aflog on 2008-01-14
Ok new developments lol

Now whenever i start Xubuntu i receive a message "Xubuntu is no running in low-graphics mode" so i told it to always run there... This is because, i open Applications > Settings > Screens and Graphics and change the graphics card to the correct one (Matrox Millenium) and then Ok, Ok then i open it back up and its changed back to "vesa" which is not correct... (and i only have options for 800x600 and the one below it atm)

Thanks in advance

Jden

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-01-14
Could you please post the contents of your "/etc/X11/xorg.conf" file here?

---

### Post by aflog on 2008-01-14
Sure lol

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Matrox Graphics, Inc. MGA 2064W [Millennium]"
	Driver		"mga"
	BusID		"PCI:0:11:0"
	Option		"OldDmaInit"		"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"CPD-E200"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Matrox Graphics, Inc. MGA 2064W [Millennium]"
	Monitor		"CPD-E200"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection


Im completely new to anything linux lol so slow is helpful :D
Tho... what ive seen and what works so far i love, and this would really help lol... as i type now i cant even read the text im typing xD

Jayden

---

### Post by exile on 2008-01-14
I personally would start by dropping to 16bit

change DefaultDepth 24 to DefaultDepth 16

save and then restart X (usually CTRL-ALT-BACKSPACE) and see if that makes a difference. The card may not support 24bit colour at those resolutions (memory dependent).

---

### Post by aflog on 2008-01-14
Awesome!! thanks man!! (or woman :D)
Works perfectly :D

now as its 1.38AM i really should be off now xD
thanks again!

Jden

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-01-15
Also you may consider changing the line

```
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
```
to
```
Modes "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
```

---

