---
title: "Desktop Settings"
date: 2008-05-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by The Minder on 2008-05-11
Gentlemen,

My system is an Asrock P4vm890 mobo with an nVidia GeForce 7200 GS video card running Ububtu 8.04.   On this forum there are way too many posts from people having screen resolution/desktop settings/desktop visual effects problems and I have joined the throng.   Until I upgraded to 8.04 I would have said that nothing would take me away from Ubuntu, but today I say that release 8.04 just might do it.   I find it totally unacceptable that 8.04 has made it so difficult to set basic things like screen resolution.

Computers are no longer the realm of white coats and clean rooms, they are consumer items and consumers just want the product to work.   It is unrealistic to expect a consumer to have to resolve such a basic issue as screen resolution by having to:
[INDENT]open a terminal screen and type in gibberish such as grep | frizbiscuit --rm perp +somethingorother,
cut and paste the result to a forum and try to explain the problem in sufficiently technical jargon such that one of the moderators/responders (who I admire greatly) can provide a reasoned response,
mess around downloading new packages that may or may not solve the problem,
only to have Ubuntu go off and do it's own thing anyway on the next boot.[/INDENT]

So here's my problem:

After trying numerous options like:
[INDENT]having the Grub loader fix the x-server settings,
using Envy to load the nVidia drivers,
using the nVidia configuration tool to make the settings changes (this didn't work as it said I wasn't running the right xserver but when I entered the command nVidia suggested, nothing happened), and
setting the screen resolution countless times only to have it revert to 800x600 on the next reboot.[/INDENT]
I am now totally fed up.   As much as I hate M$, at least M$ allowed me to set video drivers and screen resolutions without difficulty.   Why can't Ubuntu do the same thing?

Yes, I have searched this forum for a solution, but all I find is countless others having basically the same issues and sometimes getting those issues resolved, but there's no common solution.   What works for one person does not work for the next poor smuck.   nVidia seems to be the main source of concern.

My system is currently running in 1280 x 1024 mode but I will bet London to a brick that on the next reboot it will be back to 800 x 600.

If anyone has any suggestions on a 'simple' way of invoking the nVidia drivers, maintaining a stable screen resolution and being able to use the higher end visual effects on the desktop I would be grateful and will Fedex my first born promptly to the saviour.

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-12
Can you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by The Minder on 2008-05-12
sure can..

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"nVidia"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x1024"
	Horizsync	31.5-64.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0	-	65.0
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	1024
		Modes		"1280x1024@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" #         
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"nVidia"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nVidia"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" #         
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" #         
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
EndSection

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-12
Nothing jumps out at me there to be honest, sorry.

---

### Post by The Minder on 2008-05-12
tx anyway.

The only thing I noticed was:

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Boardname "nVidia"
Busid "PCI:2:0:0"
[COLOR="Red"]Driver "nv"[/COLOR]
Screen 0
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

That indicates that the nVidia driver is not being used.   That's supported by system>administration>hardware drivers shows that the restricted NVIDIA driver is installed but not in use.   When I activate the restricted driver that's when the world turns to crap.

Regards

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-13
In that case try installing envy, uninstalling the current nvidia drivers and then using envy to install an older version of the driver.  It may be that you only have problems with the current driver?

---

