---
title: "9.10 dontzap doesn't work to enable ctrl-alt-backspace"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rhauff on 2009-11-11
Xubuntu 9.10

I've tried running "dontzap --disable", and verified that it put

Section "ServerFlags"
Option "DontZap" "false"
EndSection

into my xorg.conf

I've also tried creating an .xinitrc and adding:

setxkbmap -option terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp

logged out & back in, and still can't kill X.
I know Ubuntu is great and all, and getting more stable all the time, but this should STILL be enabled by default.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-11-11
Are you aware that you can use **Alt-Gr+Print Screen+K** instead?  Why is it so important that it should be **Ctrl+Alt+Backspace**?

---

### Post by rhauff on 2009-11-11
"Why is it so important that it should be Ctrl+Alt+Backspace? "  It's not, that's just what always used to work, and is all I know of.

What is Alt-Gr?

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-11-11
> **rhauff said:**
> "Why is it so important that it should be Ctrl+Alt+Backspace? "  It's not, that's just what always used to work, and is all I know of.

What is Alt-Gr?

Dontzap doesnt' work, you have to enable that in System>Preferences>Keyboard>Layout>Layout Options

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-11-11
clicking log off in the user shutdown will do the same thing, also if your used to the crtl alt backspace is it due to freeze ups? Also I believe the don't zap requires a reboot to work.

---

### Post by rhauff on 2009-11-11
> **Arup said:**
> Dontzap doesnt' work, you have to enable that in System>Preferences>Keyboard>Layout>Layout Options

This is on Xubuntu, which has XFCE desktop, and does not have an option under Keyboard layout to enable.

---

### Post by rhauff on 2009-11-11
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> clicking log off in the user shutdown will do the same thing, also if your used to the crtl alt backspace is it due to freeze ups? Also I believe the don't zap requires a reboot to work.

Yes, I've rebooted.  And yes, this is for desktop freeze ups.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-11-11
> **rhauff said:**
> Yes, I've rebooted.  And yes, this is for desktop freeze ups.

Try this method for freeze ups.
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key)

How often is it freezing up and how many things are you running when it happens and what is the chip speed and ram amount?

---

### Post by rhauff on 2009-11-12
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Are you aware that you can use **Alt-Gr+Print Screen+K** instead? 
OK, just found that Alt-Gr is the same as Alt.

However, Alt+Print Screen+K calls up a screenshot app on my system, instead of killing X.
Same with any ofthe Alt-SysRq combinations from this:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key)

---

### Post by cincibcat on 2009-11-17
Here is a post which shows how control alt backspace can be enabled:

[http://jasonmiazga.com/wordpress/?p=14](http://jasonmiazga.com/wordpress/?p=14)

---

### Post by rhauff on 2009-11-17
> **cincibcat said:**
> Here is a post which shows how control alt backspace can be enabled:

[http://jasonmiazga.com/wordpress/?p=14](http://jasonmiazga.com/wordpress/?p=14)

Hey!  That works perfectly, thanks for posting that.

---

### Post by YUMESUKI on 2010-07-29
> However, Alt+Print Screen+K calls up a screenshot app on my system, instead of killing X.
Same with any ofthe Alt-SysRq combinations from this:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key)either change the screenshooter from 'Alt+Print' to maybe 'Shift+print'
OR
the default on our systems is 'Ctrl+Alt+Print' for the magic SysRq key (~_^)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-07-29
> **YUMESUKI said:**
> either change the screenshooter from 'Alt+Print' to maybe 'Shift+print'

1. Necromancing.

2. Pressing Alt-PrintScreen brings up a screenshot dialog, but as soon as you hit the K it will kill X and kill the screenshot program anyway.

---

### Post by lord flasheart on 2011-08-14
Got to settings>keyboard>application shortcuts. Click add, enter

> setxkbmap -option terminate:ctrl_alt_bksp

and it'll work with a double tap.

Probably not the best way to do it but it works. If anyone can post what command ctrl+alt+bksp actually runs in gnome etc. it's sure be handy.

---

