---
title: "nvidia seems to be working worse after update"
date: 2009-01-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by phar0z on 2009-01-26
After I've updated to Kubuntu Linux 8.10 some problems appeared. I couldn't get my X11 running with **nvidia**. After some searching my Xorg with nvidia as driver is working with DMKS.

This is my card:

> 1 root@ubuntux $ lspci | grep nVidia
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G73 [GeForce 7600 GS] (rev a2)

Here you see my dkms status:

> 4 root@ubuntux $ dkms status
nvidia, 177.82, 2.6.27-9-generic, i686: install

The problem is that my FPS seems to be much lower than before. Before my update I was able to manage an average FPS of 200 in a game, now it's only around 70. Here you see the outpout of the glxgears command:

> 1 pieterjan@ubuntux $ glxgears
3566 frames in 5.0 seconds = 711.667 FPS
5111 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1022.199 FPS
3936 frames in 5.0 seconds = 784.675 FPS


For those who would like to see my xorg.conf:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#                                                            
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.                                         
#                                                                           
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.           
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)                               
#                                                                           
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg    
# package.                                                                  
#                                                                           
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:                                         
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg                                 

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Option "PixmapCacheSize" "5000000"
Option "AllowSHMPixmaps" "0"
EndSection

Anyone with suggestions?

---

### Post by phar0z on 2009-01-26
When I start an application or when I click on the start button I always notice some mysterious and unclear stripes during a very little time.

[IMG]http://img300.imageshack.us/img300/3848/blokvz7.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Monsieur Gonzalez on 2009-01-26
Well, I don't know about games performance, because I don't play that much, but for me, the on screen "garbage" when opening new windows went away after updating to the nvidia-glx-180 driver. Kubuntu 8.10 with KDE 4.2 RC1. Nvidia Geforce 8600 GT.

Good luck.

---

