---
title: "10.04 freezes 10 seconds after login in kde"
date: 2010-06-27
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by baustromverteiler on 2010-06-27
hi everyone,

I decided to install ubuntu again and downloaded 10.04. I had some issues installing with the desktop version, but everything installed fine with the alternate version.

Now if I want to log in (on the KDE login-screen) the KDE-loading-symbols show up just as they are supposed to do, the desktop shows up (I can see "Desktop Folder and uBlog) and suddenly the mouse/system freezes. Neither Ctrl-Alt-Del isn't working nor Ctrl-Alt-F2 gives any response, all I can do is to reset my computer.

When I use Gnome as a desktop enviroment the computer totally freezes at the login-screen, without giving me any chance of logging in. 

Things I already tried: noapic, nomodeset, noacpi settings when booting, I successfully installed the latest ATI-Driver for my 3870, I disabled compiz.

The kdm log says that there's some problem with an i-bus-daemon. Disabling/restarting the daemon has no effect on the behavior of my installation.

every advice is grealty appreciated as I'm messing around with this problem for about a week now and I'm starting to get frustrated ....

regards, max

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-06-27
it sounds like a hardware issue, run a memory test, give us the specs of your system, tell us if you have multiple desktop environments installed and if you experienced any problems during the install of these environments.

remove any usb devices and pci cards like dialup modems that you don't use.

tell us more about the ati card, was it working better with the OS driver ?


a bad ati driver can send a system crashing into the depths of.....

---

### Post by baustromverteiler on 2010-06-29
thanks for the help, I found out it was my USB-Soundcard that was causing these issues!

---

