---
title: "11.04 Window Manager problems"
date: 2011-05-14
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-05-14
I installed Xubuntu 11.04, it was initially OK but now I'm experiencing various window-manager issues:

1) Windows appear with no title bar
2) Window buttons don't appear in tne desktop panel (despite the "Window Buttons" item being included in the panel with normal settings)
3) I only have a single workspace, even when I go into the settings and set the number of workspaces to 2)
4) The "Window Manager" section of the settings is blank (so I can't change settings to see if this fixes/affects any of the problems).
5) In Firefox (but not any other applications) the pulldown menus vanish as soon as the pointer moves away from the top menubar, such that none of the menu options can be selected.

The Fn+F7 key combination to toggle laptop/external/both display mode doesn't work, and trying to display on an external monitor is what originally seemed to prompt all the above issues.

This makes 11.04 pretty much unusable and I'll have to revert to 10.10 soon (but if I manage to find any resolutions before then I'll post them).

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-14
Sounds like the window manager isn't working. Open a terminal window and type in:```
ps -ef | grep xfwm4
``` Post back the results.

If xfwm is not running, type:```
xfwm4 --display=:0.0 --replace
``` in the terminal window to start it and see if that helps.

---

### Post by ntarnane on 2011-05-14
Thank you very much Toz, your suggestion fixed the problems for me.   :-)

I had exactly the same problems as nicks27. They started suddenly this morning when I booted my PC, yesterday it worked just fine. I'm also running Xubuntu 11.04.

First I run this on a terminal:
ps -ef | grep xfwm4

which returned:

nt      2157  2103  0 15:50 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto xfwm4

Then I run:

xfwm4 --display=:0.0 --replace

And that did the trick. Now it seems to work, even after reboot.

Our problems sound very similar to this bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/770605](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/770605)

---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-05-14
Thanks Toz... I'm afraid I'd already got round to a more drastic solution before I saw your suggestions, but I'll try them next time (which I have a feeling might be soon).

When I created a new user id and logged in it was fine, so it appeared to be something user-specific.
Back in my home directory I tried removing:

[LIST=1]
[*]the .config/xfce4 directory
[*]the whole .config directory
[*]*everything* under my home directory
[/LIST]
and the restart after #3 seemed to fix the issues. I assume something I did when I was trying to configure my laptop to use an external display caused some kind of mis-configuration but I don't know what. I have seen a number of other new threads about problems with dual displays on 11.04. I'll try again to set that up and post if I make any useful findings.

---

### Post by Gaspereau on 2011-05-15
I have the same problem. If i use this:
```
xfwm4 --display=:0.0 --replace
```It works, but after rebooting it's all gone again...

An idea to fix this once and for all?

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-15
Make sure you select the "Save session for future logins" checkbox when you are logging out, or add it to your autostart (Settings Manager->Session and Startup->Application Autostart.

I'm curious why it isn't automatically starting for you. Can you post back the contents of ~/.xsession-errors?

---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-05-16
I managed to get the external display working (by enabling TwinView in the NVIDIA X Server Settings)... pretty much what I did last time which seemed to cause the window display problems, but it was ok this time.

Still no reaction from the Fn+F7 keystroke for toggling internal/external/both displays, which used to work on every Xubuntu I've used previously (from 9.04 to 10.10) on the same machine... is it possible to get this keystroke working again?

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-16
> **nicks27 said:**
> I managed to get the external display working (by enabling TwinView in the NVIDIA X Server Settings)... pretty much what I did last time which seemed to cause the window display problems, but it was ok this time.

Still no reaction from the Fn+F7 keystroke for toggling internal/external/both displays, which used to work on every Xubuntu I've used previously (from 9.04 to 10.10) on the same machine... is it possible to get this keystroke working again?

What kind of system do you have?

---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-05-17
It's a Clevo M66JE laptop.... AMD Turion(tm) 64 X2 (TL-52) CPU and the NVidia C51 chipset with GeForce Go 6100 graphics. Running Xubuntu11.04 32-bit version with the proprietary NVidia accelerated graphics driver (version current) [270.41.06-0ubuntu1].

---

### Post by gsmanners on 2011-05-17
You might try the Settings / Window Manager Tweaks / Compositor tab. It could be that the installer turned on the compositor, but it isn't really working for some weird reason.

---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-05-18
Thanks, I checked the compositor tab (and deactivated/reactivated it) but no change. It didn't seem to have any settings related to dual displays or the Fn+F7 keystroke, and I've still not been able to find any indication as to where this is configured. All the other Fn+F? keystrokes work fine (mute, vol +/-, brightness +/-, etc), it's just the internal/external display one which isn't working.
Assuming it's an XFCE/XFWM-related issue I've posted to the XFCE forum too, and if I find the solution I'll post it here too. In the meantime, any other ideas would be welcome.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-18
Interesting that it worked on previous versions and not on 11.04. Unfortunately, the only time I ever played with internal/external display switching was a few years back and I played around with xrandr to make the changes (can't find my scripts). Perhaps you can look at getting an xrandr script to work and then assigning the Fn+F7 keystroke to that script?

Have a look here for a sample script:
[http://www.bodhilinux.com/forums/index.php?/topic/1221-fix-shortcut-key-to-switch-display-fn-f4/](http://www.bodhilinux.com/forums/index.php?/topic/1221-fix-shortcut-key-to-switch-display-fn-f4/)

---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-05-19
That script you suggested prompted some more web searches and I've found out the following:

The [FONT=Courier New]/etc/acpi/events[/FONT] directory contains two files, [FONT=Courier New]asus-video[/FONT] and [FONT=Courier New]videobtn[/FONT].
These invoke the [FONT=Courier New]/etc/acpi/videobtn.sh[/FONT] script, which issues an  [FONT=Courier New]acpi_fakekey $KEY_VIDEOOUT[/FONT]  command.
The [FONT=Courier New]usr/share/acpi-support/key-constants[/FONT] file contains:
[FONT=Courier New]> KEY_VIDEOOUT=227
KEY_VIDEOMODECYCLE=$KEY_F22
KEY_F22=192[/FONT]
I don't know how this acpi_fakekey works, but I added an [FONT=Courier New]echo[/FONT] command which confirmed that the [FONT=Courier New]videobtn.sh [/FONT]script is being invoked, so the keypress is being detected. Presumably the event is somehow picked up by the Xwindow system but it's not doing anything with it. When I run the xev command, the Fn+F7 keypress generates the following output:
> [FONT=Courier New]MappingNotify event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x0,
    request MappingKeyboard, first_keycode 8, count 248

FocusOut event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x3400001,[/FONT][FONT=Courier New] 
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyAncestor

FocusIn event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x3400001,[/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]
    mode NotifyUngrab, detail NotifyAncestor

KeymapNotify event, serial 34, synthetic NO, window 0x0,[/FONT] [FONT=Courier New]
    keys:  0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   
           0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
[/FONT][FONT=Courier New]
[/FONT][FONT=Courier New] [/FONT]Similar output is generated by  Fn+F6 (which successfully increases the audio volume) but no output is generated for Fn+F9 (which successfully increases the display brightness).

I'm guessing there's some X configuration (Xorg, Xfce/xfwm?) which may have changed between older versions of Xubuntu and 11.04, but I have no idea where to look next.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-19
So it looks like videobtn.sh script is sending KEY_VIDEOOUT (227) to the acpi deamon. Perhaps this is the wrong code for your system. You should be able to run, from the command line```
acpi_fakekey <code>
``` to see if it works. Maybe you can try some of the other codes?

KEY_VIDEOMODECYCLE=$KEY_F22 -> (192)
KEY_PRESENTATION=$KEY_F23 -> (193)

If one of them does work, I'd suggest editing the videobtn.sh script to send the correct code.

---

### Post by ntarnane on 2011-05-19
Now this bug is really getting annoying, it has reappeared for me three times. Fortunately I know how to fix it. 

And to be precise, I have to do two things to fix it, first

> xfwm4 --display=:0.0 --replace

Usually the terminal gets stuck at this point, i.e. the cursor disappears, but not always. 

Next I'll have to press ```
CTRL+c
```

After this everything works normally for a while.

I also have an Nvidia display adapter, a GT220 with the same proprietary NVidia accelerated graphics driver (version current) [270.41.06-0ubuntu1]. Could it be the graphics driver that is causing this behavior?

I have a desktop system running 64-bit Xubuntu 11.04.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-19
I would guess that xfwm4 is crashing. The next time this happens, post back the contents of your ~/.xsession-errors and /var/log/dmesg files. (Remember when posting back file contents to embed them inside the CODE (#) tags).

---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-05-23
An update... running acpi_fakekey <code> from the command line didn't seem to have any effect with any number I tried (227, 192, 193). I couldn't find any reference list of all the codes to identify any other possibilities.

I've found that with the NVidia accelerated graphics driver disabled, the Fn+F7 keystroke pops up a "Display Properties" box which says "Several displays are available. Use: Laptop / Monitor / Both displays cloned"... but with this the external display is limited to 640x480.

Enabling the NVidia driver allows the external display to work at its higher (native) resolution, via manual configuration with the NVida X Server Settings tool, but the Fn+F7 keystroke behaviour of Xfce/Xfwm is overriden and does nothing.

Finally a tool called "disper" was mentioned on the Xfce forums, which is also described in this thread:
    [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1317601](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1317601)
but I've not been able to try it yet.

Ideally I think the Fn+F7 display toggle keystroke really should work out-of-the-box without needing custom scripting solutions. However it's still not entirely clear to me if this is a limitation internal to  the NVidia driver or something to do with how it interacts with the  XWindow system configuration.

PS. When I said it was working on previous versions, I'm now not so sure if  that was with the NVidia driver enabled or if I'd disabled it and  putting up with the low resolution (or worse just dual-booting into  Windows Vista when I had to plug into a projector to give a  presentation).

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-23
> **nicks27 said:**
> An update... running acpi_fakekey <code> from the command line didn't seem to have any effect with any number I tried (227, 192, 193). I couldn't find any reference list of all the codes to identify any other possibilities.

I've found that with the NVidia accelerated graphics driver disabled, the Fn+F7 keystroke pops up a "Display Properties" box which says "Several displays are available. Use: Laptop / Monitor / Both displays cloned"... but with this the external display is limited to 640x480.

Enabling the NVidia driver allows the external display to work at its higher (native) resolution, via manual configuration with the NVida X Server Settings tool, but the Fn+F7 keystroke behaviour of Xfce/Xfwm is overriden and does nothing.

Finally a tool called "disper" was mentioned on the Xfce forums, which is also described in this thread:
    [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1317601](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1317601)
but I've not been able to try it yet.

Ideally I think the Fn+F7 display toggle keystroke really should work out-of-the-box without needing custom scripting solutions. However it's still not entirely clear to me if this is a limitation internal to  the NVidia driver or something to do with how it interacts with the  XWindow system configuration.

PS. When I said it was working on previous versions, I'm now not so sure if  that was with the NVidia driver enabled or if I'd disabled it and  putting up with the low resolution (or worse just dual-booting into  Windows Vista when I had to plug into a projector to give a  presentation).

How about, as a suggestion, booting with the Live CD of a previous version (one of the versions that worked) and seeing if it works then. If so, then try to track down to configuration setting that enabled it?

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-23
Have a look at: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/717142](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/717142)

---

### Post by ntarnane on 2011-05-28
Ok, now it hit me again. Thanks again Toz for helping with this bug. :)

Here's the ~/.xsession-errors

```
/etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup...
Setting IM through im-switch for locale=fi_FI.
Start IM through /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/all_ALL linked to /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/default.
/usr/bin/startxfce4: X server already running on display :0
xrdb:  "Xft.hinting" on line 13 overrides entry on line 6
xrdb:  "Xft.hintstyle" on line 14 overrides entry on line 7
ssh-agent is already running
xfdesktop[1760]: starting up

(xfce4-settings-helper:1769): xfce4-settings-helper-WARNING **: Unknown mode '1280x1024 @ 0,0' for output default.

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Looking at Module: libapplication.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Loading Module: libapplication.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Looking at Module: libmessaging.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Loading Module: libmessaging.so

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): libindicator-WARNING **: IndicatorObject class does not have an accessible description.
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Looking at Module: libsoundmenu.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Loading Module: libsoundmenu.so

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): libindicator-WARNING **: IndicatorObject class does not have an accessible description.

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): libxfce4panel-CRITICAL **: IA__xfce_panel_plugin_add_action_widget: assertion `GTK_IS_WIDGET (widget)' failed
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Application-DEBUG: Connected to Application Indicator Service.
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Messages-DEBUG: new_application_item ("Pidgin-pikaviestin")
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Application-DEBUG: Request current apps
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_volume_slider_widget
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_voip_slider_widget
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: new_title_widget ("gmusicbrowser")
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_metadata_widget
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_transport_bar() called 

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Gtk-CRITICAL **: IA__gtk_widget_realize: assertion `GTK_WIDGET_ANCHORED (widget) || GTK_IS_INVISIBLE (widget)' failed
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-haroYq
GNOME_KEYRING_PID=1861
xfce4-settings-helper: Another instance is already running. Leaving...
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-haroYq
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-haroYq
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-haroYq/ssh
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Messages-DEBUG: new_application_item ("(null)")

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1883): polkit-gnome-1-WARNING **: Failed to register client: The name org.gnome.SessionManager was not provided by any .service files
** (nm-applet:1855): DEBUG: old state indicates that this was not a disconnect 0
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Application-DEBUG: Building new application entry: :1.61  with icon: nm-no-connection at position 0
```


The contents of the /var/log/dmesg is quite long and most of it doesn't seem to have any information related to graphics, so here's a few of the last entries that seems interesting:

```
[   17.165443] nvidia: module license 'NVIDIA' taints kernel.
[   17.165448] Disabling lock debugging due to kernel taint
[   17.185318] ppdev: user-space parallel port driver
[   17.236575] lp0: using parport0 (interrupt-driven).
[   17.684278] HDA Intel 0000:02:00.1: PCI INT A -> GSI 24 (level, low) -> IRQ 24
[   17.684283] hda_intel: Disable MSI for Nvidia chipset
[   17.684332] HDA Intel 0000:02:00.1: setting latency timer to 64
[   17.684337] HDA Intel 0000:02:00.1: PCI: Disallowing DAC for device
[   18.237054] EXT4-fs (md6): re-mounted. Opts: errors=remount-ro
[   18.477553] EXT4-fs (md4): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode. Opts: (null)
[   18.971131] EXT3-fs: barriers not enabled
[   18.971361] kjournald starting.  Commit interval 5 seconds
[   18.980134] EXT3-fs (md3): using internal journal
[   18.980139] EXT3-fs (md3): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode
[   20.130804] HDA Intel 0000:80:01.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 17 (level, low) -> IRQ 17
[   20.130811] hda_intel: position_fix set to 1 for device 1043:81e7
[   20.130857] HDA Intel 0000:80:01.0: setting latency timer to 64
[   20.130862] HDA Intel 0000:80:01.0: PCI: Disallowing DAC for device
[   20.130917] nvidia 0000:02:00.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 24 (level, low) -> IRQ 24
[   20.130924] nvidia 0000:02:00.0: setting latency timer to 64
[   20.130930] vgaarb: device changed decodes: PCI:0000:02:00.0,olddecodes=io+mem,decodes=none:owns=io+mem
[   20.131149] NVRM: loading NVIDIA UNIX x86_64 Kernel Module  270.41.06  Mon Apr 18 14:53:56 PDT 2011
[   20.224445] hda_codec: ALC660: BIOS auto-probing.
[   20.799064] type=1400 audit(1306566293.407:8): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/sbin/dhclient" pid=1091 comm="apparmor_parser"
[   20.800514] type=1400 audit(1306566293.417:9): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action" pid=1091 comm="apparmor_parser"
[   20.800738] type=1400 audit(1306566293.417:10): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/usr/lib/connman/scripts/dhclient-script" pid=1091 comm="apparmor_parser"
[   20.807933] type=1400 audit(1306566293.417:11): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_load" name="/usr/bin/evince" pid=1092 comm="apparmor_parser"
[   20.940448] vesafb: framebuffer at 0xcf000000, mapped to 0xffffc90012800000, using 5120k, total 5120k
[   20.940452] vesafb: mode is 1280x1024x32, linelength=5120, pages=0
[   20.940454] vesafb: scrolling: redraw
[   20.940457] vesafb: Truecolor: size=8:8:8:8, shift=24:16:8:0
[   20.944580] Console: switching to colour frame buffer device 160x64
[   20.944610] fb0: VESA VGA frame buffer device
[   21.324155] ioremap error for 0x7ffb0000-0x7ffb1000, requested 0x10, got 0x0
[   24.271367] EXT4-fs (md6): re-mounted. Opts: errors=remount-ro,commit=0
[   24.328651] EXT4-fs (md4): re-mounted. Opts: commit=0
```

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-05-28
@ntarnane, sorry, there is nothing in either of those files that is helpful. If you haven't logged out yet, post back ~/.xsession-errors.old. Otherwise, next time xfwm crashes, post back the contents of both files.

---

### Post by ntarnane on 2011-05-28
Ok, I haven't logged out so here's the .xsession-errors.old. I hope this helps, now there are some errors.

```
/etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup...
Setting IM through im-switch for locale=fi_FI.
Start IM through /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/all_ALL linked to /etc/X11/xinit/xinput.d/default.
/usr/bin/startxfce4: X server already running on display :0
xrdb:  "Xft.hinting" on line 13 overrides entry on line 6
xrdb:  "Xft.hintstyle" on line 14 overrides entry on line 7
ssh-agent is already running
xfdesktop[1760]: starting up

(xfce4-settings-helper:1769): xfce4-settings-helper-WARNING **: Unknown mode '1280x1024 @ 0,0' for output default.

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Looking at Module: libapplication.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Loading Module: libapplication.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Looking at Module: libmessaging.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Loading Module: libmessaging.so

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): libindicator-WARNING **: IndicatorObject class does not have an accessible description.
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Looking at Module: libsoundmenu.so
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): xfce4-indicator-plugin-DEBUG: Loading Module: libsoundmenu.so

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): libindicator-WARNING **: IndicatorObject class does not have an accessible description.

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): libxfce4panel-CRITICAL **: IA__xfce_panel_plugin_add_action_widget: assertion `GTK_IS_WIDGET (widget)' failed
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Application-DEBUG: Connected to Application Indicator Service.
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Messages-DEBUG: new_application_item ("Pidgin-pikaviestin")
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Application-DEBUG: Request current apps
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_volume_slider_widget
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_voip_slider_widget
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: new_title_widget ("gmusicbrowser")
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_metadata_widget
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Sound-DEBUG: indicator-sound: new_transport_bar() called 

(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Gtk-CRITICAL **: IA__gtk_widget_realize: assertion `GTK_WIDGET_ANCHORED (widget) || GTK_IS_INVISIBLE (widget)' failed
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-haroYq
GNOME_KEYRING_PID=1861
xfce4-settings-helper: Another instance is already running. Leaving...
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-haroYq
GNOME_KEYRING_CONTROL=/tmp/keyring-haroYq
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-haroYq/ssh
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Messages-DEBUG: new_application_item ("(null)")

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1883): polkit-gnome-1-WARNING **: Failed to register client: The name org.gnome.SessionManager was not provided by any .service files
** (nm-applet:1855): DEBUG: old state indicates that this was not a disconnect 0
(xfce4-indicator-plugin:1773): Indicator-Application-DEBUG: Building new application entry: :1.61  with icon: nm-no-connection at position 0
** Message: xfsm-shutdown-helper.c:1470: Using ConsoleKit to Restart
xfsettingsd: Fatal IO error 11 (Resurssi ei tilapäisesti ole käytettävissä) on X server :0.
polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1: Fatal IO error 11 (Resurssi ei tilapäisesti ole käytettävissä) on X server :0.0.
gnome-volume-control-applet: Fatal IO error 11 (Resurssi ei tilapäisesti ole käytettävissä) on X server :0.0.
update-notifier: Fatal IO error 11 (Resurssi ei tilapäisesti ole käytettävissä) on X server :0.0.
nm-applet: Fatal IO error 11 (Resurssi ei tilapäisesti ole käytettävissä) on X server :0.0.
applet.py: Fatal IO error 11 (Resurssi ei tilapäisesti ole käytettävissä) on X server :0.0.
```

"Resurssi ei tilapäisesti ole käytettävissä" means freely translated "Resource is temporary unavailable".

---

### Post by george1984 on 2011-05-30
I am also having this problem. It just did it again - ten minutes ago. I cannot recollect anything that I did to trigger it, although obviously something must have changed.

ntarname's fix worked, namely " xfwm4 --display=:0.0 --replace ".

I am experiencing this as an intermittent and apparently spontaneous event.

This is an install on a laptop for familiarisation/test before I switch all machines to Xubuntu. I will try to be more observant next time.

---

### Post by emackey3k on 2011-06-08
I too am experiencing this problem on 11.04.  The system booted up with the problem.  I also found that my  NVidia accelerated graphics driver has been disabled.  I installed the other graphics driver (version 173) to see if that resolves the issue.  

xfwm4 --display=:0.0 --replace command resolved the issue for me as well.

---

### Post by charliewhizbeez on 2011-06-25
> **nicks27 said:**
> I installed Xubuntu 11.04, it was initially OK but now I'm experiencing various window-manager issues:

1) Windows appear with no title bar
2) Window buttons don't appear in tne desktop panel (despite the "Window Buttons" item being included in the panel with normal settings)
3) I only have a single workspace, even when I go into the settings and set the number of workspaces to 2)
4) The "Window Manager" section of the settings is blank (so I can't change settings to see if this fixes/affects any of the problems).
5) In Firefox (but not any other applications) the pulldown menus vanish as soon as the pointer moves away from the top menubar, such that none of the menu options can be selected.

The Fn+F7 key combination to toggle laptop/external/both display mode doesn't work, and trying to display on an external monitor is what originally seemed to prompt all the above issues.

This makes 11.04 pretty much unusable and I'll have to revert to 10.10 soon (but if I manage to find any resolutions before then I'll post them).

Are you using compiz?

---

### Post by nicks27 on 2011-07-09
Just for completeness, I never did find a satisfactory resolution to the Fn+F7 problem, and that laptop has now had a hardware failure beyond repair. (I'll check it out on my replacement machine).

I still get the xfwm4 issue intermittently on a separate desktop machine also running Xubuntu 11.04. (I'll try to grab my ~/.xsession-errors next time it happens). It's not running compiz.

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-07-09
If using compiz.
install > fusion-icon
from software manager.
this allows you to switch and set window managers.

also
CCSM
(compiz settings manager)

---

