---
title: "Weird external drive and iPod issue"
date: 2007-09-09
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Pablo Pablovski on 2007-09-09
i386 Kubuntu Feisty, fully updated dual boot with XP. ASUS A8n-SLI deluxe mobo

My PC system has two independent Firewire ports - one is connected to a Maxtor 250GB external drive, partitioned into two logical drives - one NTFS (used to back up Windows) and one HFS+, used to backup a (separate) Mac system. The other Firewire port is used to connect an iPod.

I've got fstab configured with the device IDs and mount points as required (I think). 

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automatically generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 EXT3:
UUID=c6660998-b3b9-4150-94a6-b1965443811d / ext3 nouser,defaults,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=3e4a6fa4-14cd-4b19-a892-40c2c4b0d1b0 none swap sw 0 0

# DVD writer
/dev/hda /media/dvd-rw auto user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0

# DVD-ROM
/dev/hdd /media/dvd-rom auto user,atime,noauto,ro,dev,exec,suid 0 0

# Floppy drive
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0

# FAT32 drive
/dev/sdc5 /mnt/FAT32 vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0

# Windows
/dev/sdb1 /mnt/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.utf8 0 0

# NTFS backup
/dev/sdc1 /mnt/NTFS ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.utf8 0 0

# Firewire drive - HFS+ partition
/dev/sdd2 /media/external-osx hfsplus rw,exec,auto,users 0 0

# Firewire drive - NTFS partition
/dev/sdd1 /media/external ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.utf8 0 0

# iPod - FAT32
/dev/sde2 /media/iPod vfat user,auto,umask=000 0 0

If I plug in the Maxtor drive, it mounts as expected as sdd1/sdd2. If I plug in the iPod while the external drive is connected, it mounts as expected as sde2.

However, if I plug in the iPod while the external drive is unplugged, for some reason, the automounter tries to mount the iPod as "external-osx"  on sdd2, and I can't access it.

Weirdly, if I comment out the two fstab entries for the external drive partitions AND the one for the iPod and reboot, the iPod mounts ok when I plug it in (except as sdd2) and the external drive won't mount at all.

So, it looks like there's an issue with the /dev entries such that there's an order of precedence problem. While it's not a major problem, I'd like to be able to have either or both Firewire devices accessible whenever I need them. Anyone come across this before? 

Thanks all!

---

