---
title: "install errors"
date: 2005-12-04
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by shawnzyoo on 2005-12-04
gnomeConf.sh
anyone know which lib this is in for me to install it?

---

### Post by schdefan on 2005-12-04
Can be a little bit more specific.
What exactly do you want to install?
schdefan

---

### Post by shawnzyoo on 2005-12-04
i am trying to install a program called gflow
when i configure it
i get this
checking for gnomeConf.sh file in /usr/local/lib... not found
configure: error: Could not find the gnomeConf.sh file that is generated by gnome-libs install

---

### Post by schdefan on 2005-12-04
install the package gnome-common with 
> sudo apt-get install gnome-common
Hopefully this includes the file you need.

---

### Post by shawnzyoo on 2005-12-04
i just tried it and i still get the same error message

---

### Post by schdefan on 2005-12-04
Mmmmh. had to get this file.
After a little research i found different posts in mailing lists.
gnomeConf.sh was a gnome1.x thing, so you need to install the 1.x
version of gnome-libs for your app to work properly.
GnomeConf.sh lives in the gnome-libs-devel package. Find this and install it, and things should be fine.

Download gnome-libs-1.4.1.7-i386-1.tgz from 
[http://ftp.iasi.roedu.net/mirrors/ftp.slackware.com/unsupported/packages/gnome-1.4.1/]("http://ftp.iasi.roedu.net/mirrors/ftp.slackware.com/unsupported/packages/gnome-1.4.1/")
and unpack the file. I hope this time you will find gnomeConf.sh

schdefan

---

### Post by shawnzyoo on 2005-12-04
ok i got passed the gnomeConf.sh part
thank you for your help
but i now get this error
*** The gtk-config script installed by GTK could not be found
*** If GTK was installed in PREFIX, make sure PREFIX/bin is in
*** your path, or set the GTK_CONFIG environment variable to the
*** full path to gtk-config.
configure: error: GTK not installed
any suggestions?

---

### Post by schdefan on 2005-12-04
i think you are running in some trouble with your dependencies.
maybe you check out the requirements of gflow.

schdefan

---

