---
title: "12.04-Adding Day/Date to Panel in Fallback"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by raphifix on 2012-04-29
Hey guys:

I'm using fallback mode in 12.04 and after searching through settings and "the Google," I cannot seem to find out how to add the day and date to the top panel. I'd appreciate it if you could point me in the right direction. Thanks! :)

---

### Post by LarsKongo on 2012-04-30
Alt+super(windows button)+right click on the panel. Select add to panel (or something like that.) There you can find the classic digital clock.

---

### Post by raphifix on 2012-04-30
> **LarsKongo said:**
> Alt+super(windows button)+right click on the panel. Select add to panel (or something like that.) There you can find the classic digital clock.

I'm aware of that applet. However, I want to keep the Indicator Applet on the panel as well. Is there any way to remove the clock from the Indicator Applet?

---

### Post by raphifix on 2012-05-01
Bump? I can't be the only one having this problem.

---

### Post by M@dinko12 on 2012-05-03
No, you're not :) .

edit : sudo apt-get remove indicator-datetime

---

### Post by raphifix on 2012-05-03
> **M@dinko12 said:**
> No, you're not :) .

edit : sudo apt-get remove indicator-datetime

Thanks for the work-around. I wish there was a way to simply add the day/date to the indicator-applet-complete as opposed to using the separate clock applet.

---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-05-03
Maybe I don't understand exactly what you are wanting. For me, I click on the time, then "Date & Time Settings."  Click on the Clock tab and there's the options to select what shows.

---

### Post by raphifix on 2012-05-03
> **MonkeyPaw said:**
> Maybe I don't understand exactly what you are wanting. For me, I click on the time, then "Date & Time Settings."  Click on the Clock tab and there's the options to select what shows.

Here's what I'm working with:

:confused:

---

### Post by raphifix on 2012-05-04
> **raphifix said:**
> Here's what I'm working with:

:confused:

Bump...

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2012-05-05
Hold Down Alt+Super Right Click on panel add to panel Then Choose Clock, And then I just Removed Indicator with just the time:)
Then Just Add the Indicator Applet back..

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-05-05
You might see if these are helpful:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11900657&postcount=12](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11900657&postcount=12)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370)

---

### Post by raphifix on 2012-05-05
> **kansasnoob said:**
> You might see if these are helpful:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11900657&postcount=12](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11900657&postcount=12)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370)

Perfect! I installed the standard indicator applet and placed it alongside the clock applet. Much better.

Thanks!:)

---

### Post by Duncan J Murray on 2012-08-24
A better solution than the one above (the date/time applet has an ugly calendar, which doesn't seem to integrate with evolution).

Got this from askubuntu:

1. Install dconf-tools (sudo apt-get install dconf-tools)

2. Run dconf-editor

3. Navigate to com>canonical>indicator>datetime

4. Select what you want

This should then allow the 'complete' to have the day and date.

D

---

### Post by dwb814 on 2012-08-24
Thanks, just what I needed :p

---

### Post by silvagroup on 2012-08-27
I also have had the same problem since upgrading to 12.04, no time/date, nada on panel just tried what you suggested and still nothihng.
I even unchecked everything closed and rechecked to see if it would refresh and work and nothing.

---

### Post by ka1axy on 2012-08-29
> **dwb814 said:**
> Thanks, just what I needed :p

And I as well -- thank you!

(gripe mode)
Canonical: Many of us liked the old interface.  Perhaps you could package up a "classic desktop" and make a few friends?  I have had to download two configuration tweakers, innumerable packages (it seems) and lots of Googling to get things back to the classic look that I was used to. And I still need to edit the theme because I'm picky and I want the old one back. 

Oh, and was it really necessary to replace "right click" with "alt-windows-right click"?
How is that intuitive and how does it make my life easier?
(gripe off)

---

### Post by bashologist on 2012-09-10
ka1axy i agree with that above statement 100%
had to make the switch from 10.04 to get my nice shiny new graphics card to play audio over hdmi, now i'm on this 12.04... :(

thanks for your thread, that's another one of the many problems solved hopefully (still working on it, but i think this will work)

i hate when people say "just use the classic desktop thing if you don't like uniity". i wish it was that easy.



if you uninstalled indicator-datetime like the previous page suggested then there's no config for datetime.

sudo apt-get install indicator-datetime
gsettings set com.canonical.indicator.datetime show-date true
gsettings set com.canonical.indicator.datetime show-day true

---

