---
title: "./configure errors. Need assistance"
date: 2006-07-05
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rolltide0 on 2006-07-05
Ok, I tried looking on the forums for assistance and tried everything that was suggested so, it is now time to ask for help. Everytime I use ./configure I always   get "no such file or directory" error. One post stated this was due to the build-essential not being installed. Only problem with that is in fact it is installed. I even re-installed it. Can anyone make any other suggestion?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by quedigg on 2006-07-05
trying istalling gcc or any c,c++ compiler.

---

### Post by ionophore on 2006-07-05
Can you post a little more info?  What are you trying to ./configure, for example?

Also, if possible, please post exactly the error message (ie, copy and paste from the terminal).  

-Ben

---

### Post by briguy on 2006-07-05
even better, install the build-essential package - includes most of the basic compilers & developer tools.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-07-05
```

sudo apt-get install build-essential

```

---

### Post by rolltide0 on 2006-07-06
@kdesktop:~/installer/nostromo$ ./configure
bash: ./configure: No such file or directory


As stated in my original post, the build-essential is installed and has been reinstalled. It's for my Nostromo gamepad, but the error isn't just with this one as well.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-07-06
What is the output of this command from a terminal then?
```

ls -la ~/installer/nostromo

```

---

### Post by rolltide0 on 2006-07-06
Well I think I found my problem. A co-worker (who got me into using Ubuntu) explained just how ./copnfigure works. Turns out there was no configure file in the directory. The good news is the noob phase is passing quicker and quicker. If I have further problems, I know where to turn.

---

### Post by chinaski on 2006-07-14
yeah, good for you, but I have same problem and you could at least have posted the solution

you come and ask and once you sort things out you keep it for youself?

---

### Post by Sukarn on 2006-07-14
No, he told you what was wrong. I had the same confusion a while ago when I started using GNU/Linux. There is no configure file in some cases, so there is nothing to configure.

---

### Post by chinaski on 2006-08-20
> **Sukarn said:**
> No, he told you what was wrong. I had the same confusion a while ago when I started using GNU/Linux. There is no configure file in some cases, so there is nothing to configure.
yes you're right, it was jiust that...:mrgreen:

sorry rolltide0 for me being a little aggressive ;)

---

