---
title: "10.04 desktop not reponsing"
date: 2014-06-21
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by rudokf on 2014-06-21
Hi, all

Yes, it os 10.04. I installed it on my in-laws computer ages ago. It is an old machine, not sure if new version will run OK. Also, it will be a pain for them (and me) to learn new Unity desktop.
Anyway, the problem goes like that:
PC turns on, auto-logins the user, desktop wallpaper appears as well as panels (toolbars) on top and bottom of screen. Cursor gets into "waiting" spinning wheel and this is all. Graphical environment does not respond at all. Screensaver does kick in and works fine.

What I did so far:
- Escaped to console and run 'top' as a root. Nothing is chewing up CPU and RAM. In fact PC is quite responsive, so it is not a load issue
- Killed gdm and started X as a root. Works fine. Created new user and run X in as a new user -- no problem there. So, issue is for this particular user only.
- Removed .config and .cache directories under /home/<user> Same problem

I am quite familiar with Linux, but I mainly use it in embedded systems, so X is not something I am very involved with.
Any help, links, pointers, etc... will be most appreciated.

Thanks,
Rudolf

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-21
*Thread Closed.*

Welcome. We no longer provide support for EOL (end-of-life) releases (10.04 reached EOL April 2013, unless you're using the server version). See here:

EOL release recommendations:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2229730](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2229730)

You don't need to use Unity. Try Xubuntu or Lubuntu or any number of other flavours/spins which don't use Unity. I use a minimal install with xfce4 as the desktop environment and the few apps I want/need. You can also install Ubuntu with Gnome, close to the 10.04 feel, or add xfce4 (as used by Xubuntu) or lxde (Lubuntu) or any number of others. 

Either way, you may need to bite the bullet and backup your valuables then do a clean install of whatever you choose. If you have the time, burn a few to USB or disk and 'Try *buntu' before installing. See what suits everyone concerned, then just install directly over your existing install by choosing 'Something Else' at the partitioning section of the install and partitioning manually.

Good luck. ;)

PS: 12.04 LTS supported until April 2017; 14.04 LTS supported until April 2019. LTS releases now have five years support (which should make your task a little easier in future!).

---

