---
title: "no &gt;1024x768 in kubuntu 5.10?"
date: 2005-11-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Jeroentje on 2005-11-26
Hi,

I just switched from fedora core 3 to kubuntu 5.10. I'm very satisfied, except for the fact that I can't get my screen in a higher resolution than 1024x768. On the same hardware, this was no problem on fedora core. The kubuntu system settings gui however doesn't offer me any option higher than 1024x768. Note that I did install the appropriate nvidia drivers from adept. 

Is there any way I can get my screen in 11..something resolution? Maybe manually edit a config file?

Thank you for any help..

~Jeroen

---

### Post by incubus on 2005-11-27
Did you take look at /etc/X11/xorg.conf? You need higher resolutions to be set in the Section "Screen".

In my case I have included "1650x1050" before "1024x768".

Hope this helps.

PS: remember to restart X.

---

### Post by infoseeker on 2005-11-27
> 	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"

And I cannot access "1152x864" :(

---

### Post by nikodell on 2005-11-27
look in the /etc.X11/xorg.conf and see that the refresh rates are set correctly for your monitor. I had this problem and it was fixed by setting my refreshrates manualy in xorg.conf, makeing it possible to set geometry from desktop.

---

### Post by treris on 2005-11-27
Yeah that usually does the trick, just putting a 1 in front of the higher limits of your screen rates

> Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Neovo F-419"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-151
	VertRefresh	43-160
EndSection

this is how my etc/x11/xorg.conf file has it said and now I'm running 1280*1024 comfortably

hope that helps

---

### Post by KermitJr on 2005-12-01
I was having trouble with several older video cards and a particular monitor and kept getting 640x480 no matter what I did for modes, etc.  (on another I was stuck at 800x600)

HOWEVER, when I went back one time and ran
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

I entered the actually amount of RAM on the video card (one was 4096 and another 2048) and PRESTO! My Modes line worked as normal with or without monitor on boot.

So try entering in the actual video RAM you have and that should hopefully fix your error.  Ie, you should be ablt to get the higher res.

If not, troubleshoot by looking for the actual error messages in the /var/log/X11/xorg[tab].log file.

Hope this helps!
KermitJr

---

### Post by sanguinemoon on 2005-12-01
[QUOTE=treris]Yeah that usually does the trick, just putting a 1 in front of the higher limits of your screen rates



this is how my etc/x11/xorg.conf file has it said and now I'm running 1280*1024 comfortably

hope that helps[/QUOTE] I tried doing that and now I get monitor out of range errors. The only why I could boot up was with my live cd 

I tried running this command  sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
I thought that would fix the problem but it didn't :mad: :(

---

### Post by sanguinemoon on 2005-12-01
So I need to know how to repair xorg and just get back to how it was :(

---

### Post by sanguinemoon on 2005-12-01
Luckily a friend showed me how to get into a virtual console in the startup using ctrl F1 and execute    sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-org

Don't fsck with the refresh rates in xorg.conf to get better resolution I guess :p

---

### Post by metoo on 2005-12-04
That's a bad hack to set wrong monitor range settings. Luckily todays monitors shut usually off, if they are overrun by the signals.

One thing you can try if you have reset the figures for the monitor according its manual is to disable the ddc module in /etc/X11/xorg.conf .

In section "Module"
place a # at the beginning of the line 'Load "ddc"'

AFAIK this module is responsible to 'talk' to you monitor. The received answers regarding the capability might confuse the xorg server.

---

### Post by sanguinemoon on 2005-12-04
I have to agree that setting the refresh rates wrong is a very bad hack based on my experience. But I seem to be missing a the "load dcc" line completely. I was even missing the HorizSync and VertRefresh lines  O_o

Here's what my xorg.conf file looks like:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"eView 17s2"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Monitor		"eView 17s2"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by afhp on 2005-12-04
It's "ddc" actually, and you have it in the "Modules" section. You'll definitely need the HorizSync and VertRefresh, look up your monitor's manual for the appropriate values.

---

### Post by metoo on 2005-12-05
Yes, it's "ddc" and it is in your Module section, but look into your screen section:
1024x768 is the highest!

Set the screen and monitor sections in your xorg.conf according the proposals from the beginning of this thread.
(up to the resolution, your monitor can handle)

In the monitor section, you might play with the DPMS line as well (commenting it out = # at the beginning of the line), as this could have something to do with your problem, not sure.

---

