---
title: "dual head hangs after logon"
date: 2007-04-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by DaveEaseman on 2007-04-26
I'm trying to set up a dual head system; best I get at present is that the system hangs after I logon. The second monitor shows some display, but it looks like the display is distorted.

I've checked the web and forums here and followed advice regarding installing of drivers, etc.

The setup is dual acer al1916 monitors; one attached to onboard graphics (ATI ES1000) and the other to PCI card (ATI Radeon 9250). I upgraded from 6.10 (edgy) to 7.04 (Feisty) to get most up to date drivers and packages. I have also followed instructions for installing ATI specific rather the OSS drivers. I also ran X -configure to generate a dual head xorg.conf.

Can anyone suggest what else I might try?

Thanks

---

### Post by lw5 on 2007-04-26
I'd suggest posting your /etc/X11/xorg.conf here..

You should try if you have any trouble running the 9250 as a single card..

*lw5 remembers having a LOT of trouble with a sapphire radeon 9250 AGP card as the chip was not supported by the drivers

---

### Post by DaveEaseman on 2007-04-27
I've attached the xorg.conf that was generated by X -configure, which I had to amend slightly because the refresh rates for the monitor were incorrect.

---

### Post by lw5 on 2007-04-27
So did you try the single card thing? Is that working as it should?

---

### Post by DaveEaseman on 2007-04-27
Yes, the display works fine when running as a single monitor. If I remove the PCI card, the onboard card works fine; with the PCI card installed, it also works fine, but the system picks up the PCI card as the primary card.

---

