---
title: "14.04 Desktop (installing new Widgets), failure to show up on the list"
date: 2014-04-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by egandt on 2014-04-26
I have installed 3 new widgets "Small NVIDA Sesnor Theme", "EG-SysMon-QC", "AM-NV SysMon..."  my issue is is they do not show up once installed, I have logged out, rebooted, and run the command "kbuildsycoca4", I have no errors that I'm aware of, I also have none of the new widgets in the list or any way to access them.  
I can un-install and reinstall that seems to work, but I still can not access them once listed as installed.  My best guess is that they are not being installed properly, but without any errors I have no way to say that is the real cause.    I see nochanges to ~/.kde as I'd expect after installing them.

I also tried through "Muon Discover"->"Plasma Desktop Widgets", but same issue they do not appear (however others say "Bitcoin chart") do.

Thanks,
ERIC

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-04-26
What if you right-click on the desktop and choose "Add Widgets?" Do they show up there?  You can also click the "cashew" on the right end of the panel and choose "Add Widgets" to add them to the panel instead of the desktop.  To add them to the System Tray, right-click the tray, choose Panel Options > Add Widgets.

---

### Post by egandt on 2014-04-26
Thanks, I've tried both methods, and they are not visable.  It appears upon further work that anything added from the "get new widgets" do not appear and once I try to install  them via this dialog, even adding them from  "Muon Discover" does not work, but adding widgets from "Muon Discover" directly does kind of work and do appear (those do not work as they all throw script errors), so I'm guessing there is something wrong with "add widget here" dialog, in that even when they are installed and later removed they are removed cleanly.

ERIC

---

