---
title: "12.04 fresh install refused my password saying it's too simple"
date: 2012-07-20
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Mesquire on 2012-07-20
I initially installed 12.04 from Windows using WUBI and it accepted my password.
 
Now on a fresh installation on a different computer, it refused to let me use the same password saying it's too simple, even though it fits all the necessary requirements outlined in documents - minimum 6 characters of letters and numbers.
 
The same password is being used on another computer running 10.10 (fresh install).
 
Why the same password is ok on 10.10 and 12.04 from WUBI?

---

### Post by critin on 2012-07-20
It refuses by absolutely not letting you log in after it's been set up?  Or is it saying this in the initial set up?  My password is 5 letters on all distro versions.  It always says in set up that it's too short, but allows me to go on.

I am NOT using wubi, which may have different rules.

---

### Post by Mesquire on 2012-07-24
My apologies for the confusion.

I burned a CD with the downloaded 32bit ISO then ran the CD to install but setup won't let me install with a 6 character password.

I completed the installation using a 8 character password.

I tried changing password to the one I want to use after install but still return the same message.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2012-07-24
I am guessing that the later version has more stringent requirements; you can bypass this with:

```
sudo passwd *username*
```

Although **a decent password is recommended**.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-07-24
Have not seen any sign yet that the first user set up in the installer has _any _restrictions on password (have recent 12.04 & 12.10 installs.
This laptop I'm on now has no need for a 'strong' password, am using 1 as password, the installer will say it's "Too short" but will not reject

---

### Post by Grenage on 2012-07-24
> **mc4man said:**
> the installer will say it's "Too short" but will not reject

I get the same thing as the OP, it tells me that it's not acceptable.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-07-24
> **Grenage said:**
> I get the same thing as the OP, it tells me that it's not acceptable.
Hmm, still don't see any restrictions on the installer
New 12.04 - see screen, didn't 'like' the short password but accepted in the confirm box anyway, (green arrow

---

### Post by critin on 2012-07-24
> Now on a fresh installationSo this install is not Wubi?  It is in its own partition?  Are you in fact using ubuntu?  Is 'simple' the word it used?  

> the same password saying it's too simple, 

I've only seen it use the word 'short' on ubuntu.

I don't remember the other versions of linux, but ubuntu of any version has never been that particular for me.

Windows has strict PW rules, so I thought Wubi might be affected there, but apparently not.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2012-07-25
> **mc4man said:**
> Hmm, still don't see any restrictions on the installer
New 12.04 - see screen, didn't 'like' the short password but accepted in the confirm box anyway, (green arrow

Hi, MC. sorry, crossed wires there.  I was initially referring to:

> I tried changing password to the one I want to use after install but still return the same message

I don't have install media to hand for a test, but I don't doubt that you're right regarding initial setup.

---

