---
title: "U 10.04 - where is clipboard setting ?"
date: 2010-10-01
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by kapetr on 2010-10-01
Hello,

!!! I'm NOT asking about clipboard managers like Glipper, Parcellite, ..


GNOME itself should let configure clipboard behaviour:

- package "**gnome-settings-daemon**" includes "Clipboard management" - this is installed and running by default.

See: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/gnome-settings-daemon](http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid/gnome-settings-daemon)

But - where I can make settings of clipboard ?

I have thing, in "**gnome-control-center**" - there are many applets, corresponding to gnome-settings-daemon plugins.

But I can't find no clipboard setting.

**Where is it ?**

I remember, in past (maybe it was in KDE desktop (?)) I could set, if my X selections should be added to "ctrl-c" list and vice versa or not. This is what I need.

But once again - I do not ask about installing Clipboard managers.
I'm asking - where is standard GNOME clipboard setting in Lucid.


Thanks all (and sorry please my English)

--kapetr

---

### Post by hrickh on 2010-10-01
As far as I know, there is no way to get fine-grained control over your clipboard in Gnome without installing a clipboard manager.

You can either enable/disable it and set priority within gconf-editor.

Sorry to be the bearer of bad news.

That said, if you're going to stick with Gnome, it really is in your best bet to install a clipboard manager.

R.
==

---

### Post by kapetr on 2010-10-06
Thank you for replay.

Are you really sure ?
i.e. see: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clipboard_manager](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clipboard_manager)

"GNOME contains basic clipboard manager functionality in gnome-settings-daemon, part of gnome-control-center;"

--kapetr

---

### Post by hrickh on 2010-10-06
> **kapetr said:**
> Thank you for replay.

Are you really sure ?
i.e. see: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clipboard_manager](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clipboard_manager)

"GNOME contains basic clipboard manager functionality in gnome-settings-daemon, part of gnome-control-center;"

--kapetr
Yes, I'm sure. The statement on the wiki is false. Gnome's clipboard manager does not retain contents after the application is closed.

It's a long-standing bug that has been complained about for some time now.

R.
==

---

### Post by kapetr on 2010-10-06
OK, thank you for answer.

So ... I had install widely preferred PARCELITE.

Now is X-selection and CTRL+V synchronized.


Thanks

--kapetr

---

