---
title: "Dual Monitor Strangeness"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by imnotryan on 2008-05-26
It sorta works but I've got a phenomina, so to speak.

It's Hardy Heron on a Pentium machine with a Geforce 8800 GT with the restricted driver enabled.

I have a 32" TV that I've been using as the sole monitor for a while, and added a 17" LCD to the mix today.

I'm running it as seperate X screens.  It works except that... Linux is making the smaller 17 inch display the big cheese, and giving my 32" scraps.  What I mean is that it displays the login screen on the small one, while leaving the big one blank.  After I log in - it presents my computer as i recognize it on the smaller monitor.  The big monitor is left without compiz/decorations and my desktop icons.  More disturbing is that only the smaller crummy monitor displays update manager, network connection, and the volume indicator when using my keyboard knob.  Since I want to use the big monitor to do all of my functions, and only turn on the smaller monitor when I "feel like it" it's a pretty decent issue.

**[SIZE="4"]How do I make my larger monitor the main display again?[/SIZE]**

What I've tried...

In nVidia settings I've set the big monitor to position "Absolute" and the smaller one to "right or left of" but makes no difference.

In nVidia settings... It lists X Screen 0 as the small crummy monitor, and X Screen 1 as my big glorious monitor... I can't find a way to reverse that distinction... :(

I've also tried simply reversing the output cables on the video card, no dice... Same exact result.

---

### Post by imnotryan on 2008-05-26
My xorg.conf

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Tue Mar  4 20:28:57 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"

# Removed Option "Xinerama" "0"
# Removed Option "Xinerama" "1"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL E171FPb"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "SHARP LCD"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: 1920x1080 +1280+0; CRT: 1280x1024 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT: 1280x1024 +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1920x1080 +0+0"
EndSection


Sharp LCD = 32" TV I want as my main display.

Dell = POS 17" I want to be the secondary display.

---

### Post by imnotryan on 2008-05-26
Partially solved.

I've got the monitors back to proper primary and secondary - however now a new issue showed up.

Menu's take extremely long to display/open on my primary display.  After I click Applications or Places, it takes 2 full seconds to display the contents of the menu.  Same goes for menu's in windows, such as firefox.  Same goes for right clicking and getting a window.

None of the problems exist on the secondary display.  Menu's open quickly as normal.

:confused:

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-05-27
> **imnotryan said:**
> Partially solved.

I've got the monitors back to proper primary and secondary - however now a new issue showed up.

Menu's take extremely long to display/open on my primary display.  After I click Applications or Places, it takes 2 full seconds to display the contents of the menu.  Same goes for menu's in windows, such as firefox.  Same goes for right clicking and getting a window.

None of the problems exist on the secondary display.  Menu's open quickly as normal.

:confused:

That's a reported issue.  Welcome to [bug 149764](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/149764)

---

