---
title: "13.10 suspend issues. Driving me bats."
date: 2013-11-08
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by incorporealnuisanc on 2013-11-08
Ok, so I'm brand new to the forums as a posting entity, so please forgive any breaches in protocol. I'm also a linux noob, but I'm learning. I'm running lubuntu 13.10 on an old dell mini 12.

I know I'm not the first person with an issue like this, but I've tried everything I could find with no love.

The machine goes into suspend when I close the laptop lid. I want the thing to just turn the screen off (no wrangling should be necessary for this as the backlight and LCD controls are hardware controlled). This is so that if I am running a download, I am not forced to restart it later.

I've attempted to get the power-manager to handle this, setting up logind.conf correctly (many combinations attempted), no joy.

I tried it the other way, disabling the xfce4-power-manager (by not triggering it on startup and adjusting its settings to do nothing on any event) then setting up logind to do nothing for any lid event, and making sure the inhibitors were inactive. Still suspends.

I would like to simply disable suspend and hibernate as available modes of operation. I either want my computer running or I turn it off. Is this even possible?

I understand that there is a quirk that could conceivably be necessary on this machine, but I cannot get Xorg to configure to create a .conf. 

Please let me know if there is any other data you need from me, and thanks in advance for your help! :KS

---

### Post by walterorlin on 2013-11-09
There is a reported bug here that sounds similar to what you have [https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1222021](https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1222021) said but I don't know of a workaround for it.

---

### Post by incorporealnuisanc on 2013-11-09
It is similar, perhaps even related. Apparently, no matter how you set logind, there is another process attempting to handle lid events. I haven't been able to locate the specifics, but it may be systemd, somewhere...

Someone has written a patch that forces the xfce power manager to control power events, but I have no idea how to apply it. It makes sense to me that a forced inclusional approach would work better than a hunt-and-deny marathon. The patch is located here:

[http://bug-attachment.xfce.org/attachment.cgi?id=4929](http://bug-attachment.xfce.org/attachment.cgi?id=4929)

Is this an appropriate venue to inquire about how to insert this code? I've been poking around google and various helpsites, but there doesn't seem to be a lot about patching available.

---

### Post by incorporealnuisanc on 2013-11-12
Ok, this is getting ridiculous. I removed executable status from the relevant pm-utils-* commands, set acpi=off and apm=off in grub. The dang thing still goes right to sleep/suspend when I close the lid. What gives?

---

### Post by theodor.weiswurst on 2013-11-19
open terminal
type: gksudo leafpad /etc/systemd/logind.conf

enter root password

as leafpad opens change line with "HandleLidSwitch"
to: HandleLidSwitch=ignore
if there is a "#" before, remove it.

reboot.
that might do it

---

### Post by pausimo on 2014-02-03
Theodor, 

thanks for your simple and working (for me) solution!

---

