---
title: "11.04 + Unity + Radeon Video Driver = Fail?"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by shanncan on 2011-04-29
Hi Guys,

I upgraded to 11.04 from 10.10.

Unity is just not playing ball at all. 

1) If I move my mouse over an icon in the unity bar a description appears. Moving my mouse off it again doesnt remove the description. The only way, seemingly, for the screen to refresh and remove this nonsense is by clicking on an active window (open program).

2) The desktop wallpaper does not show up. Just a black background. Perhaps transparency is broken?

3) Moving a window around leaves its entrails (previous positions) behind, much like point 1, the only to get rid of this is to click on another open window (as this seems to refresh the desktop.

4) Changing any settings within CCSM seems only to break the main menu bar at the top (looks like a video rendering issue i.e choppy broken boxes).

5) Opening the dash works - but it wont go away - same as in points 1 and 3. As well as switching between items within it is choppy/slow.

6) The active window menu appears in the top bar on the screen (File, Edit, View etc). Hovering over these shows the menu but again moving between them leaves the other still rendered on the screen beneath the current one. Must be the same issue as point 1, 3 and 5.

Here are my system details:

AMD x64 Athlon
Dual Monitor setup

Video Card:

$ lspci -nn | grep VGA
05:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc R423 UK [Radeon X800SE (PCIE)] [1002:554b]


05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc R423 UK [Radeon X800SE (PCIE)] (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
	Subsystem: Club-3D BV Device 1085
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 44
	Memory at d0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Memory at fd7f0000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
	I/O ports at 6c00 [size=256]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at fd700000 [disabled] [size=128K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
	Capabilities: [58] Express Endpoint, MSI 00
	Capabilities: [80] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
	Capabilities: [100] Advanced Error Reporting
	Kernel driver in use: radeon
	Kernel modules: radeon, radeonfb


05:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R423 UK (PCIE) [X800 SE] (Secondary)
	Subsystem: Club-3D BV Device 1084
	Flags: fast devsel
	Memory at fd7e0000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [disabled] [size=64K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
	Capabilities: [58] Express Endpoint, MSI 00



I've had a look around and this video card seems well supported under the open source radeon driver ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver"))


glxinfo shows this for my OpenGL renderer:

OpenGL vendor string: X.Org R300 Project
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on ATI R423
OpenGL version string: 2.1 Mesa 7.10.2
OpenGL shading language version string: 1.20

 - So I am not using a software version.


Any ideas what is going on? I'm logged into Gnome at the mo - but I'll login to unity again and take some screenshots ...


Thanks,

Shann

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-04-29
It is a long post and I admit I haven't read all of it but can you please take a look here and see if it helps.

[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/unity-choppy-with-ati-graphics-card-and.html)

---

### Post by shanncan on 2011-04-29
@sikander3786

I had seen reference to **Sync to VBlank** previously - so I had tried it.

Unfortunately this does not resolve any of the issues I am experiencing.

Note: The link you provided references the proprietary ATI driver, whereas I am using the open source radeon driver - which is supposedly in good working order.


Thanks,

Shann

---

### Post by shanncan on 2011-04-29
Another interesting aspect to this is that if I move an un-maximized window over a maximized window - then none of the entrails of the movement are being left behind. (point 3 in my original post) - which is leading me to think that a lot of this has to do with my wallpaper not showing up - i.e the black background (point 2).

Could this choppy-ness be a transparency related issue with compiz? Or a Unity issue? ...

---

### Post by shanncan on 2011-04-29
OK. 

This is a dual monitor issue. When I mirror my dual monitor setup - unity seems to work just fine.

If I deactivate "Same image on all monitors" (within Monitor preferences) it breaks again.

I'll continue to play around with the settings to see if I can fix this somehow - but any help would be very much appreciated...


Thanks,

Shann

---

### Post by battery_burner on 2011-05-01
I'm not sure if this helps as I am new and not a Ubuntu expert (more of a supportive user). I have just upgraded from 10.04 to 11.04 and found that graphics would only go up to 1024 x 768. I read some of the threats and tried a few things but nothing seemed to work, so I went to the software centre and searched for 'Radeon' and installed the Video driver for ATI Radeon and FireGL graphics accelerators. This in itself didn't seem to work in fact when rebooting it said the software was not compatible and offered me Classic view (which actually I prefer at the moment). So I went back into the software centre and un-installed the Video driver for ATI Radeon and FireGL graphics accelerators and then restarted again, after this it all started working OK. I suspect that there were some remnants of the old 10:04 restricted driver hanging around, which this software install and un-install sorted out - hope this helps.
FYI - my graphics card is a ATI Radeon X800SE (PCIE)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-01
+1 for reinstalling the "radeon" driver and other relevant packages

Since you are running the open source driver, not the proprietary "fglrx" driver, the fix suggested by *sikander3786* doesn't necessarily work for you, like you noticed.

Run the commands stated in this guide to reinstall the "radeon" driver and to make sure that you have no remnants of the "fglrx" driver:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:%20%20Need%20to%20fully%20remove%20-fglrx%20and%20reinstall%20-ati%20from%20scratch)

---

### Post by aonikenk on 2011-05-17
I have exactly the same issue as described by shanncan. The background is not updated when moving any window  over it. Updating works fine when movement is over another window (regardless of wether it is maximized or not).  I have the same driver and card (exactly the same glxinfo|grep OpenGL strings) and a dual monitor, as he describes. Any fix or workaround? Many thanks.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-17
Try upgrading the video driver through Xorg-Edgers' PPA, it offers more recent drivers than the offical repos.
Notice that this would upgrade a lot of other packages as well.
[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
If you need/want to remove those PPA and downgrade the concerning packages again:
```
sudo apt-get install ppa-purge
sudo ppa-purge ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa
```
Greetings.

---

### Post by aonikenk on 2011-05-18
Thank you Krytarik -- I did as directed but no improvement. Exactly the same thing.
Right after logging in, the desktop background image appears for a few seconds, then it gets solid black. Windows and everything work OK, only the desktop is not updated. If one closes a window, its image remains there so it is misleading --looks like the (really closed) window is frozen. Pressing the workspace switcher cleans the background (it then gets dirty again when moving things)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-18
Try disabling Nautilus' handling of the desktop:
```
gconftool-2 /apps/nautilus/preferences/show_desktop --type=bool --set false
```
If that works, but you need the usual functionality of the desktop, you may try Nautilus Elementary instead of the official one.

To 'upgrade' to it:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:am-monkeyd/nautilus-elementary-ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```[https://launchpad.net/~am-monkeyd/+archive/nautilus-elementary-ppa](https://launchpad.net/~am-monkeyd/+archive/nautilus-elementary-ppa)

To 'downgrade' to the official version again:
```
sudo apt-get install ppa-purge
sudo ppa-purge ppa:am-monkeyd/nautilus-elementary-ppa
```
After either operation, restart Nautilus:
```
killall nautilus
```

---

### Post by aonikenk on 2011-05-18
Thank you Krytarik. The Nautilus fiddling (including changing to the Elementary version) changed the situation, but did not solve the problem. Now the background gets erased (to black, not to the wallpaper image) but not completely: depending of how quickly the windows are moved it leaves triangular portions not erased, like pieces of the moved window scattered on the desktop. It looks like we're almost there though.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-18
Is there an issue even if you disable Nautilus' handling of the desktop, by running the command I stated?

The result of that should be:
- no icons on your desktop
- no right-click functionality
- only your wallpaper

Is that the case?

---

### Post by aonikenk on 2011-05-19
- No icons in the desktop
- No right click functionality
- No wallpaper, just a black background that gets dirty when the windows are moved fast (they leave triangular-shaped, irregular trailers, mostly remains of the moved windows but  some weird-colored). Now I also realize that when pressing on the frame border of any open window some of the desktop garbage is erased, and repainted when the mouse is released. Transparent ones (for example, the terminal) do show transparency when on top of other windows; and are opaque when on the desktop.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-19
It seems related to this bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/764054](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/764054)

Does the issue affect both Unity and classic Gnome?

Is Compiz' "OpenGL" plugin enabled?
If so, try disabling its option "Sync To VBlank" or the whole plugin.

---

### Post by aonikenk on 2011-05-20
- Apparently the OpenGL plugin and its "Sync to VBlank" option are enabled (both appear checked in compix-config settings manager)
- The problem does affect both Unity and Classic Gnome.
- Disabling "Sync to VBlank" option of OpenGL (using compix-config settings manager) did not fix or change anything either in Unity or Classic Gnome.
- Disabling the OpenGL plugin in classic Gnome did not help either.
- Disabling OpenGL plugin in Unity required disabling of other things, to which I agreed, now right after login I see nothing else than the wallpaper, and I have to go to the console (Alt-F1) to reboot the machine. So at the moment I cannot log back into Unity (wonder how can I revert the disabling of opengl from a command line).

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-20
> **aonikenk said:**
> 
- Disabling OpenGL plugin in Unity required disabling of other things, to which I agreed, now right after login I see nothing else than the wallpaper, and I have to go to the console (Alt-F1) to reboot the machine. So at the moment I cannot log back into Unity (wonder how can I revert the disabling of opengl from a command line).
See this guide on how to re-enable Unity:
[http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/missing-top-and-side-panels-in-unity.html](http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/04/missing-top-and-side-panels-in-unity.html)

Check if that issue also occurs in a fresh, new user account.
To create/delete one, go to "Users and Groups".

---

### Post by aonikenk on 2011-05-20
Thank you Krytarik.
> Check if that issue also occurs in a fresh, new user account.
Yes, it does on a new account too. At first login things work OK because the second screen mirrors the primary. When I enable the second screen, things degrade into the previously described situation.

---

### Post by JoePer on 2011-05-23
I have the same problem on my AMD64 machine with the 690G video chip.  All works when using just using one monitor or when putting the same image on both monitors.  The dual monitor setup worked fine with 10.10.

The graphics with 11.04 is also slower then it was was with 10.10.

---

### Post by Rothstei on 2011-06-03
The OP described my symptoms almost exactly after upgrading to 11.04 (Radeon x300); this is the only thread I've found with this description. It was happening both in Unity, and in "Ubuntu Classic" Gnome desktop. Weird background effects, closed windows "burned in", flashing black, etc.

I messed around with the drivers, installing/uninstalling both the open-source and not, not getting anywhere. Also messed around with CCSM settings, as suggested in this thread. Finally, remembering some difficulty I had installing 10.04 that had to do with OpenGL, (can't recall any details, I'm afraid, but I think I was trying to install Compiz with no success) and at wits end, I decided to uninstall Compiz completely.

This fixed the Gnome desktop perfectly: no "burned in" windows, desktop image and icons reappeared with all of my settings correct, panel is back to normal. Of course, Unity doesn't work at all, and trying to log into it brings up a desktop with no options or escape.

So... looks like maybe the issue here is OpenGL/Compiz? Or something within it? Unfortunately I don't know enough to speculate or investigate more than that, but I'm certainly glad to have my stable desktop back without having to undo my upgrade.

If you'd like any readouts in particular, I'd be happy to post them, just ask what you'd like.

---

### Post by JoePer on 2011-06-04
I tried the Mint 11 distribution - same problem, but different.  Mint allows a total of 1920 by 1920 pixels for both monitors, so by doing some adjusting, I got both monitors working correctly with one over the other.  This did not work on the Ubuntu 11.04, but it may be a clue as to what is wrong.  Mint graphics are much-much faster.  I will be using Mint for the immediate future.

The Ubuntu 10.10 allowed both monitors to be side by side, but on the far right hand side some things did not display properly, particularly mouse interactions - not enough to cause trouble.  This may also be a clue as to the problem with the software.

---

