---
title: "5.10 so far but still need help!"
date: 2005-10-24
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by sardopsycho on 2005-10-24
Well, I have given up on getting my dial-up modem back.  It's a HSF Winmodem.  I have tried all your advice and have messed with it for countless hours. No matter what driver I try to use, it simply will not connect...so no internet on Ubuntu 5.10 until I get my high-speed back in about a month....which sucks.  But believe I am very appreciative for all the help.

On to my second agenda, I want to install NeroLinux for my CD and DVD burning.  I got the package, copied it to my home folder, went to terminal and typed: sudo dpkg -i nerolinux-2.0.0.3b-x86.deb the file decompresses and begins it's install, however, it stop saying it's missing libglib1.2 (or greater) and libgtk1.2 (or greater).  But I have the new libraries from Ubuntu 5.10 which are versions 2.0 - is there any way to get and install the older libraries so I can install this application?

---

### Post by Xian on 2005-10-25
[QUOTE=sardopsycho]I got the package, copied it to my home folder, went to terminal and typed: sudo dpkg -i nerolinux-2.0.0.3b-x86.deb the file decompresses and begins it's install, however, it stop saying it's missing libglib1.2 (or greater) and libgtk1.2 (or greater).  But I have the new libraries from Ubuntu 5.10 which are versions 2.0 - is there any way to get and install the older libraries so I can install this application?[/QUOTE]
These are both in the 5.10 pkg repos:

[libglib1.2](http://packages.ubuntu.com/breezy/libs/libglib1.2) & [libgktk1.2](http://packages.ubuntu.com/breezy/libs/libgtk1.2)

---

