---
title: "12.04 randomly logs me out while using Chrome"
date: 2012-08-15
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by netsurfau on 2012-08-15
UPDATE: Now it's gone from booting me out of a session while browsing to
Shutting the PC down entirely while unattended.

This is really starting to P@%S ME OFF! :mad:

While using Google Chrome, 12.04 will:

1st. Send monitor screen blank & monitor message appears saying there is no input.

Then. Screen comes back & I'm presented with the Log-in Screen.

Then. After logging back in none of my previously open apps are active. ie; Thunderbird, Google Chrome & LibreOffice Calc. Note: I have Thunderbird set to empty the "Trash" on closing and the Trash is never emptied when this happens.

Then. I restart my apps, with Calc needing to do a "Recovery", and find my way back to the page I was viewing in Chrome. There is no specific web page involved - it is totally random.

This happens at least once a day & yesterday twice within five minutes.  Does anyone have any idea why this is happening, as I'm unable to work out what the cause is.

---

### Post by netsurfau on 2012-08-17
Just updated info - at start of post.

---

### Post by kwinsw on 2012-08-28
Hi netsurfau,

Did you manage to resolve this? If you did, is there any chance you could tell me how?

I'm having a very similar problem. PC runs fine until I open Chromium then, within a few minutes, ping! I'm logged out of the GUI and when I log back in all of my previously open apps are closed. 

Cheers

Karl

---

### Post by kwinsw on 2012-08-28
Actually, just tried this:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/144792/how-to-stop-my-12-04-randomly-loging-me-out](http://askubuntu.com/questions/144792/how-to-stop-my-12-04-randomly-loging-me-out)

Too early to tell for sure, but it seems to have worked.

---

### Post by netsurfau on 2012-08-28
G'day Karl,

As yet no resolution and no help from anyone in the forum.
Still happening randomly but, fingers crossed, haven't had a complete shut down for around a week.

No idea of the cause, because there is no error log generated by either Chrome, Thunderbird or LibreOffice Calc (Calc only performs a recovery when restarted) to even give a starting point for diagnosis.

Luke

---

### Post by AN@S on 2012-08-31
I'm having the very same issue, and I've been searching for a solution for days with no luck. Some users suggest that this only happens with Nvidia cards (and this is my case) but I'm not sure. My computer is unusable, I'm seriously thinking of moving to ArchLinux or something.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2012-08-31
is changing OS easier than changing browser??

Am not sure of the problem but I'd use firefox :popcorn:

---

### Post by AN@S on 2012-08-31
> **SlugSlug said:**
> is changing OS easier than changing browser??

Am not sure of the problem but I'd use firefox :popcorn:

Well, although the title of the post refers to 'Chrome' as the cause of this issue, I don't think it's related to chrome. I think it's something else. I'm not very sure, but would try FF to test, sounds like a good idea.

---

### Post by netsurfau on 2012-09-01
Don't remember this issue happening when using Firefox.

Hasn't happened for over a week now & the only two changes have been:
A; Changed to manual log-in from auto log-in.  Chrome was still wanting me to activate "Log-in Keyring" when being started (which was giving me the S*#Ts), plus for extra security.
B; Chrome has had one or two updates, which may have made a difference.

I'm also running an nVidea video card, not that that should make a difference with an issue like this.

Can't say issue is resolved, especially as it appears to be happening to a growing number of users.  Will be keeping an eye on it.

---

### Post by rygbi on 2013-07-05
[QUOTE=kwinsw;12202061]Actually, just tried this:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/144792/how-to-stop-my-12-04-randomly-loging-me-out](http://askubuntu.com/questions/144792/how-to-stop-my-12-04-randomly-loging-me-out)

This worked for me, thanks for the idea.  I was getting random logouts, but it was nothing to do with Chrome.
The problem started after a major update.

---

