---
title: "12.04 on a Eee-Pc 1000H"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2012-04-29
I have installed 12.04 on my Eee-Pc & I am really thrilled with it everything works the only problem is everything has slowed down eg starting firefow, opening files, opening vlc. Have I missed something here ? 
Regards "F".

---

### Post by ubiquitin.jf on 2012-04-29
Looking at the specs on that machine I'd say you'd be better off using the Unity 2D session (which you can select from the login screen).

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2012-04-30
Cheers I will try that.

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2012-04-30
Even on 2D it still sucks.
I will try to use a commannd line to bring back Gnome & see if things may speed up a bit.
Something like this should do it. 

sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback

---

### Post by Hiphoperm on 2012-06-26
I have the same problem, same netbook.
Problem is that there is missing driver for video card. I am looking for the right driver for intel GMA 950, could sb help plz?

thx.

---

### Post by poikiloid on 2012-09-19
i use that computer too.
the specs are kinda weak for regular ubuntu.
i use Lubuntu on it. it runs well, except for wifi.
to get wifi to work, i have to use the windows driver.
instructions and driver are attached to this post in a zip file.

the utility, once installed, is found, i think, under System tools > Windows Wifi Drivers, or something.

note however that the wifi card occasionally stops working.
to get it working again:
right click the wifi management tray icon:
Un-enable wireless
Un-enable networking
Wait 10 seconds.
Re-enable networking.
Press Fn+F2
Wait 10 seconds.
Re-enable wireless.

If that doesn't work, you can go to Edit Connections, Wireless tab, and delete the wifi network, then re-add it.
Final solution: delete the driver, log out and back in, reinstall the driver.

Kinda a pain, but it is the best option i have found.

---

### Post by JosephWheatley on 2012-12-29
**Lubuntu 12.04** has always worked for me on my **Eee-PC 1000H**. 

 Wireless worked out of the box but there was some drop out at times.  

Changing the MTU setting from Automatic to 1500 helped and then changing  IPv6 setting to Ignore (Disabled).

Very occasionally it has lost wireless where only a restart sorts out.

I did have Ubuntu 11.10 installed previously but it was so slow that I know to avoid Ubuntu 12.04.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2012-12-29
> **JosephWheatley said:**
> **Lubuntu 12.04** has always worked for me on my **Eee-PC 1000H**.[...]
I own a slightly different version -- ASUS Eee PC 1000HD (Celeron M CPU - 120GB HDD).

Tried several different distros, and settled on Peppermint Two OS ( Lubuntu fork - Linux 2.6x kernel).

Use it almost every day -- carry it everywhere I go.

Couldn't be happier with Peppermint/Lubuntu!

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2012-12-29
> **JosephWheatley said:**
> Changing the MTU setting from Automatic to 1500 helped and then changing  IPv6 setting to Ignore (Disabled).[...]
BTW, I set the MTU to 1492.  

Seems to work better on my ADSL2+ connection, than 1500.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2012-12-30
Here's a screenie...  ;)


[INDENT][INDENT]**[COLOR="Sienna"]ASUS Eee PC 1000HD / Peppermint Two OS (Lubuntu Fork) / Conky 1.8.0 / ConkyWX 0.7.9-1[/COLOR]**[/INDENT]

[[IMG]http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-eeepc-30-dec-2012-1(650x381).png[/IMG]]("http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-eeepc-30-dec-2012-1.png")[/INDENT]

---

