---
title: "11.04"
date: 2011-08-07
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by newbie1tjp on 2011-08-07
My 10.x install crashed after automatic updates.  So I installed the latest version after none of the "help" helped.

Anyway in 11.04 I can no longer put icons on my desktop or find icons to start tasks I need like a terminal window for example.  Wine doesn't even know it is wine anymore.  Nothing is intuitive or automatic. 

Is there a simple way to find all the stuff or is this version set back to eliminate cometition with apple and windows.  I really enjoyed how useful ubuntu was and need the speed and usefulness back like right now.

Thanks if someone is willing to make this simple and fast again

TPecka

---

### Post by benedictusk on 2011-08-07
11.04 seems really efficient to me. 
If you need a terminal window fast, use CTRL-ALT-T. If you're against keyboard shortcuts but still want a quick terminal, go to applications, search terminal, and drag the first icon in the list to your desired location in the launcher. Now you have fast access to the terminal at any time!
You can put any app you use frequently in the launcher by following this method, so you can have quick and easy access to anything you want.

---

### Post by oboedad55 on 2011-08-07
You can use fallback mode from the login screen or revert to an earlier version of Ubuntu. I'm running 10.04 for several reasons, one of which is the classic Gnome interface.

---

### Post by maxar6 on 2011-08-07
Your wine problem may be due to the fact that wine can detect if it can run the file or not so it may be sending the file to be opened by archive manager.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-08-07
I don't know if you are logged into Unity  , but you can use Classic Gnome if you wish . 
[http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Use-Classic-GNOME-Session-on-Ubuntu-11-04-200092.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Use-Classic-GNOME-Session-on-Ubuntu-11-04-200092.shtml)

---

### Post by omelette on 2011-08-07
Just switch to Ubuntu Classic at the log-in screen.  That Unity desktop takes some getting used to and is a real pain when you are trying to set up a new system.  You can always switch back later if you feel the need when everything is set just right, Personally, I hate Unity.

---

