---
title: "In 9.10, Desktop Icons Won't Stay Put"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by JBA2337 on 2009-11-03
I just installed Ubuntu 9.10. I right-clicked on the desktop, and I unchecked the "Keep Aligned" option. Then I arranged my desktop and its icons just the way I want it to look, but the icons on the desktop don't stay where I put them.

Whenever I reboot the computer, the icons are out of place (not where I put them). This happens every time I restart Ubuntu. I also noticed that after a reboot, the "Keep Aligned" option is now checked. 

So I unchecked "Keep Aligned", rearranged my icons, rebooted, and the whole thing happens again. 

Maybe I should report a bug to the people who wrote Ubuntu 9.10.

Does anybody have any idea how to fix this?  


JBA2337

---

### Post by NoVista on 2009-11-06
I have noticed that my "Keep Aligned" option keeps getting turned back on after a reboot also, a problem that was not present before upgrading to 9.10.

Only one of my icons on the desktop was always getting reset in location  on reboot, and it was a link to a file on another drive.
All the other icons on my desktop points to files on the drive Ubuntu is on, (no separate home folder this installation), and have never exhibited that problem.

---

### Post by oooh on 2009-11-09
Same problem here, 9.10

Just one thing, I get a USPLASH error at start up, saying that the mode 1280x1024 mode can not be set, and thus it will use another mode. 

Maybe it tries to start on a different resolution at every start up and this causes the automatic relocation of all icons.

Automatic alignment of icons is also always turn on when I start up, even if i switch it off before shut down.

Any hint ? Where is the desktop configuration or state stored ??

---

### Post by garfieldpbj on 2009-11-09
same problem.. any solution?

this, and the problem with the ugly login screen is my only complaints after upgrading..

/Peter

---

### Post by OwnSurname on 2009-12-01
Apparently here [1] there is the bug, and a patch. The bug affects all the links pointing to files or folders on another device. I decided I will wait for the fix to be committed instead of compiling it myself. Still, I find annoying this kind of errors happen in GNOME, and also is annoying they don't get fixed+committed as soon as possible, especially considering, once more, that the problem didn't happen in previous versions. IMHO, of course.

1. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glib2.0/+bug/411322](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/glib2.0/+bug/411322)

---

### Post by javadog on 2009-12-03
The bug has been noted but there is still no solution. I read through all the pages... as these type of things always bug me. 

They recommend that you update your Glib 2, using the synaptic tool, however this doesn't solve the problem, I have done the upgrade on all of the glibs... I will keep you posted. ;)

---

### Post by paulisdead on 2009-12-03
I got around this by creating a launcher on the desktop, with the type set to location instead of using a symlink.

---

### Post by rldev on 2009-12-04
Count me in. I have the same problem. Very annoying.

---

### Post by OwnSurname on 2010-01-04
"This bug was fixed in the package glib2.0 - 2.22.3-0ubuntu1"

---

### Post by oooh on 2010-01-05
I just updated my ubuntu a couple of days ago and now the problem is gone

Cheers !

---

### Post by NoVista on 2010-01-05
> "This bug was fixed in the package glib2.0 - 2.22.3-0ubuntu1"Fixed nothing here. Same old problem.
The "Keep Aligned"option continues to be checked on a reboot.

---

### Post by W8WCA on 2010-01-29
Still the same here with updated system.
2.6.31-17-generic #54-Ubuntu SMP  x86_64 GNU/Linux
(&Gnome)

I have searched all over for an answer to this and found nada.

It happens on almost all Linux I have tried too.

---

### Post by rldev on 2010-01-29
I still have the problem as well 9.10 64bit. Latest updates.

---

### Post by phlancelot on 2010-02-01
Sorry for not providing any solutions... I'm just confirming that I am also experiencing this bug and can't seem to find the proper Glib to update within synaptic... did you guys have to add any lines to the repos to get it?

Thanks

Ubuntu 9.10
GNOME 2.28.1 (Ubuntu 2009-11-03)
Linux 2.6.31-17-generic
x86_64

---

