---
title: "11.04: Keyboard layout switching/flapping constantly (different solutions tried)"
date: 2011-07-02
forum: Desktop Environments
---

### Post by xerotm on 2011-07-02
Every since I switched to 11.04 (Gnome) on my desktop PC the 'de' keyboard layout is not really persistent in the gnome session. Whenever I login the layout is changed back to 'us', and even while in the gnome session, the layout is flapping back  and I'm not sure what triggers the change which is global to gnome (not just a single window).

**What' I've done/tried so far:**

I found several postings ([1]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1789260"), [2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1771614"))  and tried a lot of different solutions, but none of these really work for me.

1. I opened the keyboard layout in the gnome system settings moved "German" to the top of the list and even removed the US layout from the list (it keeps returning after reboot). I also set the German language as a system wide default and unchecked "separate layout per window option".

2. I set /etc/default/keyboard to:
```

XKBMODEL="pc105"
XKBLAYOUT="de"
XKBVARIANT=""
XKBOPTIONS=""
```3. I opened gconf-editor **both** as root and the non privileged user, went to /desktop/gnome/periphals/keyboard/kbd and set layouts to de and model to pc105. 

4. Logged out and in again and restarted the system (so if one of these changes would only be triggered by a reboot, it didn't work).

**Settings**

I don't have a xorg.conf, at least no xorg.conf that I can find.

```

$ xprop -root | grep XKB
_XKB_RULES_NAMES_BACKUP(STRING) = "evdev", "pc105", "us,de", ",", ""
_XKB_RULES_NAMES(STRING) = "evdev", "pc105", "de", "", ""

$ gconftool-2 -R /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/kbd
 model = pc105
 options = [grp    grp:rwin_switch]
 layouts = [de,us]
```I'm not sure if  the "_BACKUP" string indicates the problem?

According to lsusb my keyboard is:
"046a:0023 Cherry GmbH CyMotion Master Linux Keyboard"
But usually this shouldn't matter.

That's what I found in /var/log/Xorg.log.0
```

[  5246.020] (II) XKB: reuse xkmfile /var/lib/xkb/server-808BBA3D4C227BDB44C370226C34E44C5D69A4A9.xkm

```Any help would be appreciated, as this is really annoying.

---

