---
title: "bcm4318"
date: 2005-08-18
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by tmilam on 2005-08-18
I just got my brand spanking new compaq v2000z with turion processor! Unfortunately trying to get linux running on it has been less than pleasant.....

The only thing keeping me from running Ubuntu amd64 is the wireless card. It's a bcm4318. This card runs great with ndiswrapper, but the driver for it is only available as a 32 bit driver. There is *no* 64 bit driver for it!! So I searched frantically through google for a solution. So far as I can see

- there is definetly not a 64 bit driver for this card
- if you try to install the 32 bit driver on 64 bit ubuntu it doesn't work (duh)
- people running windows x64 on this computer are complaining about the lack of a 64 bit driver for this broadcom card

So........my question is this: can anybody call me up on this as wrong? Please tell me if you know where I can get a 64 bit driver for this card!

Note: I tried the one on linuxant even though it's not for this card. It didn't work. 

Also, one other question: is is possible to run some sort of emulation to allow 32bit software to run on ubuntu 64?

In the mean time I'm running regular 32 bit. That's the only way my wireless card will run  :?:

---

### Post by tmilam on 2005-08-20
Problem solved!  :) 

I'm now using this card with a 64 bit system. The solution is to use [this](http://www.runithard.com/HOWTO-BCOM64WIRELESS/Acer80211g.rar) driver. Works great! Should work for anyone using the Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller

---

### Post by jamesrw on 2005-08-20
I installed the i386 build on my 64bit v2000z, should the configuration still work? I will try it out anyway.

---

### Post by jamesrw on 2005-08-20
i can get ndiswrapper to install the driver but it is not configuring. seems that modprobe fails.

---

### Post by tmilam on 2005-08-21
> I installed the i386 build on my 64bit v2000z, should the configuration still work? I will try it out anyway.

No, the driver in the link won't work! You need the 32 bit version of this driver. You need to run the amd64 version of ubuntu for the posted driver to work. If you have a windows cd or the driver installation cd that came with your computer just search the cd for the file 'bcmwl5.inf' that file is your driver file. Hope this works for you :) 

If you don't have a driver disk, you can probably find it on [google](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=bcmwl5.inf&btnG=Google+Search)

---

### Post by jamesrw on 2005-08-21
i ended up grabbing the driver from my windows partition. works wonderfully! thnx.

---

