---
title: "7.10 64bit install problems"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by eighto2 on 2008-03-05
Hey everyone, i just got done building my new machine and trying to get Ubuntu 7.10 running.
Now i have 2 separate issues that are causing me problems installing.

first issue, my raid controller isn't a "true" hardware raid, so after i go into the raid controller and set up the raid 0, i fire up the install, and its showing 2 physical drives instead of the raid, doing a little searching  i found:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FakeRaidHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FakeRaidHowto) Seems pretty straight forward no big deal...
but according to this it needs to be done with the live cd...
My other problem comes into play that, as soon as i select the "Start or install Ubuntu..." option the screen goes blank and nothing happens. Now if the raid wasn't in the mix it wouldn't be a problem to install to the drive with the alternative cd, and then boot without a gui and install the driver, but I'm trying to install to the raid, and now I'm totally stumped :confused:

Specs:
Motherboard:  GIGABYTE GA-X38-DQ6
     Chipset: Intel ICH9R
Processor: Intel Core 2 Quad Q6600 Kentsfield 2.4GHz
Video Card: BFG Nvidia 8800 GTX 768MB

---

### Post by eighto2 on 2008-03-05
Update: so i broke down, and took the drives out of RAID, and just decided to install via the alt cd...
but now the screen is still black, i downloaded envy and installed it, ran envy ( using envy -t) and installed NVIDIA drivers, but the screen is still black after i install... is there something i'm missing ????

---

### Post by felker2 on 2008-03-06
I don't understand your posts: when does the screen turn black: 1) at the (start of the) installation of Ubuntu, or 2) after activation the propierary drivers on the already installed ubuntu?

If 2, then your subject could have been chosen a bit different, for example "problem after activating proprietary Nvidia driver"

I would not use 'envy'; I expectUbuntu 7.10 should be able to handle the prop.driver by offering it after the first installation boot.

---

### Post by eighto2 on 2008-03-06
I kind of got it fixed, i used envy and selected Manual install, then i removed usplash and it worked great

---

### Post by scarrabri on 2008-03-07
Hi yes i got the very same problem,as soon as i press install the screen goes blank,and after about 10mins a cross appears and said graphics nead ajusting,which is easy to do,and then nothing,this is a very poor show of what linux is all about,as this was a bought disc,any way if any one has an answer i would be very grateful,very best wishes Brian

---

### Post by pro003 on 2008-03-07
just had a similar problem when i 1st wanted to install ubuntu 7.10 and it wouldn't work for me too. i had nvidia 7300 gt and the same problem happened to me, after i selected start or install ubuntu my screen went black and nothing showed up... then i decided to change my graphic card so i bought ati 2600 xt and the problem was solved. installations went smooth without a single problem. 

one thing you should keep in mind too is that when you have this kind of problem, check out which version of ubuntu you have - and to avoid this problem it is best to get i386-alternate edition and that's how i solved my problems with installation... as far am a newbie but i learn more an' more every day and one thing man is for sure - people have no idea what they are missing if they don't run ubuntu on their desktops!  trust me - i know what am saying! (kind a took this from sledge hammer but he won't mind)

---

### Post by scarrabri on 2008-03-08
Thank you for your reply,and i will download 386 alternate,and see what happens,i have spent a lot of time getting nowhere,but i really want to use abuntu,even tho i have vista 64 bit,thanks again ,Brian:lolflag:

---

### Post by Jovec on 2008-03-08
1st: Evaluate your goals with using Raid.  Why use Raid 0 instead of 1?  Recent testing shows stripping does not yield large speed benefits (if any at all) and HD space is cheap so why not mirror?  HDDs are very reliable but stripping doubles you chance of data loss.  A mirror also allows you much easier access to your data/configs when there are problems as you can work off 1 disk and resync later.  Unless you have specific needs I recommend using Raid 1 with the Linux software raid daemon and configure your raid bios to disable "hardware" raid.  The alternate install CDs allow for easy creation and installation of raid systems.

2nd:  Your other problem is likely related to some boot parameters.  At the boot screen, try enabling boot options (F6 I believe) and add "irqpoll" and delete "quiet" and "splash"  If this works you will have to fix your grub boot entries later by initially editing the boot entry upon reboot then more permanently by fixing /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

