---
title: "6.06 Install Woes on AMD64 X2 (AM2 socket set)"
date: 2006-06-15
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by TJInc. on 2006-06-15
Hi All,

This is my first posting as well as the first lot of attempts in installing Ubuntu 6.06 64 bit edition on an:

AMD64 x2 4200+ (AM2 Socket Set)
NVidia GForce 7600GS video card.
ASUS M2N32-SLI Motherboard with Wi-Fi
2GB of Ram
RAID-0 with two Seagate 7200.9 300GB hard drives 

When using the Live CD version, **prior to actual hard disk installation**, all programs will just close after a few seconds. for instance when loading the Ubuntu Package Manager, it will just close after a few seconds. Furthermore, the system will sometimes just re-load x-windows for no apparant reason. 

I've also tried all this with the normal 32bit version and the same thing happens.

Sometimes, when booting off the live-cd, the system will attempt to load x-windows and the screen just freezes, just prior to completion of loading gnome.

Furthermore, I've even turned off the RAID feature in the bios, but that still has not helped.

All of this happens, even before I can get to the acutal hard disk installation.

I'm in the process of downloading the "Alternate CD" and was wondering what the install instructions, would be in this case. I hoping this will help in the matter according to other postings.

I hope someone will be able to assist as this is getting very frustrating.

Best Regards.

---

### Post by Jason_25 on 2006-06-15
Have you ran memtest86?  The live cd apps should not be crashing.  That is a sign of hardware instability to me, but there is a small chance it's because your hardware is new and only partially supported.

Check 
```

dmesg | tail

```
After an app crashes and see what's up.  If everything is segfaulting or you see alot of garbage in the output it further confirms my theory.

---

