---
title: "(K)Ubuntu on amd64 HP zvXXXX laptop"
date: 2005-12-19
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2005-12-19
Hello,

I've written a short manual that can be used in order to get a amd64 HP laptop running (K)Ubuntu graphically as soon as possible. I've installed Ubuntu on my zv6251EA laptop and it works great now!

I hope this manual may help you get through the post-installation (configuring the wireless network card and the video adapter) as quickly as possible. See attachments below for the needed drivers and the manual.

Please let me know when something is incomplete, wrong (or great!)

Good luck!

[ATTACH]4691[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]4692[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]4693[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Sir_Yaro on 2006-01-16
Your config works well on pavilion zv6000 (ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)). Thanks man!

But I've used default package - *xorg-driver-fglrx* from ubuntu repositories instead of package from ati.com and then I applied your *xorg.conf*
Unfortunatelly I was unable to get default (1280x800 @ 60) resolution for a really long time (~ 1 day :P ).
And finally couple minutes ago I find a proper combination :D
Here it goes:
```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
	RgbPath		"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	# Load	"GLcore"
	# Load	"i2c"
	# Load	"bitmap"
	# Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	# Load	"extmod"

	SubSection "extmod"
		Option "omit xfree86-dga"
	EndSubSection
	
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glxrx"
	# Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	# Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Driver		"fglrx"

	Option "no_accel"		"no"
	Option "no_dri"			"no"
	Option "mtrr"			"off"
	Option "DesktopSetup"		"clone"
	Option "ScreenOverlap" 		"0"
	Option "TVFormat" 		"PAL-H"
    Option "TVStandard"                 "NTSC-M"
    Option "TVHSizeAdj"                 "0"     
    Option "TVVSizeAdj"                 "0"     
    Option "TVHPosAdj"                  "0"     
    Option "TVVPosAdj"                  "0"     
    Option "TVHStartAdj"                "0"     
    Option "TVColorAdj"                 "0"     
    Option "GammaCorrectionI"           "0x06419064"
    Option "GammaCorrectionII"          "0x06419064"
	Option "Capabilities"		"0x00000000"
	Option "CapabilitiesEx"		"0x00000000"
	Option "VideoOverlay"		"on"
	Option "OpenGLOverlay"		"off"
	Option "CenterMode" 		"off"
	Option "PseudoColorVisuals"	"off"
	Option "Stereo"			"off"
	Option "SereoSyncEnable"	"1"
	Option "FSAAEnable"		"no"
	Option "FSAAScale"		"1"
	Option "FSAADisableGamma"	"no"
	Option "FSAACustomizeMSPos"	"no"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX0"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY0"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX1"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY1"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX2"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY2"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX3"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY3"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX4"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY4"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosX5"		"0.000000"
	Option "FSAAMSPosY5"		"0.000000"
	Option "UseFastTLS"		"0"
	Option "BlockSignalsOnLock"	"on"
	Option "UseInternalAGPGART"	"yes"
	Option "ForceGenericCPU" 	"no"

	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	#Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth		1
#		Modes		"1280x800"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth		4
#		Modes		"1280x800"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth		8
#		Modes		"1280x800"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth		15
#		Modes		"1280x800"
#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth		16
#		Modes		"1280x800"
#	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x800"
		ViewPort	0 0
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

```

---

### Post by apuredol on 2006-01-27
HI, and thanks for your guide... I am trying to install ubunto 5.10 on zv6000, i download the driver and i've followed your instructions getting the packages with apt... 

when i run the driver, first, i am getting this

Detected version of X does not have a matching 'x680_64a' directory
You may override the detected version using the following syntax:
     X_VERSION=<xdir> ./ati-driver-installer-<ver>-<arch>.run [--install]

then it works with 
X_VERSION=x680 ./ati-driver-installer-8.21.7-i386.run

then the wizard install the software and doesn't alert me nothing.. If I watch /usr/share/fglrx/fglrx-install.log 

there was an error:
[Message] Kernel Module : Trying to install a precompiled kernel module.
[Message] Kernel Module : Precompiled kernel module version mismatched.
[Message] Kernel Module : Found kernel module build environment, generating kernel module now.
ATI module generator V 2.0
==========================
initializing...
Error: could not resolve matching ip-library.
[Error] Kernel Module : Failed to compile kernel module - please consult readme.

and the file    /usr/X11R6/bin/fglrxconfig doesn't exist.

Can you help me?

thanks

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-01-28
What I THINK (but I'm NOT sure!) is that your zv6000 has a 32-bit processor. If this is so, you should *apt-get install* the kernel-header and kernel-image files for the right i386 or i686 kernel. If you want to know which kernel you have right now, you can type:

**uname -r**

This returns the currently used kernel version. From that you can derive which kernel -headers and -image file syou have to install. Since you said the i386 ati-installer works better, I think this might be it.

Let me know if it worked!

---

### Post by apuredol on 2006-01-30
Hi ruudiculus and thanks for your support.

My zv6000 is a 64-bit machine, and i've installed ubuntu 5.10 for 64, the problem was that i didn't notice that the display driver that i had downloaded was for 32 bits... 

Now i made this
apt-get update
apt-get upgrade
apt-get dist-upgrade

Then my kernel version with uname -r is 2.6.12-10-amd64-generic.

I've installed the linux*headers*amd64*generic for 2.6.12.10 too.

Now when i run the driver always runs ok, but the file fglrxconfig is not generated. 

The installation log is attached.

Thanks again in advance.

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-01-31
Hi,

I'm not very trained yet in reading log files :-k , but what I understand from it is that:
a) something DID compile.
b) some *.c code gave errors (and DIDN'T compile)
c) it might have something to do with the last lines: something about a duplication in the packages list.

So what to do now. Maybe the best thing to do is:
a) wait for real Guru's to arrive and answer.
b) try to look for duplicates in the packages list (aptitude/synaptic)
c) try to build .deb-packages using the ATI installer; maybe its error messages provides more information.

That's all I can say for now, sorry. I'm quite a newbie too ;)

---

### Post by felipefoz on 2006-02-01
so...
ruudiculus, does your how-to about installing ubuntu in a zv6251e work in all zvXXXX series?
i have a zv6000 and having some troubles in getting the X to work!!!
thanks...

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-02-01
*Felipefoz*, 

can't say for sure, sorry. But the howto deals with getting up graphically as quickly as possible so it mainly covers setting up the ATI Radeon Xpress 200 card and the Broadcom wlan card. You can check your computers ingredients (cards) and if they're the same as in the zv6251EA, I'd say you can safely use my HowTo. 

If you have a different wlan card you should use the appropriate 64-bit drivers (or first try if the ones I provide work) for it.

That's all I can say, but this forum's here to help you of course!!! What's your X problem?

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-02-01
By the way I just recently discovered that while installing the ATI driver helps you getting up graphically, it doesn't acually use the ATI driver because the card wasn't detected during the installation. 

If you're not a gamer/second monitor user this is not a problem and the video quality is good, but when you want to get EVERYTHING out of your laptop it is good to really enable the ATI driver. So far, I haven't tried myself. But when I succeed it'll be added to the HowTo of course! (The only thing I tried was using the BusID option, but sadly this was of no effect)

---

### Post by felipefoz on 2006-02-02
Oh thanks man, actually the laptop was from one of my friends, and so, i'd like to introduce him to the linux world, as old ubuntu user, i thought it'd be easy, but it was okay, i downloaded the driver, installed, and have copied the xorg.conf, so it is working the X now! With the graphical interface the things have become easier! :D
btw. i didn't tried to put the wi-fi card to work, 'cause he doesn't use so, then I just installed the X, while I do a research over internet! ok! hope the dapper will have better support for those laptops! :P

---

### Post by sithia on 2006-02-07
I've been working on getting the display drivers to load on my zv6000 for about 2 days. Thus far, I have managed to get a 1280x800 display but I can't verify I'm running with the fglrx driver. It's not listed in lsmod but it's definitely spitting out a lot in /var/log/Xorg.0.log. And there seems to be a bug in my libdri.a or fglrx (or a combination of the two). When I enable the "dri" module in xorg.conf the Xorg binary spikes the CPU usage to 100% and kdm never loads. I can ssh in and run top to verify this but all display on the laptop is completely hosed (can't even switch to a pseudo-terminal). I've got the latest ATI x64 drivers loaded (from the .deb's I built). Anyone have any idea what's so broken with dri in breezy? Does anyone have a working libdri.a they're willing to post somewhere?

Also, is it just me or do the volume buttons on the front of the laptop not work? I can't hear any difference in volume when I hit any of the three buttons (up, down, or mute).

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-02-09
To enable the ATI driver it seems that you have to switch something in your BIOS ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=106047]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=106047"))

I have to do for myself (and I'll do it in a few hours) so I'll get back with the results. As far as your libraries are concerned: I don't know what's happening on your laptop, but mine is working (using "dri").

The buttons on the front do work on my Gnome, yet it seems as if one of the three buttons produce some unwanted keycode, because I can't unfold any menu item in the taskbar anymore. I use those buttons as less as possible.

So, that's what I know. Now I'll reboot, change some BIOS settings and come back in the thread given above with the results.

---

### Post by Hygelac on 2006-02-10
Sithia, you might find this link useful concerning the broken library
[url]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsHewlettPackard[/url
(Right at the bottom is the zv6000, with a link to a replacement libdri.a) 

I still haven't got FGLRX working though, meaning that I cannot verify that this new library will really work; (but at least the wireless runs \\:D/ ).

EDIT: It's not just you; I don't seem to have working volume buttons either.

---

### Post by sithia on 2006-02-11
> **Hygelac]Sithia, you might find this link useful concerning the broken library
[url]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportMachinesLaptopsHewlettPackard[/url
(Right at the bottom is the zv6000, with a link to a replacement libdri.a)[/quote] Thanks for the URL. I found this thread's step-by-step instructions worked perfectly for my zv6000 even though the target machine was a v2000z. http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=124635. I just said "what the heck, it can't be worse than I've already done" and surprisingly enough they worked perfectly. I even have 3D acceleration operational!

[quote=Hygelac]I still haven't got FGLRX working though, meaning that I cannot verify that this new library will really work said:**
>  I still haven't tried the wireless. I was going to give that a go today.

[quote=Hygelac]It's not just you; I don't seem to have working volume buttons either. I fired up xev yesterday and found some interesting results. I could hit volume up and down at will and they registered. Until I hit mute. After I hit mute, the volume up and down buttons stopped sending (or at least xev stopped receiving) their keycodes. So the buttons are recognized at least, if not handled. So it seems if I can catch the keycodes I may be able to at least ship off an appropriate command but I unsure if that would really work right given that xev "loses" volume up and down after mute is pressed.

---

### Post by ztirffritz on 2006-02-19
None the how-tos lead to anything anymore.  I think that the link is broken.

---

### Post by coolbreeze on 2006-04-18
[QUOTE=ruudiculus]Hello,

I've written a short manual that can be used in order to get a amd64 HP laptop running (K)Ubuntu graphically as soon as possible. I've installed Ubuntu on my zv6251EA laptop and it works great now!

I hope this manual may help you get through the post-installation (configuring the wireless network card and the video adapter) as quickly as possible. See attachments below for the needed drivers and the manual.

Please let me know when something is incomplete, wrong (or great!)

Good luck!

[ATTACH]4691[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]4692[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]4693[/ATTACH][/QUOTE]

The attachments are invalid links!

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-04-18
Ah good of you to check them! I think those locations vanished during the forum metamorphose.

I hope to get a small web server up soon, so then I can link to there! I'll see if I have the time this week to throw some valid URL's in this thread for the meantime.

Now, I go to sleep: dreaming about blueZ stacks and hcidumps (but that's a whole other topic ;) )

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-05-03
You can just use my HowTo's link below to visit these attachments.

Good luck with them!

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-06-20
Hello all,

I've switched to Dapper Drake and I've rewritten my installation guide with more detailed info (about successful Wine on amd64) and an **xorg.conf** file that enables the use of dual screen. I will upload this new guide dugin the next week, after I have tried to enable 3D acceleration.

So please check the guide for errors if you want! And also tell me if the guide works on non-zv6251EA laptops!

Till soon!

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-08-09
OK, my new website is up ([www.ruudbeukema.nl]("http://www.ruudbeukema.nl")) and running together with a new installation guide (for Dapper Drake)

The guide includes:
- video setup (with 3d accel. AND dual screen)
- wine setup (32-bit)
- wlan using ndiswrapper

If you use it with success on other laptops than the zv6241EA, please mail me the successes, work-arounds etc.!

---

### Post by ruudiculus on 2006-10-11
I updated the Dapper Drake installation guide (see [www.ruudbeukema.nl](www.ruudbeukema.nl)) to the latest Ati driver. I also added a solution to a problem one could encounter when using OpenOffice.

---

