---
title: "I think I have to go back to windows..."
date: 2007-06-28
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by thepiercedweirdo on 2007-06-28
Since Vista is out and Xp is getting pulled from the shelves by the end of the year. I have noticed that my desktop has been running slower and slower with each update it receives. So I backed everything up and made it Ubuntu like my laptop..

The video is an issue. I have 2 GeForce7950 Gx2 running to a samsung 46"lcd with a native resolution of 1366x768. It won't let me past 1280x720.

I am still rather new to the world of linux. But I find Ubuntu to be the one I am most comfortable with. My main objective right now is to get this machine running properly, stick Xp in a Vm and configure that to run properly as well.

But right now I am not a fan of X.

In short I think I need my hand held like a little kid and walked through the steps. Or My research is right and I'm out of luck unless I go out and buy new cards.

---

### Post by nowhere.elysium on 2007-06-28
The easiest way to force a new resolution, on the basis that your monitor and card can both support it, that is, is to do the following:

press Ctrl+Alt+F1
when you're on the console screen (the bacl one with the grey text), log in using your usual details
type 'sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf' (sans apostrophes, of course)
under the 'Video Modes' section, you'll see various bit rates, and resolutions - such as 1280x1024 and so forth - here, you want to put in your desired resolution, under the 24 bit section.

If these instructions cause you any problems, post your xorg.conf, and I or someone else will show you where to edit it.

---

### Post by praxis22 on 2007-06-29
Hi,

This is fairly easy to do, but you have to know what make and model of monitor you're using, (because we need to find out the refresh rates) as it's a flat panel it's unlikely to get past 75hz, but if you enter the wrong frequencies you could damage you monitor.

So, provide us with the information and we'll give you a working form of words that X will understand. 

There are reasons why X is like this, chief amongst them is that UNIX/Linux is a command line driven Operating System (OS). Unlike windows, which is GUI driven OS. Basically, Linux will continue to work, and remain usable without X. Windows, however is unusable without windows-explorer.

So while X will work for most people who install ubuntu, by default it does not have specific graphics drivers. This is actually no different to the way that windows does stuff. When you first boot it only gives you a 600x800 Vesa display mode. But while people who run windows generally don't know how to configure things, (and often don't want to) the people who run Linux, in the main, want to be able to configure things things for themselves. This is why there is no "easy" setup utility for doing more than "standard" video resolutions.

---

### Post by yowshi on 2007-06-29
it might be helpful to add one or something tech support is often hard to obtain due a fact if it is true i read learning this stuff can take years to get down. in the mean time asking for tech suppiort is like asking some one who speaks only greek how to do something in english

---

### Post by thepiercedweirdo on 2007-07-05
I tried everything you guys posted. And still couldn't get it to go past 1280x720. So I tried nvidia-settings and it's still the same. After auto and save it came up with these settings. 

Though according to the manual optimum settings are 1360x768(I guess the specs I got before were for a newer model). Horizontal is 47.712. Vertical is 60.015. And the pixel clock is 85.800(which I have no idea what that is).

Either way it didn't crash. I still have picture. But I have to stack the panels to be able to see one. And the "buttons" are all off screen. I'm about to put my head through the monitor. I love Nvidia. But I feel like the hate me right now.

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "SAMSUNG"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 46.0
    VertRefresh     59.0 - 61.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7950 GX2"
    BusID          "PCI:4:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 640x480 +0+0; 720x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-07-05
Here's two methods. Please make sure you have your lcd's manual as you will need it during the xorg editing. 

[screen refresh rates....]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2605716#post2605716") 

[HOWTO: change resolution/refresh rate in Xorg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=resolution")

Also make sure you have the drivers for your card properly installed. in your case your using GeForce7950 Gx2 so you would install the nvidia-glx-new drivers

---

