---
title: "7.10 x86_64, ATI fglrx, 100% Xorg CPU usage and lockup"
date: 2008-03-12
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by elmccarthy on 2008-03-12
Hi there,

I'm running Ubuntu 7.10 on an ASUS M2A-VM motherboard with onboard ATI Radeon X1250 graphics.  In order to use the dual-head feature, I'm using the restricted fglrx driver.  Unfortunately, this causes X to lock up.

Most of the time, X locks up when gdm starts; on the rare occasions that I'm able to log in, X locks up quickly, usually when starting an application.  When X is locked in this way, I can still move the mouse on the screen, but can't click on anything or type at all.

If I log in remotely at this point, top shows Xorg at 100% CPU usage.  Attempting to kill the process freezes the computer ENTIRELY.

I've seen similar problems mentioned on these forums and also in a couple of Ubuntu bugs.  Nothing recent, though.  Has anyone been able to solve this problem with the fglrx driver?  Is there any more information I can provide that might be helpful?

Thanks in advance,

Luke

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2008-03-12
Is it, with a little patience possible to disable the restricted driver from the restricted drivers section? In this case you will use Mesa. Subsequently de-install the Ati driver (and the XGL-server) completely and reinstall either the one from the repository, or the latest one, whichever one you think is best.

---

### Post by elmccarthy on 2008-03-12
> **Jouke74 said:**
> Is it, with a little patience possible to disable the restricted driver from the restricted drivers section? In this case you will use Mesa. Subsequently de-install the Ati driver (and the XGL-server) completely and reinstall either the one from the repository, or the latest one, whichever one you think is best.

Since the problem only manifests when X is running, it's very easy to get around.  I can boot in recovery mode and specify a different driver before gdm starts up.  I've been using the vesa driver to explore the problem.

Just to be clear, you're suggesting that I should uninstall the xorg-driver-fglrx package and reinstall it?  If so, I've actually done this at least once in the process of trying to fix the problem.  It hasn't worked.  I've also tried the latest driver directly from ATI, but I see the exact same behaviour.  Perhaps I'm not completely uninstalling the driver?  Are there other steps I need to take, other than removing the xorg-driver-fglrx package?

Thanks,

Luke

---

### Post by warp99 on 2008-03-12
Check out the troubleshooting section of the ATI wiki:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Troubleshooting](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Troubleshooting)

Towards the bottom of the page there are some X-server related problems. Also you don't need to run the vesa drivers, but you can run the open ati drivers. Just edit your xorg.conf and replace any occurrence of "fglrx" with "ati" and crtl-alt backspace to restart X-server. :)

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2008-03-13
Since you have a X1250 card, I don't know how the support is of this video card in the various drivers. Yes I referred to deinstall Fglrx (all packages with that name) as well as Xserver-xgl. Make sure you right-click the packages and then "completely remove" program. In this case the config files will also be removed (otherwise not and the problem remains). Then enable the restrcited drivers again. 

Or continue to install the 8.3 drivers.
Or Use the open ATI drivers, I have no experience with those.
Or stick with Vesa.

But choose one and stick to that until it's working. Another way is to edit the xorg.conf en just keep everything installed. But then you need to find the thing which is conflicting.

I also found this: 
If you suffer from slow 2D speed it might help to set

Option		"XaaNoOffscreenPixmaps"                "true"

in the fglrx device section of /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

This might also help the pixel errors in the lower right corner that occur on some machines. It disables 2D accaleration almost completly and let the CPU do all the rendering. Hopefully the driver will provide better XRender accaleration soon.  

Try switching it to false or true to see if it makes a differrence.

More here for Fglrx 8.3 (and possibly the repro version): [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Troubleshooting](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Troubleshooting)

Including the 8.3 install here: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide)

---

