---
title: "Does DRI really work on Ubuntu PPC?"
date: 2006-05-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-05-02
I noticed that driconf is not available for PPC in Ubuntu.

Is this because DRI doesn't really work (doesn't substantially improve performance) in Ubuntu PPC?

I have an ATI Radeon 7000 in my Blue&White, but I suspect that it is really performing like a "dog"  (aarf) because, for instance, when I drag a window, the redraws are slow - veeerrrryyy sssssslllllooowwwwwwww. 

My xorg.conf file contains the following
```

Section "Module"
Load	"i2c"
Load	"bitmap"
Load	"ddc"
Load	"dri"
Load	"extmod"
Load	"freetype"
Load	"glx"
Load	"int10"
Load	"type1"
Load	"vbe"
EndSection


Section "DRI"
Mode	0666
EndSection

```

... but I am still getting really poor performance.  Is this "just how it is" w/ Mac on Ubuntu?

Are these slow redraws (typically more noticeable when several windows are open) actually a bug?  Or is this normal behavior with the ATI drivers we have (are stuck with)?

thanks

davygravy

---

### Post by Ptero-4 on 2006-05-03
It's normal for the OSS drivers (which doesn't access the cards coprocessor/RAM but instead use the computer CPU/RAM making it slow). The non-free drivers speed things up b/c they use the rendering hardware instead of just using software only.

---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-05-03
[QUOTE=Ptero-4]It's normal for the OSS drivers (which doesn't access the cards coprocessor/RAM but instead use the computer CPU/RAM making it slow). The non-free drivers speed things up b/c they use the rendering hardware instead of just using software only.[/QUOTE]


Are you saying there are drivers for my card that I can buy - an ATI driver that will work under Ubuntu PPC on my machine?  

Where to I get it?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-05-04
[QUOTE=davygravy]Are you saying there are drivers for my card that I can buy - an ATI driver that will work under Ubuntu PPC on my machine?  

Where to I get it?[/QUOTE]

ATI's drivers are x86-only, and they haven't released the source code so you can't compile them for PPC. Sorry!

---

### Post by slux on 2006-05-04
DRI drivers should work on PPC and it does utilize the GPU pretty well. They provide real free software 3D acceleration and are fast enough to play for example Quake 3 with a proper card.

I can't say much about what's causing your issues with only that snippet of a configuration file... You're talking about pure 2D performance which doesn't have that much to do with DRI though.  The driver might just be that bad or you might be using a generic driver... What do you have specified as the driver in Xorg.conf? Running glxinfo from a terminal and looking for the part with "Renderer:" will also tell you whether you've got 3D acceleration (and are using DRI drivers which probably also have the best 2D performance you can get)

Specifying driver options might also help, some drivers don't enable all the acceleration by default...

---

### Post by engla on 2006-05-04
DRI works with PPC. I haven't seen any especially good performance with it though.

Also, for me it seems DRI slows down the usual desktop, so I have it disabled for my desktop session, and use a separate X config for games that use DRI.

On breezy, for this to work, I compiled the OSS drivers and some parts of Xorg from CVS. After this it worked fine, and I tuned X to use EXA acceleration for desktop and such. [http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/) has detailed instructions and a really great troubleshooting page.

On dapper, that's not needed and you get pretty good OSS drivers and of course Xorg 7.0 also. Lots of configuration in xorg.conf is needed though to tweak it like you want it.


So for my desktop, my conf looks like this and dri is disabled:

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. M9+ 5C63 [Radeon Mobility 9000 \(AGP)]"
        Driver          "radeon"
        BusID           "PCI:0:16:0"
        Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
        Option "AGPMode" "4"
        Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
        Option "DDCMode"
        Option "RenderAccel" "true"
        Option "SubPixelOrder" "NONE"
        Option "ColorTiling" "true"
        Option      "AGPFastWrite" "yes"
        Option          "backingstore"          "true"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-05-04
[QUOTE=slux]...

I can't say much about what's causing your issues with only that snippet of a configuration file... 
...

[/QUOTE]


Below is my xorg.conf :

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
# path to defoma fonts
FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load	"i2c"
Load	"bitmap"
Load	"ddc"
Load	"dri"
Load	"extmod"
Load	"freetype"
Load	"glx"
Load	"int10"
Load	"type1"
Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
Driver	 "kbd"
Option	 "CoreKeyboard"
Option	 "XkbRules"	"xorg"
Option	 "XkbModel"	"pc104"
Option	 "XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
Driver	 "mouse"
Option	 "CorePointer"
Option	 "Device"	 "/dev/input/mice"
Option	 "Protocol"	 "ExplorerPS/2"
Option	 "Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]"
Driver	 "ati"
BusID	 "PCI:0:16:0"
Option	 "UseFBDev"	 "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier	"Princeton"
Option	 "DPMS"
HorizSync	30-54
VertRefresh	50-90
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier	"Default Screen"
Device	 "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]"
Monitor	 "Princeton"
DefaultDepth	24
SubSection "Display"
Depth	 1
Modes	 "1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth	 4
Modes	 "1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth	 8
Modes	 "1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth	 15
Modes	 "1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth	 16
Modes	 "1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth	 24
Modes	 "1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier	"Default Layout"
Screen	 "Default Screen"
InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode	0666
EndSection


Any ideas would be helpful.

---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-05-04
[QUOTE=engla]DRI works with PPC. I haven't seen any especially good performance with it though.

Also, for me it seems DRI slows down the usual desktop, so I have it disabled for my desktop session, and use a separate X config for games that use DRI.
[/QUOTE]

Do you have a way of switching between modes/configs?
How?



[QUOTE=engla]
On breezy, for this to work, I compiled the OSS drivers and some parts of Xorg from CVS. After this it worked fine, and I tuned X to use EXA acceleration for desktop and such. [http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/) has detailed instructions and a really great troubleshooting page.

On dapper, that's not needed and you get pretty good OSS drivers and of course Xorg 7.0 also. Lots of configuration in xorg.conf is needed though to tweak it like you want it.

[/QUOTE]

Good that 7.0 & Dapper make that unnecessary...I like when things are easy.


[QUOTE=engla]

So for my desktop, my conf looks like this and dri is disabled:

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. M9+ 5C63 [Radeon Mobility 9000 \(AGP)]"
        Driver          "radeon"
        BusID           "PCI:0:16:0"
        Option "AccelMethod" "EXA"
        Option "AGPMode" "4"
        Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
        Option "DDCMode"
        Option "RenderAccel" "true"
        Option "SubPixelOrder" "NONE"
        Option "ColorTiling" "true"
        Option      "AGPFastWrite" "yes"
        Option          "backingstore"          "true"
EndSection

```[/QUOTE]


Engla, thanks for that last chunk of config code.  

How do I find out which of these options are available on my PCI Radeon card?  I search through DRI, but didn't find anything that looked specific.  Maybe I was looking in the wrong place?

Thanks again,

davygravy

---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-05-04
:confused: 

Well, hmmpphhh. 

I couldn't find driconf in the packages or anywhere on the web.  I was sure I had tried to install it from Synaptic, but couldn't find it when I was first searching there.

I just tried it again in Synaptic, and there it was.  Installed it and it runs.

Now I have to figure out how to run/use it.

---

### Post by slux on 2006-05-05
You can find about the driver options on the man page (man ati or possibly man radeon from terminal). 
I seem to recall that at least RenderAccel would be pretty important out of the ones engla pasted. EnablePageFlip, AgpMode and AGPFastWrite might also be worth it  and you can experiment with the rest as well of course. The man page will provide information on what exactly they do.

You could also change the driver name to radeon, I'm not completely clear on the differences (if there are any) but that one should support your radeon just as well.

---

