---
title: "27.5 hrs of X.org induced stress"
date: 2006-01-16
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by arcaninepup on 2006-01-16
Please, someone spare me.

My parents bought me a Packard Bell x64 machine running XP Home for my BTEC National Diploma Software Development Course. It has a ATI Raedon (sp?) XPRESS 200 card and X refuses to start.

I've tried everything I can think of: using vga, uninstalling x.org and redownloading it, removing the drivers that seem to cause it to crash.

I wish i could give a readout from the error screen, but I'm in XP right now, and writing it all out by hand then retyping it in doesn't seem much fun. Maybe the lack of sleep is making me miss something obvious, but I'm too tired to care. Someone please help! xx

---

### Post by omegamike on 2006-01-16
have you tried:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

at the terminal??

---

### Post by jecos on 2006-01-16
vesa driver should work on anything, so use it until you get fglrx configured properly.

Wow when did Packard Bell come alive again, I thought they died off some time ago.

---

### Post by jecos on 2006-01-16
Try dapper flight 3 if you haven't it just got released.

---

### Post by morphodone on 2006-01-16
yep vesa should work... i've never seen it fail :)

---

### Post by arcaninepup on 2006-01-17
[QUOTE=omegamike]have you tried:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

at the terminal??[/QUOTE]

yeah, unforitently it wasn't as simple as changing sync rates or resolutions

[QUOTE=jecos]vesa driver should work on anything, so use it until you get fglrx configured properly.

Wow when did Packard Bell come alive again, I thought they died off some time ago.

Try dapper flight 3 if you haven't it just got released.[/QUOTE]

thanks! i'll use vesa as my backup driver then, and tell you if anything goes wrong.

packard bell... i think it may be a subsidiary of compaq now, i'm not sure. it sure is naff thought. (ps, i'm UK based)

someone else refered me to the fglrx driver, but kubuntu doesn't seem to provide it, i was trying to use the old card opensource 'ati' driver :\.

Dapper flight? *googles*.

what i'm going to do now is get the non-ubuntu specific driver from ati and then use fglrxconfig.

Thanks morphodone too ^--^.

---

### Post by arcaninepup on 2006-01-17
Actually i'm downloading Dapper Flight 3 right now. The new version of X.org looks like it should have support, so i'm gonna try this first.

xx

---

### Post by adam.tropics on 2006-01-17
I have the same card (I must have really ****** up in a former life) but it does work I promise you.
Do the sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg choose all the defaults except don't let it pick ATI, use VESA. This will get you up and running. Then follow the how to for **fglrx**, that will give you the 3d acceleration. Bear with it, it's a bit of a headache,but does work in the end.

---

