---
title: "Linesrv won't use a port"
date: 2005-11-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by jmertic on 2005-11-02
My install of Linesrv on my Mac 6500 with 5.10 is not binding to a port, therefore I can't connect to it. Below is the output at start of linesrv

[FONT="Courier New"]Starting linesrv: \nLineControl Server 2.1.15 -- (c) by S. Fuchs 1999-2002

using '/etc/linesrv/linesrv.conf' as config file.
loading config file... done.
GLOBAL:
- pidfile: /var/run/linesrv.pid
- html_status: /var/run/linesrv/htmlstatus
- user_accounting: no
- bind_to: 192.168.2.1
- port: 0
- send_throughput: yes
- isdn_callerslog: no
- syslog_call_from: no
- filter_type: allow
  - mask:      192.168.2.0     255.255.255.0

LINE [1:flxtek]:
 - mklog: yes
 - allow_manually: yes
 - interface: ppp0
 - line_baud_up: 64000
 - line_baud_down: 64000
 - script_up: pon flxtek
 - script_dn: poff -a
 - script_esc: poff
 - con_timeout: 60
 - line_locking: yes
 - pinger: no
 - con_type: netdev
got tcp socket on 192.168.2.1:0
got udp socket on 192.168.2.1:0
checking linestatus...
   flxtek: up_user
LineControl Server 2.1.15 leaving the console...
linesrv.
[/FONT]

And my /etc/linesrv/linesrv.conf

[FONT="Courier New"]
##############################################################################
#   linesrv.conf (LineControl configuration file) generated by debconf
#   for LineControl Server 2.1.x
#  
#   Warning! If you put your local modificationes in this file, they will be
#   overwritten by debconf!!!
###############################################################################

#  The order of the keywords doesn't matter (except filter_*)
#  keyword and value must be separated by _one white-space (32)_
#  don't use any keyword twice (except 'line' and keywords that
#  apply to lines instead to the whole server process (global keywords)
#
#  This file suits the Debian compilation options.
#
#  first we have a look at the global keywords:

#-----------------------
# Server Port
#
# the IP the server is listening on (currently only one ip).
# if you would like to listen on many devices you have
# to say 0.0.0.0 (or try something like 192.168.0.0,
# maybe it works...)

bind_to 192.168.2.1
port 16007


#-----------------------
# User Accounting
#
# if you set 'user_accounting' to yes, only LCP3 (LineControl Protocol 3.x)
# clients will have access (other clients don't support the neccessary
# protocol)
# If you compiled linesrv with neither PAM nor crypt you have
# to say 'no' here... (or don't tell me you can't login! ;)

# Debian version it is compiled with in Linux-PAM support,
# so you have to set 'user_accounting yes'. 

# If you want deny access to some users, just put user login name into
# /etc/linesrv/linesrv.users 

user_accounting no


#---------------------------
# online costs
#
# define 'tarif' if you want the online costs to be calculated
# the keywords tarif and currency are not parsed by linesrv.
# only lclog starting at linesrv 2.1.11 can calculate costs.
# see /etc/linesrv for details.

# tarif /etc/linesrv/tarif.conf
# currency EUR

#---------------------------
# logging
#
# with 'logfile' you can log the ip, "from" time, "to" time and the seconds
# a client used the connection. Furthermore the server logs the same
# without IP when the connection gets closed (either by 'server' or
# 'manually')
# remember that multiple clients can use the connection at the
# same time. So the sum of the secs of the clients is not the
# one of the 'line ...' entries! (evidentially... :)
# You can parse the logfile with lclog. 

# logfile /var/log/linesrv/dialsrv.log

# linesrv can log its process id to a file. This file won't be removed
# by linesrv on shutdown. It will be overwritten on startup.
# (maybe a bug. But there are more important things right now!)
# you can use 'kill -QUIT `cat /var/run/linesrv.pid`' to terminate
# linesrv correctly. Afterwards do a "rm /var/run/linesrv.pid"...

pidfile /var/run/linesrv.pid



#-----------------------
# HTML server status report

# This lets you to see connection status by pointing
# your browser at http://<servername>/cgi-bin/htmlstatus

html_status /var/run/linesrv/htmlstatus


#---------------------------------
# ISDN-Watcher
#
# If you don't have ISDN or don't want the clients to display incoming
# ISDN calls just set caller_nr_pos to 0 and start linesrv as you would
# start any normal program :) ( '/<path>/linesrv'<enter> )
# If you want the clients to display incoming ISDN calls, start
# isdnlog and linesrv so that isdnlog pipes its logging output
# to stdin of linesrv: '/<path>/isdnlog <options> | /<path>/linesrv'
#
# in this section you have to configure the exact positions of a few strings
# which appear in the isdnlog message if you have an incoming call.
#
# If these positions are wrong we cannot inform you when someone is 
# trying to call you.
#
# The file, where those positions are defined is /etc/isdn/isdn.conf.
# The two interesting lines are "ILABEL" and "OLABEL"-line in the
# [ISDNLOG] subsection.
#
# We recomend to put those two example lines there and remove the already
# existing lines (if you do this, you do _not_ have to proceed setting
# the variables in this file, they already match):
# ILABEL = Incoming: %b %e %T %I Call to tei %t from %N0 on %n4
# OLABEL = Outgoing: %b %e %T %I tei %t calling %N2 with %n2
#
# We need to know the first word after the '=' sign (so don't put a % there)
# on the ILABEL line

caller_delimiter Incoming:

# We need to know the first word after the '=' sign (so don't put a % there)
# of the OLABEL line

receiver_delimiter Outgoing:

#  At which position do we find the '%b' in the ILABEL line ? 
# (start counting with 1, beginning after the 'caller_delimiter')

month_pos 1

#
#  At which position do we find the '%e' in the ILABEL line ? 
# (start counting with 1, beginning after the 'caller_delimiter')

day_pos 2

#
#  At which position do we find the '%T' in the ILABEL line ?
# (start counting with 1, beginning after the 'caller_delimiter')

time_pos 3

#
#  At which position do we find the '%N0' in the ILABEL line ?
# (start counting with 1, beginning after the 'caller_delimiter')

caller_nr_pos 10

#
#  At which position do we find the '%n4' in the ILABEL line ?
# (start counting with 1, beginning after the 'caller_delimiter')

receiver_nr_pos 12


# You may configure your own addressbook. Your defined aliases will be
# displayed instead of the caller number.
# An example addressbook is part of this package (it's called "addr_book")

addressbook_location /etc/linesrv/addr_book 


#-----------------------
# IP Filters
#
# with filters you may decide whether a certain client may use dialsrv or not.
# if filter_type is allow, all clients in the list have access to the server,
# others don't. If it's deny, all but those in the list have access.
# Remember that UDP/IP is extremely easy to spoof. Use Clients without
# user accounting only on a trusted subnet and block the 'port' at
# your firewall.
# you have to use this filter. Even if you switched on user_accounting.
# this is still old code from a previous version...
# Most people wouldn't need ip filters. So leave the filter_* lines as
# they are as long as you don't know what you're doing.

# filter_type (allow|deny)
# Defines what to do with ip addresses that match the filters you
# will define below.

filter_type allow

# Descriptions of a useful filter config see below. Most people blocking
# the port of linesrv at the firewall and using user_accounting won't need
# ip lists. So we just allow any ip (comment out the next line and read
# further description of filter_mask/_ip keywords below to make real use
# of the filter):

#filter_mask 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0

# if filter_type has been used (you must use it), the following keywords
# may be used more than once:
# filter_mask <ip> <bit-mask>
# filter_ip <from> <to>
# a range:

#filter_ip 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.4

# a mask (subnet):

#filter_mask 127.0.0.0 255.255.255.0
#filter_mask 192.168.1.0 255.255.255.0

# each keyword filter_* appends a new item to the list.
# Continue as needed.
# ex.
#filter_ip 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.126
filter_mask 192.168.2.0 255.255.255.0
#filter_mask 192.168.3.0 255.255.255.0
#filter_mask 192.168.4.0 255.255.255.0


#-----------------------
# Shutdown features
#


#script_shutdown /var/lib/linesrv/halt-wrapper

# you have to specify a filter list of IPs that are allowed to
# execute the 'script_shutdown'. Remember that UDP is very easy
# to spoof (just use IP-spoofing to get around the filter...).
# Block the LineControl UDP+TCP ports at your firewall and use
# LineControl only on a trusted subnet.
# LineControl does also support TCP connections. They're much
# harder to spoof... but some bad boy can just take your own IP...
# You don't have to use filter_type or so again. The type of the
# shutdown-filter is always 'allow'. Only listed IPs are allowed
# to execute the script. The host has to pass the by filter_*
# specified list. So this list is additional and doesn't replace
# the other one.
# a range ( from ... to ... inclusive): (uncomment/change following line)

limit_shutdown_ip 127.0.0.1

# a mask: (uncomment/change following line)
#limit_shutdown_mask 127.0.0.0 255.255.255.0
# each limit_shutdown_* entry appends an item to the list of
# for shutdown accepted hosts. Continue as needed.
# ex.

#limit_shutdown_ip 192.168.1.1 192.168.1.12


#----------------------------------
# LPT status
#
# with the LPT-status feature and a few transistors and LEDs you can
# monitor your linestatus using hardware.
# There are 2 possibilities:
# lines: the LPT ports databits (0-7) represent the lines 1-8
#        HI ==> line established, LOW ==> line closed
# clients: data bits 0-7 represent the number of clients that
#          are online on the default line (0). If the value is
#          decimal 255, that means 255 or more clients are online.
#	   One day this should change to a BCD encoded number of clients.
# If you're a bit confused about such special things: just don't use the
# lpt* keywords...
#lptstatus off
#lptaddr 0x3bc
#lptline some_linename_that_you_will_define_below
#lptaddr 0x378
#lptaddr 0x278


#---------------------------------------
# until know, the keywords applied for the whole server process.
# All coming keywords apply to the line defined by the previous
# 'line <linename>' statement. If you use line dependent keywords
# before you use the line keyword, those lines will be used as
# default values for all lines. Default line values can be overwritten
# in the appropriate line section.
# You have to define at least one line. 
# You can also use global keywords in a line section... they won't
# apply to the line but to the whole server process as they were
# in the global section.


line flxtek
--------------------------------
script_up pon flxtek
script_dn poff -a
interface ppp0

con_type netdev
# mklog no

#allow_manually no

script_esc poff -a

#con_timeout 60

send_throughput yes

#line_locking no

pinger no
#pinger_ip



#-----------------------
# Client specific Masquerading
#
# If you would like to run a script whenever a client goes online/offline,
# try it with the following keywords. The scripts get called with the IP
# of the client as first parameter. Remember that there can be more than
# one client per IP. So 'client_has_gone_online 192.168.0.12' can be called
# more than once without calling 'client_has_gone_offline 192.168.0.12'
# in between.

#client_online /etc/linesrv/client_on
#client_offline /etc/linesrv/client_off

[/FONT]

---

