---
title: "6.06 amd64 - can't get anything to work, feel like killing myself"
date: 2006-12-11
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by skkane on 2006-12-11
It's a dedicated server with no xserver installed. All i need is VNC server, wine and utorrent.

I can't get any of these installed.

I tryed the VNC server from RealVNC.com, i start it using "vncserver" and it just says "You will require a password to access your desktops.". On any 32bit distro it would have asked me to set a password then it started no problems. On AMD64 i can't get it to start at all. 

I then tried vnc4server but i can't even get that to install since it's missing a LOT of dependecies witch are uninstallable via Apt-get...

Now Wine. I've got the AMG64 build posted on this forum ([https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/agoodri2/wine_0.9.27-1_amd64.deb)](https://netfiles.uiuc.edu/agoodri2/wine_0.9.27-1_amd64.deb)). I did dpkg -i <name> and it said "Unpacking replacement wine ...
Setting up wine (0.9.27-1) ...". I then tried to do winecfg and wine but i got the message "root@ubuntu60664m:/stuff/vnc# wine
-bash: /usr/bin/wine: No such file or directory".

I also tried to compile wine from source but i get:

[i]../../include/winnls.h:779: warning: `__stdcall__' attribute ignored
make[2]: *** [casemap.o] Error 1
make[2]: Leaving directory `/stuff/wine-0.9.26/libs/wine'
make[1]: *** [wine] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/stuff/wine-0.9.26/libs'
make: *** [libs] Error 2
[/i]

when i try to do "make" (after ./configure and make depend witch work fine).

Please help as i'm about to break something around here for my stupidity of telling the server provider to install Ubuntu 6.06 AMD64 edition on the box :(((((

---

### Post by skkane on 2006-12-12
Nobody? :(

Also, i have to /usr/lib32 folder on my box (many people mention /usr/lib32 in guides and how-tos...). Just /usr/lib and /usr/lib64.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-12-12
> **skkane said:**
> Nobody? :(

Also, i have to /usr/lib32 folder on my box (many people mention /usr/lib32 in guides and how-tos...). Just /usr/lib and /usr/lib64.

Just a question, but what are you trying to run on this server? Not the applications, but what are you trying to do with it?
Secondly look in my signature for a solution for installing 32bit wine, its a 32bit application layer so you wont loose any performance. That or look on the 64bit forum here for wine compile instructions.

---

### Post by skkane on 2006-12-12
I fixed everything. Needed to install "ia32-libs" package. Everything worked fine after i did that. Glad i could find them mentioned in a post on these forums otherwise... :D

I'm using the server as a seedbox for torrents.

---

