---
title: "640x480"
date: 2006-09-24
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by tiki on 2006-09-24
I have Ubuntu 6.06 LTS 64-bit Version. I have really old Philips monitor, and he can only display 640x480... I want to run Live version, but when in boot menu i select '640x480x32', it always runs in 1024x784... 1024x784 resolution is too big for my old monitor, and he then shows 20 small screens and I can't see a thing, so i want it to run in 640x480

Pls help, tnx

---

### Post by dasyar613 on 2006-09-24
You might have to try installing Breezy, and then do the updates and upgrade from there. I think their may be a bug in the cd iso. I had the same problem, burning a new cd at slower speed did not help. The resolution problem carries over if you do an install from the 6.06 live cd, also.

---

### Post by tiki on 2006-09-24
> **dasyar613 said:**
> You might have to try installing Breezy, and then do the updates and upgrade from there. I think their may be a bug in the cd iso. I had the same problem, burning a new cd at slower speed did not help. The resolution problem carries over if you do an install from the 6.06 live cd, also.

I have dial-up and I don't want to download Breezy and then install it... i thought maybe some update can help me or something like that?

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-09-24
> **tiki said:**
> I have dial-up and I don't want to download Breezy and then install it... i thought maybe some update can help me or something like that?

If I were to sugest downloading a vesion, I would download the alternate install cd, it installs in a text mode. Odds are you are not going to be able to update a live cd enviroment already burned on the cd to install. Once its installed you can ctrl-alt-f1 to the  command line and ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` part of that will alow you to select avilable graphics sizes like 640x480

---

