---
title: "Mac Mini and 20&quot; Apple Cinema Display 1680x1050"
date: 2006-03-18
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by khightower on 2006-03-18
I just spend 6 hours getting my **20" Apple Cinema Display ** working on my **G4 Mac mini**. By working I mean full **1680x1050** res.

I am running Ubuntu 6.04 Flight 5. 

I am posting this to prevent anyone else from spending the same amount of time on this solution. Wanted to switch to linux from MAC OS X. Sold my PC and mini became my full time linux box.

Below are my full specs and my xorg.conf

**My Specs: **

Mac Mini 1.42ghz
Video: ATI Radeon 9200
Apple Cinema Display 20" (Silver)

**My xorg.conf file:**

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV280 [Radeon 9200]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option		"PanelSize"		"1680x1050"
	Option		"MonitorLayout"		"TMDS,NONE"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Apple Cinema Display"
	VendorName	"Apple Inc."
	ModelName	"Apple Cinema Display 20"
	#Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-90
	VertRefresh	43-72
	DisplaySize	434 270
	
	Mode "1680x1050"
		# D: 119.005 MHz, H: 64.677 kHz, V: 59.886 Hz
		DotClock 	119.006
		HTimings	1680 1728 1760 1840
		VTimings	1050 1053 1059 1080
		Flags		"-HSync" "+VSync"
	EndMode	
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. RV280 [Radeon 9200]"
	Monitor		"Apple Cinema Display"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1680x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by blackrim on 2006-03-18
just curious, where in lies the problem? the mini? i have the same display on a homemade box and it found the resolution fine (after I installed the nvidia driver support). my powerbook laptop with kubuntu found the resolution ok. is the mini video card wierd? just wondering as my lab is going to switch some of the ppc computers to ubuntu.

---

### Post by khightower on 2006-03-18
The mini has an ATI Video Card. It seems that the ATI card has problems with these displays. My PC found this display without any problems.

I think it is a PPC Mini ATI thing

---

### Post by matcram on 2006-10-02
hi,

i have a mac intel 1.5 and got the same problem but with a AL2216W 22" TFT Wide from ACER.

Does someone has any idea of how to repair my resolution problem ? 

Thx in advance
Matthieu

---

### Post by waterj2 on 2006-11-11
For widescreen monitors, fire up Synaptic and install the 915resolution package. From it's description:> 915resolution is a tool to modify the video BIOS of the 800
and 900 series Intel graphics chipsets. This includes the 845G,
855G, and 865G chipsets, as well as 915G, 915GM, and 945G chipsets.
This modification is necessary to allow the display of certain
graphics resolutions for an Xorg or XFree86 graphics server.

915resolution's modifications of the BIOS are transient.
There is no risk of permanent modification of the BIOS.
This also means that 915resolution must be run every time the
computer boots in order for its changes to take effect.
If you want to automatically set the resolution on each boot
and before X is launched, see /usr/share/doc/915resolution/README.Debian
for information about configuring the provided initscript.

Web site: [http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/](http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/)

---

### Post by unlokia on 2006-12-12
Dude your'e insane spending X amount of £££/$$$ on such a lovely machine and EXCELLENT OS X, and then wiping off all that is good about it, and putting ubuntu in its place?!!:eek: 

MAD!!!

Buy a beige Box PC for Ubuntu (cheap as chips) and stick it on that instead. Do you realise what you have done?

LOL! :D

---

### Post by prizrak on 2006-12-13
I agree buying a Mac is insane, much better (and cheaper) to get a customized PC and put Linux on it.

---

### Post by sanku on 2007-01-02
Thanks buddy! I had a same problem with my 20" display on older G4 machine. But thanks to your suggestion things have been sorted out. :)

---

