---
title: "amd64/7.10 Internet connection."
date: 2008-01-28
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by tarzy on 2008-01-28
Hi, I am trying to leave the MS community ASAP, and need help to get Internet connected. AMD64-bit  Ubuntu 7.10 installed, NIC card detected, static IP,subnet, router, etc.........guess I'm just too green.

Rather than describe my problem in detail, I'll first see if I can get any more ideas. I only need to get hooked up to my system to get out. Linux says my device is active. I do notice in this version of Firefox that it has no "options" on the file menu for me to go set Internet properties. 

I read in several different places that Samba is not necessary to get connected, I just don't really know.
In any case I cannot install Samba anyway, as it says it is the wrong version.

I am NOT going to throw in the towel and go back to Windows/MS. I've got to make Linux be what I do for the rest of my computing days.

---

### Post by dark_harmonics on 2008-01-28
I am using the same OS on a DHCP network with no issues. Can you ping your router? Are you sure the static settings are in there correctly (try ifconfig at a command line) I would do the following


ifconfig (then read through and ensure your settings are correct)
then ping the default gateway
then maybe see if router's connection is good (if another machine uses this connection that is a good indicator)
Then try different static settings (differnt ip for testing purposes)

---

### Post by tarzy on 2008-01-28
I have been over most every aspect I know about, to no avail. I have now the suspicion that maybe my on-board NIC has no driver installed. Also, I don't really know what it's name is, other than the real long one given in the hardware manager. I'm still lost..................but I do thank any who have already replied!

---

### Post by crjackson on 2008-01-28
You may actually get more help with this if you post in the networking forum.

---

