---
title: "7.10 install will not boot anymore...APIC?"
date: 2008-02-12
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2008-02-12
It fails at an APIC code every time.  Is there a way for me to log this to share on here so I can get some help on this one?

Here is what I can get right now:

Booting Proc

Wait...now it booted.

usually it fails on Booting processor 1/4, but this time ti ran through all 4.  Anyways to avoid this in the future?

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2008-02-12
Try adding the *noapic* option at boot.

---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2008-02-12
I tried that once because the freeze actually recommended I do that.  But it did not work, and booted two restarts later.

---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2008-02-12
I realize that this has happened just after I upgraded my modo's firmware.  is there an issue maybe with GIGABYTE P35-DS3R 's in BIOS 11?

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2008-02-13
> **gohanssjn said:**
> I realize that this has happened just after I upgraded my modo's firmware.  is there an issue maybe with GIGABYTE P35-DS3R 's in BIOS 11?

I updated my P35-DS4 MB with BIOS F11 without issue.

---

### Post by gohanssjn on 2008-02-13
Well, back to F4 BIOS, and it boots everytime, so it is indeed the issue.  And I found another topic where people have issues with F11 on the DS3R's :(

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2008-02-13
Interesting... my MB came with F8, and after a day or so I updated it to F11. Didn't see anything that was different. Perhaps in the overclock area more options for memory freq multipliers, can't be sure.

Notice I have a P35-DS4 MB, not 3.

It sure overclocks easily, but I think that is due to the Intel E8400. I've had it to 4.4MHz, but the fan noise is just too loud. I live at 3.6. <smile>

---

