---
title: "PB Pismo, Tiger/Breezy Dual Boot?"
date: 2005-10-27
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by memckelvey on 2005-10-27
I'm trying to set up my Mac G3 PowerBook (Pismo) to dual-boot Tiger and Ubuntu 5.10.  My problem:  after installing Ubuntu I can no longer boot into OS X.

I have read several postings on the internet, and followed the instructions closely.  I have used the Tiger Disk Utility to create two partitions (one for Tiger, and one for Ubuntu).  As near as I can tell, the Tiger Disk Utility doesn't allow me to leave any of the disk as free space, so I have to create a second partition.  I have then installed Tiger without difficulty, and at that point I could boot into Mac OS X just fine.

Then I run the Ubuntu installer, deleting the partition I had made for Ubuntu and letting the installer partition the remaining free space.  The Ubuntu install goes fine, but when I reboot, there is no 'grub-type' screen allowing me to choose booting OS X.  It eventually boots into Ubuntu and runs fine.

This scheme had worked fine for my x86 box, now happily dual-booting XP and Breezy.

The stuff I've found on the net while trying to troubleshoot this doesn't seem to report this difficulty.  There was some info telling me how to make OS X the default choice in yaboot, but the instructions assumed a working dual-boot configuration.  Which I don't have.  Yet.

Most of what I found refers to Hoary, so I'm wondering if it's a new wrinkle introduced with Breezy.  

Or, I'm stupid, always a possibility.

If anyone has any guidance for me, I'd appreciate it.

Thanks - MMcK

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-10-27
Well--Take a look in /etc for yaboot.conf--you should see a grub-like setup--make sure that your OSX partition is listed--if not, my yaboot looks like---

## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hdb2
message=/boot/boot.msg
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@1:
partition=5
root=/dev/hdb5
timeout=600
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
fgcolor=light-blue
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hdb4
default = Linux

image=/boot/vmlinux
    label=Linux
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img
    append="quiet splash"

    root = /dev/hdb5
image=/boot/vmlinux.old
    label=old
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
    append="quiet splash"

    root = /dev/hdb5


After any editing of yaboot, make sure to ---

sudo ybin -v

to "bless" the changes--

If you don't know the hda of your OSX--find it with gparted...

My system happily boots 5.10 & 10.4.2:D

Any probs---just ask...

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-10-27
And I forgot---I don't know if the Pismo supports it, but holding the <OPTION> key down during boot boots you into openfirmware in the newer Macs---

---

### Post by memckelvey on 2005-10-28
Thanks for your reply :)

I tried to follow your advice, adding these two lines to my /etc/yaboot.conf:

macosx=/dev/hdb6
default = Linux

Then I ran sudo ybin -v

and saw that all was blessed with holy penguin pee.

Now, when I reboot, I get an option in the 'stage 1' boot to 'type x for macosx', and if I do, i see the gray apple logo splash screen, and then the little 'gear' turns for awhile, and then the apple logo is replaced by a 'do not enter' sort of circle with a diagonal line through it.

Ubuntu still boots fine, and if I use the 'Disk' gui it shows the OS X partition as ext2, which is not so correct.  Maybe this is an indication of my problem.  If only I knew what it meant.

I booted off my Tiger install disk and ran the mac Disk Utility, and it doesn't see any partitions.  Probably not good.  I had been thinking I would try to re-install Tiger to its partition in hopes of fixing the ext2 thing, but no can see.  I tried going partway through the ubuntu installer to see what it thought about the partitions...it doesn't seem to have an HFS+ choicce for partition type, so I can't change it there either.

Does anything come to mind, other than that I may not be the sharpest tool in the shed??

Thanks - MMcK

---

### Post by jdp on 2005-10-28
I've not used the Tiger Disk Utility to partition a disk but I have used Jag.  In there you can set the drive for two partitions, and adjust the second to your needs of OS X.  Then for the first you select the type and "Free Space" or "Unallocated Space" pr spmething is either the first or last item in the type list.  I'm guessing that the Tiger DU should have a similar setup.  IIRC you do need it set to two partitions to work.  Having just one partition will make the OS X one be the first on the drive.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2005-10-28
Well--I had updated from Jag to Tiger (with a archive & install)--if you are still not "set" at home, I'd start over again--It's strange that the OSX would be ext2--OSX can't work with that filesystem--Tiger can't even "see" ext2/3 filesystems elsewhere--

So--start over with Disk utility--create two partitions--the second one for OSX as HFS+--the one before it as Free space or "unix"--finish the OSX install & <C> boot the Ubuntu installer--I manually define my swap, root & add a seperate home & opt partition--I like seperating the home out so if I need to reinstall the system, I still save my prefs.

When you are all done yaboot "should" have created a dual-boot for you--don't assume that it's right--double check with the info from gparted as to the boot--If this won't work & you still get a "No Boot" on the OSX partition, you might take a look at Otherworldcomputing.com in the tech section--I seem to recall probs with the Pismo--but I can't put a finger on the memory right now----

Also--you might try a PRAM reset--hold down >APPLE><OPTION>(might be <CONTROL> instead of <OPTION>)<P><R> ALL AT THE SAME TIME during a reboot--wait for the "chime" four times & then release the keys for a normal reboot--this clears the PRAM back to default settings & sometimes "fixes" weird problems--This is known as the Apple "Salute"---most likely due to the VERY hard finger positioning----(GRIN)

---

