---
title: ".Deb for Adobe Reader 7.09?"
date: 2007-02-26
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2007-02-26
I had Adobe Reader/Linux 7.08 installed, but something is messed it up and it won't launch. From the command line I get:

jjj@Devil5:~$ acroread
/usr/local/Adobe/Acrobat7.0/Reader/intellinux/bin/acroread: error while loading shared libraries: libgdk_pixbuf_xlib-2.0.so.0: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64

I have just about every repository listed, but Synaptic does not list libgdk_pixbuf_xlib-2.0.so, so I don't know what happened to it or how to reinstall it.

In the process of fiddling around I discovered that Adobe now has 7.09 for Linux. I downloaded it, extracted it, and ran the INSTALL script. The script ran normally, but after it finished I still can't launch it -- same error message.

I could install it with dpkg --force-architecture, but I need a .deb. I can't even find a .deb for 7.08, let alone 7.09. 

I also tried installing 7.05 with Crossover Office. It appeared to install, but in fact, the bottle was empty and no launch menu item was created. 

I need a version later than 7.05. Can anyone tell me where to find it?

---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2007-02-27
I found a .deb for 7.0.9 here:

[http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/ubuntu/pool/multiverse/a/acroread/](http://ftp.osuosl.org/pub/ubuntu/pool/multiverse/a/acroread/)

And I installed it with:

sudo dpkg -i --force-architecture ~/Desktop/acroread_7.0.9-0.0.ubuntu0.6.10_i386.deb

(Because I downloaded it to my Desktop.)

But when I try to run it I still get:

/usr/lib/Adobe/Acrobat7.0/Reader/intellinux/bin/acroread: error while loading shared libraries: libgdk_pixbuf_xlib-2.0.so.0: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64

I hope someone can tell me what is wrong. I used to have 7.0.8 installed just fine and suddenly started getting that error message. I really need 7.0.8 or 7.0.9 because earlier versions cannot open editable PDF files.

Can anyone come up with even a suggestion how to fix this? I'll try anything.

---

### Post by Icarosaurus on 2007-03-06
I use feisty and the deb files works fine for me... no problems.
I just installed the packages (reader, escript, plugins) for edgy using dpkg -i.
It seems these packages are not made for 64 bit...

---

### Post by kleeman on 2007-03-06
We had a problem like this in another thread. Try:

sudo apt-get install ia32-libs-gtk

You need the 32 bit library not the standard 64bit one on your system.

---

