---
title: "4.1 surround sound issue"
date: 2008-01-12
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by piratebill on 2008-01-12
Ok, I am new here, so if this is posted in the wrong place please let me know.  I dual boot gutsy 64 bit and xp home.  my motherboard has a chip set 6 channel sound card (gutsy tells me its a hda nvida).  in xp the surround sound works great.  In gutsy, only the front channels work.  I have looked at the audio settings in volume control, and the surround option is unmuted and turned up.  Running this code:

 speaker-test -Dplug:surround40 -c6 -twav


I have discovered that my rear left speaker is playing when the center should and the right rear plays when the LFE is supposed to play.  I am very confused.  I have even tried moving the black jack (for the rear speakers channel) to the orange jack, but then  the left rear is labeled correctly, but the right rear doesn't work at all.  

Do I need some special driver?  is there a way to reassign what speaker is what?  Am I even making sense?  Thanks in advance.  this has been driving me crazy for the last two days.

---

### Post by piratebill on 2008-01-12
Almost forgot, I am using Alsa.  Any one have any ideas?

---

### Post by sgillmore on 2008-01-14
I'm having the exact same issue.

I've had some (limited) experience with older Linux distros, but I'm new to Ubuntu. I'm only getting sound through my front speakers.

- Ubuntu 7.10
- SoundBlaster Live!
- Cambridge Soundworks 4.1 Surround Sound
- ALSA

---

