---
title: "Breezy on HP V2000Z?"
date: 2005-10-31
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by kozimodo on 2005-10-31
Hi all,

I've been thinking about buying the HP v2000z and I was wondering if anyone has installed Breezy on it and what their experience has been.

Thanks!

(I posted this question in a different section but with an unilluminating title.)

---

### Post by kozimodo on 2005-11-02
bump

---

### Post by buulian on 2005-11-03
[QUOTE=kozimodo]bump[/QUOTE]

by bump, do you mean it's a pain? i've got the compaq presario v2000 amd turion processor, 6-1 card reader, 100 gB hd, 1/2gB SDRAM, ATI grafiks, will breezy work for me?

---

### Post by JKMB111 on 2005-11-07
I have a HP Compaq v2000 that I exclusively run Breezy on.  Love it!  I had to add option "noaccel" to my xorg.conf file to get xserver to load as it basically dumped me off at a command line log in after the install... (x failed for my Ati 200xpress) easy enough..... next I had to get ndiswrapper and some acer drivers to get my broadcom wireless up and running in 64 (I personally prefer the drivers that came with my laptop for 32 bit but that's a diferent discussion)...Also easy enough....  I couldn't be happier with Ubuntu though, for my laptop as I am a tradional Debian Dude but wasn't satisfied with  my current options with Sarge, Etch, or Sid..... Tried them all but found Nirvana with Breezy...  64 or 32 is my only decision now..... Happy with 64 for now....

---

### Post by jamesrw on 2005-11-08
after playing with hoary i switched to suse, but it looks like i'll be back to ubuntu. hopefully i'll get to it next weekend

---

### Post by cobie on 2006-04-05
Sounds like you've done it!  Congratulations! I've been trying for a couple of weeks to get my V2000 64bit Turion machine to run (still no GUI).  Would you care to share your secret?  Perhaps you could post your xorg.conf file.  I am even happy to hear it CAN be done.

Lemme know please.  tnx
cobie

---

### Post by jamesrw on 2006-05-07
here's my working xorg.conf

[SIZE="1"]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "GLcore"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
#       Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
        Driver          "radeon"
        Option          "NoAccel" "true"
        BusID           "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Xpress 200M (RS480)"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection
[/SIZE]

hope that helps! good luck.

---

### Post by tarek on 2006-05-17
Hi, i have v2570 which is amd 64 too.

when i run the installation, i get the screen where i choose the default or the server installation. so i choose default, and then it loads some information on the screen and stops! it just stops doing anything... i waited for a long time but nothing.

please, if you have turion amd 64, let me know what is the secret to install k/ubuntu.

i did install fedora 5 and i have to say it is very good when it comes to recognizing my hardware... no problems at all...

but i heard about ubuntu and used it with my 32 bit computer and love it

any help is appreciated...thanks.

TK

---

### Post by blurredbrain on 2006-05-17
[QUOTE=buulian]by bump, do you mean it's a pain? i've got the compaq presario v2000 amd turion processor, 6-1 card reader, 100 gB hd, 1/2gB SDRAM, ATI grafiks, will breezy work for me?[/QUOTE]

I've got all that but with a 1gb of ram and the 80gb HD, and it works fine for me had to tinker with the settings to get gnome/KDE/XFCE to run.  But once that's taken care of its all good.

---

### Post by fletch on 2006-05-20
Hey guys

For you unfortunate folk having video issues with your ati 200m Xpress, look no further: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu")

Select which distro you installed, then follow with method 2 installation. This will fix all your video hassles.

My v2000z ubuntu experience has been interesting! I've encountered problems here and there, from video to wireless, but I chalk it all up to learning how to help myself around the forums, good learning experience!

---

