---
title: "Cannot mount / use / unmount external drives -gutsy 64bit"
date: 2007-11-09
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by konungursvia on 2007-11-09
I have a new Dell D531 and have managed to get sound and compositing and everything else working. Except, my external fat32 and ntfs drives usually do not mount properly, and my swap (which I resized from 1.4 to 5.4 Gb using gparted) is not recognized and mounted either.

I have tried installing ntfs-config and checking the allow external and internal options; I've tried installing ntfsprogs (of course ntfs-3g is there to start with). 

All the drives have been working at some point, for example I've played songs and movies off of them, but usually they don't mount properly, or seem to unmount uncleanly.

Here is a screen of fdisk -l when they did seem to mount (but became unusable during the session later on.

One more bit of information: when I plug in an external fat 32 drive when x is already running, it says "you are not privileged to mount that drive".

Any ideas? Here are the actual drives I want to mount:

An external Kaser 300 Gb drive (has 2 partitions, a 150Gb fat32 for music, and a 150 Gb ntfs for movies)

An external IBM 30 Gb fat32 drive (old music files).

The internal xp partition, mounted on /media/xp, always works fine with read and write.

Please help!

---

### Post by konungursvia on 2007-11-09
Oh, and here is fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=5a42d129-ec69-4bf8-a8ae-477250853bbe / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=f33bfce6-f7cf-4b27-aa64-16e6a2aeb4a4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/xp ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/SVault vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /media/usbntfs ntfs-3g defaults, 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/ibm30 vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0

---

### Post by konungursvia on 2007-11-10
I think it might be down to this: could it be that I need to set things up so that a) user and root both can mount, unmount, read and write and b) drives can be cleanly unmounted by either, regardless of which mounted them. Does anyone have any thoughts on this? I'm relatively dumb on these things, but I"m trying.

---

### Post by konungursvia on 2007-11-11
Solved. I rewrote fstab and downloaded a volume manager for kde which has much more options than the default gnome one with gutsy. I was able to allow all users to mount and unmount the drives, and they all mount now.

---

