---
title: "PowerBook G3 Lombard video resolution problem"
date: 2005-10-20
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by tjm on 2005-10-20
Hi

Have PowerBook G3 333MhZ with a broken backlight. That's why it's connected to an external 15" TFT monitor using the external VGA-out. This works fine.

I installed Ubuntu 5.10, had to use the kernel parameter "install video=ofonly".

Installation went smooth. Booting went smooth, but&#8230;

&#8230;the only video resolution it has in Ubuntu is 640x480 at 30 or 29 Hz.


I tried a lot to change it, passed kernel parameters on the boot prompt like:

"Linux video=ofonly", "Linux resolution=1024x768", "Linux video=aty128fb:vmode:14", "Linux video=atyfb:vmode:14"&#8230;

I tried "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-org" but received the message that "xserver-org is not installed".

I tried to modify the xorg.conf file manually by changing driversettings, added missing resolutions and optionally tested the "UseFBdev true" switch but all of that had no success.

IMHO the resolution has to be set up before booting using a kernel parameter as I am used to know from other LinuxPPC distributions.

Any ideas? I need 1024x768 @ 60 Hz&#8230;

---

### Post by Ptero-4 on 2005-10-20
The package name is xserver-xorg. That's probably why dpkg couldn't find X.org.

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-10-20
Thanks. Tried this and went through the complete configuration process.

The result was the same, no changes!

It is a common problem on LinuxPPC distributions that, depending on the Mac-model, different kernel parameters have to be passed in order to get the OpenFirmware driver work correctly. PC users are not aware of such an issue because of not having an OpenFirmware on their PCs mostly.

Most interesting, the Live CD behaves the same when used as instructed at the boot prompt "boot: live video=ofonly". Whenever I boot by hitting simply "Enter" my display receives an "Out of capability error" and goes blank.

Seems to be a kernel problem. I remember I had the same problem with games written for iMacs and their built-in display. That one supports 640x480@96MhZ but an external TFT does not. So if the resolution was hardcoded the game became unplayable on external screens. (I am in contact with the developers still regarding this).

The video card the PowerBook G3 Lombard uses is an ATI Rage 3D LT Pro with 16 MB RAM soldered onto the mainboard. It supports external displays and disables the internal if the lid has been closed immediately after booting the PowerBook so it starts from the external display without razzle-dazzle.

I quote my xorg.conf file now. As you can see, screen resolution ist setup to 1024x768 but this is ignored and 640x480@30 is used instead.

SO IT IS DEFINITELY A PROBLEM OF PASSING VIDEO MODE KERNEL PARAMETERS!!!

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"type1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"de"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"nodeadkeys"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:lwin_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. 3D Rage LT Pro"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:0:17:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. 3D Rage LT Pro"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Dear folks of Ubuntumakers! I filed a bug report: 

[Link]("http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=18232")

Please solve this issue ASAP and with high priority because Ubuntu 5.10 on a PowerBook G3 Lombard cannot be used with sense that way!!!

Thomas

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-10-21
As a workaround:

Installed open-ssh using apt and logged in from my Mac OS X 10.4.2 machine using the X11-client. So I can work with the system @1024x768 remotely but not run it from it's own desktop so far which would be pretty nice to do though&#8230; :(

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-10-29
Today I installed Yellowdoglinux with "install-safe" on the PB and the kernel detected the graphics card as "ATI Mach64". This btw.

The Anaconda installer was able to setup the resoultion accordingly and had no problems with the external screen or the internal videocard. :confused: But that's not the dist I like to use&#8230;

I went through a lots of dists, for many years on many Macs but never experienced such a boring issue.

I tried the Debian 3.1 dist too today but it behaved exactly as Ubuntu did, as expected.

If the problem cannot be solved, I'll give Fedora Core 4 a chance. Whatever works, I will use it!

:(

---

### Post by Tommy on 2005-11-01
[QUOTE=tjm]Seems to be a kernel problem. I remember I had the same problem with games written for iMacs and their built-in display. That one supports 640x480@96MhZ but an external TFT does not. So if the resolution was hardcoded the game became unplayable on external screens. (I am in contact with the developers still regarding this).

The video card the PowerBook G3 Lombard uses is an ATI Rage 3D LT Pro with 16 MB RAM soldered onto the mainboard. It supports external displays and disables the internal if the lid has been closed immediately after booting the PowerBook so it starts from the external display without razzle-dazzle.
[/QUOTE]

I have not yet upgraded to Breezy on this machine... but I am using a 1998 PowerBook G3 Series, AKA Wallstreet II or PDQ, which I think has a similar video section as your Lombard.

I responded also to your thread on the Debian PowerPC list today. In that thread I included what I pass to BootX on this machine:

video=atyfb:vmode:14,cmode:8,mclk:71 

I also attached my xorg.conf, but it's pretty close to the one that was generated when I upgraded to Hoary.

NOTE ... in my experience on this Wallstreet, I could NOT directly install Hoary. I had to install Warty and upgrade. Here's one thread discussing that issue: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27831](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27831)

ALSO if you haven't already, check out the wiki page at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Installation/OldWorldMacs](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Installation/OldWorldMacs)   -- I see that it's been (partly?) updated for Breezy. I'll look at it again in detail when I'm ready to try the Breezy upgrade on this machine.

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-11-04
Thank you. I will try your video modeline parameters. Btw. the Lombard is a NewWorld Mac and installation went smooth by booting the CD holding "C" pressed.

I am not the only one having the problem with the resolution:

> bronchandes
05-17-2005, 07:33 PM
thanks for the replies!

i have now managed to install ubuntu! =) finally!
but there are some problems left. first thing, which confuses me most, is a problem with the mesh driver. very often when i try to boot to ubuntu i get a kernel error because of double definition of mesh...?

the second thing is the display. from the first time i startet into the setup with bootx, my display was divided in 4 parts. where the top left quater was pretty much a full screen and the other 3 quaters are copies of the first quater but only half a screen or less. this kernel argument solved the problem: video=atyfb:vmode:14,cmode:32,mckl:89.

but ubuntu doesnt recognize my display. puts the desktop to 640x480 and 30hz and i cant change these values! tried to fix it in the device manager but couldnt find an entry for monitor...? in the device manager i also found dozens of urecognized hardware.

people with wallstreet experience, please help... once again


bronchandes

From [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-34765.html")

BenH tried to give me advice but all he told me to do did not help. So maybe that "atyfb" is broken in the kernel (again?).

Thomas

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-11-04
I tried a lot, but nothing did really work. Here my results:

First I added a MyLinux paragraph and changed the append-line in my yaboot.conf file to 'append=""' in order to pass paramaters on the boot-prompt. Then I ran 'ybin' to update the boot-loader.

Now I tried different video parameters:

MyLinux video=atyfb:vmode:14,cmode:32
-> gave me garbage on the screen but booted in 640x480

MyLinux video=fbdev:vmode:14
MyLinux video=fbdriverfb:vmode:14
([http://portal.suse.com/sdb/en/2000/07/olh_ppc_framebuffer.html](http://portal.suse.com/sdb/en/2000/07/olh_ppc_framebuffer.html))
MyLinux video=aty128fb:vmode:14

gave me out of Syncs on my TFT screen. The system bootet and I could force a restart by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Del.

I tried ,mclk:71 as well but that made no difference.

What works is "MyLinux video=ofonly:vmode:14,cmode:32" but it is stuck in 640x480 still. But the screen has no garbage anymore as with "video=atyfb".

Meanwhile I installed Ubuntu 5.10 PPC on a beige G3 MT using the onboard video. That worked with 1024x768 from the beginning without passing any kernel parameter. But this Mac is connected to a CRT (Apple 15" Multisync).

Maybe I should test the PowerBook against this monitor in order to get the resolution to work.

Could it be a problem related to TFT frequencies? Anyone experienced in?

(On the Mac-Mini it works as well from the scratch with the same display!)

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-11-04
I am installing Breezy on a G3 MT right now.

Using video=atyfb:vmode:11,cmode:32 works fine on my 15" Apple Multiscan Monitor with 1024x768 resolution.

If I try the same with the PB Lombard on the TFT I receive Out of Syncs.

So I decreased the vmode paramter restart by restart. Below 10 it worked, but delivered 640x480 as well. 8 and 7 worked best because there was no shifting of the screen.

All paramateres above and including 10 lead to Out of Syncs.

So how the heck do I pass vsync and hsync frequencies of my monitor to the kernel on boot using "video=atyfb:vmode:11,cmode:32" ? That's the real question!

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-11-26
Same problem [here]("http://ubuntuppc.info/index.proxy.php?node=33") on a 300 MhZ PowerBook G3:

> My problem for now is my screen that run in a low grafichs and whit error.. :-(

If this could be fixed, people will get happy!

;)

---

### Post by tjm on 2005-12-06
Yesterday I tried to make the res work using an Apple 15" Multisync monitor. This helped in getting rid of the "Out of sync" problem I had on the TFT.

But whatever I tried, the res was still stuck at 640x480, 30Hz....

I have Ubuntu-PPC running on several machines with these video cards: ATI Mach64 PCI (UMAX Pulsar), ATI Radeon 9200 (Mac-Mini), ATI 3D Rage Pro (G3 MT).

So it seems support for the ATI Rage Pro LT in the kernel for the PowerBook G3 Lombard is really broken...

:( :( :(

---

