---
title: "Problems with Ati drivers"
date: 2006-05-31
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by jonttix on 2006-05-31
I have tried to install drivers for my ati graphics card with the help from this page [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=46853&highlight=acer+aspire+5024WLMi](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=46853&highlight=acer+aspire+5024WLMi) but it wont work. I get an error that says somthing is wrong with the X-server and the graphics card. I dont know how to get a copy of the log I then get. But here is a copy of my xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
# Load "extmod" but omit DGA extension
# (the DGA extension is broken in the fglrx driver)
  	SubSection "extmod"
    		Option "omit xfree86-dga"
  	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"se"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility X700 (RV410)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
# If X refuses to use the screen resolution you asked for,
# uncomment this; see "Bugs and Workarounds" for details.
  	Option "NoDDC"

# === Video Overlay for the Xv extension ===
  	Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
# === OpenGL Overlay ===
# Note: When OpenGL Overlay is enabled, Video Overlay
#       will be disabled automatically
  	Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
# === Use internal AGP GART support? ===
# If OpenGL acceleration doesn't work, try using "yes" here
# and disable the kernel agpgart driver.
  	Option "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility X700 (RV410)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Please can somebody help me?

---

### Post by jonttix on 2006-05-31
Here is a text file of the error log file (dont know what it is called)

---

### Post by art on 2006-06-01
I would recommend using this guide on getting the ATI drivers to work:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Breezy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Breezy_Installation_Guide)

I used method 2, and pay attention to 64 bit part in the method 1 (I had to do that), and it works now...

---

### Post by jonttix on 2006-06-01
When I try to do the code "sudo apt-get install gcc-3.4 module-assistant build-essential" it says "E: Couldn't find package module-assistent" What should I do?

---

### Post by UrbanFallout on 2006-06-02
Try this:

1. Open synaptic manager
2. Search for "fglrx"
3. Select "fglrx-control" for installation and accecpt the additional packages it will install.
4. Close synaptic manager.
5. Open a terminal window and type

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

6. Accept the defaults in every case, except the following:
6a. Driver: When asked what driver should be used. Choose "fglrx".
6b. Resolution: Choose "1280x800".

7. Reboot. I think a simple "ctrl+alt+backspace" to restart X might also do the trick, but I didn't try this.

This is a bit simpler than following the guide posted above and should work for Dapper. It did for me.

Cheers
Nick

---

