---
title: "7.04 raid doomsday?"
date: 2007-04-17
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by chicos on 2007-04-17
all,

it's been 24h since i upgraded to 7.04. everything would be nice (i guess) if it actually managed boot partition on raid well.

my setup looks as follows:
- 'true' root, home, archives etc on a raid,
- emergency root (holding boot directory) on a separate disk.

until now, i used grub settings such as:

[INDENT]root (hd0,0)
kernel imagename root=UUID=[*uuid reported by mdadm*] ro quiet splash
initrd initrdname
[/INDENT]

but it is a no go any more.

everything went fine with upgrade, the new grub files have been created, so i copied them over the old ones on my bootup partition. apparently, the root uuid was filled in with invalid uuid numbers. as a result, no matter how i booted up, it always came with my emergency partition. 

i used mdadm to inspect the appropriate value for root, corrected the entry.. and..

and now it stucks immediately.

sometimes i get message saying 'unable to claim sda1' or 'sdb2', sometimes it says it couldn't find '/dev/md1' (where the heck does this come from?) but most often it just tells where the kernel pages are located (two bottom lines) and remains silent till i press three kings.

i'm stuck completely. I can't move either way. at some point i made it to move things ahead, but then device manager started pumping enormous amount of logs (about 30 lines trice a second) and it drowned. it *might* be due to the fact, that after mdadm was upgraded, somehow it pulled two different raid volumes to one node (/dev/md0) - one assembled from disks (sda, sdb) and other assembled from pieces of my root partition (sda1, sdb1). unfortunately i figured it long after dm reports became history.

I beg you folks - if you have some clue how to restore functionality to my system i would be grateful. for now i am completely cut off from the world (i use zd1211 based net card, that apparently does not wish to cooperate with older system present on my emergency root.. so i can't even upgrade or download anything without booting up windows :( )

please help...

thanks a bunch
tom

---

### Post by chicos on 2007-04-17
aww sorry wrong section :(.. 
please remove the thread from this section. i'll submit it in upgrades.

tom

---

