---
title: "Boot loader configuration"
date: 2005-11-05
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by azelter on 2005-11-05
Hi all,
Does anyone know the the package I can run dpkg-reconfigure on in order to regenerate my /etc/yaboot.conf file? I am trying to get it to be the same as it was when it was originally generated by the Ubuntu installer. I have overwritten the original yaboot.conf with yabootconfig, which I incorrectly (and stupidly) thought would ask me before wiping out my old config file.
On the x86 distro, whenever you install a new kernel, it adds that info to /etc/grub.conf automatically. It seems that the ppc distro does not do something similar to yaboot.conf. Is this the case?
Thanks!
Alex

---

### Post by felix_stegerman on 2005-11-06
[QUOTE=azelter]Hi all,
Does anyone know the package I can run dpkg-reconfigure on in order to regenerate my /etc/yaboot.conf file? I am trying to get it to be the same as it was when it was originally generated by the Ubuntu installer. I have overwritten the original yaboot.conf with yabootconfig, which I incorrectly (and stupidly) thought would ask me before wiping out my old config file.
On the x86 distro, whenever you install a new kernel, it adds that info to /etc/grub.conf automatically. It seems that the ppc distro does not do something similar to yaboot.conf. Is this the case?[/QUOTE]

I don't think this is possible. I had to reinstall for the same reason once ;-)

However, if you have not yet overwritten this original configuration,
you can extract it from your bootstrap partition.

Assuming your bootstrap partition is /dev/hda2, use:
# sudo mount -o ro /dev/hda2 /mnt/
# cp /mnt/yaboot.conf <some_safe_location>/yaboot.conf
# sudo umount /mnt
to retrieve it.


Felix

---

### Post by azelter on 2005-11-07
That's interesting. It's not too important for me at this stage as I still have a bootable system. This must also mean though, that if I installed a second kernel that I wanted to test, I would need to edit yaboot.conf myself. Why is ubuntu for ppc run this way and ubuntu for x86 run so that a new kernel would automatically get entered into grub.conf so that you could still access the old kernel if the new one does not work?

---

### Post by felix_stegerman on 2005-11-07
[QUOTE=azelter]This must also mean though, that if I installed a second kernel that I wanted to test, I would need to edit yaboot.conf myself. Why is ubuntu for ppc run this way and ubuntu for x86 run so that a new kernel would automatically get entered into grub.conf so that you could still access the old kernel if the new one does not work?[/QUOTE]

GRUB != yaboot ;-)

IIRC the default yaboot configuration will boot your current kernel and can
also boot an older kernel. (/boot/vmlinux and /boot/vmlinux.old)
So if you install a second kernel, you can still boot both.

Also, at the yaboot "boot:" prompt, you can manually enter an absolute
OpenFirmware path to any kernel you wish to boot (see: man yaboot).


Felix

---

### Post by oskude on 2005-11-07
hi,

i dont have a mac computer but a friend of mine somehow screwed (with OSX) something so that grub didnt anymore start on bootup and the linux partition was also no more startable/visible in the macintosh boot manager (dunno the boot-up keyboard shortcut)

after a while googling i found about Open Firmware (dunno again the boot-up keyboard-shortcut) and after digging info about OF we came with this simple command to start linux from OF
```
boot hd:<partition number>,yaboot
```
so in hes case the "/boot" (ext2) partition was number 15
```
boot hd:15,yaboot
```

cheers
osku[de]

ps. he has a powerbook with yellowdoglinux, and only 1 harddisk so dunno how the command looks when wanting to boot from second hd or so...

---

