---
title: "6.06 alt initial install help"
date: 2006-08-06
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by mikeescott on 2006-08-06
Round 2

Install seamed to go good. Only Had a problem with network setup and that is the mb. However, after removing the cd and restarting when install was complete, it would not accept my username and password. I left the default "ubuntu" username and added my password, which I know is correct. Can I go back and look at the default username to double check or change it?

---

### Post by ylixir on 2006-08-07
you can't log in at all?  then you will have to boot in single user mode and reset your password.

when your computer is first booting, before ubuntu even starts, when you are at the boot menu, press "e" to edit your boot options

add the word "single" to the end of the kernel line.  i think you have to arrow to the line and press "e" again

then boot the system.  iirc pressing "b" will do it.  there should be cues on your screen as to what buttons to press, so look at those, in case my memory is faulty.

after the system is booted, it should drop you at the command line

type```
passwd your_user_name
```

then type ```
reboot
``` to reboot the system

now you should be able to log in.

if you get an error about unknown user after you use the passwd command, then you can have a look at the users by looking at the passwd file
```
cat /etc/passwd
```

your username is probably the very last one listed

of course since you have just installed, it might be easier to just reinstall again, but that is taking the easy way out ;-)

---

### Post by mikeescott on 2006-08-07
No command line after editing and booting as described. Going to reinstall now.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-08-07
> **ylixir said:**
> you can't log in at all?  then you will have to boot in single user mode and reset your password.

when your computer is first booting, before ubuntu even starts, when you are at the boot menu, press "e" to edit your boot options

add the word "single" to the end of the kernel line.  i think you have to arrow to the line and press "e" again

then boot the system.  iirc pressing "b" will do it.  there should be cues on your screen as to what buttons to press, so look at those, in case my memory is faulty.
...

Just for refernce, the "Ubuntu *foo* (recovery mode)" grub option is **exactly** this.

---

### Post by mikeescott on 2006-08-08
OK, same thing after reinstall. However, for some reason I decided to type "oem" as the username and that was it. Go figure. Now I'm in business. What have I gotten myself into? Hello new world! First it cannot find the modem to dial onto the internet. Then I cannot find where to browse files on all of my drives. I also cannot find where to add a picture from these files as my desktop background. I found where to do these things, but once I start to do them, I end up lost. Any help or recommended reading?

---

### Post by ylixir on 2006-08-08
the terminal is an invaluable tool.  you can find it in the applications menu under accessories.  that will give you access to the command line in your windowing environment.

the command "man hier" will give you a quick run down of how the linux filesystem works.  speaking of the man command, learn to love it.  documentation for almost every command on your system can be had by typing "man command_name".  of course that will do you no good at first, before you know the names of any commands, but it will be sooner or later.

under the places menu you should find easy access to most of the files you need to get to.

as far as desktop background changing, it's pretty much the same as windows.  you right click on the desktop and choose "change desktop background" and go from there.

i haven't used dial-up in linux in waaay to long for me to comment on it, so i'll defer that to someone more knowledgeable than me.  unless noone replies, in which case, i'll try to dig something up.

btw RAOF, that's for the tip, that's easy ;-)

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-08-08
...Additionally, if you don't **know** the command, **apropos *sorta-thing-you're-after*** can tell you.  For example:
```
chris@RAOF:~/Packaging/eyecandy/cgwd-0.41$ apropos raid
braid (6x)           - draws random color-cycling braids around a circle
md (4)               - Multiple Device driver aka Linux Software Raid
mdadm (8)            - manage MD devices aka Linux Software Raid.
mdadm.conf (5)       - configuration for management of Software Raid with mdadm
mdrun (8)            - autodetect and activate all raid partitions

```

---

### Post by mikeescott on 2006-08-08
I know how to change the desktop backgroung, but when looking for e .jpg file on one of my other windows drives, Linux will not show the drives. I found them in the "computer" file, but I still cannot access them and I cannot even "enable" one of them. The others give me this error message:

"Unable to mount the selected volume."
"error: device /dev/hdb1 is not removable"
"error: could not execute Pmount"

Does the drive have to be removable before I can access it?

I read all of the help files in the system and found that I need to download drivers to get a winmodem chipset to work with Linux. I will work on that first so I don't have to keep restarting to get here. I also found that I have to download a file to enable 3d rendering on my ati card.

---

### Post by mikeescott on 2006-08-08
With the desktop backgroung proble. I found a way around it. I had to restart into Windows and copy the background I wanted onto a removable drive. I still cannot read all drives (pic below). I cannot find what I need to do for the modem and I went to the website in the pic below and downloaded the file, but cannot open it in Windows yet. Nor can I play mp3s (pic below). And I have yet to hear a sound from this install. What are some essintials I need to install and where do I find them?

[IMG]http://mypeoplepc.com/members/mikejackie/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/drive.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://mypeoplepc.com/members/mikejackie/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/modem.jpg[/IMG]]

[IMG]http://mypeoplepc.com/members/mikejackie/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/mp3.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by mikeescott on 2006-08-09
Where do I find modem drivers?

---

