---
title: "Kernel updates always hose /boot/grub/menu.lst"
date: 2007-05-28
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2007-05-28
I just installed the latest kernel upgrade for Feisty and, for the umpteenth time I had to go in and edit the Grub menu.lst file in order to get it to boot. 

First, the computer (laptop) has one 80 GB hard disk with two partitions:

/dev/hda1 1 GB swap
/dev/hda2 60 GB ext3 /

There are no other partitions. There is 19 GB of free space, but it has never been used -- I just left it in reserve for the future. So why does a kernel update EVERY TIME change the boot partition to (hd0,2) -- which does not exist? Not only does it change it for the new kernel entry, but it changes it for all the old kernels still listed -- all the way down to the memtest entry at the end. Every single one of them gets changed to (hd0,2) and I have to go in and change them back to (hd0,1).

It makes no difference if the root= line uses /dev/hda2 or the UUID number before the upgrade. 

This happens always and only for a kernel upgrade. It has been going on since Breezy and I sure am getting tired of it. Nobody else ever has this problem, so it must be something on my computer. Where does the upgrade utility get its information about existing partitions?

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-05-28
Are you aware of how /boot/grub/menu.lst works?  The items between "DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST" markers are autogenerated from the options in the same file. Read the file, it's pretty well self-documenting. As an example, if you want to set *root* line for every kernel, look for the "grub root device" (groot) option.

The autogeneration is done with *update-grub* command, so you can try running that after you've edited some options.

---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2007-05-28
> **Jussi Kukkonen said:**
> Are you aware of how /boot/grub/menu.lst works?  The items between "DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST" markers are autogenerated from the options in the same file. Read the file, it's pretty well self-documenting. As an example, if you want to set *root* line for every kernel, look for the "grub root device" (groot) option.
The autogeneration is done with *update-grub* command, so you can try running that after you've edited some options.
I'm far from the world's greatest expert on Grub, but having been forced to edit it countless times I have gained some knowledge of its workings. However, I can't find anything within my menu.lst file that could be creating this problem. Other than the lines in the Automagic section, the only lines that are not commented out are:

default          0
timeout		10
color cyan/blue white/blue

There is also the following:

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,2)

Since the kernel upgrades always change (hd0,1) to (hd0,2), this looks suspiciously like where the problem occurs. However, note that the lines are all commented out, and they have always been commented out. So thanks for pointing out the groot option, but since it has always been commented out, I don't understand why kernel upgrades pay any attention to it. Furthermore, I wonder how that "2" got in there. There has never been an (hd0,2) on this computer. Very strange.

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-05-28
The file format is bit unconventional, as it's actually two files in one:
- the uncommented lines are the "output", a generic menu.lst
- the commented lines are the "input" used by update-grub.
In other words the commented lines between the "automagic" lines are not just comments they're the options you are looking for... As the file itself says:
> ## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs


---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2007-05-28
> **Jussi Kukkonen said:**
> The file format is bit unconventional, as it's actually two files in one:
- the uncommented lines are the "output", a generic menu.lst
- the commented lines are the "input" used by update-grub.
In other words the commented lines between the "automagic" lines are not just comments they're the options you are looking for... As the file itself says:

Let me see if I have this understood. Lines above:

## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below
## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs 

Must be uncommented for them to take effect. Lines below take effect if they have one # in front of them, but not if they have more than one # in front of them. Did I get that right?

I have seen comments from users pleading for a GUI editor for Grub. I think I must now add my voice to their cry.

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-05-29
Sounds correct. Grub itself reads just the non-commented lines. grub-update (which is automatically run on kernel upgrades) reads the single-commented lines between the marker lines and rewrites all non-commented lines between the markers.

It's actually not very complicated and its is fairly powerful once you "get it", but for a first timer it can be daunting. 

By the way, I've done my share of SW development and UI design, and I have to say that writing a clean and simple UI that covers even 20% of what menu.lst does is going to be extremely difficult... The problem is that everyone assumes they are the average (majority) user, when in fact there is no majority: there are just thousands of setting combinations that are used, and all should be covered by the UI.

---

### Post by sehe on 2007-05-30
Thanks a zillion chaps!

I too have struggled to 'get this' grub-update feature... I used to write all my grub.conf (yeah those days) myself, but Ubuntu seems to insist on using grub-update with Adept kernel updates.

Kind of nifty :guitar:

Although it of course a "grub gripe" not an *Ubuntu one: I must say that as a developer, the way it is implemented (using Doubly commented lines, singly commented lines that *are not* comments etc) is just plain confusing. It never needed to be. 8-[
Perfectly valid alternatives would have been to prefix all the settings with something unique for grub-update (gu_groot = ...). A separate file comes to mind. Include files. An 'ignored' section at the end. Heck, why not just revamp the file format and use something more structured (like apache config files)? #-o

I think it is *very* bad practice to use 'magic comments' no matter how many 'explicative' comments you write on top of them. Thing is, you *CAN* *NOT* *EVER* explain a paradox in clear ways. The irony would be that you'd have to write a comment saying: 

###### Warning, following comment is paradoxical, be sure you get the paradox
##### Warning, following comment is paradoxical, be sure you get the paradox
#### Warning, following comment is paradoxical, be sure you get the paradox
### Warning, following comment is paradoxical, be sure you get the paradox
## Warning, this behaviour is paradoxical, be sure you get the paradox
:biggrin:

:) just my two cents. Next time invest a little more time/thought and do it 'right'. For the rest, thanks people for bringing us GRUB which is the master of all boot loaders =D> !!!!

Seth

---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2007-06-14
> **Jussi Kukkonen said:**
> Sounds correct. Grub itself reads just the non-commented lines. grub-update (which is automatically run on kernel upgrades) reads the single-commented lines between the marker lines and rewrites all non-commented lines between the markers.
Well, I just handed in my last work for the term so today I decided it was time to do the kernel update that Update Manager has been telling me about for the past week. Sure enough, menu.lst got hosed again. To refresh the info, this is a laptop with hda1 (swap) and hda2 (root). There are no other partitions. The single # lines in menu.lst are:

```
### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
# kopt=root=UUID=b784928a-d61f-445c-8575-3205597f421d ro
# crashdump=0
# groot=(hd0,1)
# alternative=true
# lockalternative=false
# defoptions=quiet splash
# lockold=false
# xenhopt=
# xenkopt=console=tty0
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single
# howmany=all
# memtest86=true
# updatedefaultentry=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-16-generic root=UUID=b784928a-d61f-445c-8575-3205597f421d ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.20-16-generic
```

Now, previously the problem was that # groot=(hd0,1) had been set to # groot=(hd0,2), therefore every update was setting the root= line to a UUID for a non-existent partition. I edited it to # groot=(hd0,1) two weeks ago. I thought this would resolve the problem, but after Update Manager finished this morning it set the UUID to 

b784928a-d61f-445c-8575-3205597f421d

Which, you will note, is from the #kopt line above. Looking at the backup (menu.lst~) that the update created today, that is what it was before the update. Does this mean that I should have edited the #kopt line as well as the #groot line? And note that the UUID in the #kopt line is not a valid UUID. Why would the update have chosen an invalid UUID when the #groot line told it to use /dev/hda2? It seems to me that the #kopt line was conflicting with the #groot line. According to the instructions for the #kopt line it appears that it should not be used at all unless you have some particular special kernel you want booted from a specific partition. 

I managed to get it to boot by manually editing the root= line, as I have had to do for the past year and a half. I thought editing the #groot line had this fixed, but evidently not. Is the #kopt line the problem and, if so, how should I fix it? And what else is going to mess things up next time I do an update?

---

