---
title: "7.04 64-bit problems setting up!"
date: 2007-06-14
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by BatteryKing on 2007-06-14
I worked with a group of Linux geeks evaluating the viability of Ubuntu 7.04 64-bit as a productivity OS and it horrifically failed our tests while at the same time Ubuntu 7.04 32-bit passed with flying colors.

The first problem that really plagued us is the badly broken library system in the 64-bit version of Feisty Fawn.  At first we had well seasoned Linux geeks look into it and after a couple of days of failure even getting things like a customized multi-instance version of mysql to compile we brought in a class A hacker to look into it.  After a reasonable amount of time passed, the class A hacker failed to get things to compile right and ended up compiling everything in 32-bit Feisty Fawn and leaving it at that.

I also tried 64-bit Feisty Fawn on another 64-bit capable box with a GForce 8600 to run some additional tests and it failed to properly initialize the video, so I was just looking at a blank screen.  With all of the other trouble I already knew I was in for I decided to try SuSE 10.2 in 64-bit mode seeing that previous versions of SuSE in 64-bit mode actually worked to a usable extent only to slam into a wall when I found out the hard way SuSE set up their install manager to require signed packages only to not bother to sign their own 64-bit packages on their install DVD.  Lame.  After this I just did 32-bit Feisty Fawn, dumped on the 'server' kernel to use all of the RAM in the box, and download and installed nVidia's beta drivers for full video support (by the way basic video on the same system works in a usable [but not great fashion] in 32-bit Feisty Fawn while it fails in 64-bit mode), among other things to get everything up and going.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-06-14
> **BatteryKing said:**
> I worked with a group of Linux geeks evaluating the viability of Ubuntu 7.04 64-bit as a productivity OS and it horrifically failed our tests while at the same time Ubuntu 7.04 32-bit passed with flying colors.

The first problem that really plagued us is the badly broken library system in the 64-bit version of Feisty Fawn.  At first we had well seasoned Linux geeks look into it and after a couple of days of failure even getting things like a customized multi-instance version of mysql to compile we brought in a class A hacker to look into it.  (This particular hacker has a long history of exceptional hacks such as breaking Blowfish cyphers, hacking raw binary binary executables with a hex editor and even running executables in RAM, and making unsupported hardware work on his Linux system by hacking the support directly into his Linux kernel.)  After a reasonable amount of time passed, the class A hacker failed to get things to compile right and ended up compiling everything in 32-bit Feisty Fawn and leaving it at that.

I also tried 64-bit Feisty Fawn on another 64-bit capable box with a GForce 8600 to run some additional tests and it failed to properly initialize the video, so I was just looking at a blank screen.  With all of the other trouble I already knew I was in for I decided to try SuSE 10.2 in 64-bit mode seeing that previous versions of SuSE in 64-bit mode actually worked to a usable extent only to slam into a wall when I found out the hard way SuSE set up their install manager to require signed packages only to not bother to sign their own 64-bit packages on their install DVD.  Lame.  After this I just did 32-bit Feisty Fawn, dumped on the 'server' kernel to use all of the RAM in the box, and download and installed nVidia's beta drivers for full video support (by the way basic video on the same system works in a usable [but not great fashion] in 32-bit Feisty Fawn while it fails in 64-bit mode), among other things to get everything up and going.

First off, Take this FUD away. Those of us using the 64bit edition know its not broke. That you or your so called "hacker" cant get **3rd party ****[COLOR="Red"]custom[/COLOR]** builds to work is not a failing of the operating system.

---

### Post by daniel of sarnia on 2007-06-14
umm wow, 

It's post like these that make me regret how these forums mandate that we don't flam n00bs.


just wow...

---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2007-06-14
Having just graduated from rank amatuer to Linux tenderfoot, I'd have to say the  Feisty 64  has exceeded my expectations in almost every way and certainly is not "broken" on my system.  For me the day is not far off when XP can be sent to the breaking yard.  Don't know what these guys are on about.

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-06-14
Wow, good thing I didn't know about this before I installed the low-latency kernel and started using it for music recording (Audacity + gwc for old vinyl/shellac records).  And then installed VMWare Player and run a Win XP session in there when necessary, so I can grab pix off my cell phone.  And then set up Samba so I can trade files between Feisty and the Win XP virtual machine's filesystem.  And then run Beryl for something to do while gwc has the resources all sucked up on both CPU cores ...

Guess I'll watch for it to break any minute now ....    (or not) ..... :D

---

### Post by Kobalt on 2007-06-14
Just by reading the title I knew I'd read a good Kilz answer :)

---

### Post by arvevans on 2007-06-14
Interesting!  
I recently built up three AMD 2X 64-bit 3200 machines with 2048 MB of DDR-2 RAM and 500 GB hard drives and installed 7.04 (64-bit) Ubuntu Linux.  The architectural firm that I built them for is very satisfied with their performance running SagCAD & QCAD, and Open Office Linux software.  
_._

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2007-06-14
> **BatteryKing said:**
> I worked with a group of Linux geeks evaluating the viability of Ubuntu 7.04 64-bit as a productivity OS and it horrifically failed our tests while at the same time Ubuntu 7.04 32-bit passed with flying colors.

The first problem that really plagued us is the badly broken library system in the 64-bit version of Feisty Fawn.  At first we had well seasoned Linux geeks look into it and after a couple of days of failure even getting things like a customized multi-instance version of mysql to compile we brought in a class A hacker to look into it.  (This particular hacker has a long history of exceptional hacks such as breaking Blowfish cyphers, hacking raw binary binary executables with a hex editor and even running executables in RAM, and making unsupported hardware work on his Linux system by hacking the support directly into his Linux kernel.)  After a reasonable amount of time passed, the class A hacker failed to get things to compile right and ended up compiling everything in 32-bit Feisty Fawn and leaving it at that.

I also tried 64-bit Feisty Fawn on another 64-bit capable box with a GForce 8600 to run some additional tests and it failed to properly initialize the video, so I was just looking at a blank screen.  With all of the other trouble I already knew I was in for I decided to try SuSE 10.2 in 64-bit mode seeing that previous versions of SuSE in 64-bit mode actually worked to a usable extent only to slam into a wall when I found out the hard way SuSE set up their install manager to require signed packages only to not bother to sign their own 64-bit packages on their install DVD.  Lame.  After this I just did 32-bit Feisty Fawn, dumped on the 'server' kernel to use all of the RAM in the box, and download and installed nVidia's beta drivers for full video support (by the way basic video on the same system works in a usable [but not great fashion] in 32-bit Feisty Fawn while it fails in 64-bit mode), among other things to get everything up and going.

Oh no the sky is falling.  Feisty won't work on my 64-bit system, I even had a *insert lie here* look at it and it still doesn't work.  Boo hoo.  

I really like that Fiesty 64-bit is soooo broke that it also broke Suse 64-bit.  I did a quick search (didn't search very hard) but I didn't find anything on this unsigned Suse 10.2 DVD problem.

This whole thing just say PEBCAK error to me.

---

### Post by Guilden_NL on 2007-06-14
:-({|=  Life just isn't fair is it?

I just loaded Feisty on one of my AMD 64 boxes and even though I hadn't touched Linux since 1999, I found everything to work just perfect.  The only extra work was that I had to load up a Broadcom wireless driver using the package mgr after downloading it from Ubuntu's Universal distro site from my Vista 64 laptop.

This box has a 3800 Athlon with half a GB of ram and it screams like a F1 car.  We're going to load it on my son's Acer 64 tonight and I will load it on my "screaming meanie" box tomorrow.  That box is always upgraded with the fastest stuff on the market and I am running 4GB of ram with an Athlon 64 X2 6000+.  Can't wait.  64bit Ubuntu Feisty Fawn is **definitely** ready for 64 bit use! It rocks!  :guitar:

Signed,
Windows &#469;berGeek, now Ubuntu fan

---

### Post by BatteryKing on 2007-06-14
So does 64-bit Feisty Fawn rock as long as you don't use DX10 capable hardware (where 32-bit Feisty Fawn is fine with a quick tweak), don't mess around too much with extra libraries that may just be broken, don't mind lengthy work arounds to Adobe's lack of 64-bit support, and use products like VMware to get other various things working?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2007-06-14
> **BatteryKing said:**
> So does 64-bit Feisty Fawn rock as long as you don't use DX10 capable hardware (where 32-bit Feisty Fawn is fine with a quick tweak), don't mess around too much with extra libraries that may just be broken, don't mind lengthy work arounds to Adobe's lack of 64-bit support, and use products like VMware to get other various things working?

/the following is not a regular response.  But the camel's back has been broken

Why do you have to be such a whiney, glass-is-half-empty, it doesn't work for me so it must not work for everyone else (despite I haven't tried to get any help with my problem) little troll?

If you have a problem, open a new thread and ask a question.  Otherwise, if you not willing to ask (and receive) the help you need, then shut the hell up and stop being such a pathetic ***.

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-06-14
@BatteryKing your best bet is to list your exact issues so you can get help. posting, and titling your thread in a antagonizing manner will not garner the help you need.

To keep this thread from further becoming a flame fest i have adjusted your title. 


Theres no need to make this personal, however. If the thread gets out of hand it will be closed.

---

### Post by david_2001 on 2007-06-14
> **BatteryKing said:**
> So does 64-bit Feisty Fawn rock as long as you don't use DX10 capable hardware (where 32-bit Feisty Fawn is fine with a quick tweak), don't mess around too much with extra libraries that may just be broken, don't mind lengthy work arounds to Adobe's lack of 64-bit support, and use products like VMware to get other various things working?
Why does the lack of a 64-bit version of flash player always turn out to be the root of any objection to X86_64 :roll:  And those of us who don't run Windows, other than in a virtual machine, don't really need DirectX 10 capable hardware.

---

### Post by gimmy_bond on 2007-06-14
> **david_2001 said:**
> Why does the lack of a 64-bit version of flash player always turn out to be the root of any objection to X86_64 :roll:  And those of us who don't run Windows, other than in a virtual machine, don't really need DirectX 10 capable hardware.

Because Adobe Flash (along with the pdf Reader and Java) plug ins have become so ubiquitous and widely used, where vast majority of websites do require them- regardless of the OS used. Such that, lack of the 64 bit does become a major issue in the internet communities.

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-06-14
Here is the 8600 problem ..
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471173&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471173&page=2)

Like most things, it is best to search the forums for an available solution before trying to figure out a new one.

---

### Post by capecove on 2007-06-14
Sorry, been out all day (fixing stuff in the field). Wish I could have weighed in on this earlier. :) Maybe I wouldn't do everything that the original "testers" did but I have had zero trouble with Ubuntu 64 bit (other than that self inflicted). 

The funny thing is that we live in a world where everything must fit the "big box store" mentality of our modern society. Geez, maybe Linux is not perfect for everyone. Does this mean it is worthless to everyone? What a sad commentary on computing. 

Hey folks, guess what? There was a day and time where everything didn't work perfectly everytime (oh wait, that explains most Windows OS solutions, even today!). Back in the early days of home computing, people still could get things done. Maybe it took a half day to get things rolling along but trust me, they did function.

I better quit, I could go on for quite a while. :)

---

### Post by Mr_bleu on 2007-06-14
I feel like a rocket scientist 'cause I have linux doing all I ask it to do.  BatteryKing, his squad of geeks AND a real hacker couldn't get linux to work for them.  Flash and java are both working fine on my 64 bit install.

---

### Post by david_2001 on 2007-06-15
> **gimmy_bond said:**
> Because Adobe Flash (along with the pdf Reader and Java) plug ins have become so ubiquitous and widely used, where vast majority of websites do require them- regardless of the OS used. Such that, lack of the 64 bit does become a major issue in the internet communities.
Don't see how this is much of an issue.  The flash content that I see during the average day consists mostly of adverts.  Pdfs can be read even if the reader window is not embedded in the browser and Java can be exploited by unpleasant people to do nasty things (so I use NoScript to keep it under control).

---

### Post by capecove on 2007-06-15
David-- Thanks for the tip on NoScript. :)

Mr_Bleu... Hey! Can I join your club? We could call it something like "ROCKETS SCIENTISTS R US" (sic)! ;)

---

### Post by fabertawe on 2007-06-15
> **BatteryKing said:**
> So does 64-bit Feisty Fawn rock as long as you don't use DX10 capable hardware (where 32-bit Feisty Fawn is fine with a quick tweak)[snip]

64-bit Feisty Fawn also rocks **with** DX10 capable hardware such as the 8600GT I'm using right now ;) I can't imagine how using this card with 32bit Feisty could be any different, whatsoever.

Paul

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-06-15
> **BatteryKing said:**
> So does 64-bit Feisty Fawn rock as long as you don't use DX10 capable hardware **(where 32-bit Feisty Fawn is fine with a quick tweak), don't mess around too much with [COLOR="Red"]extra libraries that may just be broken[/COLOR]**, don't mind lengthy work arounds to Adobe's lack of 64-bit support, and use products like VMware to get other various things working?

You wouldnt have by any chance, possibly, maybe, by off chance force installed or copied in libraries from a i386 howto?
Exactly what are you using vmware to accomplish, or what was it suggested to you as a work around for?




For those that point out Flash as a reason for not using 64bit, nspluginwrapper exists. Adobe reader has been working since Dapper, in fact its in the sticky. Java is a real problem. The java-gcj-compat-plugin runs without a security manager, I wouldnt even let it on my computer.

---

### Post by Mr_bleu on 2007-06-15
[QUOTE=capecove;2848811
Mr_Bleu... Hey! Can I join your club? We could call it something like "ROCKETS SCIENTISTS R US" (sic)! ;)[/QUOTE]

That works for me. :D I like Ubuntu 7.04, and can't wait to get Gutsy.  I like tweaking things and with ubuntu it's fairly easy thanks to this forum and the synaptic manager.:popcorn:

---

### Post by Irti on 2007-06-15
hmmmmmmm.......... i wonder how my 64 bit ubuntu is working soo perfectly if its so broken down......i even got adobe up and running......and though its just been a month since i started using linux ( i was on xp before and didnt know abc of linux)  ...i already like it better than any other os...... too bad its broken...coz i just got about everything up and running (thanx to all the forum people who do actually know their way about when using the 64 bit version of ubuntu)..........so i guess i should just do away my "broken 64 bit ubuntu" huh .......

---

### Post by Mr_bleu on 2007-06-15
"The java-gcj-compat-plugin runs without a security manager, I wouldnt even let it on my computer."
Just curious what the security issue is.  Every java site I've been to asks if I want to accept or accept/whitelist an appelet.  If I don't wish to run it, I click cancel.  I'm using blackdown's java for web and jre6 for frostwire.

---

### Post by ©TriMoon® on 2007-06-15
> **Mr_bleu said:**
> "The java-gcj-compat-plugin runs without a security manager, I wouldnt even let it on my computer."
Just curious what the security issue is.  Every java site I've been to asks if I want to accept or accept/whitelist an appelet.  If I don't wish to run it, I click cancel.  I'm using blackdown's java for web and jre6 for frostwire.

Excuse me for my bluntness but what you´re saying there is like:
*"I don't get what all the fuzz is about viruses, you always have the option not to run it."*

I hope that answers your question [img]http://webpages.charter.net/kylegdb/smilies/38.gif[/img][img]http://forum.gamestar.de/gspinboard/images/smilies/muhaha.gif[/img]

---

### Post by Mr_bleu on 2007-06-15
It was directed to the author, Kilz.  I wasn't being rude.  I'm curious, as I typed. Good day.

---

### Post by kuja on 2007-06-15
> **gimmy_bond said:**
> Because Adobe Flash (along with the pdf Reader and Java) plug ins have become so ubiquitous and widely used, where vast majority of websites do require them- regardless of the OS used. Such that, lack of the 64 bit does become a major issue in the internet communities.

Well, I agree in terms of flash (to an extent) and java (a real problem), but there are plenty of other pdf readers out there, that work just fine I might add, so why worry abou that one?

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-06-16
> **Mr_bleu said:**
> "The java-gcj-compat-plugin runs without a security manager, I wouldnt even let it on my computer."
Just curious what the security issue is.  Every java site I've been to asks if I want to accept or accept/whitelist an appelet.  If I don't wish to run it, I click cancel.  I'm using blackdown's java for web and jre6 for frostwire.

If the applet is written to do some nasty dirty work, you may not get to stop it. The gjc plugin is a security risk, I dont think I would use it, or recommend it. 32bit java on a 32bit browser at least is safe. With java going open source, I read that the next version may have a 64bit plugin. Till then better safe than sorry.

---

### Post by BatteryKing on 2007-06-18
From what most of you are saying it sounds like I am looking in the wrong places for problems.
I apologize for barking up the wrong tree and will dig around more (using some of the commits posted) when I get a chance to try to get things figured out.

Thanks for all of the help.

---

### Post by BatteryKing on 2008-01-23
I tried out 7.10 64-bit and that works much better.  The main difference out of the box between 32-bit 7.10 and 64-bit 7.10 is the drivers for my nVidia 8600 were all broken, but between doing updates, disabling boot splash, and mucking around with the xorg.conf file (automatic detection detected the wrong PCI device number), I got things working in an acceptable manner for once.

---

