---
title: "7.04 64bit filesystem freezes w/ Areca &amp; JFS (only?)"
date: 2007-04-24
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by stevecs on 2007-04-24
Ok, I installed 7.04 64bit desktop on a C2D system here the day after it came out, it was the same system that I was running 6.10 on (32bit) mode with the same hardware attached.    So far I've had 4 occurances of a complete filesystem/ I/O freeze on the system (ie, syncing buffers to disk or any type of read/write access to the volume would lock the process no way to kill it except hard power-off).

Now this appears in my case limited to just the filesystem off my Areca 1280ML raid card which is running JFS as the underlaying filesystem.   The boot drives that I have are meta devcies running EXT3.    From what I can see the system will still work as long as I only access the MD/EXT3 boot partitions just not the partition off the raid controller.   (ie, I can still log in do simple things as long as I do not try to open/access any file or other data on the raid volume).

It appears to happen after periods of high I/O  (ie backing up another system to this raid array over the network for example ~50MB/sec for a good hour).

Unfortunatly I am not able to seperate out if it's the raid card driver itself, OR the JFS driver (or combo thereof) as I have no means to try a different filesystem on the array (it's 12TB and my tape backup unit just died so I have to purchase another one).

Anyway, this exact same system worked without a problem under the 6.10 release (32bit) with the same access/setup.  This was a new-install of 7.04 (not an upgrade).    Has anyone else run into freezes with either JFS or Areca cards with 7.04?

---

### Post by kuja on 2007-04-29
Can't say I've seen or heard anything about it., but if it was working fine in  Edgy, then there's a strong chance  it is a Feisty issue. Then again, with the changing of architectures and all, the only way you'd be able to tell for sure is if you were to try either 64-bit edgy or 32-bit Feisty.

---

### Post by stevecs on 2007-04-29
I'm trying to fight through the issue.   Seems really to be related at this point to I/O and perhaps network I/O at that.    Also there may be a tie-in w/ the X interface.    I'm trying to narrow it down by disabling all X crap (no gdm, turning off anything X related) and will try normal access at that point.   (in the middle of this test now).   If it still freezes then I'll start disabling each process/program one at a time to see how far it goes.    The real problem is that there is absolutely nothing that is logged anywhere.   I really don't want to go back to 6.10 (either version) as the newer kernel has better support for my raid card & network cards.

From doing some searches there appears to be others with 'random freezes' and I wonder if this is just another facet of the same problem.

---

### Post by liberty on 2007-05-02
My JFS had hung several times since upgrade to x64 7.04 about 2 weeks ago.
When it hangs, it locked on one directory, the other directory of same volume can still be accessed fine.

I have AMD Athlon64 3200+, 15.79.2, on Asus M2NPV-VM (6150 chipset) motherboard. The JFS is on one sata disk connects to nv_sata. I disabled the mdadm-raid, lvm, it still hangs. 

Before the upgrade, I had used x64 6.06, 6.10, never had this problem.

This is desktop machine, so I do have X window running. But my main file system is using reiserfs, the JFS volume is used only for media archive.

---

