---
title: "iptables doesn't like old iptables-save output"
date: 2007-04-12
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by vickistan on 2007-04-12
I am running Ubuntu Edgy on an AMD64 box (using AMD64 version). I have old iptables-save data that I wanted to import with iptables-restore but I get this error:

me@mydomain:$ sudo cat /etc/iptables |iptables-restore
iptables-restore v1.3.3: iptables-restore: unable to initializetable 'nat'

Error occurred at line: 2
Try `iptables-restore -h' or 'iptables-restore --help' for more information.

The first few lines of /etc/iptables are:

# Generated by iptables-save v1.2.8 on Mon Jun  7 07:56:24 2004
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [21:4001]
#-A PREROUTING -p tcp -i eth0 -d 64.184.11.170  --dport 8022 -j DNAT --to 192.168.11.2:80
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [7:669]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [17:1496]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth1 -j MASQUERADE

Was there a change made to iptables version 1.3.3-2ubuntu4 that makes this make sense to someone? I have always just done an iptables-save and then an iptables-restore when I was bringing up a new system to replace an old one.

vickistan

---

### Post by mjt1978 on 2007-12-15
You'll need to get a 64-bit iptables if you are running a 64-bit kernel.  I grabbed the amd64 package for iptables, and installed a small set of 64-bit libraries in my 32-bit userland:

1. Install libc6-amd64: apt-get install libc6-amd64 (this is in the 32-bit distro)
2. Install libselinux.so.1 from the libselinux1 amd64 package (download and extract it somewhere temporarily) into /lib64
3. Install libsepol.so.1 from the libsepol1 package into /lib64 in the same way.

All is well now.

I know this thread is old, but this just bit me as well, so I thought I'd reply here in case it can offer anybody  else experiencing similar issues in future.

Good luck!

---

