---
title: "7.04 64bit"
date: 2007-10-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2007-10-02
when i load 64 bit disk my screen shuts down.

---

### Post by Arwen on 2007-10-02
Are you sure your cpu is 64bit?Only the screen shuts down,not the whole computer right?

---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2007-10-02
ya just the screen , gigabite says 64 bit ready i saw it bios but cant find it now

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-10-02
> **trucker33377 said:**
> when i load 64 bit disk my screen shuts down.
This might be a case where the machine is fully booting even though the screen is blank. In this case you can try doing the following.

After it has finished booting press ctrl + alt F2 you should see a prompt 
Type: 
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
```

Next scroll down to Section Device, edit the line named driver from nv to vesa 
Save file ctrl x followed by ctrl m

You should then be able to type startx, and get things going.

The below option may also help.

Restart your machine with the ubuntu cd in the drive, and at the boot/install menu (Press F6 first), and add the commands below.
```
nosplash noapic nolapic
```
note: Do not remove any of the commands already shown in the boot line. just add the above commands to the line already shown. Then proceed with the install.

---

### Post by Freddy on 2007-10-02
This is a known bug, several including me has reported this on launchpad common factor between us is nvidia 8800GTS (do you use one to?). You can boot a 64bit Gutsy with the nosplash option.

---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2007-10-02
> **Freddy said:**
> This is a known bug, several including me has reported this on launchpad common factor between us is nvidia 8800GTS (do you use one to?). You can boot a 64bit Gutsy with the nosplash option.

i use this card BFG NVIDIA GeForce 8400 GS PCIe video card

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-10-02
> **trucker33377 said:**
> i use this card BFG NVIDIA GeForce 8400 GS PCIe video card

Did you at least try the options posted above?

---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2007-10-03
Once again my newbie status shines thru... there was nothing wrong with any setting. it seems my monitor powers off for a few while loading up. my computer tech buddy has called me Mr click happy more then once. 64bit ubuntu is loaded and working just fine. I think my main problem with linux is I keep expecting it to be harder then it is... Brainwashed by Bill

---

