---
title: "6.06.1 -LTS release 686-smp kernel locks up"
date: 2006-08-20
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by unimind on 2006-08-20
I have a Poweredge 1800 dual 3.0 XEON em64T processors, serial ATA RAID with a 160 gig Western Digital as the boot drive.

I did a fresh install of 6.06.1 ubuntu, install went fine and rebooted into gnome without any problems.  I then dropped to a terminal and installed the linux-686-smp kernel package. Install appeared to go fine, no error messages.  I rebooted the machine and the login screen came up fine.  I logged in and the machine imeadiatly froze up.  No keyboard or mouse response!  I had to hard power down the machine.  I tried again,  same response.  Third time I selected the old 386 kernel at boot and everything worked fine.

This machine's primary use is as a file server, webserver and runnig vmware server.  I typically use nomachine's nx-client for remote administration.

Any suggestions?  Do I have to use the 64 bit kernel if I want to take advantage of my dual processors?  I an understand the basics of linux, but by no means do I consider myself a expert.

Please help.

---

### Post by hajk on 2006-08-20
These 64-bit processors are 32-bit compatible, so the 686-smp kernel should work (as did the 386 install kernel). I have no clue as to why your machine froze, but you might try to boot into a recovery session (the second choice in the GRUB menu for the 686-kernel), then try to 
"sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" and try to be as specific as you can in configuring screen, keyboard and mouse (using the info in the manuals that came with the hardware). Then you might want to try X again, a reboot will do (or startx). At least then you'll have more info to track down the problem.

Installing a 64-bit kernel requires a completely new install, using the appropriate "amd64-k8" liveCD.

---

### Post by drunkenrobot on 2006-08-25
Exactly the same thing happens to me. I have a Dell Poweredge 1850 dual 2.8 em64t Xeon with a mirrored scsi boot raid ... with the 386 kernel it's fine, but with the SMP or 686 kernels it locks up. Same result with Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Kubuntu, and Fedora Core 5 and 6 ... Also doesn't seem to like Gnome, works beter with KDE ...

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-08-25
unimind since your processors are em64T

Would you mind trying the 64-bit Server install CD?

And installing linux-amd64-xeon kernel?

---

### Post by drunkenrobot on 2006-08-25
i tried the 64bit server install cd ... works fine in text mode... but if you install either the Gnome or KDE desktop systems... locks up right after login ... now running the Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-26-amd64-xeon in text mode... so far so good... not going to try a gui again any time soon though.

---

### Post by unimind on 2006-09-01
First, I appoligize for the slow reply,,, I was out of town.  I also installed the 64 bit server version with the same results as drunkenrobot -- works fine in text mode, as soon as I try to start gnome, it locks up hard. no keyboad or mouse response, also as an aside my trouble led starts flashing amber which signifies that the cpu has locked up.  

Has anyone figured a way to get gnome or KDE to work???  I would think that this would have surfaced many times during testing, since this is a pretty popular server/system for small business users.

---

### Post by drunkenrobot on 2006-09-01
i also get the hard lock-up with the flashing amber on my Dell Server

---

### Post by eXisor on 2006-09-03
I've basically the same problem, but I think it is video driver related. The 686 smp kernel freezes shortly after I've logged on. (The 386 kernel works fine). 

In 686 smp mode, when I change the video driver to vesa, I get into gnome OK and everything works (both cpu's are running).

My setup:

2 Pentium III (Coppermine) 733 mhz processors
Intel OR840 Workstation m/b
Asus ATI 7000 Radeon 64mb agp
768 ram

So I'm thinking the problem is that the video drivers are built against the 386 kernel (and not the 686 smp kernel).

I'll try building the ATI 8.25.18 driver against the 686 smp kernel and will post back with the result.

Does the vesa driver stop the freeze for anyone else?

---

### Post by drunkenrobot on 2006-10-02
any luck with that recompiled ATI driver?

---

