---
title: "5.10 on iBook G4 using Virtual PC"
date: 2006-03-23
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by charliehumble on 2006-03-23
Hello,
I have bought a copy of Virtual PC 7 for Mac and I wanted to set up ubuntu with it.
So far I haven't had much success. After reading through a couple of tips on various web sites, I still can't get it to work.
Not having a floppy disk drive makes it even more complicated.
I'm not even sure which ubuntu install CD to use - PPC or i386.
Recommendations, Links, stepbystep Howtos or simple tips are much appreciated.
Oh, and someone who's already done it once, please share experiences.

thanks,
charlie

---

### Post by stuporglue on 2006-03-23
VPC emulates a PC, so you'll use the x86 version of Ubuntu. You should be able to put the Cd in your Mac's optical drive, then select some option from the VPC menu to boot from CD.

---

### Post by Madman68 on 2006-03-23
I use Ubuntu on Virtuall pc running on an iBook G4. It runs Ubuntu well but will tend to run slow at times. Anyway, all you have to do to install is, like Stuporglue said, get the x86 version of Ubuntu and make the install cd. After that you will need to start VP and select the "New" button on the side of the VP list that shows up. After this you will need to select the button saying something like "install and operation system" not the one that says to install from the VP cd. Next you will need to chose "Linux from the different types of hard drive configurations in the drop down menu where you can select what operation system it is. After this you will need to click finish or run or something like that to start the operationg system. A window will come up that will be black and say there is no operation system installed. You will need to hit enter untill it asks you to hit any key to boot6 from cd. After it boots from pc just follow the instillation direction as if you were inmstalling it directly to your hard drive. Hope this helps! (sorrow about that, I'll clear that up later when I actually have VP in front of me to look at)

---

