---
title: "802.11b/g wireless USB dongle?"
date: 2006-01-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by gruepig on 2006-01-02
I have a Mac Mini (running breezy) and would like to have working wireless.  I'm well-aware that the AirPort Extreme card is unsupported.

Is anyone successfully using a USB wireless card/dongle?  If so, what models are known to work with Ubuntu PPC?  (I'd prefer 802.11b/g, but 802.11b is fine as well.)

Thanks!

---

### Post by nicodds on 2006-01-03
[QUOTE=gruepig]I have a Mac Mini (running breezy) and would like to have working wireless.  I'm well-aware that the AirPort Extreme card is unsupported.
[/QUOTE]

At the moment there's an effort to code a working driver for this card. At the moment the code is still experimental, but you can assume that in few months (or even less) we'll use AirPort Extreme also with GNU/Linux.

[QUOTE=gruepig]
Is anyone successfully using a USB wireless card/dongle?  If so, what models are known to work with Ubuntu PPC?  (I'd prefer 802.11b/g, but 802.11b is fine as well.)
[/QUOTE]

Well, I've a 3Com 3CRUSB10075 (If I'm not wrong) and it works perfectly with the zd1211 module, that is already in the breezy kernel. To say the truth, you  could use every other Zydas based dongle with this driver.

Nico

---

### Post by gruepig on 2006-01-03
Excellent - thanks!

---

### Post by supermonix on 2006-01-06
Hi, I'm looking for a solution making working my powerbook in wireless, too!!
Please, could you post how you solved the problem (if you did, I hope! ;) )

Thank you very much!

---

