---
title: "6.10 AMD64 won't boot on new 64-bit computer"
date: 2006-12-26
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by siplus on 2006-12-26
I have been using 32-bit ubuntu since 5.04 and finally after finals this semester I ordered new computer parts and put together an AMD Athlon 64 X2 AM2 based computer. After downloading the 6.10 AMD64 install iso and burning it, the live cd would not boot.

Thinking maybe some piece of hardware from the nforce chipset might be conflicting, I tried in other safe options (including noapic, which it had suggested).

A bit discouraged, I took out my trusty copy of the x86 and AMD64 Dapper cds that I got for free (Thanks to the shipit program!). Here's the kicker: After a few boots and kernel panics, I found that booting the Dapper live cds (irregardless of 32 or 64 bit) are hit-and-miss. Sometimes they boot, and sometimes they kernel panic right away. I found this to be odd, but went forward nontheless.

I decided that my ubuntu 6.10 AMD64 cd is just a corrupted iso, because, after all, it could happen. My next course of action was to install the 64-bit version of Dapper and upgrade to edgy from there.

Everything was going well, and right after first-boot I updated to edgy only  to find myself at the same problem as the live cd earlier. 

Now I do not know what to do, but ask for help! Once I hit alt-F1 while it is locked at the splash screen, it says:
```

...
[   25.759724] drivers/rtc/hctosys.c: unable to open rtc device (rtc0)
[   25.759773] Freeing unused kernel memory: 188k freed
...
[   25.960049] Console: switching to colour frame buffer device 80x25
[   25.964476] fb0: VGA16 VGA frame buffer device

```
I only chose to type those four lines because it was getting cumbersome to do so. If there is a log where I can get the whole output I will post it. These four lines are of importance because the first one looks like it could indicate an error, and the last two indicate where the screen is stopped.

Any advice is greatly appreciated! I have been wanting to finally upgrade to a 64-bit OS for years and until I get this sorted out, I am regressing back to 32-bit windows.

Edit: My specific chipset for the motherboard, if it helps: nForce 4M-A (HT 2000 also mentioned)
My Video card: nVidia geforce 7600 GS 256mb

---

### Post by mayhemt on 2006-12-29
try with memtest option first while booting from CDs

---

### Post by balak on 2006-12-29
I also had the same situation a few hours ago. Now, ubuntu is up and running and I am installing new apps using automatix.

My boot options were 
noacpi and nolacpi

don't know if that'll make the difference, but I have read that it is better to install edgy from cdrom rather than upgrade from dapper.

my chipset/motherboard are different.

---

### Post by pross on 2006-12-29
i also have a nforce4 chipset and have to pas noapic to boot the ubuntu kernel...fedora works with nolapic gentoo-sources needs neither..

---

### Post by emt_1 on 2006-12-31
I t seems that Linux in general and xorg in particular do not like all video cards i.e. the open source drivers only work with specific cards (search Video Cards Linux)The only way I got 6.10 installed was by going back to a Radeon 9500 pro.I found somewhere that the best combo for Linux is an Assrock Dual and an old ATI card which is what I have,](*,)  and everything that wouldn't install before(Debian.Ubuntu,Mandriva) now installs perfectly.Or you can Try Fedora 6 which is somewhate more tolerant of newer cards but which wouldn't work with an Nvidia 6800xt.Welcome to Linux graphics.

---

