---
title: "Hp 3650"
date: 2006-10-07
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-07
I'm trynig to set up my printer.  I'm new so go slow.  DD 64bit 6.06.  HP Deskjet 3650.

I did the printer wizard and lsusb detects it.  But it doesn't print.  So I went here.

[http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step1/apt.html](http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step1/apt.html)

I went to terminal.  su and enter.  Then put in my password.

admin@ivlaga:~$ su
Password:
su: Authentication failure
Sorry.
admin@ivlaga:~$

Is the password different than the one I used to login to my other account I'm using to type this now.

Or what.  I don't remember making a root password or what have you.

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-07
nobody

---

### Post by brainfry on 2006-10-08
Try typing ```
sudo
```
followed by the command you want to run. It should ask for the password you log in with.

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-09
I only have 1 link in my first coment here.  The sourceforge link.  Those are the directions I'm using.  If I tpye su and then password I get

admin@ivlaga:~$ su
Password:
su: Authentication failure
Sorry.
admin@ivlaga:~$ sudo

And if I type the whole word sudo I get 

usage: sudo -K | -L | -V | -h | -k | -l | -v
usage: sudo [-HPSb] [-p prompt] [-u username|#uid]
            { -e file [...] | -i | -s | <command> }
admin@ivlaga:~$

No place for passowrd.  Are those directions outdated.  I just don't want to buy a new printer.

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-10
No ideas?

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-10-10
What he meant was: rather than typing ```
su
``` and then putting in a bunch of commands, you should type ```
sudo *command*
``` replacing *command* with the command you need to run.

Looking at those instructions, you shouldn't need to use **su** at all.  Just run
```
dpkg --list 'hplip*'
```

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-10
admin@ivlaga:~$ dpkg --list 'hplip*'
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Installed/Config-files/Unpacked/Failed-config/Half-installed
|/ Err?=(none)/Hold/Reinst-required/X=both-problems (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version        Description
+++-==============-==============-============================================
ii  hplip          0.9.7-4ubuntu1 HP Linux Printing and Imaging System (HPLIP)
un  hplip-base     <none>         (no description available)
ii  hplip-data     0.9.7-4ubuntu1 HP Linux Printing and Imaging - data files
ii  hplip-ppds     0.9.7-4ubuntu1 HP Linux Printing and Imaging - PPD files
admin@ivlaga:~$

It still says none so I just thought su might give different results.

But only 1 line and not the other 3.  So this is making no sense.

Not sure if I need to install a new version.  Or if that will make me print finally.

I just want to print and I setup the wizard thing and hae a printer icon for HP 3650 but it still won't print.  I'm missing something obviously.

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-11
No idea why I can't print. anyone?

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-10-11
Looks like the OP is trying to install from source.
The site linked offers step by step guide for installing.

[http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step1/apt.html](http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step1/apt.html)

[http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step2/ubuntu606.html](http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step2/ubuntu606.html)

[http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step3/index.html](http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step3/index.html)

[http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step4/index.html](http://hplip.sourceforge.net/install/step4/index.html)

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-11
That's the page I was linking originally.  But it says none.  So now what.  Do I need to reinstall HPLIP or what?

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-10-11
the links above in my post explain howto install the file you want.

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-11
But I did follow those links.  They don't work.  The directions don't work.  su asks for password and won't work and without su it says none.  

It does't say what to do if nothing is there or not in the order they mention.

Those directions apperently don't apply to my situation.

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-10-11
Did you setup your machine to use the root account?

Also if the frist part does not work then move to the second set of directions.

I'm still wondering why you need to install this file for an HP printer. 

I'm using an HP laserjet,and only had to plug it in and use the files listed in synaptic.

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-12
I'm new so I don't know.  I read somewhere I needed that to print or to check that was installed or not.  I think searching here maybe perhaps.

Anyway, what files in synaptic did you use.  Be very specific.  I'm new.

And is that all you did.  And then goto System, Administration, and Printing.  Or was there more than thos two things.

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2006-10-12
Open synaptic search for hplip.making sure those files are installed.
download the ppd file for your printer here [http://www.linuxprinting.org/ppd-o-matic.cgi?driver=hpijs&printer=HP-DeskJet_3650&show=0](http://www.linuxprinting.org/ppd-o-matic.cgi?driver=hpijs&printer=HP-DeskJet_3650&show=0)

Open System, Administration, and Printing Click Add new printer your printer should be shown in the next box.

Click foward from the drop down menu find **HP** deskjet3650

Click install driver then click on ppd file you downloaded

once that installs

Click the driver box you should see the file best suited for your printer ie the ppd file you installed.

Click foward then apply.

---

### Post by confusimo on 2006-10-15
So basically its not Ubuntu.  I think the printer si broken.  The light won't stop blinking.  So I just have to buy a new one.

Thanks,
Confusimo

---

