---
title: "7.10 64-bit on Dell Inspiron 1720"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by grkuntzmd on 2008-03-18
I am trying to run the 64-bit Live CD (7.10) on a Dell Inspirion 1720, but it hangs after displaying /etc/rc.local. Hitting Ctrl-Alt-Delete causes a graceful shutdown (drivers start closing, etc.) I have tried various graphics options but none seem to make a difference. I understand there is a known bug with the splash screen. The 32-bit version works fine.

I am considering switching from Vista, but want to check my devices for compatibility first with the 64-bit version.

CPU T7700 (Intel dual-core 2.4 GHz)
RAM 4 GB
Graphics NVidia 8600 GT
160 GB HD

Thanks, Ralph

---

### Post by grkuntzmd on 2008-03-18
As the late, great Gilda Radner said, "Never Mind!":)

I got it working by hitting "F6" and removing the "quiet splash" from the end of the options string. I booted using the top choice on the menu and everything except the sound seemed to work, including the built-in webcam. The screen resolution defaulted to 1920x1200 and looked great. I know about the sound fix, but did not try it in the Live CD boot. When I suspended, the machine went to sleep, but a resume just showed a black screen. I'm not sure if this is a problem with the Live CD or a worse incompatibility with the Inspiron 1720.

I might try installing it this weekend, after decrypting my NTFS partitions and compacting them with Partition Manager.

---

### Post by crossedout on 2008-03-18
Hey there,

If you do install it, please post how it went and whether or not you hit any snags.  I initially attempted the same install but ran into several issues when I tried to dual-boot.  I will be installing Heron on the 1720 one way or another but would appreciate another point of view on the Gutsy install.

Thanks,
Xout

---

