---
title: "5.10 PPC Install Problem with yaboot on B&amp;W G3"
date: 2005-12-07
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by kilky on 2005-12-07
I am not able to boot directly into the installer for Ubuntu off my Ubuntu 5.10 Installer Discs that I received in the mail.  

I have to hold down 'c' in order to get it to read the disc, then I am dropped to a yaboot boot: prompt.  From here, I have toyed around with it long enough to figure out that in order for it to try and boot the installer, I need to type:
```
cd:2,/installer/yaboot,/install/powerpc/vmlinux
```
I have pieced this much together after having error after error saying "/vmlinux: Unknown or corrupt filesystem" or similar errors.  The previous command at least shows the bootstrap process for the installer but it always halts with an error stating: ```
VFS: Cannot open root device "sda2" or unknown-block(0,0)
Please append a correct "root=" boot option
Kernel panic - not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown-block(0,0)
```
I know I can just add a "root=/dev/whatever" to my inital yaboot command but what should I use?  Shouldn't it be something like /dev/ram0?  It would have to be a RAM disk using initrd to run the installer right?

My Mac is a stock B&W G3 300MHz upgraded to 512MB of RAM.  It runs OS X 10.3 just fine but it's way too slow, and I wish to use the beast as a toy webserver ... which I've done many times before but only ever with x86 hardware.  I am quite new to yaboot.  

Any ideas, anyone?

---

### Post by kilky on 2005-12-07
If I try to run the install command with root=/dev/ram0 the error changes to: ```
Kernel panic - not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown-block(1,0)
```
The previous two lines then do not appear.  Notice the (1,0) changed from (0,0) if that means anything.

Help!

---

### Post by ristosu on 2005-12-10
I would try something like:

cd:2,/installer/powerpc/vmlinux initrd=/installer/powerpc/initrd.gz

You could check that there is an initrd.gz on the CD. Also, if you can find yaboot.conf there, take a look at its contents.

---

### Post by Rxke on 2005-12-10
[QUOTE=kilky]I am not able to boot directly into the installer for Ubuntu off my Ubuntu 5.10 Installer Discs that I received in the mail. [/QUOTE]

you mean you don't get the

 >  Welcome to 5.10 (Breezy Badger)
blahblahblah... 
Welcome toyaboot version xyz
Enter "help" to get some basic information
boot:


If you do, just type the tab key, to get a list of options or just press enter/return
I'm running on a B&W, and just typing "server" or going the default way (enter) does the job...

---

