---
title: "AMD64 :: 86x64?"
date: 2005-12-04
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by ghostpsalm on 2005-12-04
> The AMD64 architecture is built as a set of logical extensions to the familiar 32-bit x86 instruction set, and can run both 32-bit and 64-bit applications directly, without emulation, at the same time in separate processes.

This was, I thought, the power of an AMD64 computer.  Indeed it would be enough for me that it is AMD - though the above statement kept me heading on to faster speeds, without dumping software and beginning totally anew.

Can someone explain to me how, I may need to [FONT="Fixedsys"]'debootstrap'[/FONT] another 32-bit environment to run some applications, and why the two are not compatible?  Indeed I know my computer can handle both the [FONT="Fixedsys"]x86[/FONT], and [FONT="Fixedsys"]amd64[/FONT] versions of programs, but why can they not run together?  I was under the impression that the 64-bit instructions were and extension to the already exsisting 32-bit (x86) instructions?

Am I misunderstanding the 'in separate processes' part of the above statement?  Do I need to [FONT="Fixedsys"]'debootstrap'[/FONT] a separate 32-bit [FONT="Fixedsys"]/[/FONT] directory to allow a separate process to begin?  Is the above statement true if I am in my 64-bit toolchain and chroot into a 32-bit, and run a program?

I have a feeling that I am wrong, and that the above statement does not say that you can compile (or apt-get) a [FONT="Fixedsys"]x86[/FONT] program within a [FONT="Fixedsys"]amd64[/FONT] kernel, though I would like it to be true.

I hope I am wrong?

---

### Post by sean.smithson on 2005-12-04
snip

---

### Post by RAOF on 2005-12-04
It is indeed the "in seperate processes" part that's critical.  All of the libraries linked to by a binary are run in the **same** process as that binary.  Thus, a 32bit binary needs 32bit libs, and a 64bit binary needs 64bit libs.

You **can** get a lot of 32bit code working easily in Ubuntu - install the ia32-lib* packages, and you'll have (most of) the 32bit libraries that you need.  Although apt doesn't currently seem to understand that you can run 32bit binaries on an x86_64 system, you can still manually download 32bit deb files & install them with dpkg --force-architecture

---

