---
title: "Ignore track pad mouse clicks?"
date: 2005-11-01
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by skeporang on 2005-11-01
I'm having no luck trying to disable the track pad clicks on my Ibook G4 so I was wondering... 

Is there a way to ignore mouse clicks from a mouse? As I understand it the Ibook acts as though it has two mice (please correct me if I am wrong..); one with just a single button, the other with movement + button.

So if we could just ignore any clicks generated by the track pad? Is this possible?

---

### Post by felix_stegerman on 2005-11-01
[QUOTE=skeporang]So if we could just ignore any clicks generated by the track pad? Is this possible?[/QUOTE]

Are you talking about disabling the trackpad completely, or just clicking on it?
You should probably be able to disable it in your xorg.conf.

e.g. remove the line "My Trackpad" (or something like that) in
Section "ServerLayout". (make a backup of xorg.conf first ;-))


Felix

---

### Post by skeporang on 2005-11-01
[QUOTE=felix_stegerman]Are you talking about disabling the trackpad completely, or just clicking on it?[/QUOTE]

Just the clicking of the trackpad; not the movement with the fingers.

---

### Post by felix_stegerman on 2005-11-01
Maybe this helps ?? :
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27650](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27650)

Felix

---

### Post by felix_stegerman on 2005-11-04
Try this: [http://lists.debian.org/debian-powerpc/2003/03/msg00118.html](http://lists.debian.org/debian-powerpc/2003/03/msg00118.html)


Felix

---

### Post by skeporang on 2005-11-04
Thanks for your help, but none of the info at the links seem to have any effect :???: 

Re: /sbin/trackpad nopad, nopad isnt an option for, just the usual notap, drag etc. but I will look into why (and if) this option doesnt exist.

I've tried to use xmodmap to change the trackpad button numbering, but it seems that the hard button and trackpad button act as one: I can get both to be ignored but not one.

Thanks for your help.. I'll get this sorted one day!

---

### Post by skeporang on 2005-11-09
Well, I've had partial success trying to ignore the trackpad mouse clicks... I've written a little program that remaps the button to an id of 10: it gets ignored (well, for the most part) by the system. A quick key combo and the button comes back.

What would be nice if the program stayed up in the background and detected excessive key tapping and disabled the trackpad, then when trackpad motion was detected, say for more than  a second, renabled the trackpad mouse button.

If your interested in the source and a better explanation....
[http://danicity.co.uk/wordpress/2005/11/09/disable-apple-ibook-trackpad-clicks/]("http://danicity.co.uk/wordpress/2005/11/09/disable-apple-ibook-trackpad-clicks/")

---

