---
title: "64 &gt; 32"
date: 2005-06-21
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by lukus001 on 2005-06-21
Well i've installed ubuntu 64bit, unaware of the complications involved with it.  I wan't to swap it over with the 32bit version because it is too much hassel as a new ubuntu user & linux user when i'm only actually using this system for graphic design.

What's the best way to get a compleatly fresh install on a 32bit build? formatting and installing a new disk or is there some way i can download the files unpack it, switch over and delete the 64bit?

---

### Post by Optimal Aurora on 2005-06-21
I think because 64bit uses a different (architecture) overall, to install a 32bit form you will have to download the 32bit version and install it fresh and clean from the CD image or Network install but you can't do sudo apt-get dist-upgrade because you will only get the 64 bit version, if you are running 64bit...

I'm curious, why don't you like the 64bit version?... Just curious...

---

### Post by ::DoGG:: on 2005-06-21
Well, to be true i can understand such decission. 
If i would be on Your place i would make a fr4esh, clean install of 32 bit release, maybe there`s a way (probably is) to downhrade this, but fresh install ill take MUCH less time that any procedure involved in changin the architecture of the whole kernel and system environment.

---

### Post by FluffyElmo on 2005-06-21
Just back-up your home directory, most of your application data and configuration files are stored there. You should be able to do a clean 32bit reinstall, copy your home directory back and be up and running with a minimum of fuss.

Just be sure to include all the files and folders starting with '.' in your back-up. Last time I did it Archive Manager forgot those:)

I'm curious as well though, I use Gimp and what-not under 64bit, any specific problems?

---

### Post by lukus001 on 2005-06-21
Well, most applications wont normally install due to the fact it's 64bit, an example is real player.   Although I have installed it under chroot it's not intergrated with my firefox (or firefox32 (chroot'd) for that matter).  Lacks W32codecs even though i have them installed (this is the case with all my players aswell)

It just seams that most of my problems concerning ubuntu is based on the fact it's 64bit.  the fact that i've only switched to linux & ubuntu for the first time a few days ago and having to chroot things, search forums for 20 examples on how to install the same thing (java took me 3 solid days to install, where under firefox32 (chroot) took seconds) i think going to 32 will generally help my learning process.

I'm installing things and doing things i don't have a clue about, i have no idea what im doing with chroot (or what i've done to my system installing it).... 32bit version just seams the best way to go, and when i only want to do my graphics, watch some tv and surf the web it seams a bit unpratical installing the 64bit version, having to start up 32bit firefox, cut and paste links into realplayer... so on and so on...

---

### Post by Optimal Aurora on 2005-06-21
A safer method is just install the 32bit from the cd iso image and go about life like usual because even I had serious, critically serious problems with chroot and debootstrap... So its up to you, but the safest method back up the home directory and then just install from the 32bit Hoary cd iso image and forget about using the true potential of a 64bit OS on a 64bit system... 

I am still curious though, why do you want to get rid of 64 and go to 32 bit?...

---

### Post by lukus001 on 2005-06-22
...lol... because most of the aps i want to use don't work or work properly? whereas in theory it should be fine on 32.

---

### Post by estel on 2005-06-22
Perhaps, but your problems seem to be all media related.
I can survive quite easily without Realplayer or Quicktime (haven't gotten QT stuff to work to date :s) and have Java working now :D - not that it took particularly long :s

---

### Post by Pcghost on 2005-06-22
The only critical app that hasn't worked for me is Amarok (with artsd crashing on each play). I could care less about Flash, and although support for Windows codecs would be nice, it is certainly no show stopper as far as I am concerned.

---

### Post by lukus001 on 2005-06-22
Well, I do web design which requires me to use flash.   It also means i will have to check java applets, movies and "what not" load up properly and run fine off the webpage, and i can't do that if i can't see it /load it.

As i'm heavily into graphics it won't be long till I've learnt blender again (stoped because my old pc was pants ...(low RAM, Dieing CPU....*shivers* windows) and will be doing animations with it... and i need to be able to play back my videos properly.

On another note, a list of applications i can get a hold of on linux for "desktop publishing" or anything graphic /design related would be great if any of you know.  i.e. under 3D, web design, print, etc...  would be great, as i only know of the highly talked about ones (Gimp etc..)

---

### Post by FLeiXiuS on 2005-06-22
A good solution would be to install a 32bit chroot system.  This way you can have the best of both worlds.  I had a hard time with one of the postfix files in the repo's.  Not sure if they're fixed.  But hey, give it a try.  It's not worth the whole desktop over.

---

### Post by FluffyElmo on 2005-06-22
I have Blender installed on my 64bit system, it seems to run very well but I don't really know how to use it yet:) 3D rendering is an area where 64bit should give a performance boost as well so you should try it before wiping the system (Blender and yafray are in Synaptic). But enough 64bit boosting and on to the programs...

For web design, I use *Inkscape* and *The Gimp*. *Bluefish* and *Screem* are both excellent text based HTML editors, try them both to see which you prefer. *Quanta* and *Nvu* are also good editors, with more graphical editing features, I just didn't care for them personally. 

I also rely on the *Web Developer*, *MeasureIt* and *ScrapBook* extensions to Firefox. The Web Developer one is pretty much essential, if you only get one get it.

For page layout try *Passepartout* and *Scribus*. I like passepartout myself but really haven't used either enough to really have a strong opinion either way. *AbiWord* and *OpenOffice1/2* have generally met my needs so far.

Pretty much all of these are available in Synaptic, and of course these are only the ones I use personally. To find even more go into Synaptic, enable multiverse and universe, and click 'Sections' and browse the Graphics sections.

---

### Post by FluffyElmo on 2005-06-22
One more thought, for web testing (either 32 or 64bit) you're probably going to want to install IE5/6 and Flash under WINE. For CSS It's really the only way to see how it's going to look to the rest of the world.

I've done it on my 32bit sytem at work, and have been meaning to try it on my 64bit system but just haven't found the time. Or, if you have a Windows system on the network, I've also used remote dektop under Linux with good results in the past.

---

### Post by lukus001 on 2005-06-24
Yeah, i have chroot at the moment but i don't really like that, and as i said i don't really know what i'm doing with it... i have to keep checking the choot thread on how to chroot my aps.

FluffyElmo, thanks for some of the names i'll be sure to check them out, and yeah checking synaptic under graphics never crossed my mind, yet is the smartest way to go about it lol.

here's a problem i've got at the moment though, downloaded the ubuntu32 build and i can't burn the iso image because my CD-rw isn't working.   I got an "unable to mount media" message when accessing it.

Earlier I just had the CD-rw in there (I have a second; DVD drive. Thought it might have been conflicting because i dont have the pin for Master /slave.) 

Placing a CD in my drive made a "pop-up" window apear for the CD media... I've dissabled that... but trying to access it from Places > computer > CD-ROM i get the above "error" ^.   and of course, Right clicking> burn file> write cd.... *insert CD*.... yet the CD is in there...

---

### Post by Halcyon-X12 on 2005-06-28
[QUOTE=lukus001]Well, most applications wont normally install due to the fact it's 64bit, an example is real player.   Although I have installed it under chroot it's not intergrated with my firefox (or firefox32 (chroot'd) for that matter).  Lacks W32codecs even though i have them installed (this is the case with all my players aswell)

It just seams that most of my problems concerning ubuntu is based on the fact it's 64bit.  the fact that i've only switched to linux & ubuntu for the first time a few days ago and having to chroot things, search forums for 20 examples on how to install the same thing (java took me 3 solid days to install, where under firefox32 (chroot) took seconds) i think going to 32 will generally help my learning process.

I'm installing things and doing things i don't have a clue about, i have no idea what im doing with chroot (or what i've done to my system installing it).... 32bit version just seams the best way to go, and when i only want to do my graphics, watch some tv and surf the web it seams a bit unpratical installing the 64bit version, having to start up 32bit firefox, cut and paste links into realplayer... so on and so on...[/QUOTE]
 That's odd, I have installed the 32-bit codecs and they work for me in 64-bit Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Darkscot on 2005-06-30
[QUOTE=lukus001]

SNIP

I'm installing things and doing things i don't have a clue about, i have no idea what im doing with chroot (or what i've done to my system installing it).... 32bit version just seams the best way to go, and when i only want to do my graphics, watch some tv and surf the web it seams a bit unpratical installing the 64bit version, having to start up 32bit firefox, cut and paste links into realplayer... so on and so on...[/QUOTE]

I am with you on this.  I have been using Ubuntu on a Celeron PC for a while so decided to try it on my AMD64.  At first it was fine but then I started encountering problems.  Biggest of which is Amarok crashing!  It it means downgrading to get Amarok to work then that is what I will do.

---

