---
title: ".wmv's play corrupted (although fine on Windows)"
date: 2007-11-28
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by SpaceFarm on 2007-11-28
Hi all, I'm a relatively new user and I'm just having problems with some wmv videos.

About half of them work...the other half of my videos look like this:

[http://www.gamevideos.com/video/watch?video=14503&largeFormat=wmv](http://www.gamevideos.com/video/watch?video=14503&largeFormat=wmv)
(Well if this video plays fine for you on x64 Ubuntu then I'm doing something totally wrong!)

I've done some searching on this site and Google but the solution seems to be use the win32codecs with Totem-xine...but as I mentioned before I'm on x64. I'm not quite sure how to fix this (I've got all other codecs, xvid etc..working fine) and I've also installed the win64codecs. 

Before with Totem-gstreamer they wouldn't even play but now that I'm running the videos through Totem-xine they at least play but they're scrambled and unwatchable. Is it possible to fix this on x64? 

Cheers.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-11-28
> **SpaceFarm said:**
> Hi all, I'm a relatively new user and I'm just having problems with some wmv videos.

About half of them work...the other half of my videos look like this:

[http://www.gamevideos.com/video/watch?video=14503&largeFormat=wmv](http://www.gamevideos.com/video/watch?video=14503&largeFormat=wmv)
(Well if this video plays fine for you on x64 Ubuntu then I'm doing something totally wrong!)

I've done some searching on this site and Google but the solution seems to be use the win32codecs with Totem-xine...but as I mentioned before I'm on x64. I'm not quite sure how to fix this (I've got all other codecs, xvid etc..working fine) and I've also installed the win64codecs. 

Before with Totem-gstreamer they wouldn't even play but now that I'm running the videos through Totem-xine they at least play but they're scrambled and unwatchable. Is it possible to fix this on x64? 

Cheers.

vlc mozilla plugin plays it fine.

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2007-11-28
Which player are you using? If VLC it might be worthwhile to set the default video ouput to X11. At least that worked for me to get rid of green bars and scrambled wmv video.

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-11-28
I'm using totem-mozilla
```
sudo apt-get install totem-mozilla
```
and it works perfectly on Firefox 64 on that link you gave.

More information is needed though. Is it only wmv videos in firefox that don't work? Do wmvs work if you download and play them with totem (and try mplayer and vlc if totem fails)? Do other formats other than wmv work in the situations where wmv failed?

---

### Post by SpaceFarm on 2007-11-29
Hi, thanks for helping me out. I'm just getting used to linux at the moment. This is the only big hurdle I've faced so far.

> **Kilz said:**
> vlc mozilla plugin plays it fine.

I've installed VLC and that doesn't play the wmv's correctly. 

> **Jouke74 said:**
> Which player are you using? If VLC it might be worthwhile to set the default video ouput to X11. At least that worked for me to get rid of green bars and scrambled wmv video.

I'm using totem-xine but none of the other players (VLC, Mplayer, totem-gstreamer etc... work at all).

> **Cappy said:**
> I'm using totem-mozilla
```
sudo apt-get install totem-mozilla
```

More information is needed though. Is it only wmv videos in firefox that don't work? Do wmvs work if you download and play them with totem (and try mplayer and vlc if totem fails)? Do other formats other than wmv work in the situations where wmv failed?

It's not only the streamable videos that are broken it's also saved videos that I had from when I was using XP. That link was just an example, to further complicate things some wmv's play fine, although I think it's the recent codec (9?) that has the problem. 

Other codecs like xvid and divx work and even the obscure codecs work fine, it's just half of the wmv's streamed or local videos. 



How do I get the terminal to display output errors? I can post that if it helps?

Edit: These guys have the same problem as me although their solution....w32codecs...but I'm on a 64bit system. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/xine-lib/+bug/108453](https://bugs.launchpad.net/xine-lib/+bug/108453)

Why isn't this more common? More people having problems with wmv?

---

### Post by SpaceFarm on 2007-11-30
Okay solved the problem. 64bit doesn't like wmvs at all so I followed the w32 codec guide on Ubuntuguide and it now works on 32bit players like mplayer.

But Mplayer32 doesn't have any controls!???

---

