---
title: "1240x1024?"
date: 2007-08-18
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by Meneldir on 2007-08-18
Sup people? Im still newbie with GNU/Linux (but it was love at first sight) and i'm using Ubuntu 7.04 Feisty... And I can't get my screen resolution over 1024x768.. I have an NVIDIA 7300GS, Asus it is.  Is related to the drivers? Also, I want Compiz/Fusion, but I'm searching for it, so, the problem now is the resolution... anyone can help me?
Ask for more data if you need, i don't know if that is enough.
The only thing I tried to change it, was going to System > Preferences > Screen Resolution, other way to change it I don't know.
As I know that this forum is like Anime forums (everyone is willing to help), I must thank now.

Sorry if it's hard to read, long time without speaking english....

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-08-18
> **Meneldir said:**
> Sup people? Im still newbie with GNU/Linux (but it was love at first sight) and i'm using Ubuntu 7.04 Feisty... And I can't get my screen resolution over 1024x768.. I have an NVIDIA 7300GS, Asus it is.  Is related to the drivers? Also, I want Compiz/Fusion, but I'm searching for it, so, the problem now is the resolution... anyone can help me?
Ask for more data if you need, i don't know if that is enough.
The only thing I tried to change it, was going to System > Preferences > Screen Resolution, other way to change it I don't know.
As I know that this forum is like Anime forums (everyone is willing to help), I must thank now.

Sorry if it's hard to read, long time without speaking english....

Yes, it is related to your drivers. Have you installed the drivers from nvidia?

---

### Post by Meneldir on 2007-08-20
Yes... I think I have, I've installed restricted drivers when Ubuntu asked...
Sorry for posting with so muchi time difference...

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2007-08-20
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

that should give you a whole load of options for resolution(advice is to click 'auto') then save to x.org.conf(there is a button for it) and restart.

as for compiz-fusion, i would wait until gutsy is out. gutsy has it by default. beryl is still a good option. but it is your choice and there are plenty of guides out there.

---

### Post by Meneldir on 2007-08-20
I-ve done that, but nothing changed when I clicked "auto", so i-ve setted the resolution manually.. Now I see everything small and I have much more place in my screen :P
Thanks for your help..

---

### Post by jdfreshwater on 2007-08-20
dpkg -reconfigure xserver-xorg

If you use this in the command line, it will allow you to select various resolutions for the xorg.conf file.  It actually writes one for you.

---

### Post by Meneldir on 2007-08-23
> **jdfreshwater said:**
> dpkg -reconfigure xserver-xorg

If you use this in the command line, it will allow you to select various resolutions for the xorg.conf file.  It actually writes one for you.

I've got this:
```
$ dpkg -reconfigure xserver-xorg
dpkg: conflicting actions -e (--control) and -r (--remove)

Type dpkg --help for help about installing and deinstalling packages [*];
Use `dselect' or `aptitude' for user-friendly package management;
Type dpkg -Dhelp for a list of dpkg debug flag values;
Type dpkg --force-help for a list of forcing options;
Type dpkg-deb --help for help about manipulating *.deb files;
Type dpkg --license for copyright license and lack of warranty (GNU GPL) [*].

Options marked [*] produce a lot of output - pipe it through `less' or `more' !

```

I've got it working, thanks anyway..

---

### Post by ihristov on 2007-08-23
Most likely the reason is you are not root.

Try using sudo

```
sudo dpkg -reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by volksolwagen57 on 2007-08-27
try this:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and hit enter then input your password and hit enter. you should be in the text editor with the xorg.conf file open. scroll down to where it lists resolutions. it should look like this:
```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes	"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"400x400"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes	"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"400x400"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes	"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"400x400"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes	"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"400x400"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes	"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"400x400"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes	"1280x1024" "1024x768"	"800x600"	"400x400"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
```

if you don't have the "1280x1024" lines added in all of the modes for all of the depths then it will not display in 1280x1024 resolution. be absolutely careful not to change anything else and accidentally save it. ONLY ADD "1280x1024" AND NOTHING ELSE! REMEMBER TO ADD THE QUOTATION MARKS ("") before and after 1280x1024. after you are absolutely positive that you made these changes and only these changes can you save it. wait for the prompt at the bottem left hand part of the window where it displays status of your save to disappear before you exit. crystal clear? restart x by hitting "CTRL + ALT + Backspace" and this should restart x. your screen resolution should now automatically render in that resolution. if not go to System-->Preferences-->Screen Resolution and you should be able to select it from the drop down box that appears. The nvidia-settings command is pretty cool but it NEVER works. good luck hope this helps :)

---

### Post by ihristov on 2007-08-27
> **volksolwagen57 said:**
> The nvidia-settings command is pretty cool but it NEVER works.

You mean it never worked for you. It works perfectly fine in general. Not sure what could be the problem in your setup.

---

### Post by volksolwagen57 on 2007-08-27
I should have rephrased better: it works fine but when i want it to save the setting i have set it never does.

---

