---
title: "can't enter administrator mode"
date: 2006-03-18
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by Generic1234 on 2006-03-18
when i click on "Administrator mode..." in a settings window, the password dialog comes up, i enter my password, but then after a moment the settings window goes back to exactly how it was before, still with the message "you need to be in administrator mode to change these settings" (or whatever it is).  i know my password works, because it works when i use it with sudo.  this is on a fairly fresh kubuntu installation (i reinstalled a couple of days ago).  the administrator mode worked a couple of times to start with, but then i was having some problems with kate (trying to use "sudo kate" and "kdesu kate"), and now it doesn't work at all.  i kinda need it in order to set up wireless.  help please.

---

### Post by allo2u on 2006-03-18
Ubuntu generates a superuser password at the installation. (other names for superuser are: administrator, root, su) 

To change the autogenerated ubuntu root password to a known password.
At commandline type:

```
$ sudo passwd
```

then type in the desired password

With the command 'sudo' you temporaly get root-privileges. 
When you type su + the root password you become superuser, untill you type

```
# exit
```

at the commandline

In the terminal you can see whether you're using user-mode or superuser-mode by looking at the characters $ or #

$ = user-mode.
#=superuser-mode

Use supermode with care!

---

### Post by Generic1234 on 2006-03-19
thanks, but that didn't really help.

i found a way around my problem though, i am using "kdesu kcontrol", which opens a different settings program that gives me access to all the same control modules.  i guess there might be a console command for the settings program on the kde menu, but i dont know what it is, and kcontrol works, so hey im not fussed.

i think the main thing in fixing this was to use the command line to get administrative access, rather than the GUI.  i think its a bug in the GUI, but im not experienced enough to tell.

EDIT:
it is [a bug]("https://launchpad.net/distros/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/15001"), but there is a fix released.

i've been having other problems with kubuntu (enabling wireless, which i could do on ubuntu), so i think i'll just use ubuntu for now, at least until dapper.  (just thought i'd mention that here, for the record or whatever.)

---

