---
title: "5.10 on G3 233"
date: 2006-02-17
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by Loki_God_of_Mischief on 2006-02-17
Ok, first off, I've searched the entire forum for this info before posting my question(s). Recently I was given an old (but I believe New World) G3. It is an iMac, teal, tray loader. 32MB RAM, 6MB VRAM, 4GB HDD. It is currently running Mac OS 8.6. When it was given to me, it had no KB or mouse, so I am using a generic USB keyboard with MS optical 2-button scroll mouse. To run the unit as is, these work fine. However, since the keymapping is different, I'm not sure which keys are the Command and Options keys.

What I would like to do is wipe the HDD and install Ubuntu 5.10 on it, which I've just downloaded a couple hours ago. I can't get the iMac to boot to the CD though. I've tried holding C while it boots, with no success. I think the Ctrl key is Command, and the windows key is options, so I've also tried Command+Options+Shift+Delete as suggested in the Wiki. The only threads I've found on the subject seem to deal with either Old World beige G3's or New World 333's and up. Nothing on the Rev A 233's, like mine. I know very little of Apple, having started out on Commodore as a teen, and working up with IBM XT's, and more recently PCs. I've used Windows since Bill Gates first stole the code from Mac ;) and I've been using Linux for several years, as well as using IBM UNIX and HP UNIX in high school, but I'm not at all familiar with Mac OS.

So, my real question is, on this particular machine, how do I get it to boot to the CD so I can wipe the current Mac OS and install Ubuntu? I've read a few threads that got me thinking maybe it won't read burnt CDs, so I tried a few of my music CDs that I've burned using .wma as well as .cda formats, and it reads them just fine. But when I insert the Ubuntu PPC CD, it ignores the CD, as well as me pressing keys on bootup, and boots to Mac OS 8.6, and then tells me the CD in the drive is not recognized and needs to be initialized (which it can't do anyway, because it's not a CD-RW drive, only CD-ROM, nor is the disc a CD-RW, only CD-R).

Any help would be greatly appreciated. TIA.

---

### Post by tr333 on 2006-02-17
you can hold down the "option" key on a mac keyboard to get to a screen where you choose between booting HDD or CD.  not sure what the equivalent key is on a windows keyboard.

---

### Post by Loki_God_of_Mischief on 2006-02-17
Tried that. The Options key is the Windows key on a windows kb. Didn't work though. One new thing I noticed though is that if I hold C while it boots, it doesn't boot to Mac OS. However, it doesn't do anything. It gets to a light gray screen, and freezes. All activity just stops. And when I let go of the C key, it stays like that. I had to restart it with the power button. Just in case you're not sure, this is my iMac. Well, not exactly mine, but this picture is of the exact same model. I was wrong about the color. Bondi Blue.

[IMG]http://homepage.mac.com/luacintilante/.Pictures/Photo%20Album%20Pictures/2005-03-22%2015.39.11%20-0800/Image-BC9327AB9B2911D9.jpg[/IMG]

Also, what I plan on using it for is simply a basic surfing machine, and a jukebox. But I know almost nothing about Mac OS and prefer Linux anyway, so I want to put a Linux PPC installation on it.

---

### Post by wambroser on 2006-02-18
I have a Powerbook 233 G3.  It is an Old World Mac.  The only cd it'll boot from is the os disk and to do that I have to hold down the c key while it's booting.  Sounds like you may have an old world mac.

---

### Post by jdp on 2006-02-18
If it's an iMac, then it's NewWorld.  Unfortunatly many older iMacs have trouble reading burned CDs with the stock CD drive.  One possible remedy is to burn using the music CD-Rs that are deisgned to be very compatible with old CD players.  Burning with one of those might help it read it easier.  I've had trouble getting an old Toshiba laptop to read burned CDs until I bought some Imation music 700MB CD-Rs that stated "universal media compatible with all CD drives" on the package.

---

### Post by grumpyoldtech on 2006-03-12
had same problem of not detecting the cd.  I found out that the cdrom in my imac being very old didn't like the burn that I did, a friend who uses old macs with mac os  told me to burn it at 8x or slower to get a good deep burn.  It worked. got breezy on old imacs  233 and 333 now. Hope this might help you.

---

### Post by linear on 2006-03-12
[quote=Loki_God_of_Mischief]The Options key is the Windows key on a windows kb.[/quote]
Actually, the "alt" key is the equivalent of option. Also make sure the keyboard isn't plugged into a hub.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-03-13
Yes, your iMac is a NewWorld, so the C-key trick should work. Does the CD-ROM drive sound like it's struggling? If so, then it's a disc that the drive doesn't like.

I find that my iMac is a bit iffy with Imations; I have a lot of success with TDK branded ones, and those Verbatim Vinyl discs.

Forget about holding down the Option (or Alt) key while booting up - that only works on iBooks and newer.

---

### Post by jdp on 2006-03-13
The Option key [Startup Manager](http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=106178) boot menu should work on any NewWorld machine from the slotload iMac and iBook on up.  Unfortunately the trayloader iMacs are out.

---

### Post by Lanrond on 2006-03-14
Your iMac should not have the startup manager as pointed out, but you should nevertheless be able to boot from a CD pressing "c" at startup.

If this doesn't happen chances are:

a) Your Ubuntu CD is corrupted. Can you read the Ubuntu CD on another mac?
b) Your CD drive doesn't work. Can you read another CD on this mac?
c) Your Open Firmware is somehow messed-up. What happens if you reset the PRAM (cmd-opt-P-R)?

---

### Post by jellyware on 2006-03-15
I've got a similar setup with a 400mhz imac.  just would not boot from the ubuntu install cd, just kept spitting the disc out during startup.  in the end I found the mac install disc, booted off that, erased the hard drive, then inserted the ubuntu install disc during startup.  since the machine had no choice it found the disc and installed fine.  weird.

---

### Post by jdp on 2006-03-15
Also, I've had a few cases of an iMac (one of my first edition slot-load 350s in this case) not wanting to boot a Linux disc.  The easy fix was to boot to Open Firmware (Cmd-Opt-O-F) and type **mac-boot** and press return, and then immediately press and hold **c**.  It seems to fool the OS X firmware changes enough to boot the CD, I think.

---

### Post by rpm1200 on 2006-04-28
Here is something else to try - turn on the iMac then while the system chime is sounding (not before!) activate the programmer switch with a paper clip - hold down the programmer switch until the Open Firmware screen comes up.  Then, type "dir cd:\" without the quotes and press return.  If nothing shows up when you type, you're having the same problem I had - [you probably need a Mac OS install CD to fix the issue]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=964022#post959728").  If you get an error message like "can't OPEN", your CD-ROM drive is probably not reading the media - try different media or replace the drive if it won't read data off any CDs.  If you get a directory listing, you are in good shape - type "boot cd:,\install\yaboot" and it should work for you.

---

### Post by heffo_j on 2006-04-29
I had the same problem. My G3 would not boot from the CD which I had downloaded and burned on my laptop. Since I had Warty loaded, I did a download upgrade (a real pain). I have Breezy running on the G3. I can't get th modem to work though (for my daughter to use who does not have ADSL).

Cheers
John

---

### Post by zuus on 2006-04-29
Okay, I had the same problem with G3 266 - Oldworld Mac - They simply will not boot with any other OS other than an Apple OS. After somewhere around 10 - 20 attempts, I finally got it to go. There's a few guides on this around the net, but I couldn't actually get any to work from the get-go, instead having to put bits and pieces together from each - and this worked for me.

My system is actually running OS9.2 not OS8 but it shouldn't make a difference as the programs needed run on both.

First off check that both CD-Rom and HDD are both set to Master. You'll need to format your HDD and partition it into two (unless it already is) by inserting the OS8.x or 9.x CD and holding down "C" at boot. Once it's loaded head over to Utilities on the CD and it should have a HDD Utility. Initialize the HDD and split it into two partitions. Since I don't use OS8 or 9 typically, on the 20GB in my Mac I've made the OS9 partition ~500mb just enough to fit, and the unformatted space ready for Linux at 19.5GB. If you do want to make the OS8/9 Partition bigger just make sure it's no bigger than 8GB. Afaik that's the limit for a bootable partition on Old-World apples (but I may be wrong so don't quote me on that - I just stuck to what I read).

> So, my real question is, on this particular machine, how do I get it to boot to the CD so I can wipe the current Mac OS and install Ubuntu?

Basically you will have to keep OS8 as it uses it as a bootloader instead of Grub, Lilo, etc.

Anyway, getting into it;

* Boot into OS8.x or 9.x and get yourself a program called "[BootX]("http://penguinppc.org/bootloaders/bootx/")."

* Install BootX by following their instructions, but don't try to start it yet.
Copy over "initrd.gz" from the Ubuntu CD (under /install/powerpc) into the System Folder and "vmlinux" into System Folder/Linux Kernels/ on the Mac.

* Open up BootX and make sure it specifies the kernel, then head into options and tick "Use Specified RAM Disk" and find the "initrd.gz" file you copied onto the Mac.

* Click OK, Tab over to the button "Linux" then click "Save to Prefs" and start the install by finally clicking the "Linux" button. 

* Go through the process as usual until it gets to the "Install Bootloader" screen. Once there hit Option-F2 to open a console and type;

```
df
``` and check your mount points. I'll be assuming you're using /dev/hda7 (the norm on IDE) but replace that with whatever you're using (ie SCSI).

```
cd /target

mkdir hfs

mount /dev/hda6 hfs -t hfs #or hfsplus if that's what the OS8 partition is in

echo '/dev/hda6 /hfs hfsplus defaults' >> /etc/fstab

cp /boot/vmlinux /hfs/System\ Folder/Linux\ Kernels/vmlinux

cp /boot/initrd.img /hfs/System\ Folder/ramdisk.image.gz

```

* Option-F1 out of the console and continue the boot process.

* Once you restart, OS8 will start loading and BootX will load up. Quickly hit tab a couple of times to stop the timed loader and type under Kernel Arguments "root=/dev/hda7" (or where ever you just installed Ubuntu).

That's all there is to it :)
Hope that helps.

---

### Post by jdp on 2006-04-29
Only beige machines will need BootX as anything multicolored, or Lombard and better portables, are NewWorld.

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2006-04-30
I have the same Imac and the only way I could get it to work was to add more ram

---

### Post by jdp on 2006-04-30
Interesting, as adding/removing RAM causes a PRAM reset. ;)  That's probably the real change that helped.  Off hand I don't remember how much "harder"  of a reset than the keyboard combo does, but it's recommended to fix certain problems on iBooks and such.

---

### Post by mruczek on 2006-04-30
Hi,

My english isn't good but I try ask you about iMac:)

iMac isn't popular in Poland. I don't know anybody, who has any mac. I'd like to buy iMac G3 266 or 350 MHz, but I have never seen this kind of computer...
Could you tell me how works ubuntu on iMac 266, fast  or slow?  (I tried install ubuntu on pentium 200MHz and it works very slow).

---

### Post by blairp on 2006-04-30
I have 5.10 on an original iMac 266 and a 350mhz tangerine iMac. Works very well on the 350 with 320meg of ram. The old Bondi might be a bit faster with more ram. It has 128meg I think.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2006-05-01
I've got an iMac 333MHz with 128 megs of RAM.

I can tell that the processor can handle Ubuntu remarkably well, but the lack of memory is what's causing it to run so slowly; it swaps lots of data between memory and disk whenever I open a window or program, and to add insult to injury the hard disks on those early iMacs are rather slow.

I daresay that, as long as your iMac has 128 megs or greater, it will be more usable than a P2 for Ubuntu.

---

### Post by mruczek on 2006-05-01
So, if I want use ubuntu I should buy faster iMac (like 350 or 400 Mhz), but there is ATI video card. I have heard that ubunu (for PC) doesn't support ATI. It is true? My friends have many problems with ATI. 

BTW, what kind of HD should I buy? It is the same like in PC or different?

---

