---
title: "2.6.20-16 not waking after suspend"
date: 2007-06-24
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by halfmanhalfbug on 2007-06-24
Hey Ubuntus
I am running kernel 2.6.20-16 on an HP L2000 (x86_64, ATI 200M graphics). Suspend worked great under the original Feisty 7.04 installation but then I made the mistake of upgrading. Now when resuming, the screen remains blank and the fan is on (processor is up to something but who knows what). There is no response at all to ctrl-alt-backspace.
Based on other posts I figure it's a problem with reloading the driver for the ATI graphics. Here's a summary of the 2 kernels I have (I didn't save the original...damn!):
2.6.20-15   loads fglrx driver for ATI 200M, suspends and wakes OK, does not log out, does not switch user, shuts down OK.
2.6.20-16 does not load fglrx driver (though /etc/X11/xorg.conf directs it to), does not wake from suspend, does not log out, does not not switch user, shuts down OK. 2.6.20-15 has the same problems if it loads the open source ati driver instead of fglrx.
I have tried editing /etc/defaults/acpi-support to keep the fglrx module in the kernel during suspend but no luck. The restricted drivers manager in 2.6.20-16 doesn't recognize that the fglrx module can be loaded (is the graphics card too old for it now?).
Does anyone else have this cluster of problems? Has anyone gotten 2.6.20-16 to load fglrx? Has anyone thrown their laptop through a window in frustration?

---

### Post by halfmanhalfbug on 2007-06-28
Update:
I installed uswsusp using synaptic and it works with the command:
```
sudo s2ram -f -a3
```
The problem may be with the suspend and resume scripts in /etc/acpi/suspend.d and /etc/acpi/resume.d.
I also found another problem: if the computer is started with no login and the sceen is blanked by powersave then it becomes impossible to login. There are dialogue boxes for username and password but then when it tries to draw the desktop it locks up with the fan going max and no response to any keys.

---

### Post by halfmanhalfbug on 2007-06-29
Update number 2.
I edited /etc/default/acpi-support as follows:
```
# Should we save and restore state using the VESA BIOS Extensions?
#changed to false 29/06/07
SAVE_VBE_STATE=false

# The file that we use to save the vbestate
VBESTATE=/var/lib/acpi-support/vbestate

# Should we attempt to warm-boot the video hardware on resume?
#changed to false 29/06/07
POST_VIDEO=false
```
Now 2.6.20-16 with the open-source ati driver suspends and wakes correctly. Still no hibernate (it justs goes to a locked screen with login dialogue box) and still no loading of the fglrx module though it is there in /lib/linux-restricted-modules/2.6.20-16-generic/fglrx/.

---

### Post by halfmanhalfbug on 2007-07-07
Update 3
The new fglrx kernel module and driver were recently released. I got them with Update Manager and they load fine with 2.6.20-16 using the restricted drivers manager. Suspend works OK. Still no hibernate.

---

### Post by Didjit on 2007-07-09
Check this out, it worked for me. [http://blog.paulbetts.org/index.php/2007/02/11/fixing-software-suspend-hibernate-with-uswsusp-in-ubuntu-feisty-and-edgy/](http://blog.paulbetts.org/index.php/2007/02/11/fixing-software-suspend-hibernate-with-uswsusp-in-ubuntu-feisty-and-edgy/)
Didjit

---

### Post by halfmanhalfbug on 2007-07-12
Hi Didjit
Thanks for your help. I downloaded the uswsusp package and 'sudo s2ram' and 'sudo s2disk' work perfectly. Instead of putting scripts into the /etc/hal folder (apparently they get overwritten during upgrades) I'm trying to configure gnome to use the s2ram and s2disk programs from uswsusp. I've edited /etc/gdm/gdm.conf-custom as follows:
```
[daemon]
AlwaysRestartServer=true

#use uswsusp programs rather than pmi for suspend and hibernate because they work
SuspendCommand=/sbin/s2ram
HibernateCommand=/sbin/s2disk 
```
Changing AlwaysRestartServer to 'true' makes X restart on every logout, which fixes my problem with hangs during logouts. Suspend in the gnome menu now uses s2ram but for some reason Hibernate does not use s2disk. Still working on that one. Note: /etc/gdm/gdm.conf-custom can also be edited with a GUI by running 'gksu gdmsetup'. Click on the "Edit commands" button at the bottom of the 'General' tab to edit the suspend command.
Seems like a number of people with Radeon 200m cards are having similar problems.

---

### Post by Didjit on 2007-07-12
[quote=halfmanhalfbug; (apparently they get overwritten during upgrades) I.[/quote]

  sudo dpkg-divert --rename --divert /usr/sbin/pmi-disabled /usr/sbin/pmi   will force Ubuntu not to use pmi even if HAL upgrades occur. Look at Robin's post.

Good luck

Didjit

---

### Post by halfmanhalfbug on 2007-07-13
Bingo!
Thanks Didjit.
I want to make sure I understand what just happened. I think the package manager (dpkg) was told to rename pmi as pmi-disabled and send all further updates for pmi to pmi-disabled? Now, since HAL cannot find pmi (renamed as pmi-disabled) it goes to the next option on its list which is s2disk (hibernate) or s2ram (suspend). Do I actually need the hal-system-power scripts?
Thanks for your help,
hmhb

---

### Post by Didjit on 2007-07-13
You are correct, goes to next on the list. By renaming pmi you do not need a modified "hal-system-power-suspend-linux"

Didjit

---

