---
title: "5.1 speakers"
date: 2007-06-11
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by DaGGer on 2007-06-11
Ok well I can't get my speakers to work. its an intergrated soundcard. I have a MSI K8N Neo 4 platinum Mother board. I can get the sound to come out of the front two but not the rear two. 

Now I've opened up:
gedit ~/.asoundrc

and put this in:
pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "surround51"
    slave.channels 6
    route_policy duplicate
}

But it doesn't work? is there something else I have to change or what?

it works with music but not in CS

---

### Post by jamesford on 2007-06-11
have u gone thru alsamixer?
if not type alsamixer in a terminal, go over the volume settings, and unmute the various surround settings by pressing m

---

### Post by DaGGer on 2007-06-13
well I did that but I don't reall know what any of them does. Plus I mean the sound works fine when I use it for music but not for Counter Strike, so is there something that I'm not doing. Also sometimes my Counter Strike gets really shitty FPS but if I restart then it works fine. I just don't get it. Is it just because I'm using wine to emulate it?

Also my sound sucks. it has a cracking sound to it when I'm watching videos.

---

### Post by darknightuk on 2007-06-13
1st thing is how do 5.1 dvd's avi's etc play have you tried em?
another thing and this is nitpicking i know but wine doesn't emulate anything hence the name wine

---

### Post by DaGGer on 2007-06-13
dvd's and avi's work fine, I know wine isn't the best but I was just wondering If i had a setting wrong or something.

EDIT: I just found out that its just flash that gives me the crappy sound quality. I'll keep trying different types on different players

---

