---
title: "7.10 Kernel Panic on installation"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by diablo_man5666 on 2007-10-19
I've been trying to put a clean install of 7.10 on my machine, and it always kernel panics when I try to load the default installation, as well as the safe graphics mode, or the OEM installation. I was wondering if there was anything specific about my system that would cause this to happen.

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-10-19
Hit F6 on the live CD (I hope F6 is still the right key to bring up the boot parameters)
and type in ```
noapic nolapic nosplash
``` so that it is on the end of whatever was previously there.

Once you install and reboot hit "e" once grub comes up - hit the down arrow - hit e again - Type ```
noapic nolapic nosplash
``` - hit enter - and then hit b

once you reboot into ubuntu you'll need to make the same change using
```
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
and add the noapic nolapic nosplash onto the end of the line near the very bottom that starts with "kernel".

The "nosplash" may not be necessary - you may want to try it without it first (it takes away the ubuntu loading screen which causes some computers problems).

---

### Post by Cappy on 2007-10-19
... website timed out =-/

---

### Post by diablo_man5666 on 2007-10-20
Thanks man, I think I got it working with the alternate CD text based installation, the kernel still panics, but it recovers and loads the installer. I'm really looking forward to my 7.10, I was stuck at 6.10 for some time.

---

### Post by diablo_man5666 on 2007-10-20
Installation worked, but the kernel panics on load. It probably has something to do with the graphics card. Thanks for the help anyway, though.

---

### Post by diablo_man5666 on 2007-10-21
Yea.....the nosplash switch did it....took some finagling, but thanks for your help.

---

