---
title: "HP Dv6000"
date: 2006-11-28
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by shartke on 2006-11-28
I recently bought an HP dv6125se.  The hardware is as follows
Nvidia Geforce Go 6150
AMD Turion 64X2
1 GIG of Ram

I have tried loading dapper and edgy and I am having the same problem.  When I place the disc into the drive and choose to load the GUI live cd it gets as far as the loading Ubuntu Splash screen and then it just beeps and I cannot do anything from there other then shut down.  I even tried the noacpi flag.  Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2006-11-29
I have a 6116eu and I'd recommend loading edgy and reading 
[here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/hp_dv6000_series_%28dv6116eu%29")

---

### Post by shartke on 2006-11-30
Thanks I got Edgy installed.  I did follow that wireless link and a few others.  Not having any luck.  I really hate broadcom......  The wireless light is blue only when the default driver is installed... But I cannot see any wireless networks.  I have tried sudo iwconfig eth1 essid NAME key KEY and then sudo dhclient but it does not connect.  When I do an IWCONFIG it shows the wireless and the new ssid. Thoughts?

---

### Post by shartke on 2006-11-30
> **shartke said:**
> Thanks I got Edgy installed.  I did follow that wireless link and a few others.  Not having any luck.  I really hate broadcom......  The wireless light is blue only when the default driver is installed... But I cannot see any wireless networks.  I have tried sudo iwconfig eth1 essid NAME key KEY and then sudo dhclient but it does not connect.  When I do an IWCONFIG it shows the wireless and the new ssid. Thoughts?


Actually now I got the driver installed using [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4311_rev_01_%28ndiswrapper%29?action=show](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4311_rev_01_%28ndiswrapper%29?action=show)

ndiswrapper shows that its loaded and wlan0 but when I rebooted i got the gdm login screen and logged in and the computer wont load my desktop.

---

### Post by stunder001 on 2006-12-01
> **shartke said:**
> Actually now I got the driver installed using [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4311_rev_01_%28ndiswrapper%29?action=show](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4311_rev_01_%28ndiswrapper%29?action=show)

ndiswrapper shows that its loaded and wlan0 but when I rebooted i got the gdm login screen and logged in and the computer wont load my desktop.

I just picked up my dv6125se tonight and was just wondering if you had any other notes on your install.  I should be ready to install in the morning once my batteries are charged up and I make a back up of the MS stuff on it now.  I am just glad your a step ahead of me so I learn off of what you started with.

---

### Post by shartke on 2006-12-01
Well, I ended up re-installing because I tried many of things that did not work.  This model will only work with the NV Video driver.  You will have to run dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg when you first boot in.  The graphics are set very low.  Once you get in , you will notice that the it appears like the wireless is working.  But, at last it is not.  So I followed that article to the letter again.  This time I was able to get in and the wireless looked like it was working but it did not.  That is where I am stuck.  BTW - you will need to use the noapic flag when you boot into the live cd to install.  When I boot into windows it says that my wireless is IRQ 7 when I boot into linux I get a beep and it says that irq 7 is having problems.  That may be related I am not sure.  Maybe we can figure this out together.

---

### Post by stunder001 on 2006-12-01
> **shartke said:**
> Well, I ended up re-installing because I tried many of things that did not work.  This model will only work with the NV Video driver.  You will have to run dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg when you first boot in.  The graphics are set very low.  Once you get in , you will notice that the it appears like the wireless is working.  But, at last it is not.  So I followed that article to the letter again.  This time I was able to get in and the wireless looked like it was working but it did not.  That is where I am stuck.  BTW - you will need to use the noapic flag when you boot into the live cd to install.  When I boot into windows it says that my wireless is IRQ 7 when I boot into linux I get a beep and it says that irq 7 is having problems.  That may be related I am not sure.  Maybe we can figure this out together.

Yeah for sure... My download of Edgy messed up while I slept last night so I have to start it over.  This Laptop is really too nice not to run Ubuntu as it's primary OS :)

---

### Post by shartke on 2006-12-01
I added you to messenger.. Shoot me an IM if you have any questions or you actually get it to work. I agree that laptop is way too nice to not have Ubuntu on it. :p

---

### Post by K4P741N KRUNCH on 2006-12-08
Oh please someone find a way to make this work!

I haven't been messing around with linux for long now, but I certainly don't want to stop right after I just bought this beauty of a machine!

I booted with noapic and nosmp flags and got the live cd to install and I could get into edgy, but it's just not worth it with all these bugs!

---

