---
title: "7.10 - Upgrade Forever - Or Fresh Install?"
date: 2007-10-15
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by bper on 2007-10-15
OK, I'm ready to launch out into the present.

I've been running 64bit Dapper for the longest, now after reading the changes to 7.10 I'm ready to upgrade to 64bit Gutsy.

Now, I'm several releases behind so I know I can't upgrade directly. Is it worth the effort to incrementally upgrade or should I do I clean install?

---

### Post by gimmy_bond on 2007-10-15
I just updated from feisty to gutsy it seem to work ok. EXCEPT, I am having problem loading some prominent websites like google and few others.

Hope in the next few days, a solution will be found and stored in the repositories.

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-10-15
> **bper said:**
> OK, I'm ready to launch out into the present.

I've been running 64bit Dapper for the longest, now after reading the changes to 7.10 I'm ready to upgrade to 64bit Gutsy.

Now, I'm several releases behind so I know I can't upgrade directly. Is it worth the effort to incrementally upgrade or should I do I clean install?

As it stands you would have to upgrade from 6.06 to 6.10 to 7.04 to7.10,and while this may go off without any issues there is still a chance for failure. If you want to learn about the upgrade system, and see if it works then you can backup up all essential data, and do the stage upgrade moving from one version to the other as outlined. 

IMHO users with setup's that are looking to move three versions up are best off backing up all essential data, and doing a clean install.

---

### Post by Bokonon on 2007-10-15
I would do a clean install.  I *typically* do this anyway since the upgrade path can just fail on you.  With your big upgrade path, I suspect it will be quicker to download the files on the 18th, backup everything and start over with a fresh install.  You might consider waiting a week or two if nothing is forcing you to upgrade.  Usually there are quite a few fixes that come out and it could save you time/headaches.

If you have your /home directory on a separate partition/drive, it goes fairly well and you essentially get the same thing in the end.

I like to change things around a bit around upgrade time anyway.  This time, I am replacing my hard disk entirely, so the choice is clear (and backup is already done :D).

The upgrade is very good and I am quite impressed with how well it does work, but it is hard to get everything right and sometimes it is best to start clean.  Perhaps the guys who know the insides well can do it perfectly, but I always seem to have a few things that just don't work right.

---

### Post by jusmurph on 2007-10-16
As long as you back up you can do as you wish, though you would be suprised how much of your stuff is saved on a /home partition if you have a seperate partition.

I will be running a clean install.

---

### Post by FredB on 2007-10-16
I always do a clean install, even moving to version to version+1.

It is simpler and there are less weird bugs after that.

---

### Post by bper on 2007-10-17
Survey says - clean install.

Makes the most sense to me. Thanks for your advice

---

