---
title: "64bit 7.0.4 VMWare Host"
date: 2007-05-21
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by GarthK on 2007-05-21
Simple question: I wish to configure a server with one or two Dual Core Xeons and 8+GB and run 7.0.4 server or xubuntu (for minimal desktop) as a VMWare host for various 32bit virtual boxes.

Good idea or not?
Thanx,
Garth

---

### Post by GarthK on 2007-05-21
The answer, according to a VMWare forum is definitely yes. VMWare server supports up to 64GB of memory on the host as long as the host OS supports it. I'll give it a try with XUbuntu 64bit and see what happens.

Thanx,
Garth

---

### Post by stevecs on 2007-05-21
Just to be forewarned here, I am/was trying the same thing under 7.04 but have been running into a lot of 'quirks' with vmware under 7.04.    (having to re-run the vmware-config.pl script numerous times, natted guest issues not forwarding broadcasts out right, bootstrapping cd's or isos et al.    Things I didn't have for problems under 6.10.     I'm in the process right now to re-load 6.10 and go back to that platform for the host.    So far 7.04 on three different systems (different functions) have all proved to be 'flaky'. 

You may be better off w/ 6.10 or at least have that as a backup plan.

---

### Post by GarthK on 2007-05-22
I agree, VMWare on 7.04 is still a "work in progress". Minor hacks are necessary just to make it run and it does seem a little temperamental. I normally use 6.10 (or even 6.06) for the host O/S and I mat continue to do so.

But I do think that 64bit is something I will give a try.

Thanx,
Garth

---

