---
title: "geda"
date: 2006-07-25
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by calvinthomas on 2006-07-25
Can anyone please give me a step by step on how to install geda so all of it works?

Calv

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-07-25
> **calvinthomas said:**
> Can anyone please give me a step by step on how to install geda so all of it works?

Calv
[Click on this link.]("http://www.monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/#enabling_extra_repositories") read and Enable the Universe and Multiverse repositories
Click reload

Then you can do one of 2 things
1)[Read this section]("http://www.monkeyblog.org/ubuntu/installing/#installing_with_synaptic") and then search for geda

2)Open a terminal and type in
```
sudo apt-get install geda
```
hit enter

---

### Post by UofLSpeed on 2006-09-14
This worked with my system, but did not install all of the applications in the gEDA suite.  In order to get all of the applications running, I had to download the gEDA ISO.

Either burn the ISO or mount it, then run the installer script.  

```
installer --verbose --log
```

It is an automated GUI installer that should get you all of the design apps.  It's a little slow because it compiles all programs from source, but it gets the job done.  The verbose and log flags will create a log file to help troubleshoot installation problems if you run into dependency problems during installation.

It will need a su password if you don't have some required programs.

```
$sudo su
$passwd
```

Finally you'll have to edit /etc/environment to modify the global variables PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH.  Edit /etc/environment to include:

```
PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/bin/X11:/usr/games:/home/username/gEDA/bin"
LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/home/username/gEDA/lib"
```

Note that I chose /home/username/gEDA as my install path.

After this all you'll need is gwave from synaptic.

Anyway, that's what it took for me.

Let me know how your install goes.

---

### Post by calvinthomas on 2006-09-18
I've had to play with a fair amount of dependencies to get this working and am very nearly there, when I am i'll try and write a how-to with all that I did!

Thanks for the help

Calv

---

### Post by calvinthomas on 2006-09-18
Ok, I have two problems, first, I cannot get gspiceUI to install, but i'll look into that and post a meaningful error if I can.

include -I/usr/X11R6/include -I. -Ibase -Imain -Inetlist -Ignucap -Ingspice -Iprocess -Iutility main/FileTasks.cpp -o obj/FileTasks.o
main/FileTasks.cpp: In member function ‘bool FileTasks::bDlgOpen()’:
main/FileTasks.cpp:80: error: ‘class wxFileDialog’ has no member named ‘SetStyle&#65533;
main/FileTasks.cpp: In member function ‘bool FileTasks::bDlgImport()’:
main/FileTasks.cpp:127: error: ‘class wxFileDialog’ has no member named ‘SetStyle&#65533;
make[1]: *** [obj/FileTasks.o] Error 1
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/calvin/Desktop/gspiceui-v0.8.55/src'

Slightly more importantly, the Geda package itself i.e. the link application between each of the packages doesn't seem to have been installed despite the only error I got in the install was when installing gspiceUI, is there a way I can get this manually?

Calv

---

### Post by UofLSpeed on 2006-09-19
Are you compiling from the source on the ISO or trying to use the packages on synaptic?

I wouldn't recommend using the geda package for this software suite.  Even though it takes much more time, the log generated by the installer binary on the ISO was a great help to me in correcting errors during configuration and installation.

---

### Post by calvinthomas on 2006-09-19
I am compiling it from source, by the Geda package, I mean the gmanager type application that links all of the seperate applications together or perhaps easier, this app:

[http://www.geda.seul.org/tools/geda/index.html](http://www.geda.seul.org/tools/geda/index.html)

Calv

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-09-19
Why are you compiling it from source when there is a already compiled package in the repositories ?

---

### Post by UofLSpeed on 2006-09-19
I installed a different version (20060825), but one of the biggest problems that I had was that the installer put some of the binaries in different folders.  Move them so that they are all in the /bin folder.  I don't have that manager app so I don't know how much help I can provide about that.  I just created shortcuts in the Applications menu.

Also, make sure that your environment variables are set correctly.  The programs couldn't interact with each other until I set those.

---

### Post by calvinthomas on 2006-09-20
> **Kilz said:**
> Why are you compiling it from source when there is a already compiled package in the repositories ?

Because the compiled package in the repositories doesn't work! Unless you have found a way to get it to work?!

Calv

---

### Post by Kilz on 2006-09-20
I dont know the application, but the manager starts if you open a terminal and type geda. The schematics editor is added to the menu.

---

### Post by calvinthomas on 2006-09-20
I don't know if its the same for you but if you open Geda like you have and create a new project (file > new) then click on tool, you'll have 6 options, however the only one that works is the Schematic Editor. That is what I mean by it not working.

Oops sorry! Didn't realise I had to install each thing individually. How can I get the Easy Spice Module! Grrr its the only thing I haven't got!

Calv

---

### Post by calvinthomas on 2006-09-21
Ok i've finally managed to get everything installed and i'm going to write a how-to now I think, i'm not sure this is the cleanest method but to get the project manager (installed through synaptic) to use the latest packages (built from source) I copied the bin files over to the /usr/bin folder and it worked perfectly!

Calv

---

