---
title: "5.10 Live on G4: Screen Resolution Problem"
date: 2005-10-23
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by sgmorr on 2005-10-23
I downloaded and burned and started up from the 5.10 live cd just fine. During the booting up process, I selected the screen resolution I normally use, my iMac's native 1440 x 900. When booting up was complete and the 5.10 desktop was present, the only resolutions available were 1024 x 768, 800 x 600, and 640 x 480. Does anyone know how to correctly choose the higher resolutions during the boot process? Thanks.

---

### Post by Brian McConnell on 2005-10-23
[QUOTE=sgmorr]I downloaded and burned and started up from the 5.10 live cd just fine. During the booting up process, I selected the screen resolution I normally use, my iMac's native 1440 x 900. When booting up was complete and the 5.10 desktop was present, the only resolutions available were 1024 x 768, 800 x 600, and 640 x 480. Does anyone know how to correctly choose the higher resolutions during the boot process? Thanks.[/QUOTE]



you might want to look at your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and see if those resolutions are in there.
Or you could go full blow re-configuring by using

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by sgmorr on 2005-10-24
Brian,
Thanks for your reply. Does your solution pertain to the use of the Live CD or to a permanent installation? Thanks.

---

### Post by Brian McConnell on 2005-10-24
[QUOTE=sgmorr]Brian,
Thanks for your reply. Does your solution pertain to the use of the Live CD or to a permanent installation? Thanks.[/QUOTE]


my bad there.... my suggestion was based on a hard disk install, not live cd environment. I misread your thread title. No suggestions on live cd. sorry.

---

### Post by sgmorr on 2005-10-24
Thanks anyway!

---

