---
title: "My linux ubuntu 64 bit is freezing"
date: 2008-01-25
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-25
Suddenly the screen freezes on my computer. This is bad real bad. My keyboard isn't working and sometimes the mouse ain't working too. Sometimes I have to restart the system. Other times it goes over by itself. I have tried to use the ctr+alt+backspace to restart x. But that ain't fixing the problem. And that Alt+SysRq+r and with s.e.i.u.b following in the same suit ain't working either. That gives my indication that my keyboard is completely dead under the freezing.

I have received some information that this could be a kernel panic and that I should synchronize the log files to see whats wrong after a reboot. But i don't know how to do that. I wish there wa a simpler way to work around this.

My hardware stats is AMD athlon 3800+ x2. Nividia gforce 7200 gs (with proprietary drivers). A 24" Samsung monitor and 5 gig ram. All this is running Ubuntu 7.10 64 bit that is updated whenever there comes updates.

I have also had some trouble with compiz fusion with my 24inch screen. It ran good on my 19"inch screen. But thats fixed now.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-01-25
Hi. Do you have desktop effects enabled when this happens, and if so, does it also happen if the effects are disabled? Did you install the nVidia drivers through the repositories, used Envy, or downloaded from their site? Please post your xorg.conf:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Have you tried disabling ACPI in /boot/grub/menu.lst?

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-25
Here is my xorg.conf file

Here is my # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "nVidia Corporation G72 [GeForce 7300 SE]"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Busid           "PCI:4:0:0"
        Option          "AddARGBVisuals"        "True"
        Option          "AddARGBGLXVisuals"     "True"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "SyncMaster"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "nVidia Corporation G72 [GeForce 7300 SE]"
        Monitor         "SyncMaster"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1920x1200"     "1600x1200"     "1280x1024"    "1280x960"       "1152x864"      "1024x768"      "832x624"       "800x600"      "720x400"        "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection


And how do you disable ACPI in /boot/grub/menu.lst?

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-25
By the way. alt+SysRq+B is working.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-01-25
Sorry for the late reply. Have you tried disabling the screensaver (System->Preferences->Screensaver)? Go there, set the slider all the way to the right, uncheck the 'Activate screensaver...' box, go to 'Power Management'  and on the first tab also move the sliders to the right. Then press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE to restart your display.

If that doesn't help, let's try disabling ACPI; to disable it, first run this in the terminal:
```
uname -r
```
And make a note of the output. This is your current kernel. Then make a backup of **menu.lst**:
```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.backup
```
Then, to edit the file:
```
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
This will open the file in Gedit, the text editor. Scroll down--almost to the end of the file--until you see this:
```
## ## End Default Options ##
```
After that you'll see sections like this one:
```
title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,0)
**kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=601ad6b2-d529-479d-85c1-403c61200498 ro quiet splash**
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet
```
Find the one that matches your current kernel; it should probably be the uppermost one. Then, note the line in bold; add the following to the end of the line:
```
irqpoll pci=noacpi noapic nolapic acpi=off
```
so it looks like this:
```
title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,0)
**kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=601ad6b2-d529-479d-85c1-403c61200498 ro quiet splash irqpoll pci=noacpi noapic nolapic acpi=off**
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet
```

Save the file, then reboot and see if the system still freezes. If for whatever reason you want to restore the backup you made earlier, run this from the terminal:
```
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst.backup /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
Then reboot.

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-25
thank you for your fast reply. Not late at all. I took the first step in use disabling the screensaver. And I am running it now to see if its stalling. So far so good.

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-25
Darn it.. did use the first option but it stalled. So going for the next option now.. lets see how that works

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-25
The second option also stalled. What now? wish there where some simple tools to use to get all trouble go away.

---

### Post by ibizatunes on 2008-01-25
I have had the same issue! I have fixed it by removing adobe flash and install gnash instead (not quite so good for flash app) but it doesnt crash any more!! On a x64 system
Maybe u should try that!!
Since that NO crashes, touch wood!!

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-27
Gnash you say? hmm. trying that... It wont hurt I think.

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-27
how do you uninstall the other flash thingy.. cause i di so in the terminal and don't remember what the command was.

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-01-28
Isn't there any other suggestions?

Then I am going to delete my whole system to start on fresh.. But I am not looking forward to that. So please. There has to be another way to do this.

---

### Post by RomeReactor on 2008-01-28
If the crashes occur whether or not Firefox is open, then the problem is probably not Flash. If the problem *only* happens when Firefox is in use--particularly when opening a page with Flash such as YouTube--then remove Flash:
```
sudo aptitude remove --purge flashplugin-nonfree
```

Regarding the video card, try using the open source **nv** driver through 'System->Administration->Restricted Drivers Manager' or 'System->Administration->Screens and Graphics', and restart your display by pressing CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE, or reboot. If it still freezes, try reconfiguring Xorg: press CTRL+ALT+F1, log in if asked to, then enter:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```
then:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
Accept all the defaults, and when asked which video driver to use, select **nv**.

Another thing you can check is if a particular peripheral is causing the problems; if you have a USB keyboard or mouse, try using another one with a PS/2 connector, at least while you check if this is the cause.

In the end, the problem *might* be a faulty video card; if you have an integrated video card in your motherboard, you can try removing your nVidia card and using the integrated one.

---

### Post by wawarren on 2008-01-28
I have a similar system config, and both Ubuntu Fiesty 64 & Gutsy 64 have random system lockups out of the box.  The post below is the first thing I do whenever I reformat, and I never have system lockups anymore.  

My hardware is a bit different though.  x2 Opteron Asus KFN32D SLI_SAS  x3 SATA drives Nvidia chipset + Nvidia card. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3134000&postcount=544](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3134000&postcount=544)

Only thing I don't do thats suggested above is ht=on in my boot options for obvious reasons.

---

### Post by tobak30 on 2008-02-02
I have folloved the steps provided and the system is not stalling anymore. But I have a problen that its not providing me with open gl features. So I can't open blender anymore now.. And thats really sad cause I use blender a lot.

---

