---
title: "6.06 LTS 64bit wont boot a Celeron D system"
date: 2007-01-15
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-15
ECS motherboard RC410L/800-M
Celeron D, 3.33 GHz
1 Gig ram
120G hard disk with WinXP on /dev/hda1, 2 empty EXT3 partitions awaiting 64bit Linux, 1 swap partition.

System can boot Linux and was delivered with Knoppix installed to the hard disk so hardware compatibility should not be an issue.

System is not booting the Ubuntu distro that says it supports EM64T.
Error messages as follows (Booting the Live CD):
> Loading essential drivers    OK
Mounting root filesystemSystem hangs there.  I can't install.

Should I pass a boot string and what is that string?

TIA.

---

### Post by dca on 2007-01-15
Is the Bios set to operate at 64bit?  You know, the motherboard and all that...  The odd thing about Celerons... 

  "From Intel"

64-bit computing on Intel® architecture requires a computer system with a processor, chipset, BIOS, operating system, device drivers and applications enabled for Intel® 64 architecture. Processors will not operate (including 32-bit operation) without an Intel 64 architecture-enabled BIOS. Performance will vary depending on your hardware and software configurations. Consult with your system vendor for more information.
 
Don't know if that will help...

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-15
Well, maybe. I'd have to reboot to hit into the BIOS, but I've already been there for a spell (I recorded all the settings onto paper since this is a new system) and I do not recall seeing anything that enabled 64 bit operation. Maybe soon....

---

### Post by TehMark on 2007-01-15
Celeron chips don't support 64bit.


EDIT, i am mistaken.  Your's should support it.

[http://www.intel.com/products/processor/celeron_D/index.htm](http://www.intel.com/products/processor/celeron_D/index.htm)

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-20
Nothing about 64 bit in the bios that I can see.

Windows XP Professional 64 bit is installed and running fine. I tried to install WinXP64 on a 32 bit system, their installer detected it was a 32 bit system and refused to install, so I think this says I'm running 64 bit hardware.

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-23
Summary:
System presently runs 64 bit Windows XP Pro.
Nothing in BIOS hints enable/disable 64bit operation.
Since XP 64 installed and runs, conclude that my system must be in 64 bit mode.
Support for that conclusion: I have tried to install XP 64 onto 32 bit only systems, the XP 64 installer refused.
The 6.06 LTS EM64T CD boot process stops VERY early after the initial menu screen.

bump.

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-23
Hmmm. Researching a possible BIOS issue...

Yup. This motherboard and a Celeron D with C-1 stepping needs a BIOS upgrade. Good thing I have XP!!

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-23
BIOS has been updated.

Can't find the problemmatic live/install CD of 6.06 LTS for EM64T.

Am downloading / burning ubuntu-6.10-desktop-amd64.iso.

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-23
ubuntu-6.10-desktop-amd64 has booted and run as live distro on this system.
Thanks for watching this thread, my needs have been addressed.

---

### Post by mmmmna on 2007-01-24
And pardon me for posting in the incorrect forum (this thread is currently in the 'Absolute Beginner Talk' forum, feel free to move this thread).

[COLOR="Wheat"]I can honestly say that the forums graphic layout did [COLOR="DarkRed"]not[/COLOR] help me to see that the title of this forum was 'Absolute Beginner Talk'.[/COLOR]

For the forum title bar, a lighter background with black text AND a larger font size for the title would have helped me notice the forum title and I would know that this was not the proper location; IOW, the forum title could have been more obvious, IMO.   :-\"

---

