---
title: "Problem with fglrx driver on 5.04 amd64"
date: 2005-03-15
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by nicholas on 2005-03-15
Hi

I've installed xorg-driver-fglrx 6.8.0-8.8.25-0ubuntu7 and fglrx-control 8.8.25-0ubuntu7 using synaptic on Hoary.

It didn't change my /etc/X11/xorg.conf, so i changed it from using the "ati" driver to say "fglrx".

When I reboot, I get a black screen instead of the gdm login.

I changed it back, and ran fglrxconfig and copied the XFree86.config it created to /etc/X11/xorg.conf and rebooted.

Same problem again.

I have a Mobility Radeon 9600 with 128MB, and have never had anyproblems using the 32bit fglrx driver on FC3.

Can anyone spot where I went wrong?

Thanks,
Nik

---

### Post by blinksilver on 2005-03-15
diasble the command "use internal gart" that should do you,  actually the command might be "use external gart" in which case you should enable it, in any case the poinit is to use the external gart instead of ATI's

---

### Post by dukeleto on 2005-03-15
I have the same problem now with a mobility9700.
 I had a working combination of fglrx/xorg/kernel,
and now without having changed the previously working xorg.conf, I get the black screen. My temporary workaround has been to switch to the vesa driver :-(

---

### Post by Pse on 2005-03-15
Hmm...have you done what blinksilver said? This is a known problem...everybody has it. You have to switch to the external AGP GART driver. You should set this option under the "Devices" section for the fglrx driver.

---

### Post by dukeleto on 2005-03-15
I'll try next time I reboot

---

### Post by Pse on 2005-03-15
Remember the option is:
```
"UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
```

---

### Post by nicholas on 2005-03-16
Doh! I had it set to "yes" :-D

I have another problem now.  The fglrx driver loads and gives proper 2D acceleration, but not 3D acceleration.  fireglcontrol confirms the driver is loaded, but says the OpenGL driver is Mesa3D.  I ran tuxracer to test it, and it's sloooow as hell.

Here is my xorg.conf if it helps.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	#Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9600/9700 M10/M11 (RV350 NP)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseInternalAGPGART""no"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon Mobility 9600/9700 M10/M11 (RV350 NP)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1400x1050"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by nicholas on 2005-03-17
[QUOTE=nicholas]Doh! I had it set to "yes" :-D

I have another problem now.  The fglrx driver loads and gives proper 2D acceleration, but not 3D acceleration.  fireglcontrol confirms the driver is loaded, but says the OpenGL driver is Mesa3D.  I ran tuxracer to test it, and it's sloooow as hell.

Here is my xorg.conf if it helps.[/QUOTE]
 Can anyone help me with this lack of hardware 3D?

---

### Post by Pse on 2005-03-17
First, back up your xorg.conf file. Then, load "fglrxconfig" and make your xorg.conf file using ATI's utility. Try that and post back your results. Also, after doing so, post the output of "fglrxinfo".
Make sure fglrx-xorg-driver is installed. It's not enough to have the module (.ko), there are a couple of libs that also need to be installed, so make sure you have all the necessary packages.

---

### Post by ChaperonNoir on 2005-03-17
[QUOTE=Pse]First, back up your xorg.conf file. Then, load "fglrxconfig" and make your xorg.conf file using ATI's utility. Try that and post back your results. Also, after doing so, post the output of "fglrxinfo".
Make sure fglrx-xorg-driver is installed. It's not enough to have the module (.ko), there are a couple of libs that also need to be installed, so make sure you have all the necessary packages.[/QUOTE]


Pse, im curious. WHen you start the fglrxconfig command, does it say that it will create an Xfree86 config file ?

Because all the files i made with this utility never worked.

But i had backup so :)

---

### Post by ChaperonNoir on 2005-03-17
ROFLCOPTER !!!

I just wrote fglrx instead of ATI in the xorg.conf and now teh drivers work !!!

YES ITS ME !!

I wish i knew how to take a screenshot to show you that my ATI control panel works great now :-)


Edit

New glxgears score ! 18569 frames in 5.0 seconds = 3713.800 FPS  :D 

Old score 1837 frames in 5.0 seconds = 367.400 FPS


10 times more FPS !

Yes Baby !

---

### Post by Pse on 2005-03-18
The new ATI drivers create the correct configuration files for X. You have to download the correct package, though.

---

### Post by tr1cky on 2006-04-15
i have both the fglrx driver and control installed and i cannot use fglrxconfig... i get "command not found" what do i have to do to actually use fglrxconfig???

---

