---
title: "Amd Am2 3800x2"
date: 2007-06-16
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by YigalB on 2007-06-16
I am going to purchase several AMD AM2 3800X2 computers to use in youth club, as stand alone and server-thin client with Ubuntu/Edubunu.
Can someone tell me if the 64 bit is going to be a problem? Will Ubuntu use the 64 bit?
If not, can I use it as a 32-bit machine?

Thanks

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-06-16
> **YigalB said:**
> I am going to purchase several AMD AM2 3800X2 computers to use in youth club, as stand alone and server-thin client with Ubuntu/Edubunu.
Can someone tell me if the 64 bit is going to be a problem? Will Ubuntu use the 64 bit?
If not, can I use it as a 32-bit machine?

Thanks

I dont think you will have any problems using the 64bit version. I run a amd64 x2 4600 without issues. If you are going to run the 32bit version, just buy 32bit processors.

---

### Post by yidaho on 2007-06-16
How can you 'upgrade' from 32bit Ubuntu to 64bit after installing new mobo with a 64bit CPU?

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2007-06-16
Theres no clear/clean upgrade path from 32bit ubuntu to 64bit ubuntu.

The best you could do is back up your data, and reinstall using the 64bit version of ubuntu.

---

### Post by yidaho on 2007-06-17
I want to install Ubuntu 7.04 AMD64 live cd to a system that has the 32bit version installed.

System setup:
ASROCK AM2NF3-VSTA motherboard and 2GB of memory
AMD64 Athlon 64 X2 3800+ cpu
IDE1 (hda) 82GB MAXTOR
IDE2 (hdd) 163.9GB PLATINUM

Dual boot with MS VISTA on IDE1 and Ubuntu 7.04 32bit on IDE2.

When I get to the partitioner you get the following options:
[LIST]
[*]Guided - resize IDE1 master, partition#1 (HDA1) and use free space.  New partion size 91% (67.5 GB)
[*]Guided - Use all of IDE1 or use all of IDE2
[*]Manual
[/LIST]

The first Guided I assume will install Ubuntu onto IDE1 when I want to replace the install on IDE2  so I picked manual.

I then get to the situation as in the screenshot.

[[IMG]http://img240.imageshack.us/img240/6615/screenshotog7.th.png[/IMG]](http://img240.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotog7.png)

How do you define the root file system and where should I put it?

regards,

yidaho

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2007-06-17
the only way to go from 32 to 64 bit is to re-install, the way things are designed I don;t think you can make that kind of upgrade.

---

### Post by yidaho on 2007-06-17
I am trying to re-install, would uninstall Ubuntu then clean install be an option? How?

---

### Post by Mr_bleu on 2007-06-17
*"How do you define the root file system and where should I put it?"*
I put mine on the partition being installed.  Select the partition and put / in the box (you can't type root, I've tried.).  There is no box checked in your picture.  You have two ntfs partions, hda1 and hdd1. Personally, I'd shrink hdd1, install there and make the 3800 mb partition your swap.

---

### Post by YigalB on 2007-06-17
Just to make sure I understand: 
If I install the 64 bit - it will work fine, and it will run also 32 bit applications without any problem.

Is that a correct statement?

---

### Post by Mr_bleu on 2007-06-17
Are you wanting flash and java to work as well? If so see Kilz' signature for the howto and/or scripts.

---

### Post by yidaho on 2007-06-17
Tactics used was:

Copied mbrfix.exe to C:\ in windows
Used Windows Vista Cd to boot and run Repair installation.
Ran Command window option.
Ran  - "mbrfix /drive 0 fixmbr /vista"
Rebooted to prove grub installer removed.
Booted Ubuntu 7.04 AMD64 live cd
Deleted 'old' partitions and used Guided option to use IDE2.

... sorted.

---

