---
title: "2.6.15-26"
date: 2006-07-12
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by Beamerboy on 2006-07-12
So I see some major updates available today including a new kernel, nvidia drivers and openoffice (to name just some) for amd64 bit users.

Has anyone installed the updates/new kernel?  If so, could you please provide some feedback in this thread so the rest of us can evaluate any problems before upgrading ourselves?

Thanks

BeamerBoy

---

### Post by edgardz on 2006-07-12
Hi, 

I upgraded my kernel last night with the 2.6.15.26. All seem to work fine... but the 3d acc. of my ATI card ( driver v. 8.26.18 ) have some prob.
Is is the output error of glxgears:
Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual

I have also the following message in my xorg log but, it was there before the upgrade:

No matching visual for __GLcontextMode with visual class = 1 (32774), nplanes = 4294967295

edgardz

---

### Post by edgardz on 2006-07-12
ok... I fixed my problem. With the last ATI driver you have to recompile 
the kernel module.
```
sudo module-assistant prepare,update 
sudo module-assistant build,install fglrx 
sudo depmod
```

---

### Post by hazart on 2006-07-12
No problems here. Working with Xgl and Nvidia.

---

### Post by Lil_Eagle on 2006-07-12
New kernel installed last night.  I haven't noticed any strange things that weren't happening before.  

I can't say anything is fixed either.  I still have problems with some applications refusing to open, then opening fine when selected for a second time.  Most of the apps are admin type, and I suspect a problem with kdesu or gksu or sudo.  Don't know which one or why.

Since it's intermittent, it makes it hard to diagnose.

As far as the new kernel is concerned, it seems fine.

---

### Post by ferox_2 on 2006-07-25
Hazart, how is xgl and nvidia running? is it stable?
Can you please show me the guide you used to install xgl? I found some problems in installing compiz since it needed an older version of libcairo (or something like that) than the one installed.

Thank you

---

### Post by tymek666 on 2006-07-25
I was runnig xgl+gf6600 without any problems under Kubuntu 64bit.
But since it's not working very well on 16:9 screen i had do use standard desktop :(.

---

