---
title: "i386"
date: 2008-03-14
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by no_fire on 2008-03-14
i am trying to download skype and i am getting a error: wrong architecture 'i386'
i am using Ubuntu 7.10

---

### Post by no_fire on 2008-03-14
i am using Ubuntu 7.10
i am trying to download Skype and i am getting a error: wrong architecture 'i386'
? does this mean.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-03-14
> **no_fire said:**
> i am using Ubuntu 7.10
i am trying to download Skype and i am getting a error: wrong architecture 'i386'
? does this mean.

You installed the amd64 version of Ubuntu. This makes sense as you have a 64bit processor and it will make full use of it. But the skype package is i386, and not designed to run on amd64. 
Please[ take a look at this sticky post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=368607") it has links to install guides for some applications, you will find Skype about half way down.
Welcome to Ubuntu, if you run into any problems please post in this section. There are a lot of people running the same version as you and we will help as much as we can. :)

---

### Post by damvcoool on 2008-03-14
what you need to do, is to force the install

dpkg -i --force-architecture skype_package.deb

this is done on the command line on the same folder, that the skype package is.

another thing you can do is install ubuntu on 32bit mode. which is the red CD (if you got the CD mailed to you)

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-03-14
> **damvcoool said:**
> another thing you can do is install ubuntu on 32bit mode. which is the red CD (if you got the CD mailed to you)

This would require you to reinstall the operating system. You would be putting a 32bit operating system on 64bit hardware. You would loose a performance for the sake of a little bit of time setting up a few applications.
IMHO people should install the operating system that matches their hardware to get all that they paid for from that hardware. Both versions have minor issues and require some setup.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-03-16
Read this: [HOWTO: Install Skype on 64-bit Ubuntu](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=432295)

---

