---
title: "/home partition"
date: 2006-06-01
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by seanUSXIII on 2006-06-01
Is it possible to share your /home partition with a 32-bit version of ubuntu?

---

### Post by shamrock_uk on 2006-06-01
[QUOTE=seanUSXIII]Is it possible to share your /home partition with a 32-bit version of ubuntu?[/QUOTE]

Yes, perfectly possible. Whether Ubuntu is 64-bit or 32-bit should have no bearing on what files you can share.

---

### Post by hentaidan on 2006-06-01
[QUOTE=seanUSXIII]Is it possible to share your /home partition with a 32-bit version of ubuntu?[/QUOTE]

Do you mean on a dual boot setup?

---

### Post by seanUSXIII on 2006-06-01
[QUOTE=hentaidan]Do you mean on a dual boot setup?[/QUOTE]

yes. I was just wondering if the config files of some apps may get broken that way. I keep my school work on my /home/, which is on a seperate partition, in case of a major catastrophe.

---

### Post by PhilOSparta on 2006-06-01
I have been using a single /home partitioin using both a 32 bit and 64 bit version of Ubuntu with no problems.   I guess I would say that if you have a /home/bin directory that you could have problems if you have programs compiled for the 64 bit version in there that you may run into problems if you try to run them on the 32 bit version.    I don't have any of those situations.

---

### Post by fragos on 2006-06-01
[QUOTE=PhilOSparta]I have been using a single /home partitioin using both a 32 bit and 64 bit version of Ubuntu with no problems.   I guess I would say that if you have a /home/bin directory that you could have problems if you have programs compiled for the 64 bit version in there that you may run into problems if you try to run them on the 32 bit version.    I don't have any of those situations.[/QUOTE]
I've gone a little more granular to insure being able to mix distro's.  Each has its own /home but I have moved documents and data to a separate /Share partition which all distros are configured to mount.  I chose that name because I haven't seen it generated by any distro in /home.

---

