---
title: "64 in a 32"
date: 2005-09-07
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by tlaloczint on 2005-09-07
I have a question I currently have 32 ubuntu in a 64 3500+ and 2 gb of ram 
now I would like to try a full 64 drivers (64bit ubuntu) but I don`t want to loose any of my current set up (which I think is perfect I have any not any complains at all in the 32 bits) so what can I do besides doing a clean install or running the live version?
can I upgrade straing from 32 to 64?

any comments...? 

thanks

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-09-07
The installer doesn't allow for upgrades.  My recommendation would be to save the contents of your /home, /etc, /opt, /usr directories and then do a fresh load.  You can copy back whatever you need afterward.  I quickly learned that I wanted a separate partition for /home because most configuration files are stored there.  Now I have just a 10 GB partition for / and I don't lose too much when I format and reload the operating system.

---

### Post by tlaloczint on 2005-09-08
[QUOTE=mlomker]The installer doesn't allow for upgrades.  My recommendation would be to save the contents of your /home, /etc, /opt, /usr directories and then do a fresh load.  You can copy back whatever you need afterward.  I quickly learned that I wanted a separate partition for /home because most configuration files are stored there.  Now I have just a 10 GB partition for / and I don't lose too much when I format and reload the operating system.[/QUOTE]
 :-P  yey! that is a good idea men I never would ever thought about it thanks very
much

---

