---
title: "Radeon 7000 question"
date: 2006-04-08
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-04-08
I have a B&W PowerMac with a flashed Radeon 7000 in it, Dapper Flight 6.  It is not the genuine ATI Radeon 7k for Mac, but a pretty good imitation -works flawlessly in 10.3, nearly perfectly in 10.4.  I think it is the Saphire Radeon, 64MB.

From what I've read in the forums, there may not be a lot of chance for acceleration, but I want to do the best I can with it.  When I drag windows, I get a lot of after-images that follow the trailing edge of the window.  Can I get rid of these?

Are drivers for it that I can install - either proprietary or open source?

How do I check to see what drivers are already installed?  

Below is my xorg.conf :

[INDENT][COLOR="Teal"]# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Princeton"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-54
	VertRefresh	50-90
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]"
	Monitor		"Princeton"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "960x960" "960x720" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection[/COLOR]
[/INDENT]

Any ideas would be helpful.  

Thanks,

Dave

---

### Post by erniewinner on 2006-04-08
i have the same card flashed! i've posted on this also. in my case it's in a beige g3 and anything would be an improvement over standard one in that . i'm using bootx which i've got a horiible feeling will add complications... :rolleyes:

---

### Post by stmiller on 2006-04-08
ATI does not make drivers for PPC Linux. :-( 

You can edit the line for driver here:

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]"
Driver "ati"
BusID "PCI:0:16:0"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection
```

And change Driver "ati" 
to Driver "radeon"
and see if that driver works better. The radeon driver is in the kernel and available.

---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-04-08
[QUOTE=stmiller]ATI does not make drivers for PPC Linux. :-( 

You can edit the line for driver here:

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]"
Driver "ati"
BusID "PCI:0:16:0"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection
```

And change Driver "ati" 
to Driver "radeon"
and see if that driver works better. The radeon driver is in the kernel and available.[/QUOTE]

When I edit it, can I just

sudo nano  /etc/X11/xorg.conf

from a terminal window in Gnome,, or will it crash my session?

Should I do this by ssh from another box on my network?

Thanks,

davygravy

---

### Post by linear on 2006-04-08
[quote=davygravy]When I edit it, can I just

sudo nano  /etc/X11/xorg.conf

from a terminal window in Gnome,, or will it crash my session?
[/quote]

It's safe. You need to restart Gnome for changes to take effect.

---

### Post by davygravy on 2006-04-09
Thanks for the reassurance, Linear.  That was easy - though it didn't help any.

But I do have a general question.  In Linux, does a system respond faster graphically if it has a lot of memory?  That is, rephrasing, ...I have only 256MB install on my B&W, and my first few windows seem really fast & snappy.  As I work for a while open half a dozen different app, etc, the redraws and GUI seem to slow down.

Just time for more memory?

Guess PPC's will not get any more attention towards ATI Linux drivers as Apple has moved towards the Intel chips...  

hmmphh...bah humbug... still, I like my Macs...

davygravy

---

