---
title: "System-wide Crashes with &quot;nvidia&quot; driver"
date: 2006-11-24
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by Belboz99 on 2006-11-24
Hey all, this one has me stumped.

I've been using Ubuntu for the better part of a year.  I am not a newbie by any sense of the word.  However, I cannot seem to get the nvidia driver to function on Edgy 64 no matter how hard I try.  The nv driver works fine, but of course lacks 3D acceleration.

Here's the problem, while the nvidia driver seems to work at first, simply logging out will crash the entire system.  The video and audio both glitch out, and everything freezes.  The only option available is to press the reset switch on the front of my case.  Ctrl+Alt+Backspace and other keyboard commands are of no use.

Similarly, typing "glxinfo" at the command line does much the same thing.

I have tried this with the latest pre-packaged Nvidia drivers, with the latest Nvidia drivers (1.0-9629) and with the legacy drivers.

My system spec's are as follows:

Intel Core 2 Duo E6300
1GB DDR2 667Mhz (single DIMM)
AsRock 775Dual-VSTA motherboard with VIA PT880 Pro/Ultra Chipset
6800GT (AGP) Video

My BIOS has been flashed with the latest version (2.20)

I attempted to redirect std error from gdm stop, but apparently that doesn't work because it never writes the file.  There's a whole lot of error messages that get spit out to the terminal when I do this, most of which is referring to the PCI bus.

For anyone who wants it, this is my xorg.conf:
```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Wed Nov  1 19:48:05 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "record"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "NEC FE992"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 85.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "6800GT"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "6800GT"
    Monitor        "NEC FE992"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x854" "1152x864" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x854" "1152x864" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x854" "1152x864" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x854" "1152x864" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x854" "1152x864" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x854" "1152x864" "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```

Thanks,
Dan

---

### Post by Belboz99 on 2006-11-24
Just an update,

I thought it may be an incompatibility with the kernel.  I upgraded to the very latest stable kernel.  Still, no dice. :(

Dan

---

### Post by Belboz99 on 2006-11-25
Okay, as a last-ditch effort I went and re-installed the OS.

Everything went just fine, no errors reported.  I then installed build-essential and ran the nvidia driver installation from the website (1.0-9629).  

GUI loaded with nvidia drivers just fine.  Upon opening a terminal and typing "glxinfo" everything ground to a halt.  NOTHING changed from before. :(

I'm at my wits end here.  Obviously there is some type of kernel incompatability with my chipset or something.  If I knew what was causing the problem, I may be able to tweak my kernel to avoid it.  But for right now I am at a total loss.

I've solved just about every problem I've come across in the year I've been using Ubuntu.  For some reason I just cannot get past this.

I need the 64 bit OS for the software I'm running.  If I don't find another solution this week I'll be installing SUSE.  I've been a  happy Ubunut user until this point, but this is really trying me.

Dan

---

### Post by GustavoCarneiro on 2006-12-04
Hi Belboz99, I have a similar setup to yours and had similar problems: occasional freezes, crashes, or cold boots, I had it all.  A few days ago I tinkered in my BIOS settings and did two important changes:
[LIST=1]
[*]Increased the AGP aperture size to 128 MB (was at 64 MB)
[*]Limited AGP speed to 2x (was at 4x)
[/LIST]

Now my problems seem to be gone!  I don't know which of the changes fixed the problem for me, though, since I did them at the same time.  And no, I don't want to do more experiments to find out, my system is just fine as it is :)

---

### Post by Rob.R on 2006-12-05
Dan,

I am pretty much in the same boat - and it seems as if I have some type of kernel incompatibility as well.  I am a normally a Gentoo user, and I got frustrated with my inability to use any openGL apps (glxinfo will give me a hard lockup) - so I switched to try Ubuntu a few days ago.  Same situation. 

I assume you are like me: you have the NVIDIA driver installed and working (you get a splash screen when X loads), glx loads without errors (or any other errors in the XOrg log file), but anything related to glx locks things up hard.  Here are some ideas for you, if you haven't already tried:

- Do you have Windows installed on a second drive that you can boot into?  If so, check to see if 3D accelerated things work (to confirm that you don't have a hardware problem).  In my case, Windows 3D works wonderful (x64), but not in Ubuntu.

- If you don't have windows lying around, you can probably download the **older** version of Kororaa that includes the Nvidia driver (note the newer one does not have the Nvidia binary driver).  Boot into that and see if openGL works for you (it does for me, which is why I believe I have a kernel problem!)

- If you can set up SSH, use a second PC to ssh into your problem PC.  When you get a hard lockup, do a 'dmesg' or look at /var/log/messages (perhaps with Ubuntu a different log file is relevant).  You might see some useful information, or you might just see some messages from the Nvidia driver as it segfaults (my case).

- Try passing these kernel options at boot: ```
acpi="off" noapic
```

- See if there is an updated BIOS for your motherboard and upgrade it.  Don't forget to clear the CMOS (usually with a jumper) and re-setup your BIOS.

- If your motherboard has a BIOS option related to NX/XD-Bit (no-execute), change it (disable it).  If you have some type of virus detection option in your BIOS, disable it.

- If you have an AGP card (or not, I have a PCIe card) you might want to try different settings for this option:
```

Section "Device"
        Option    "NvAGP" "0" 

```
Try '0' first.  The options are 0-3; see the NVidia readme for what they mean (I don't remember off the top of my head).

- Look at the IRQs your system is using:
```
cat /proc/interrupts
```
Look to see if your video card is sharing interrupts with something else (the nvidia module **should** have an IRQ number!)  If so, try to disable the offending hardware/move it to a different PCI slot.  This didn't do the trick for me.

- With your extra peripherals removed, try to compile a kernel with minimal support - just enough to get back into X and have the Nvidia module load (there are only a couple of required options for the Nvidia module to work with the Kernel, and you should make sure you have any Nvidia/Riva framebuffer support **NOT** enabled.  This also didn't help me at all.

Like I said, I have not resolved the problem, and I've wasted an enormous amount of time on this.  If you have any luck, let me know (with SUSE or otherwise).

-Rob
> **Belboz99 said:**
> Okay, as a last-ditch effort I went and re-installed the OS.

Everything went just fine, no errors reported.  I then installed build-essential and ran the nvidia driver installation from the website (1.0-9629).  

GUI loaded with nvidia drivers just fine.  Upon opening a terminal and typing "glxinfo" everything ground to a halt.  NOTHING changed from before. :(

I'm at my wits end here.  Obviously there is some type of kernel incompatability with my chipset or something.  If I knew what was causing the problem, I may be able to tweak my kernel to avoid it.  But for right now I am at a total loss.

I've solved just about every problem I've come across in the year I've been using Ubuntu.  For some reason I just cannot get past this.

I need the 64 bit OS for the software I'm running.  If I don't find another solution this week I'll be installing SUSE.  I've been a  happy Ubunut user until this point, but this is really trying me.

Dan

---

### Post by Belboz99 on 2006-12-05
Rob,

Thanks for replying, your problems are exactly like mine. :P

And yes, I am now 100% sure it's a kernel issue.

The only kernel I have gotten to work with 3D acceleration is 2.15.26 which comes default with Ubuntu 6.06.

Custom compiled 2.18.3 does NOT work, has the same issues as above.

SUSE and Kororaa both apparently use older kernels that do not support my SATA chipset. ](*,) 

I'll try disabling those BIOS settings right now.  BTW, I have no IRQ for my nvidia card listed in cat /proc/interrupts, but right now I don't have the nvidia driver running.

Thanks a bunch!
Dan

---

### Post by Belboz99 on 2006-12-05
Rob!  You are my saviour! :D

I did the following:

1. Disable Thermal Throttling, as well as all unused ports in the BIOS (Serial, Parallel, Midi, Game).  Virus disable was not available.  I had already disabled Intel' Speed Step.

2.  Pass the noapic to the kernel at boot in my grub configuration.

3.  Add the   Option    "NvAGP" "0"  to my xorg.conf.




And it works!!! :D :D :D

Thanks!!
Dan




Edit: Okay, I switched back to 6.10 Edgy Eft today, and the only thing that I didn't do was the kernel option.  I got the same issue all over again.  By Passing the noacpi kernel option I successfully solved it. :)

So, it appears all you need to do is pass that noacpi option to the kernel in /boot/grub/menu.lst.

Btw, this line: ```
acpi="off" noapic
```

Should read: ```
acpi="off" noacpi
```

Correct?

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2006-12-05
My position is that I am new to Linux and have finally managed to get my two screens to work using xinerama.  I just did it. However Terminal will not open in GDM. It did when I was limited to one screen. I am using 6.10 with an Nvidia card. 

Is my problem a know difficulty?

Robin

---

### Post by Rob.R on 2006-12-07
Dan,

I'm really glad that you got it working!  I still haven't.  I am actually suspecting that the SATA drivers (my board has an NForce chipset) or the SATA drives I am using might be at fault, since I've pretty much elminated all of the other hardware as suspect.

The options "noacpi" and "noapic" are different things.  But whatever works :)  Glad I could help!

-Rob

---

### Post by Rob.R on 2006-12-07
Ok -

After spending several days (about a week) on this problem, I finally FINALLY solved it.  I'm going to write up a summary of all of the things I tried and the hardware that I have to help any others with the same problem.

It turns out that the problem was the BIOS of the PCIe NVIDIA graphics card!  Apparently my Gainward 7800GT BIOS has a bug in it that prevents it from working with the nvidia drivers in linux.

I say there is a bug because my solution involved flashing the Nvidia BIOS on the card to that of a completely different Vendor (eVga).  Different vendor, similar card, but now I have a WORKING setup.

Note: For the Gainward 7800GT, two different BIOS revisions exist.  I originally had the oldest one.  I found a slightly newer version, which I flashed it to a few days ago.  It made no difference, of course.  

Today I took a big leap and "blindly" flashed my board to a completely different manufacturer (but still a 7800GT but made by eVGA).  I haven't tried the other features of the card yet (TV-OUT, etc) - but at the moment I'm just ecstatic that things work.  

Another note: flashing your video card could damage it to the point of being useless.  I was willing to take that risk, since it's useless without 3D acceleration to me.

-Rob

EDIT: Here is a link to my list of items to check when troubleshooting an NVidia driver problem similar to mine:
[http://www.heavygravity.com/2006/12/12/howto-getting-nvidia-drivers-to-work-with-linux/]("http://www.heavygravity.com/2006/12/12/howto-getting-nvidia-drivers-to-work-with-linux/")

If you're stuck with an NVidia problem (and you've already got the driver installed successfully), check my article out - you might get some hints on what to try.

---

