---
title: "5.10 install fails on powerbook g3"
date: 2006-01-30
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by bongshoe on 2006-01-30
When I boot from the 5.10 install CD, my G3/400 (Pismo) detects the CD and seems to be loading the installer however the display starts off completely blank, and after the installer has loaded for a moment the display suddenly changes to random eye torture (I believe that is the technical term).  I've tried plugging in an external display but that remains blank. The video chip is an ATI RageM3 with 8meg according to the system profiler.  It sounds as though the install loader is chugging away in the background but obviously it's difficult to get very far without a display.. are there any boot paramaters that might help or am I just stuck with Mac OS on this baby? 

edit: seem to have solved this by booting the install CD from Open Firmware rather than the default mac boot loader as [described here]("http://archive.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/dists/warty/main/installer-powerpc/current/doc/manual/en/ch05s01.html") (type **boot cd:,\install\yaboot** after booting into OF)

---

### Post by koni2005 on 2006-02-04
Same Problem here - posted it also in another thread:

On my TiBook after selecting to boot up ubuntu in yaboot, the screen turns white for a sec, then the boot process starts normally for about 5 seconds - I think just until it starts the graphic driver(?). After that the screen turns black - except for a line in the middle and lower part of the screen.

i didn't have that problem until a couple of days ago - it occured suddenly when I rebooted Kubuntu - I had to restart several times until it booted up normally - so I tried a clean install - but with no success, since now I hardly ever manage to boot ubuntu without this weird artefact.

I think that it ubuntu boots up normally - except for the grapghics **** up - because after waiting a while - as long as it normally takes to to the login window - I just entered the password blindly - and I could hear the start up sound - so beneath the whole mess ubuntu seemed to be running normally.

Did anyone have an idea what to do?

Again - until a few days ago everything was fine. And it does not seem to be a hardware problem - as OS X still works without any problem.

Thanks...

---

### Post by N8K99 on 2006-02-04
after you login in blind, have you tried pressing cntrl-alt-F1? That's not 'command' but the actual control key, you know the one that is hardly utilized in OS X. This should get you into a getty environment and ask you to login again. Then you can reconfigure xserver-xorg, insuring that you select the proper resolution for the powerbook, I believe it was 1185?x758.

---

### Post by koni2005 on 2006-02-05
Thanks for the tip - but didn't get me any forther

please check: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=122516](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=122516)

Any idea what the problem could be?

---

