---
title: "7.04 64 Bit Need Browser for You Tube and Java games and Iceweasel crashes"
date: 2007-10-07
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by langster on 2007-10-07
Hello all in the community

I am new to linux and ubuntu and a few of my friends are more clueless than myself.

I use the Iceweasel 32 Bit browser and somewhat recommend it. It is excellent in all respects-

from GNU philosophy to being firefox underneath. BUT what REALLY made it better than firefox w

was that websites displayed properly OUT OF THE BOX, meaning You Tube type sites, and java

game sites like yahoo. Now I know and am extremely grateful out there for those gurus that take 

time to help the newbies. However, that being said, while many people including myself greatly

enjoy forums and looking for sage advice and then feeling great when those terminal commands the 

wizard work marvelously, most of my friends are either too busy or too lazy. THEREFORE, it would

help me switch more of my friends to ubuntu if i could tell them to just go to some website, 

download a browser that would work OOTB, an fin'. I think Iceweasel 32 Bit is awsome for

my 64 Bit ubuntu except that it will frequently hang up when on the You Tube site. The browser

will freeze and i have to force quit in and restart iceweasel (the system is fine of course).

SO, fundamentally my goal is this. I want 2 browsers that work OOTB. One for general surfing

that is locked down so that pop-ups and such are held at bay. And then one more everything

that a web page can throw at it is displayed. More than one computer has Iceweasel 32 on

it and they both crash on You Tube. Any ideas?

---

### Post by incidence on 2007-10-07
Kinda confusing, cause Iceweasel == Firefox. Anyways, do you have JRE and Flash player installed? If not, install it with this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=476924](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=476924)

---

### Post by funrider on 2007-10-07
i think no browser is stable when it comes to flash surfing in 7.04. I gave it up. Shift to 7.10 my friend.

---

### Post by langster on 2007-10-27
Thank you!!!!!!!!

Shifted up to 7.10 Gutsy and am very pleased

---

