---
title: "7.04 64-bit to 7.10 64-bit"
date: 2007-11-22
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by mattman85 on 2007-11-22
when I was working in Linux last night (I'm bual-booting between Fiesty and WinXP til i get used to Fiesty) i noticed that Gutsy is now available for upgrade.  The Upgrade Manager automatically wants to run through, but I had to cancel it until I found something out.  Does it see that I have Fiesty Fawn AMD64-bit version, and will it upgrade me to Gutsy Gibson AMD64-bit version?  This is important, since I like being able to take advantage of my Turion64 X2 processor, which is where WinXP is losing me...

---

### Post by loganm10 on 2007-11-22
Yes it will, it knows you have the 64-bit version and it will upgrade you to 64-bit gutsy for sure

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-11-22
> **mattman85 said:**
> when I was working in Linux last night (I'm bual-booting between Fiesty and WinXP til i get used to Fiesty) i noticed that Gutsy is now available for upgrade.  The Upgrade Manager automatically wants to run through, but I had to cancel it until I found something out.  Does it see that I have Fiesty Fawn AMD64-bit version, and will it upgrade me to Gutsy Gibson AMD64-bit version?  This is important, since I like being able to take advantage of my Turion64 X2 processor, which is where WinXP is losing me...

Make sure to back up everything you cant afford to loose just in case. Better to be safe than sorry. You might also consider doing a clean install. Upgrades can have their issues.

---

### Post by dptxp on 2007-11-23
If Feisty is running fine, why upgrade  ? Wait for next version, LTS one.
It is not advisable for serious user to upgrade versions every 6 months
for no reason. If you want to try, install the new version on a new
partition and check it out.

I have retained Feisty on my desktop, I made fresh install of Gutsy 64 bit
on Laptop.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2007-11-23
> **dptxp said:**
> If Feisty is running fine, why upgrade  ? Wait for next version, LTS one.
It is not advisable for serious user to upgrade versions every 6 months
for no reason. If you want to try, install the new version on a new
partition and check it out.

I have retained Feisty on my desktop, I made fresh install of Gutsy 64 bit
on Laptop.

Quoted for the pure truth of the words. 

Unless you really need it, dont rush into the "must have it because it exists" Feisty is a fantastic, polished version with a year of support left.

---

### Post by marco123 on 2007-11-23
> **Kilz said:**
> Quoted for the pure truth of the words. 

Unless you really need it, dont rush into the "must have it because it exists" Feisty is a fantastic, polished version with a year of support left.

+1.  I concur.  Feisty will run for months on my rig without a single issue.:)

---

### Post by mattman85 on 2007-11-23
thanks all!  I apparently don't have "notify on replies" checked, i didn't realized anyone had responded.  I'm a Linux newbie..  didn't know if a new version is needed or not.  I'm learning though..

---

