---
title: "First Impressions/Problems"
date: 2006-09-24
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by trburkholder on 2006-09-24
I spent last weekend trying to get Kubuntu 6.06.1 AMD 64 alternate to install  with my shiny new Asus A8V E SE socket 939 with Athlon 64 3200, GeForce 6600 video and 1 GB RAM.  It took me a day to figure out that I had to switch the two SATA HD cables to get the thing to boot from the hard drive after the install.  I still haven't got it to read my other IDE drive (which also has GRUB and hangs the system if I connect it).

So it's installed and I dutifully install the upgrades waiting and then try to install evolution so I can use the exchange connector.  Adept gets to a point, hangs on configuration and sits there.  Being a grizzled veteran (cut my teeth on SysV AT&T systems) I try "sudo killall adept"...nothing; I try sudo kill -9 *processnum*...nothing. Restart X; process still hanging in there.   Reboot hangs on shutting down kdm.  Hard restart, uugh!

Now I've got packages that won't install, dpkg --configure -a hangs on gnome-vfs.  I can't go forward until I remove the package lock, dpkg -r all the offending queued packages and reboot to kill the several hung dpkg jobs.  Now dpkg yells about deleted files, but will install some things.  

I still can't kill some things that have crashed.  Kontact is currently crashed and I can't kill it except by rebooting.

There are other issues such as samba, which won't start and kde which seems to lose the taskbar at regular intervals, but I'll give it a rest now and let someone else talk.

Any suggestions as to fixes for any of the above problems would be appreciated.  I'm reluctant to do a clean reinstall since I had so much trouble getting the thing to install last week and I would like to get some work done, but I will consider it as a last resort. 

I really liked Kubuntu 6.06.1 when it was running on my old 600MHz Athlon, slow, but really stable.  This has been anything but stable.

---

### Post by kuja on 2006-09-24
The grub problems are more than likely related to what drive you installed things on, perhaps it installed it to the MBR of the wrong drive, you could always fix that by installing grub to the other drives MBR... it would boot okay that way.

In my experience KDE has been very stable, not the case there apparantly.... Maybe if you're lucky upgrading to KDE 3.5.4 would help? [http://kubuntu.org/announcements/kde-354.php](http://kubuntu.org/announcements/kde-354.php)
That might be a bit of a longshot though.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2006-09-24
When you get a hang like that it is usually (in my experience) a kernel issue or an inaccessible file system (usually nfs). 

You can see whether it is the first problem by looking at the output from "dmesg" or looking at the last few lines of /var/log/messages.

---

### Post by trburkholder on 2006-09-25
I updated to kernel 2.6.15-27-amd64-k8 (buildd@king) (gcc version 4.0.3 (Ubuntu 4.0.3-1ubuntu5)) #1 SMP PREEMPT and KDE 3.5.4 as suggested.  

Crashes of various kde components are still alarmingly frequent. I've attached the last few lines from dmesg if any gurus want to take a look.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2006-09-25
Your dmesg reveals a kernel problem (called an "oops"). It seems to be generated by kio_http which is a networking program for kde. You should lodge a bugreport on launchpad against the kernel 2.6.15-27-amd64-k8 and attach the output to your report. Ben Collins (kernel dev) is pretty prompt on these matters.

---

### Post by trburkholder on 2006-09-25
Thanks for all the suggestions.

I couldn't stand it anymore so I did a clean reinstall trying Ubuntu 6.06.1 AMD 64 alternate and desktop.  Same problems with spontaneous crashes of this that and the other program and lots of bad news in dmesg.

Finally what installed and is currently working is Kubuntu 6.06 i386 DVD.  I let adept update everything except the kernel, kernel image and kernel modules.  The system seems to be stable, I did a reboot just to see and it comes back up perfectly nicely.  

2.6.15-23-386 #1 PREEMPT Tue May 23 13:49:40 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux
on ASUS A8V E SE  socket 939 with Athlon 3200+ 1GB RAM and GeForce 6600.

I may try the 64 bit kernel again, but right now, I'm actually getting work done that I should have done instead of messing around all weekend with this computer.

---

### Post by trburkholder on 2006-11-17
I thought I would follow up here with a quick update.  After suffering repeated crashes, installing Debian, Ubuntu, Knoppix 64 and 32 bit OS's repeatedly to try and fix the problem, I _finally_ found the issue!

Memo to self: "Do not buy cheap generic memory!"  Replaced a 1GB generic with 2 512MB Kingston Value RAM chips and it's been purring away for hours now without a crash.  Crazy thing is that it passed the MEMTEST86+ for almost a day without a glitch.

May now be confident enough to install Ubuntu again, but I couldn't install 6.10 without an OOPS after choosing the install

---

### Post by FluffyElmo on 2006-11-18
I have the almost exact configuration, right down to the generic RAM, but with the AGP version of the motherboard and everything runs without a hitch. Just a thought but have you tried fiddling with the BIOS memory timings? 

Like mine, your board has automatic over-clocking where the BIOS basically boosts settings until there is a crash. I've had the odd issue with this, enough that I've disabled it. Your board actually seems to go further than mine and apply a 30% memory/CPU increase out of the box. 

I've also seen boards that seem bent on mis-configuring every memory stick put in them, and of course generic RAM can be <cough>optimistic</cough> when listing specs.

I'm thinking that since everything that works (including memtest) is 32bit and everything that doesn't is 64bit that maybe it's possible that you're seeing over-clocked memory with errors that are only apparent when 64bit memory addressing is used?

Sorry to ramble, but it may be worth disabling the overclocking and maybe even decreasing the default memory timing to see if you can get things running stably. For what I do I benefit most from more memory regardless of how fast it's clocked.

---

