---
title: "screen problem with emac"
date: 2005-12-04
forum: x86 64-bit Users (Pre April '08)
---

### Post by gurdy on 2005-12-04
Hi! I'm trying to get Breezy to run on an 800 MHz G4 eMac (version 2.1). At first I was getting a black screen when X started up. I fixed that by adding  HorizSync 71-73 and VertRefresh 70-140 and by adding Modelines in my xorg.conf file, by using gtf-- as described at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=22898](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=22898)
Now I have X working, but the screen is off-center--it's shifted to the left about 1.5 inches, so the left hand inch of the screen is not visible.

Can anyone help? My xorg.conf is below. Thanks so much!

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"iMac"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	71-73
	VertRefresh	70-140
# 1024x768 @ 89.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 72.00 kHz; pclk: 99.07 MHz
	  Modeline "1024x768_89.00"  99.07  1024 1088 1200 1376  768 769 772 809  -HSync +Vsync
# 1280x960 @ 72.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 72.07 kHz; pclk: 124.54 MHz
	  Modeline "1280x960_72.00"  124.54  1280 1368 1504 1728  960 961 964 1001  -HSync +Vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]"
	Monitor		"iMac"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by peter_m on 2005-12-05
Hi Gurdy,
I understand your problem completely as I went through the same thing with my iMAC. Just too bad Apple doesnt use standard monitor/tyming. Here are your options:

You can play around with the parameters of your modelines untill you almost give up and then Bingo! You find the right setings to fix your screen. Or you can run SwitchResX within MacOS X 10.3.9 to get the settings that apple uses, write them down and convert them to be compatilble with Modeline in Xorg. Look up de definition of the parameters in the "man" pages.

Here is the Link to it: [http://www.madrau.com/html/SRX/whysr.html](http://www.madrau.com/html/SRX/whysr.html)
Look at the picture under "SwitchRes X lets you create custom resolutions". It shows you the parameters for any screen resolution, even Apple's pre-sets.

Good luck, and share your findings

Peter

---

