---
title: "some simple UI idea's"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: Ubuntu Brainstorm
---

### Post by | MM | on 2007-10-24
1) When you 'cut' some files and folders to be pasted somewhere else, do something similar to what windows does and either lighten the existing files. Or perhaps more gnome-y, add an emblem.

2) Some visual or textual way of knowing if (and when) a file has been indexed by tracker or any other of the indexer's out there in nautilus (beagle, whatever kde uses, google desktop).

3) Stock standard Windows system files and folders should be marked (similar to how ms samba locations are), and on attempted deletion should throw a warning, exclaiming that you could ruin your windows OS.  Lets coexist wonderfully.  examples: config.sys, msdos.sys, pagefile.sys, WINDOWS (and subdirs), RECYCLER, System Volume Information... and so on.

4) .Trash folders.  Do they really need to be hidden in Nautilus?  If so, then ensure that all .Trash folders pool to a central location where all can be cleared.   Perhaps provide some management window where all .Trash folders are depicted, then you can clear some but not all?

5) Would it be possible in System Monitor, in the processes tab, to have along with CPU%, Memory etc., the %network usage.  So the application opera is using 50Kb/s of bandwidth, while bittorrent is using 300Kb/s... etc.  I've always wanted a breakdown like this -- but alas its has never arrived.

6) Why do minimised apps in the panel have **[ ]** surrounding them, seems pointless and unnecessary, like cruft if i may.  Some better visual feedback needs to be developed to indicate a window is minimised.

7) I can't help but think the Application categories need a rethink.  For instance currently Brasero resides within Sound & Video... ?!  Perhaps a category encompassing the notion of creating stuff?

8.) Restrict icon size relative to the width of the Panel they reside within, ala Windows.  It just looks cleaner than a  hodgepodge of large and small icons populating the panel.


That's all i can think of atm.  Comments?

---

### Post by | MM | on 2007-10-24
Mock-up of idea 5)

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=47683&stc=1&d=1193265442[/IMG]

Oh, and Epiphany is so much nicer than Firefox, albeit it lacks a few features.  But its definately faster.

---

### Post by MelancholyStoo on 2007-10-24
why do you want things to be more windows like?  i like Ubuntu because it's not like windows....your %network usage idea sounds good though.

---

### Post by | MM | on 2007-10-24
Not a UI idea but a definate must!

Searching in nautilus should give you more control over how you search.  Suppose you want to search a string within a directory and its subdirs, it currently defaults to a tracker search.  IMO this is not so good.  More control please.

---

### Post by | MM | on 2007-10-24
> **MelancholyStoo said:**
> why do you want things to be more windows like?  i like Ubuntu because it's not like windows....your %network usage idea sounds good though.

What ideas do you not like, please be specific, i dont mind criticism.  i just want GNOME to be more helpful, so i don't care where ideas are taken from.  If i hadn't said windows was the genisis of the idea, would you have any resistance to such suggestions?

---

### Post by | MM | on 2007-10-24
Mock-up of idea 1)

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=47696&stc=1&d=1193269786[/IMG]

---

### Post by picpak on 2007-10-24
> **| MM | said:**
> 7) I can't help but think the Application categories need a rethink.  For instance currently Brasero resides within Sound & Video... ?!  Perhaps a category encompassing the notion of creating stuff?

That's where it should be IMO. I remember being completely confused when I started using Linux because k3b was tucked somewhere under Archiving Tools.

And then with Graveman, up until Gutsy it's been under Accessories.

Sound & Video is where it should be.

---

### Post by | MM | on 2007-10-24
> **picpak said:**
> That's where it should be IMO. I remember being completely confused when I started using Linux because k3b was tucked somewhere under Archiving Tools.

And then with Graveman, up until Gutsy it's been under Accessories.

Sound & Video is where it should be.

Why?  I think your examples just testify to the confusion generated by poor category names.

---

### Post by picpak on 2007-10-25
> **| MM | said:**
> Why?  I think your examples just testify to the confusion generated by poor category names.

When I think of CDs, I usually think of audio CDs. Therefore, I think it should be placed under there.

---

### Post by Nirro on 2007-10-25
and what about data CD's ?
I, for example, use CD's to archive and backup data,
what "Sound and Video" got to do with it ?

---

### Post by 23meg on 2007-10-25
If you think an app is in the wrong menu, file a bug in the Ubuntu source package.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/brasero/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/brasero/+filebug)

---

### Post by SonicSteve on 2007-10-25
I think a lot of the ideas are pretty dang good! I don't think it matters where ideas are born, windows, mac or other linux distro's who cares, it's a good idea it's a good idea.

---

