---
title: "*timidly* Gnome &amp; KDE menu editing thoughts"
date: 2007-11-20
forum: Ubuntu Brainstorm
---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-11-20
I'm not sure if this is the forum I should post in, please excuse me if it's amiss.

Both Gnome and KDE's menu editing facilities seem to me to be lacking. I've run into "glitches" if using either to any great extent, and when I've tried looking further into them, they seem to be a bit convoluted in approach. Rather than complain though I'd like to try to offer some thoughts that I hope are of some interest to someone.

I was thinking... If it's going to essentially rely on the .desktop files in given locales, how about arranging for the menu editors to create, edit, delete or hide (select / deselect) .desktop files?

Well certainly an obvious show stopper is that it'd require 1) admin privs just to edit a menu and 2) would effect system-wide changes, to much potential chagrin of other users. Thus, I presume, the approach of alacarte in creating its "filtering" or "interpretive" script and stashes of its own alacarte.desktop files in each user's home dir.

So a different suggestion to those issues. First, a script generating copies of all .desktop files to user folders, perhaps placing the lot in a ~/.menu dir. This would be effected whenever .desktop files are generated by any installations, and possibly if practicable if the contents of the standard system-wide .desktop locales are changed. Only entries not represented by a same-named .desktop file in ~/.menu would be copied to ~/.menu, and items would be noted as already having been copied so as to avoid duplication should the ~/.menu copy be deleted by the user.

Secondly, to the suggested menu editor, the contents of the menu would consist of the contents of the .desktop files it would parse in ~/.menu, in this example. The .desktop files in ~/.menu would be transparently edited via the menu editor in order to allow customization of entries. Creating a submenu would create a subdir and moving entries between submenus would move the respective .desktop files to appropriate subdirs. 

As to the order of entries, this would be effected by a standard entry in the ~/.menu .desktop files denoting the order, to the effect of "order=001" or what have you. These entries would be managed by the menu editor.

Similarly, the menu editor would offer the user the choice of hiding or deleting an entry. Hiding would possibly be worded as "Do not show this item in my menu." It would possibly be indicated by deselecting a check box in the editor. This would instruct the editor to place an entry in the appropriate .desktop file to the effect of "status=hidden" or whatever. I think these menu-editor specific entries would be safely ignored by any other processes in the event a user copies these .desktop files to a system wide location for some reason. Obviously, if the user chooses to delete an entry, perhaps prompting a confirmation dialog first, then the menu editor would delete the given ~/.menu .desktop file.

This would seem to offer a method which would eliminate the assorted issues I've ended up dealing with in alacarte and Kmenu's approaches, while allowing for the user to change the menu contents at will either "by hand" (changing ~/.menu content) or via the GUI. I've written custom menus for fluxbox & icewm and I'm okay with that, but I know first hand that hand-making menus just isn't the way to go for most folks, and heck I'd rather use something GUI myself. There must be a way to use a "freedesktop" approach without the fragility or disadvantages of alacarte & kmenu's current methods.

Am I missing something important? Any show-stopping reason it couldn't work? I'd be interested in hearing feedback. Maybe we'll come up with something better than ever :)

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2007-11-20
A lot of what you are asking for seems to be in GNOME. You can hide a menu entry by unchecking the checkbox. You can edit the system-wide menu using sudo gnome-main-menu. Also, you don't need to be root to edit your own menu, and you don't need to copy all the .desktop files to your home directory, as there is no need.

---

### Post by TeaSwigger on 2007-11-20
> **smartboyathome said:**
> A lot of what you are asking for seems to be in GNOME. You can hide a menu entry by unchecking the checkbox. You can edit the system-wide menu using sudo gnome-main-menu. Also, you don't need to be root to edit your own menu, and you don't need to copy all the .desktop files to your home directory, as there is no need.

Yes it seems to be. But I'm talking about the method, not the GUI interface itself. It isn't exactly perfect. You don't have to search too far to find people having problems with it, or people lamenting that the Windows method is easier and more reliable (both of which it is). That can annoy new users, and as for advanced users, well... after the menu has been customized to any extent by alacarte, just try editing it by hand. Edit which, the alacarte file, the alacarte desktop files or the desktop files in whichever of the several system locations they may be? 

At present it's using the .desktop files method (freedesktop standards?) and then not using it, by writing an evidently error-prone (xml?) filter file to supercede it, but then also creating alacarte.desktop entries. You have to learn both alacarte's file syntax and .desktop syntax, and you have original .desktop files and customized menu versions both in the menu's path. I suggest this doesn't make good sense, and that leads to an unneccessarily problematic situation. I'm suggesting a way for this menu stuff focus on using either a menu script or using .desktop files instead of a convoluted implimentation of both.

But if it's felt the current methods are good enough then I guess I'll just can it and keep writing my menus in fluxbox or gambling with KMenu. When folks report menu misbehaviour though, try telling 'em it's good enough as is.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2007-11-20
I have never had menu misbehavior, so I don't know what is wrong with the current menu system.

---

