---
title: "10.04 problems"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: United Kingdom Team
---

### Post by gameplay on 2010-04-30
Just upgraded to 10.04 and have two problems I can't solve/don't know what to do with as I am not a linux expert.

The first is that on startup I now get a message which reads "Panel encountered a problem while loading OAFIID:Deskbar-Applet  Do you want to delete the Applet from your configuration"  I don't know the cause of this or what the consequences of deleting it would be.

Second - the little window icons that control whether you close a window or shrink it to the bottom bar etc have moved from the RHS to the LHS of the window.  Is this a bug or a feature?  I want them on the RHS as they used to be.

---

### Post by mick222 on 2010-04-30
Try reinstalling Ubuntu-desktop from synaptic.
The icons are now on the left in Lucid there are a few threads telling you how to change them if you must.

---

### Post by gameplay on 2010-04-30
Thanks for the swift reply.  I re-installed the desktop but I still get the same problem.  The system seems to function ok even with this problem.. Would it be ok to select delete?  I have no idea what this applet is (and I don't know how I typed in that smiley face either - it should be Deskbar of course).

As to moving the icons (aaarh) I see now that it was deliberate but unless you have a very good reason to move them (and it isn't just a style that one person liked) it really is a bad idea, although i'll leave it for a while.

---

### Post by gameplay on 2010-05-05
Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by cukagmd on 2010-05-08
I am experiencing the same issue with my upgrade to Lucid and I had the same problem when upgrading to Karmic.  I think I was able to fix it with the following, yet this does not work this time:

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo aptitude reinstall gnome-applets
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

You can do the first line in a terminal window, and the command stops the graphical user interface, so you have to switch to another terminal with ctrl-alt-F1, for example, to do the second and third lines.

I am still looking for a fix too...

---

### Post by gameplay on 2010-05-10
What happens if I just delete the applet - the system works fine as far as I can tell if I just simply don't delete it.  I don't know anything about Linux from a tech point of view.

---

### Post by Joshun on 2010-08-20
I don't think this actually deletes the applet completely, I think by removing it it just simply removes the applet and its configuration from the panel. So it should be safe to do so.

---

