---
title: "10.4/Spotify"
date: 2010-03-17
forum: United Kingdom Team
---

### Post by oneup on 2010-03-17
Hi has anybody had a problem installing Spotify in 10.4 alpha.it wont let me install Spotify,it gets so far and then says this is not from a trusted source and install fails,does anyone know why please?

---

### Post by Fersure on 2010-03-17
Are you running the Windows app under wine?

---

### Post by oneup on 2010-03-17
yes,installing windows version under wine,is, so far as I know the only way to have Spotify  in linux,unless you know better and can tell me how?

---

### Post by Fersure on 2010-03-19
Make sure you type: 
```
wine "Spotify Installer.exe"
```
in a terminal. Do NOT double click the .exe

---

### Post by oneup on 2010-03-21
Thank you Fershure but it still does not work,I think it is intended that we shall not have Spotify in Ubuntu !

What I don't understand is why?So far as I know Spotify has never caused anyone any mishap in any distro !

---

### Post by Fersure on 2010-03-24
> **oneup said:**
> Thank you Fershure but it still does not work,I think it is intended that we shall not have Spotify in Ubuntu !

What I don't understand is why?So far as I know Spotify has never caused anyone any mishap in any distro !

I managed to install it in an Ubuntu Lucid VM. I don't see why you're having issues. Are you sure you're starting the installer in wine from the terminal? What exactly happens and when?

---

### Post by oneup on 2010-03-26
Thank you again for your help Fersure,I will install Lucid beta again tonight and try once more !

---

### Post by oneup on 2010-03-29
Hi FERSURE,it says wine cannot find Spotify Installer.exe,any ideas that will help me install Spotify any other way please?

---

### Post by kostkon on 2010-03-29
> **oneup said:**
> Hi FERSURE,it says wine cannot find Spotify Installer.exe,any ideas that will help me install Spotify any other way please?
You could try this easy and simple solution:
copy the the installer file to your wine *Program Files* folder, i.e.
```
/home/username/.wine/drive_c/Program Files
```
and then run it from there.

---

### Post by Girindor on 2010-04-28
I struggled for ages, getting Spotify to work on Ubuntu, it breaking, re-installing, etc. -until I discovered We7.com which is basically like Spotify but web-based, works like a charm, and has less annoying ads.

You're welcome :-)

---

### Post by Andy from Somerset on 2010-05-03
Try the following - 

Right click the Spotify executable and select 'Properties'. Then select the 'Permissions' tab and put a tick in the 'Execute' tick box.

Install via Wine as usual.

---

