---
title: "11.10 sound from both speakers and headphones"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by 100k45h on 2011-10-15
Hi, I installed Ubuntu on my Asus K70A series and I have a problem with sound playing from both speakers of the notebook and headphones. I can't solve the problem.

I have tried to change some settings in alsamixer, that I found on the internet, though I wasn't successfull. What's more, now I cannot change the 'Headphones' file in alsamixer, it's all greyed out.

I have tried to install gnome-alsamixer, but it won't open, giving me some very long error report in terminal. 

First of all I'd like to get the 'Headphones' file in Alsamixer enabled again. I've tried to find some way to reset settings for alsa-driver to defaults, but failed to find one. From what I tried to find out, there maybe isn't even such option, because I've never found any information on doing so anywhere, but Google suggest makes me believe, there are many people trying to find some way to do it as well.

And I'd like to sort out my problem with sound playing from both speakers and headphones primarily, which is why I tried to do something in the alsamixer in the first place. Anyone has any ideas, as of what could I do?

Also if I could please ask you to explain me your ideas more thoroughly, since I am new to Ubuntu. Thank you very much, your help is much appreciated

---

### Post by Iang123 on 2011-10-16
Hi,

Try this video, I was unable to open ALSA, but follow the instructions in this vid and you should be ok. Now I just need to figure out how to use spdif..

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OvcXTZ8jgrY&feature=youtube_gdata_player](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OvcXTZ8jgrY&feature=youtube_gdata_player)

---

### Post by thomi_ch on 2011-10-21
he all

i have exact the same problem on a ASUS N71Vn.
This notebook has two headphone connectors.
Shot: [http://i.imgur.com/XIQzX.png](http://i.imgur.com/XIQzX.png)

I tried some with AlsaMixer too.. and it's still the same problem:
AlsaMixer screenshot: [http://i.imgur.com/qxbxZ.png](http://i.imgur.com/qxbxZ.png)

This is what happens if i plugin headphones:

Connector: Headphone (see shot from notebook)
AlsaMixer Channel: Headphone1
If Headphone is plugged in, i hear sound in Headphone and Speaker. The volume from speaker doesn't change.
If i mute Heahphone1 in AlsaMixer, Headphone1 will be muted.
If i mute Headphone2 in AlsaMixer, Master, Headphone2 and Speaker are muted and i need to unmute each of them to get sound back.
If i change volume from Master, Speaker or PCM volume in Headphone and Speaker are changed.

Connector: Headphone SPDIF (see shot from notebook)
AlsaMixer Channel: Headphone2
If Headphone is plugged in, i hear sound in Headphone and Speaker, but the volume/sound in the Speakers is changing. Normally in Speakers it's like a 3D sound, now with Headphone plugged in on connector "Headphone SPDIF" 3D sound is gone and also less bass.
If i mute Headphone1 in AlsaMixer, nothing changes.
If i mute Headphone2 in AlsaMixer, Master, Headphone2 and Speaker are muted and i need to unmute each of them to get sound back.
If i change volume from Master, Speaker or PCM volume in Headphone and Speaker are changed.


Here are some system information:
sudo lshw
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/714852/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/714852/)

sudo lspci -vvv
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/714853/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/714853/)

sudo lsusb -vvv
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/714854/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/714854/)

sudo lsb_release -a
LSB Version:    core-2.0-amd64:core-2.0-noarch:core-3.0-amd64:core-3.0-noarch:core-3.1-amd64:core-3.1-noarch:core-3.2-amd64:core-3.2-noarch:core-4.0-amd64:core-4.0-noarch:cxx-3.0-amd64:cxx-3.0-noarch:cxx-3.1-amd64:cxx-3.1-noarch:cxx-3.2-amd64:cxx-3.2-noarch:cxx-4.0-amd64:cxx-4.0-noarch:desktop-3.1-amd64:desktop-3.1-noarch:desktop-3.2-amd64:desktop-3.2-noarch:desktop-4.0-amd64:desktop-4.0-noarch:graphics-2.0-amd64:graphics-2.0-noarch:graphics-3.0-amd64:graphics-3.0-noarch:graphics-3.1-amd64:graphics-3.1-noarch:graphics-3.2-amd64:graphics-3.2-noarch:graphics-4.0-amd64:graphics-4.0-noarch:printing-3.2-amd64:printing-3.2-noarch:printing-4.0-amd64:printing-4.0-noarch:qt4-3.1-amd64:qt4-3.1-noarch
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 11.10
Release:        11.10
Codename:       oneiric

uname -a
Linux poseidon 3.0.0-12-generic #20-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 7 14:56:25 UTC 2011 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux


If you need more information, i'm here to post them ;)

Thanks a lot for help.

greetings from switzerland
thomi

---

### Post by thomi_ch on 2011-10-29
Hey all 

No news here?

Please.. help

Thanks
thomi

---

### Post by purelylogical on 2011-10-31
First, a disclaimer: I do not count myself as an expert in these matters and my instructions below are based on a trial-and-error approach! 

These are the steps I took to correct the same issue while using ubuntu 10.10: 

Modify /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf to add this line:

options snd-hda-intel model=sony-assamd 

(My laptop is not Sony, it's Fujitsu but this did seem to solve it - other values did not work)

run: sudo alsa force-reload (I also rebooted after this step) 

I also changed the sound preferences to have a Hardware Profile of Analog Stereo Output

HTH,

---

### Post by thomi_ch on 2011-11-02
hey and thanks...

tried it.. but :( doesn't work for me.. 

other hints are welcome :)

thomi

---

### Post by Kirstine on 2011-11-02
Hey, i also have a problem with the sound. after i fixed my screen brightness problem with the following, the sound doesn't work.. do you know what the problem may be?




1.
Run the following command in Terminal:
```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

Find the following line:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
```

Change it to the following:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor"
```

2.
Now Run
```
sudo update-grub
```

3. Reboot[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by muzikayise on 2011-11-02
simple fix 

```
 echo "options snd-hda-intel model=asus" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf 
```[B]Reboot

[/B]original thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1774627&page=2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=577099")

---

### Post by Mansor on 2011-11-03
I've got a HP DM4 1063cl with a Intel audio chip and Ubuntu 11.10 fresh install.
Here's the lspci output:

# lspci | grep -i audio
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset High Definition Audio (rev 05)
01:00.1 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc Manhattan HDMI Audio [Mobility Radeon HD 5000 Series] (rev ff)

# cat /proc/asound/card0/codec* | grep Codec
Codec: IDT 92HD81B1X5

When I plug the headphones, music It's still playing through the speakers.

To fix this I add to the config file:

options snd-hda-intel model=auto

and reboot, because unloading and loading modules doesn't work for me, I supposed something with pulse.
Now when I plug the headphones mute light indicator turns on and laptop speakers are muted.

---

### Post by tomqaz on 2012-02-27
I have Asus k50 with HDA ATI SB sound card. After installing ubuntu 11.10 i had this same problem (miusic playing from speakers and front at the same time).

In ubuntu 11.04 sounds was working properly (I was only forced to volume up the speakers after every reboot.)

I solved this problem as follows:

add new repository

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
```

update it

```
sudo apt-get update
```

install old kernel version 

```
sudo apt-get install linux-image-3.0.0-15-generic
```

install alsa drivers

```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-alsa-driver-3.0.0-15-generic linux-alsa-driver-modules-3.0.0-15-generic
```

To get it works you must starts your system with old kernel version.
Reboot and in grub menu choose "Previous Linux versions" and then next "Ubuntu, with Linux 3.0.0-15-generic"

If you want to this option be choosen by default edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg

```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

Copy the entry (menuentry) which includes ver 3.0.0.15 (it should be after "submenu "Previous Linux versions" {") and paste it as a first entry.

In my case it looks like this :
```
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.0.0-15-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
	insmod gzio
	insmod part_msdos
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,msdos5)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 997c0499-4633-4f9a-8a48-1cbe5a6c1cb2
	linux	/vmlinuz-3.0.0-15-generic root=UUID=8a9a10b3-7a6c-42f9-917b-2cdce329f154 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7
	initrd	/initrd.img-3.0.0-15-generic
}
```

---

### Post by galen_nick on 2012-02-29
> **tomqaz said:**
> I have Asus k50 with HDA ATI SB sound card. After installing ubuntu 11.10 i had this same problem (miusic playing from speakers and front at the same time).

In ubuntu 11.04 sounds was working properly (I was only forced to volume up the speakers after every reboot.)

I solved this problem as follows:

add new repository

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
```

update it

```
sudo apt-get update
```

install old kernel version 

```
sudo apt-get install linux-image-3.0.0-15-generic
```

install alsa drivers

```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-alsa-driver-3.0.0-15-generic linux-alsa-driver-modules-3.0.0-15-generic
```

To get it works you must starts your system with old kernel version.
Reboot and in grub menu choose "Previous Linux versions" and then next "Ubuntu, with Linux 3.0.0-15-generic"

If you want to this option be choosen by default edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg

```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

Copy the entry (menuentry) which includes ver 3.0.0.15 (it should be after "submenu "Previous Linux versions" {") and paste it as a first entry.

In my case it looks like this :
```
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.0.0-15-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
	insmod gzio
	insmod part_msdos
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,msdos5)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 997c0499-4633-4f9a-8a48-1cbe5a6c1cb2
	linux	/vmlinuz-3.0.0-15-generic root=UUID=8a9a10b3-7a6c-42f9-917b-2cdce329f154 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7
	initrd	/initrd.img-3.0.0-15-generic
}
```

This seemed to work for me at first, but then it started doing strange things.
When I plug in my headphone, it doens't always give sound right away, when i play with the volume it suddenly starts.
When I plug out my headphone my speakers won't always start automaticly.
Anyone else has this problem? Or a solution?
Or even better, a solution that doesn't require going to an older version of linux and just works in the 3.0.0-16-generic?

---

