---
title: "Asus 990FX - 12.04 new install - no LAN"
date: 2012-06-09
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jprainey on 2012-06-09
Hello people,

I am building a new system for the first time in 7 years, and planning to run Ubuntu.

I have had some success so far in that I have a clean install of Ubuntu 12.04.  Only problem is that there is no lan.  Hoping for some help.

hardware details are:
    Asus Sabertooth 990FX motherboard
    AMD FX8120 processor
    32GB (4x8GB Patriot 1600Mhz memory
    Asus GT440 Video.

Been working on this for a few hours now, and have done the following:
   -Flash BIOS to Rev 1208 (from 0901)
   -Install 12.04 from CD
   -Started OK - 1 quick blink of crazy graphics and login - everything OK, no lan
   -did some searching, so far I have only tried to fiddle with the iommu settings - tried
        all combinations to no avail - managed to lose keyboard and mouse once. (This
        comes from a thread on LinuxQuestions.org)
   -behavior remains the same, during boot process, lan port and port on switch are lit
        through bios and checks, both lights go out part way through linux boot.  Crazy
        flash on screen as linux is loading.

I have seen nekrophiliacs thread from march.  My experience seems to have been a little more successful, with an OK start but no lan

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by jprainey on 2012-06-09
Solved!

990FX has a Realtek 8111 nic.  Seems that the driver that comes with the 12.04 distro does not work with this board.

Downloaded new driver from Realtek and installed, and up and running with no problems.

The latest driver can be downloaded from here:    [http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=13&PFid=5&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false](http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=13&PFid=5&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false)

The version that worked for me is 8.031.00, dated my 28, 2012.

---

### Post by promet on 2012-10-24
Hello JP,

I am plotting a new build myself, and am strongly considering the 990FX also. That is a great tip on the NIC driver. I am wondering as well, are you able to use the full UEFI Bios on your install? 

I'm trying to overcome my UEFI anxieties with pre-reading and what not. I'd also love, though, to hear any thoughts and or methods you'd have regarding the 990FX and it's ability to "play nice" with UEFI Bios what with all of the security key, M$ scuttlebutt and so on. Anything you could share would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks again for this already very valuable info,

Cheers!

---

