---
title: "ASUS 1015E ds03 12.04 Re-install"
date: 2014-01-15
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by dmbNCSU on 2014-01-15
EDIT:  Took a lesson on EFI booting and now I am good!



I have also posted this in the install section but may also get help here:

I had bought an Asus 1015E DS03 from a friend who wiped the drive and installed windows 8 on it.  I am trying to re-install 12.04 but am getting an error during installation saying the grub could not be installed and then fails the install. I am doing a default install without modifying the partitions.  My questions are as follows:

Do I need to do any special partitioning for this particular laptop?  I know it comes pre-installed with recovery partitions but this was wiped from the Windows install.

Also do I need to do anything after an install regarding drivers? i.e. video card or wireless?  I am not sure what Asus does as far as configuration before shipping a stock 1015E

Would it be easier just to obtain a recovery image from someone with a 1015E and re-install that way?

I am not an expert by any means but any help would be immensely appreciated!

Thanks,
-David

---

### Post by dan-schipman on 2014-01-23
I saw this post under a Amazon review ([http://www.amazon.com/review/RNWZWBQKPM5EK/ref=cm_srch_res_rtr_alt_3](http://www.amazon.com/review/RNWZWBQKPM5EK/ref=cm_srch_res_rtr_alt_3)). I'm about to wipe my 1015 and install Ubuntu. This might help solve the issue. The suggested fix is below
[B]
Here is the suggested fix from the comments[/B]
If you do change the OS, the trick is to use the GRUB2-EFI boot loader,  which requires a FAT partition at the start of the drive. This is an  advanced choice of bootloader that prior users of Linux might not know.  You'll have to look carefully at advanced or optional choices, during  installation.


I'll let you know how my install goes and if I had to make any adjustments

---

### Post by dan-schipman on 2014-01-23
oh and by the way.. ignore the original negative review I linked to.. I simply did that to show where I got my fix from.

---

