---
title: "11.10 touch pad kinda working and power problem"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by bpb101 on 2011-10-16
hi all
this is kinda hard to explain but however i try my best
laptop is eee pc 900 . runnung ubuntu 11.10

first you must know , that the laptop can detect what battery is left very well . graph in ubuntu 11.04 in attatchments

problem 1:  power problem :i charging my eee pc 900 and when i take it out of the charger. i get a message . battery is criticall low . and is about to shut off . i hit cancel . after a few second , it ask me to login , then when it dose , there no wifi , then seconds later . the screen goess black with a white flashing line at the top  
the only way to fix is to restart 


problem 2: touchpad  would be working , then i would stop . need to restart

problem 3 : i have to login after a suspend , i know it default but i had it turn off , now it back..


anybody got a solution to any of these probs ..
much appreciated

---

### Post by dfarrell07 on 2011-10-17
> **bpb101 said:**
> problem 2: touchpad  would be working , then i would stop . need to restart

You may want to check out these bug reports, and mark yourself as affected if one of them seems like your problem. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11333908&postcount=35](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11333908&postcount=35)

I was having touchpad issues as well. Frequently, my touchpad would not work, but the red nub on my Lenovo W520 still worked. I have not had that bug in two days, after turning off 'disable touchpad while typing' in the 'mouse and touchpad' settings.

---

### Post by suuperjan on 2011-10-18
I have the same problem with the battery. Ubuntu never has been able to make a decent guess on the battery state on my eeepc. (kept telling me it was broken), but you could disable the warning and go on with your life.

according to this page: [http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=87033](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=87033)

the problem is as follows:[I]
This is a problem with the way the battery reports its charging state. The ubuntu applet (and the rest of the system, down to the kernel) expects the charge to be reported in mAh but instead the battery itself reports a percentage. If you look at state and info in /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/, you'll find that a fully charged battery reports a charge of 100 mAh ... with a (reported) design capacity of 5200 mAh this works out to 1.9 %. [/I]

So, does anyone know how to tell ubuntu it should not hybernate untill i say so? Or is there another work around? Can i turn acpi off?

---

### Post by dzyubam on 2011-10-21
I'm having the same problem with my touchpad just stopping to work. I think I had some similar problem back in Ubuntu 10.04 before I disabled that "Disable touchpad while typing" feature. It was quite annoying.

My laptop is Fujitsu Siemens Amilo Pi3540.
> **dfarrell07 said:**
> You may want to check out these bug reports, and mark yourself as affected if one of them seems like your problem. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11333908&postcount=35](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11333908&postcount=35)

I was having touchpad issues as well. Frequently, my touchpad would not work, but the red nub on my Lenovo W520 still worked. I have not had that bug in two days, after turning off 'disable touchpad while typing' in the 'mouse and touchpad' settings.

---

### Post by bpb101 on 2011-10-21
> **suuperjan said:**
> I have the same problem with the battery. Ubuntu never has been able to make a decent guess on the battery state on my eeepc. (kept telling me it was broken), but you could disable the warning and go on with your life.

according to this page: [http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=87033](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=87033)

the problem is as follows:[I]
This is a problem with the way the battery reports its charging state. The ubuntu applet (and the rest of the system, down to the kernel) expects the charge to be reported in mAh but instead the battery itself reports a percentage. If you look at state and info in /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/, you'll find that a fully charged battery reports a charge of 100 mAh ... with a (reported) design capacity of 5200 mAh this works out to 1.9 %. [/I]

So, does anyone know how to tell ubuntu it should not hybernate untill i say so? Or is there another work around? Can i turn acpi off?
do you know how to disable 
____________________________
in other news the touchpad thing has seams it has sorted itself out

---

### Post by suuperjan on 2011-10-21
Hi all,

I think I found a rather elegant solution for the battery problem.

Open the softwarecenter and install dconf-editor.

Open dconf-editor, and browse to org>gnome>settings-daemon>plugins>power

Here you can edit all your power settings. Scroll to the bottom of the list and unselect 'use-time-for-policy', according to the description: "If time based notifications should be used. **If set to false, then the percentage change is used instead, which may fix a broken ACPI BIOS**."

That is exactly the problem with the eeepc 900 and eeepc 700 battery. (see the link in my first post)

I didn't spend a lot of time testing it, but right now, I m typing this post on battery that is 20% full. Before I changed the setting, my laptop would hibernate at 80%.

Looks like our little eee pc's do have at least another 6 months to live after all. :D

P.S.: I don't experience the touchpad problem on my eeepc 900, but i 've read somewhere that this could be the result of missing synaptics drivers, could be worth checking out. (in software center, technical item)

---

### Post by bpb101 on 2011-10-21
thanks so much. i was going to format to 11.04 as it was unbearable as my power lead is a bit short and it was pulling itself out ....so thanks very much you have saved me hours of work!!!


one other thing.how do u turn off entering a password after suspend ... i had this turn off in 11.04 using config editor. under "apps ,gnome-power manager , locks and untick all ....but it is unticked atm and it is still asking for a password ...
any help anybody !!!

---

### Post by bpb101 on 2011-10-23
anybdy any thoughts

---

### Post by suuperjan on 2012-04-27
Oh,

Revisiting this page after installing 12.04 I notice nobody answered the touchpad problem, I hope nobody got rid of their Eeepc, because there is a embarrassedly easy fix for the touchpad problem as well.

Go to system settings>mouse and touchpad>touchpad and deselect> turn off touchpad while typing (I have this in dutch, so the translation my be different)

and Tadaaam... It is april 2012 and the little Eeepc 900 is working better then ever. Ubuntu 12.04 is flying on the original netbook.

---

### Post by OldAdamUser2 on 2012-08-11
I managed to solve touchpad, power, suspend/resume and more in my recent installation of Ubuntu 11.10. One key suggestion is to switch from the Unity desktop to fluxbox. It's not as pretty, but it uses fewer resources and thus will allow you to play streaming video from Youtube or Amazon without lagginess. Rather than type in the detailed steps I took, I'll just refer you to my blog posting on the topic: 

 [http://lakenorforkadventures.blogspot.com/2012/08/installing-ubuntu-1110-on-asus-eee-900.html](http://lakenorforkadventures.blogspot.com/2012/08/installing-ubuntu-1110-on-asus-eee-900.html)


I don't have Ubuntu set to ask me for a password at all so I haven't encountered the problem you mention about logging in after "resume." Perhaps the following thread might be of some use to you:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866858](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866858)

---

### Post by ads52 on 2012-08-12
> **OldAdamUser2 said:**
>  One key suggestion is to switch from the Unity desktop to fluxbox. It's not as pretty, but it uses fewer resources and thus will allow you to play streaming video from Youtube or Amazon without lagginess.

'Pretty' is in the eye of the beholder :). In my mind a simple desktop can be as beautiful as the most crowded one:

[http://www.andrews-corner.org/images/simple.png](http://www.andrews-corner.org/images/simple.png)

Admittedly this is running on a big screen, not a mini computer but you get the idea :).

---

### Post by OldAdamUser2 on 2012-08-12
> **ads52 said:**
> 'Pretty' is in the eye of the beholder :). In my mind a simple desktop can be as beautiful as the most crowded one:

[http://www.andrews-corner.org/images/simple.png](http://www.andrews-corner.org/images/simple.png)

Admittedly this is running on a big screen, not a mini computer but you get the idea :).
Agreed. Your desktop is quite pretty. Mine is very basic--just a blank purple background with the pop-up toolbar at the bottom. But what more do I need? When I use my computer I am generally using a program--Firefox or Pytrainer or Pcmanfm. I am not looking at the desktop -- except briefly in passing.

---

