---
title: "12.04 shutdown problem after mounting NTFS drives N73JQ"
date: 2012-07-26
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by misterblobby on 2012-07-26
Hi all,

I have an N73JQ laptop on a dual boot with Windows 7. If I access any of the NTFS drives, it will not shut down properly for some time, but then just seems to 'fix' itself for no apparent reason maybe a week later.

Things I have tried:

Tried "Sudo shutdown -P now" and "sudo shutdown -h now" - these don't seem to give any improvement over shutting down with the start menu
- Tried logging in with unity2D
- Tried going into Windows, opening all drives then shutting down.
- I have the current NVIDIA drivers
- I always dismount NTFS drives before shutting down

If I go in through recovery mode so you can see what is happening during startup and shutdown, everything seems to stop okay until it gets to the last 'power off' command.

This isn't a huge problem, as all I have to do is hold down the power button to force it to shut down. My main concern is that I am going to end up with corrupted NTFS drives by doing this.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by misterblobby on 2012-08-06
Nothing like answering your own posts!

Just thought I'd post some observations about this issue:

- Having Jupiter installed seems to make the problem occur more often

- Doing a clean of APT CACHE with Ubuntu Tweak seems to get rid of the problem.. at least temporarily.

I have no idea whether either of these have anything to do with Ubuntu's ability to shut down or not, but the Apt Cache thing seems to have worked for now.

Hope this helps someone out there.

---

