---
title: "11.04 on R2H UMPC"
date: 2011-07-28
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by nkendrick on 2011-07-28
Hi Everyone,

I have installed 11.04 on an Asus R2H UMPC - this is an Asus touch-screen tablet from 2007. Pretty much everything major is working but one niggle is that I cannot get the on-screen keyboard to toggle on/off.

[IMG]http://images.dailytech.com/nimage/2824_r2h_new.jpg[/IMG]

I have Gone through System Settings...Keyboard Shortcuts...Toggle onscreen keyboard and tried to set this to one of the only two spare buttons on the UMPC but nothing happens when I press them.

The left 'menu' button on the front of the R2H identifies itself as XF86AudioMedia and the 'keyboard' button on the right identifies itself as a slashed letter O : Ø

Is there anything else I need to do or install. I *have* managed to get the on-screen keyboard to pop up at login.

While I'm at it, if there is anyone else running Linux on an R2H I'd appreciate any useful insight - a few things I have not tackled yet (but have started to research):


[LIST]
[*]Fingerprint scanner
[*]GPS module
[*]Webcam upside down (seen plenty of posts about this, but have not done anything about it yet).
[/LIST]

Thanks

---

### Post by quill3033 on 2012-02-01
I'm about to install 11.10 on it - it is a brick at the moment with Vista installed - unbelievably slow. Tried the live cd and it worked as a desktop - couldn't get the touch screen to work on live session but will see how I go once I actually install the system. 
Will keep posting on this.

---

### Post by quill3033 on 2012-02-01
just one question: you say you can't get the screen to toggle on and off - that means you could get the touch screen function working then? Here's hoping :-)

---

### Post by quill3033 on 2012-02-02
ok installed 11.10 but after the first update (I think it's the headers) the login screen is full of vertical multicoloured lines.
My temporary solution is to select earlier version from boot menu. 

Still haven't been able to get the touchscreen working. 
Can get the on screen keyboard to appear at login but need to use the mouse to press each key. 

Any help/suggestions would be much appreciated. My next thought is to install lucid instead. And maybe to use a lighter desktop.

---

