---
title: "11.10 on Asus k53v"
date: 2011-11-05
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by designerferro on 2011-11-05
Installing Ubuntu 11.10 on my Asus k53sv.

Just tested the live CD:

[LIST]
[*]Mousepad two finger scroll working
[*]FN and F1 to F12 keys working:
[LIST]
[*]Volume up
[*]Volume down
[*]Mute
[*]Brighter
[*]Darker
[*]Calculator
[*]Blank Screen
[*]Sleep
[*]Disconnect Network
[*]Play/Pause
[*]Skip Forward
[*]Skip Backward
[*]Stop
[/LIST]
 
[*]WiFi
[/LIST]
Not working:

[LIST]
[*]Optimus Intel/Nvidia swap. DMESG mumbles about Nouveau and DRM... Looking up a solution to pull the Nvidia down and the Intel up on the 11.04 Asus threads.
[/LIST]
I think that is it.

Track pad stopped working after sleep. Only happened once.

After install, I've followed this [15 things I did after installing ]("http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/10/15-things-i-did-after-installing-new.html")**[Ubuntu 11.10 Oneiric Ocelot]("http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/10/15-things-i-did-after-installing-new.html"), **but didn't install Gnome Shell since Unity was all the eye candy I was looking for nor did I install the Proprietary Hardware Drivers. I'll get to that latter.

**Fixing Nvidia:**

I followed [Cusician's thread here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1791081") for this, but there were some changes and new dependencies.

> sudo apt-get install git

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install virtualgl

git clone [https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/Bumblebee](https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/Bumblebee)

cd Bumblebee/ 

sudo ./install
After instillation, the following text shows:
> 
===== Installation finished =====
You need to add users which are allowed to use Bumblebee to the group:
       sudo usermod -a -G bumblebee username-here
To ensure that drivers and are loaded correctly, you need to reboot.

Programs do not run themselves automatically with Bumblebee. If you would
like to run 'glxgears' with Bumblebee, you have to run the below command:
    optirun glxgears

There is also a GUI for Bumblebee written in Python: bumblebee-ui
It can be downloaded from [https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/bumblebee-ui](https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/bumblebee-ui)

If you found a bug, have a suggestion or an issue, please create an issue at
[https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/Bumblebee/issues](https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/Bumblebee/issues)
You may also run bumblebee-bugreport if needed

If you are not satisfied, you can uninstall Bumblebee by running:
    /usr/local/bin/bumblebee-uninstall

Special thanks to Martin Juhl (MrMEEE) who initiated the project. His website
can be found at [http://www.martin-juhl.dk/](http://www.martin-juhl.dk/)

The Bumblebee Project Team


(Don't install the Bumblebee-ui. It's experimental and doesn't work with the notification area.)

---

### Post by cociuba on 2011-11-07
I am using an asus k53u laptop and my Ethernet card is not connecting to the internet, does anyone else had this problem?

---

### Post by designerferro on 2011-11-07
I've only connected to the Internet via WiFi and cable through iPhone Hotspot. Lan was working in 11.04, no reason not to work in this version, but have to try that.

---

### Post by apostl3pol on 2011-12-08
I just successfully installed Ubuntu 11.10 (with Gnome-shell) via Wubi on my new Asus a53s (a.k.a. k53sv) with Core i7 and Nvidia/Intel graphics, and I thought I'd include links to the guides here that I used, since others may find them useful.

I tried both Ironhide and Bumblebee to enable Optimus graphics switching, and found that Ironhide gives both better performance with the Nvidia card (~700fps as compared to ~150fps with Bumblebee) as well as better power management, extending my battery life.


To install Ironhide, I followed the instructions at this site:

[INDENT][http://www.ivegotavirus.com/blog/2011/09/01/how-to-set-up-intel-optimus-graphics-on-ubuntu-save-battery-life/]("http://www.ivegotavirus.com/blog/2011/09/01/how-to-set-up-intel-optimus-graphics-on-ubuntu-save-battery-life/")[/INDENT]


During installation, I was given the option to use one of several configuration scripts. I selected the one described in this thread by Thomas Krutz:

[INDENT][http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1791081]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1791081")[/INDENT]

and when asked for the parameter for "ConnectedMonitor" in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia, I chose "CRT-0". There was also an option to chose which image format to use to display the output from the graphics card; I used the default.


Finally, I used all of the recommendations at the bottom of this page under "4. Intel Device Tweaks":

[INDENT][http://www.ivegotavirus.com/blog/2011/11/06/how-to-get-optimus-working-on-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric/](http://www.ivegotavirus.com/blog/2011/11/06/how-to-get-optimus-working-on-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric/)[/INDENT]

to help improve battery life even further.


After doing all of the above and rebooting, graphics switching is working fully, and the battery life has improved from ~2hrs to ~5hrs. Hopefully with the next kernel upgrade it will get even better, but I'm definitely happy for now. I hope this info helps someone else!

---

### Post by adraniel on 2011-12-12
Well, reading this post, I should install or Bumblee Ironhead? Required for games, 3D programming, uses heavy programs ...
 And I'm very interested to see uncut films in high definition (1080p).
 My laptop is an ASUS-SX538V K53SV.

 Regards, thanks.

---

### Post by julia.werra on 2012-01-01
Hello,
so I have been trying to follow your /[these]("http://www.ivegotavirus.com/blog/2011/09/01/how-to-set-up-intel-optimus-graphics-on-ubuntu-save-battery-life/") describtions on how save battery life.
Installing ironhide I got the message acpi_call module not detected. I am running Ubunut 11.10 i686 (so 32bits).
Any ideas on that one?

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2012-01-04
I tried Ironhide and it gives a better performance than Bumblebee but I had a fan spinning at a full speed constantly. With Bumblebee I have noticed another problem. After running anything with optirun the laptop does not suspend.

---

### Post by adraniel on 2012-01-10
I managed to work in Ubuntu 11.10 optimus with 100% Ironhide making a great effort and installing bumblebee to see what had better support. Ironhide Bumblebee works best for this laptop and I have no problem that I had the fan at full speed as it was in bumblebee.

Apostl3pol give many thanks to facilitate the work, people like you makes this easier, now my laptop does not have nothing against others who have nvidia and work without problems.

Thank you very much, a greeting.

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2012-01-10
> **adraniel said:**
> I managed to work in Ubuntu 11.10 optimus with 100% Ironhide making a great effort and installing bumblebee to see what had better support. Ironhide Bumblebee works best for this laptop and I have no problem that I had the fan at full speed as it was in bumblebee.

Apostl3pol give many thanks to facilitate the work, people like you makes this easier, now my laptop does not have nothing against others who have nvidia and work without problems.

Thank you very much, a greeting.

So do you use now Bumblebee or Ironhide?

---

### Post by adraniel on 2012-01-11
> **foxy123 said:**
> So do you use now Bumblebee or Ironhide?

   You mean exactly?
 If you talk about the fan, I was not about Ironhide, for now everything perfect.

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2012-01-12
> **adraniel said:**
> You mean exactly?
You said
> **adraniel said:**
> Ironhide Bumblebee works best for this laptop...
So I wonder whether it's Bumblebee or Ironhide?

---

### Post by adraniel on 2012-01-12
> **foxy123 said:**
> You said

So I wonder whether it's Bumblebee or Ironhide?

Excuse the expression, I'm not English.
 Ironhide works best for this laptop, it is all in perfect order.

 A greeting friend.

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2012-01-12
> **adraniel said:**
> Excuse the expression, I'm not English.
 Ironhide works best for this laptop, it is all in perfect order.

 A greeting friend.

Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-02-17
New Bumblebee version 3.0 is working out of box. Thanks to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee)

For my ASUS K53SV netbook, (NVIDIA GT540M) it is a** great power saving** too. 

**With default Ubuntu 11.10 installation, my power consumption was nearly 30~32 W** (battery life ~ **1hr and 50 minutes**). I managed to cut it down to **22 W** with some kernel options before boot using this ([http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...15_power&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...15_power&num=1)). 
But Still the battery was lasting hardly for **2hr and 40** minutes at even 20% screen brightness.

I installed today Bumblebee 3.0, (had never tried it in past, nor did for Ironhide). After installation and reboot it came down to **12W** consumption. Battery is now reading **4 hr and 40 minutes**, and mind that the display brightness is at 50%.

[B]I don't use any power tweaks (No Powetop/Jupiter or anything similar).
Only used 
Default Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit installation
+ Kernel Options(GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_backlight=vendor i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 pcie_aspm=force")
    + Bumblebee 3.0[/B]

I have tested some of the games on wine, which are working fine with bumblebee "optirum wine yourgame" command.

**ONLY Bumblebee has managed to calm down my discrete NVIDIA card, which was by default always ON in my default Ubuntu 11.10 installation, and was consuming alone 10 W of power, cutting my battery down by 2 hours.**

---

### Post by adraniel on 2012-03-04
> **sbnwl said:**
> New Bumblebee version 3.0 is working out of box. Thanks to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee)

For my ASUS K53SV netbook, (NVIDIA GT540M) it is a** great power saving** too. 

**With default Ubuntu 11.10 installation, my power consumption was nearly 30~32 W** (battery life ~ **1hr and 50 minutes**). I managed to cut it down to **22 W** with some kernel options before boot using this ([http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...15_power&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...15_power&num=1)). 
But Still the battery was lasting hardly for **2hr and 40** minutes at even 20% screen brightness.

I installed today Bumblebee 3.0, (had never tried it in past, nor did for Ironhide). After installation and reboot it came down to **12W** consumption. Battery is now reading **4 hr and 40 minutes**, and mind that the display brightness is at 50%.

[B]I don't use any power tweaks (No Powetop/Jupiter or anything similar).
Only used 
Default Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit installation
+ Kernel Options(GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_backlight=vendor i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 pcie_aspm=force")
    + Bumblebee 3.0[/B]

I have tested some of the games on wine, which are working fine with bumblebee "optirum wine yourgame" command.

**ONLY Bumblebee has managed to calm down my discrete NVIDIA card, which was by default always ON in my default Ubuntu 11.10 installation, and was consuming alone 10 W of power, cutting my battery down by 2 hours.**


[FONT=Century Gothic]Thanks for the information you have given.
 I've helped a lot but I have a little problem and I would like you to help me a little more, especially since I have the same laptop that you have.
 Could you put all the steps you took please?

 A greeting, thanks.[/FONT]

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-03-07
@adraniel> 
Could you put all the steps you took please?
Just let me know regarding exactly what? Installation of Bumblebee or the kernel options? Both are different matters from each other.

---

### Post by fuduntu on 2012-03-07
> **sbnwl said:**
> New Bumblebee version 3.0 is working out of box. Thanks to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee)

For my ASUS K53SV netbook, (NVIDIA GT540M) it is a** great power saving** too. 

**With default Ubuntu 11.10 installation, my power consumption was nearly 30~32 W** (battery life ~ **1hr and 50 minutes**). I managed to cut it down to **22 W** with some kernel options before boot using this ([http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...15_power&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?pag...15_power&num=1)). 
But Still the battery was lasting hardly for **2hr and 40** minutes at even 20% screen brightness.

I installed today Bumblebee 3.0, (had never tried it in past, nor did for Ironhide). After installation and reboot it came down to **12W** consumption. Battery is now reading **4 hr and 40 minutes**, and mind that the display brightness is at 50%.

[B]I don't use any power tweaks (No Powetop/Jupiter or anything similar).
Only used 
Default Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit installation
+ Kernel Options(GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi_backlight=vendor i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 pcie_aspm=force")
    + Bumblebee 3.0[/B]

I have tested some of the games on wine, which are working fine with bumblebee "optirum wine yourgame" command.

**ONLY Bumblebee has managed to calm down my discrete NVIDIA card, which was by default always ON in my default Ubuntu 11.10 installation, and was consuming alone 10 W of power, cutting my battery down by 2 hours.**

12 watts?  WOW that's still high, install Jupiter..  With the NVIDIA off, you might see it drop to 6 or 7.

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-03-08
@fuduntu
> 12 watts?  WOW that's still high, install Jupiter..  With the NVIDIA off, you might see it drop to 6 or 7.> You know what 7 watts mean? ***It's a dream thing!!!*** 7 watts would mean (56 Wh) /(7 W) = 8 hours of battery life. I have not even heard of this much for this machine on any site or blog. If you are sure enough, then I will give it a try to Jupiter. Won't Jupiter settings conflict with "optirun myapp" command? What you say?

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-03-08
> **fuduntu said:**
> 12 watts?  WOW that's still high, install Jupiter..  With the NVIDIA off, you might see it drop to 6 or 7.

OKAY Installed Jupiter from webupd8. Not a small bit of difference. Jupiter is not helping, still at 12 Watts.

---

### Post by fuduntu on 2012-03-08
> **sbnwl said:**
> OKAY Installed Jupiter from webupd8. Not a small bit of difference. Jupiter is not helping, still at 12 Watts.

It'll help, it just isn't immediately obvious.  Especially if the machine is very busy.

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-03-08
> **fuduntu said:**
> It'll help, it just isn't immediately obvious.  Especially if the machine is very busy.
After the install I went for some work leaving my laptop (I was only surfing web on firefox) for nearly 1 hr and 30 min. When I returned It is still at 12 Watts. The machine was completely idle. Even now when I am working it is around 12 watts.

---

### Post by fuduntu on 2012-03-08
> **sbnwl said:**
> After the install I went for some work leaving my laptop (I was only surfing web on firefox) for nearly 1 hr and 30 min. When I returned It is still at 12 Watts. The machine was completely idle. Even now when I am working it is around 12 watts.

Hmm, odd.  Maybe that's the best you can do with that model then.  Have you set ACPI_OSI=Linux in grub?

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-03-09
> **fuduntu said:**
> Hmm, odd.  Maybe that's the best you can do with that model then.  Have you set ACPI_OSI=Linux in grub?
My observations on this ASUS laptop suggest that 'i915.i915_enable_rc6=1'>>cuts by 5W; 
'pcie_aspm=force'>>cuts by 2W; 
***'acpi_osi=Linux'>>hardly makes any difference;***
'i915.lvds_downclock=1'>>again no luck.

BTW you put "acpi_osi" in capital letters, which, I believe, should be in small letters.

---

### Post by soissons_ on 2012-04-02
What about the FN key for enabling/disabling the touchpad? Do your brightness and volume settings reset after restart?

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-05-07
> **soissons_ said:**
> What about the FN key for enabling/disabling the touchpad? Do your brightness and volume settings reset after restart?

Not the volume keys, Volume remains at its assigned level after reboots.
BUT the brightness changes itself after every reboot. FN keys in both cases works fine.

You can adjust the brightness to remain at a "fixed desired" level at each reboot by following this:
```
sudo nano /etc/rc.local
```And input your password as asked. Then put the following line at the end of that file```
echo 1000 | tee /sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
```Where 1000 is the "fixed desired" level of brightness in my case. You can use any value from 100 to 4500. Press ctrl+X then 'y' then "Enter" to exit with saving your changes. You will see it retains your "Desired" level of brightness through reboots.

---

### Post by Mr.BS on 2012-08-13
Thanks sbnwl,

Not only is the brightness at a constant level now, i also have more levels in the lower settings!

Time for :popcorn:

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2012-09-13
@ Mr.BS
You are welcome

---

### Post by Fantu on 2012-10-17
I installed nvidia driver and specify to use nvdia card on xorg.conf, not work, on xorg log all ok except screen failed because not read edid.
Can someone tell me the exact configuration to add on xorg.conf for screen of Asus k53v please?

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2012-10-24
I wonder if anyone has successfully upgraded from 12.04 to 12.10? I have a problem with compiz I believe. Every time I click on any Unity launcher compiz crashes. I have Bumblebee installed but as there is no Quantal repo for ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates I am using the Precise repo but probably I do not need it anymore? Anyway could anyone share her/his experience?

---

### Post by foxy123 on 2012-11-13
I have completely removed bumblebee and ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates but Unity still crashes regularly.

---

### Post by sbnwl on 2013-02-08
@foxy123

I successfully upgraded from Ubuntu 12.04 + bumblebee + nvidia, to ubuntu 12.10. No problems here. Though, I waited for nearly 5 weeks after the Ubuntu 12.10 version launch, before I decided to upgrade. I have no history of re-installations.

---

### Post by Mr.BS on 2013-03-23
After reading the comment of sbnwl i decided to upgrade as well (12.04 to 12.10). In the beginning there were no big problems, mostly due to differences in versions/config.
Now after a few weeks i'm getting some random errors about (false) GPU lockups...???? The system has no lockups or hangups whatsoever, only the error popup itself.
 I send a report and hope some ubuntu professionals can solve this.
Now this is what happens when i'm on power supply, on battery only i get less error popups but my backlight is constantly switching from bright to dim mostly random but sometimes seems to respond to keys being pressed....???

edit (Backlight switching was caused by spontaneous reset (to default) of brightness settings and is now back to normal again)

This problem started a few days ago, i tried to switch back to previous kernel but with same result. I also tried without compiz but still the same problem exists.:-k
Maybe this is also caused by the missing Quantal repo?

---

