---
title: "11.10  laptop won't finish shutting down"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by blueeyedlion on 2011-10-17
Everything about the update works fine until I try to turn my laptop off.  Then the shutdown seems to happen normally up until the point where it would normally turn off, then it hangs.  The final screen before shutdown is there, with the ubuntu logo and the five dots, but nothing happens.  What can I do?

---

### Post by varunsaini on 2011-10-20
Even I am facing same problem, My Dell laptop is not shutting down..I have to force shut down.

---

### Post by tigeronk2 on 2011-10-21
Similar problem. Unable to shutdown. 
Doing a shutdown closes running programs and takes me to the desktop login prompt.
Tried 'shutdown now' from terminal window ... that hangs in the process of shut down.

---

### Post by red4our on 2011-10-21
Same problem on my HP DM1z.  Also having problem with suspend

---

### Post by ronrut on 2011-10-21
Same with my Lenovo G570.  Will not shut down or restart with the menu selection, have to use the power button.

--Ron

ps:  clean, full install of 11.10, beautiful otherwise!

---

### Post by varunsaini on 2011-10-21
You guys can try this, if it works
 
- Open Terminal 
- sudo shutdown now -P

--Varun

---

### Post by kubecz3k on 2011-10-22
Same to me on my Asus K52J, this bug was already in 11.04 (I was on 10.10 because of that).
Even shutting down with sudo not always works.

---

### Post by Pasta on 2011-10-23
My Asus X73 (MB name K73SV) takes a few seconds to shut down, long enough to be noticed but it shuts down properly besides that.

---

### Post by actaris on 2011-10-24
Idem for my HP Probook 6540b, all ok but no shutdown and no reboot.

---

### Post by djpemberton on 2011-10-25
Not that this helps out the discussion, but my new Asus u46e also has this problem with a fresh install of 11.10.

---

### Post by djpemberton on 2011-10-25
Not sure this will help here, but I will throw it out anyway.

I have a new Asus u46e with a ssd. I initially had troubles booting, which were solved by the boot option "acpi=off". However, this messed other things up, one of them being unable to shutdown or restart properly. I changed the boot option to "noapic" and that problem, as well as others, was fixed. I still have a fan issue, but most problems have been resolved.

---

### Post by Cfhs_1 on 2011-11-07
BUMP!
I'm also having this problem on my Dell Studio 1569. If I press the tab key during the shutdown, and watch the shutdown process, everything seems normal. Then it says, "Will now halt" or "Will now restart" but just hangs.

Is there any correlation between this and the version of 11.10 you're running? (64-bit vs 32-bit) I've never had this problem before until I decided to give 64-bit a try with this release.

---

### Post by bhupsi on 2011-11-10
I am also having the restart/shutdown problem on my HP laptop.  11.10 is for me the buggiest ubuntu version that I have ever seen.  I wish I had never upgraded.

---

### Post by Tomween1 on 2011-11-21
I too am experiencing the same issue on Toshiba Satellite. It didn't do this after the few shut downs but now is a constant. 

Are there no suggestions for a solution?

---

### Post by Jay3fer on 2011-11-24
> **varunsaini said:**
> You guys can try this, if it works
 
- Open Terminal 
- sudo shutdown now -P

--Varun

Well, yes, this works... but it shouldn't have to.  :-(

Mine doesn't "hang" as such.  From the main login screen, I click shut down... and nothing happens.  If I hit shut down from inside a user account, it just takes me out to the login screen.  Blah.
Anyway, open terminal is a workaround, but I want a solution!

---

### Post by fdrake on 2011-11-24
Check if you have those 2 files:
/etc/rc0.d/S90halt > for shutdown/power off
/etc/rc6.d/S90reboot > for reboot 
also try to shutdown and check you logs:```

dmesg | less
less /var/log/syslog
less /var/log/syslog.1

```
check for eny error messages related to sys shutdown or reboot

---

### Post by techvish81 on 2011-11-25
> **djpemberton said:**
> Not sure this will help here, but I will throw it out anyway.

I have a new Asus u46e with a ssd. I initially had troubles booting, which were solved by the boot option "acpi=off". However, this messed other things up, one of them being unable to shutdown or restart properly. I changed the boot option to "noapic" and that problem, as well as others, was fixed. I still have a fan issue, but most problems have been resolved.

can you tell me what the "fan issue " is? 
i think i can help .

---

### Post by techvish81 on 2011-11-25
l have no such issue with my hp mini  and i am using 32bit , ( i can't either use 64bit ha ha) if it has something to do with 'bits'. lol

---

### Post by PaulNKS on 2011-11-26
> **fdrake said:**
> Check if you have those 2 files:
/etc/rc0.d/S90halt > for shutdown/power off
/etc/rc6.d/S90reboot > for reboot 


I'm having the same problem on a Lenovo. When I shut down, it goes to the login screen. I checked and I do have the above files.

Thanks.

---

### Post by TiagoTS on 2011-12-24
It`s been few days since i migrated from Windows to Ubuntu and i`m very impressed, once i started using and installing apps on Ubuntu 11.10 i notice i was not shutting down anymore or restarting, it closed the OS but hang on a black screen.

Solution for me was open the Synaptic and install fglrx and xvba-va-driver for my ATI graphcis card, i took one manual poweroff once more, now it`s all working correctly, i hope it will help.

---

### Post by parovelb on 2012-01-02
I have a similar problem too. After shutdown, the logo display stays there forever.

Pressing F2 results in:
```
Could not get to the system bus. Modem-manager...
```
```
The system will now halt.
```

After the halt nothing happens.

---

### Post by PsyForce on 2012-01-14
Is there any word on the shutdown -> login screen problem? My system generally doesn't hang, but when shutting down from the power button or the menu it often goes to the login screen where I have to shut down again. 

The redundancy is mildly annoying and I can see how it would turn off a lot of new users. I should note that sometimes it does properly shut down the first time, but I really have no idea why it's so variable. I almost always use the same few applications and haven't noticed any correlation there.

---

### Post by proggy on 2012-01-16
This an important issue and it`s not being addressed by anyone with knowledge of what the problem is and most importantly a solution. Has a bug report been done on this.
I have had this problem for quite awhile, now being a longtime Ubuntu user this kind of **** is really annoying and never would`ve lasted this long before. What is happening with the Ubuntu developers/community when something as important as this is not dealt with?
I can just imagine how a first time user would be turned off by this and return to the other operating system!

---

### Post by arvevans on 2012-01-18
My Toshiba worked fine on 11.04 but will not shutdown on 11.10.  There are posts all over the Internet about people having this problem, so it apparently is a serious bug.  Analysis on some web sites seem to indicate that the problem is with the latest kernel not cleanly killing video interfaces.  I'm not sure about that, but that seems to be the prevalent rumour.

---

### Post by adrien214 on 2012-01-18
I am encountering similar issue on the ASUS U36SD when I have special kernel options such as

```

i915.i915_enable_fbc=1 i915.lvds_downclock=1 pcie_aspm=force
```

which are somehow needed to enjoy full battery power on kernel 3.0. It does not however happen all the time but just randomly.

---

### Post by syerges on 2012-01-18
I thought I had the same problem but after half an hour, it shut down... I don't know why it takes that long but as long as it doesn't take half an hour to startup, I'm happy.

---

### Post by w201 on 2012-01-18
I have the same problem if I use the shutdown command.

If I shut down from the GUI it works fine.

---

### Post by bearbear12345 on 2012-01-18
Same Here
But i fixed this problem by updating my video driver

Hope This Kinda Helps

---

### Post by arvevans on 2012-01-22
I give up.  I have tried all the on-line suggestions but the Toshiba 8100 still will not shut down.  Even tried backing up to an older Kernel, but that didn't help either.  
It hangs at the "System Halting" message and goes into something like a Hibernate mode.  If left in that mode the battery will eventually discharge and kill it.  If I press the power switch for 3+ seconds the system will shutdown power but the system activity indicator still continues blinking about once every 8 seconds.  Left alone for several days the battery will be discharged enough to kill even this indication.

When rebooting after this "almost powered down" situation screen graphics are not proper (text is OK but only smears for GUIs).  Pushing the hidden RESET button does force a clean reboot and the laptop works normally until the next time I try to shut it down.

At present I am downloading 11.04 and am going back to a version that worked.  Hopefully this will be fixed by the time 12.04 becomes available.

---

### Post by xkallex on 2012-01-27
> **TiagoTS said:**
> It`s been few days since i migrated from Windows to Ubuntu and i`m very impressed, once i started using and installing apps on Ubuntu 11.10 i notice i was not shutting down anymore or restarting, it closed the OS but hang on a black screen.

Solution for me was open the Synaptic and install fglrx and xvba-va-driver for my ATI graphcis card, i took one manual poweroff once more, now it`s all working correctly, i hope it will help.

Very nice! This did the trick for me, thanks alot!!!

---

### Post by colinpat on 2012-02-03
Happens on my Acer 7720 with 11.04.  Click shutdown and nothing happens.  Use sudo shutdown now in terminal and systems shuts down to the ubuntu icon and the the dots which just keeping going from one to the next.  Did a new system install but same thing happens.  Only seems to have started since around the last kernel update to 2.6.38-13.

---

### Post by higherspeed on 2012-02-21
I also have this problem starting after the upgrade to 11.10.

It gets to the stage with the Ubuntu logo and scrolling dots but just stays there with the dots still `doing their thing'.

Sometimes holding down the power button works, but I've had to take the battery out on a previous occasion.  It's a Samsung N140 netbook and I also have problems with my network card, but I doubt that's linked.

---

### Post by roelforg on 2012-02-21
Try this:
When GRUB shows, press e
Use the arrow keys to locate the line stating with vmlinuz.
in that line, after the word quiet insert:
```

acpi=force

```
and hit CTRL-X

Try shutting down.

Did it work?
If so, repeat it to boot and don't shutdown yet.
Open a terminal and maximize it.
run:
```

sudo nano /etc/default/grub

```
use the arrow keys to locate the line:
LINUX_DEFAULT_CMDLINE=
and insert after the word quiet
```

acpi=off

```
Hit CTRL-O
Hit enter
Hit CTRL-X
Run:
```

sudo update-grub

```
(this can take a while, if not very long)
when done, reboot normally and it should now shutdown as it should.

---

### Post by roelforg on 2012-02-21
> **roelforg said:**
> Try this:
When GRUB shows, press e
Use the arrow keys to locate the line stating with vmlinuz.
in that line, after the word quiet insert:
```

acpi=force

```and hit CTRL-X

Try shutting down.

Did it work?
If so, repeat it to boot and don't shutdown yet.
Open a terminal and maximize it.
run:
```

sudo nano /etc/default/grub

```use the arrow keys to locate the line:
LINUX_DEFAULT_CMDLINE=
and insert after the word quiet
```

acpi=off

```Hit CTRL-O
Hit enter
Hit CTRL-X
Run:
```

sudo update-grub

```(this can take a while, if not very long)
when done, reboot normally and it should now shutdown as it should.

FYI. If this works; it means your kernel was just halting the system, not powering off because it couldn't detect the acpi subsystem, the instructions i gave override the check and tell it to try anyway, and as most moder pc's have acpi, it'll succeed and power off.

---

### Post by daleye on 2012-02-23
I'm extremely new to linux in general, but have done enough digging and reading to realize this is a widespread issue and not due to my general ignorance.

This problem has been plaguing me for a week now. Fresh 11.10 install on some outdated hardware (read: Everex Stepnote NC1500) but the components inside are acceptable.

My experience thus far:

11.10 Fresh Shutdown/restart issues
Update GRUB to include NOAPIC == WORKS!!! Oh but then I have no networking. Great. 
Update GRUB with any other ACPI type commands.. no dice.
Biggest confusion I haven't seen mentioned elsewhere: I can get the system to shutdown/restart, if I hit the 'esc' key when the system is "hanging" on restart or shutdown. One time I was able to get this reboot to occur by sliding my finger on the trackpad.. odd. After that reboot, the trackpad worked then stopped working and I need a USB mouse to move the cursor.

I didn't realize the NOAPIC command killed my networking the first time I tried it, so I reinstalled 11.10 fresh and still have the same results. NOAPIC will allow system to restart/shutdown without issues but kills my Networking.

I've had modem manager errors pop up as well as rpcbind when shutting down, removed both of those because I will not be utilizing those features for this project.. still nothing.

Last thing to note, the "esc" key fix seems to be needed once the system restart/shutdown gets to "Deactivating swap" that's the hang up, hitting esc then goes to the next portion, another esc gets to the next piece, and the last esc press reboots the system.. 

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by didonedat on 2012-03-08
> **TiagoTS said:**
> It`s been few days since i migrated from Windows to Ubuntu and i`m very impressed, once i started using and installing apps on Ubuntu 11.10 i notice i was not shutting down anymore or restarting, it closed the OS but hang on a black screen.

Solution for me was open the Synaptic and install fglrx and xvba-va-driver for my ATI graphcis card, i took one manual poweroff once more, now it`s all working correctly, i hope it will help.

This worked for me! PRAISE GOD—I was getting very frustrated.

---

