---
title: "11.10 on Asus M50VM boot issues and solution"
date: 2011-11-02
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by aatyler on 2011-11-02
I have an Asus M50vm, it has a nvidia 9800 GS as the video card. I did a completely fresh install of 11.10 (completely new partition table) as the only operating system. The install was from a USB stick. The computer booted just fine from the USB stick with no ovious issues and installation completed with out a problem but when I rebooted, this time from the new installation on the harddrive, X wouldn't start. the boot process didnt give me a black screen like some people are reporting, instead it seemed to hang during the X loading process but showed me the output. The only errors I could see from the output was that the automatic crash logging had failed. I was able to use alt+F1 to get to a tty terminal. 
 
 
**Solution:**
This worked for me but I can't gurantee it will work on anything other than the Asus M50VM. 
 
 
I tried starting x with the 'startx' command and received an error that the nvidia kernel module 'nd' could not be found. After some hunting on the internet with links (I was able to get wireless working from the terminal just fine), I found that nd had been removed. I installed nvidia-current from the repositories, ran 'nvidia-xconfig' and then retried loading x manually. X loaded without a problem. Once X loaded I installed the proprietary drivers, rebooted, had to re-run 'nvidia-xconfig' from the tty again, and have had no further troubles. Everything else works just fine as far as I can tell. 
 
I hope this helps any one else out there in the same boat.

---

