---
title: "11.10 upgrade - mouse won't work now"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by derekcentrico on 2011-10-15
My touchpad will not function with the latest Ubuntu.  I upgraded to 11.10 RC and it worked fine.  After installing the remainder of updates yesterday to the official release, the mouse will not work when logged in.

When the Ubuntu user login screen comes up, the mouse works 100% fine.

However, as soon as I sign into my account, the mouse just sits central in the screen.  If I try to click, it doesn't respond either.

The keyboard responds just fine.

Ubuntu was kicking butt on my Asus 1101-HAB when it was v11.04 and 11.10RC.

Any advice on getting my touchpad working again so that I can use this netbook without formatting?

---

### Post by yashoda on 2011-10-16
Hi, I hope this helps you.

I just upgraded to 11.10, and it looked quite nice, although the mouse stopped working.

plugged in a usb mouse, and it worked great.

so, got onto a whole lengthy online search for solutions, and tried a few.

NOTHING worked, until i came across one that recommended checking if your laptop has a function key to turn the TOUCHPAD on and off.  Mine did, and i used that, and VOILA... it worked! 

good luck.

that usb mouse has gone back to the museum!

---

### Post by oscarwh on 2011-10-16
Hey, I Had the same problem and i fixed it. when You get to the log in screen type your password but DONT press enter and move your mouse and then simultaneously press enter and KEEP moving your mouse until the desktop FULLY loads and it should work fine. I hope this helps :D

---

### Post by ObscureAngel on 2011-10-16
Lets hope they will update a fix to it, since i have that problem too!
Since your fix "[oscarwh]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1470756")" doesnt work in my case :(

Thanks

EDIT: Thanks [yashoda]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=59410") Its working, in case you have and Asus 1000h try pressing FN + F3
Good luck all!

---

### Post by Shazbot89 on 2011-10-18
Just adding in for information:

Also running an Asus, K60IJ. Upgraded from 11.04 -> 11.10. Touchpad worked fine before. I am able to use a USB mouse but not the touchpad.

Tried:
[LIST]
[*]Mouse settings (disable while typing/etc)
[*]Fn+F7 (which is disable backlight on my computer, did not work)
[*]Tried reloading xserver-xorg-input-synaptics from Synaptic package manager (ironic name haha)
[/LIST]

What I did notice though is that when marking the input-synaptics package for installation I get this:

xserver-xorg-input-synaptics:
 Depends: xorg-input-abi-12

Yet, it was not present and I can not find it in the repositories to install. Wondering if perhaps there was a broken dependency?


Other than this issue, the purple screen of death, and the 11.04 kernel power consumption fix not being in 11.10, Oneiric is running just fine haha. Love it, just ready to get these wrinkles ironed out.

---

### Post by derekcentrico on 2011-10-18
Apparently the little button to disable the touchpad was the culprit.  I didn't see the replies here until after the fact.  (was stranded in an airport without WiFi).

So, make sure that it isn't disabled via hardware buttons.

---

### Post by dixfranke on 2012-02-19
Hi all,

I just upgraded to 11.10 (netbook version) on my rickety old 1000H, from a USB stick.

- Touchpad completely frozen, both in login screen and in account.
- tried fn+f3, as well as pretty much every other button or combination of buttons possible; I've so far avoided the simple remedy of a hefty forehand whack between the CPUs, but I am otherwise running out of ideas...
- strangely, on startup instead of the Ubuntu logo I am shown  the "easypeasy" logo (my former, now-erased operating system, an old version of  Ubuntu 10.04 for Netbooks), however upon shutdown it displays the  "Ubuntu" logo

anyone got suggestions or further questions? they would be much appreciated, thanks!


Dix

---

### Post by gogo_t on 2012-02-19
Ok, I figured it out on my sister's laptop. The problem on her Asus was that after she type word in the dash or in some program- the mouse would go unmovable and unless restarted it wont move no metter what.

Go to system settings-> mouse and touchpad settings-> touch pad and unchek the "disable while/when writing" option [no sure if it is called that way since it is in Bulgarian on my comp, but you'll guess it... ]

---

### Post by dixfranke on 2012-02-20
right, thanks for the reply.
the command is called "disable touchpad while typing".
that is tricky to disable when I have no mouse, I will try to figure out a way to do it through the terminal.
d

---

