---
title: "11.04 on asus eee 701"
date: 2011-06-16
forum: Asus Ubuntu Support (CLOSED)
---

### Post by interglossa on 2011-06-16
I see people are having issues with 11.04 on asus netbooks.  Has anyone installed it on an eee 701 - as in, the original model from Dec. 2007 with 4GB SSD, and no upgrade?  I have Lucid Lynx 10.04 running on it very well actually and would be sad to replace something working with something not.  Specifically I wonder how this would work with only 4GB now that they no longer offer a netbook-specific release?

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2011-06-17
I've installed 11.04 on a 4GB SD card successfully and have been running it for a while now. That's on an EeePC 900.

Like you, I wanted to see what it was like but not disturb my 10.04 installation.

You could install it on an SD card (if the EeePC 701 has a card slot) or a 4GB USB stick and try it out before putting on the internal drive. It will be a little slower but it gives you the opportunity to see if it's going to behave well.

I'm assuming you can choose what to boot from by pressing esc just after it's turned on.

---

### Post by interglossa on 2011-06-17
Yes, the 701 has 1 SD slot and 3 USB slots, and you can choose your boot device on startup so I can do it this way.  I like Lynx very much but one of the three years of the LTS is already over and I am curious to see what all the fuss regarding Unity is about.

---

### Post by odoketa on 2011-06-17
I was able to get it installed on an SD card on my 701, but that was actually my camera's SD card, so now it's gone. The main 4gb drive did not work - insufficient disk space.

---

### Post by lch69 on 2012-03-18
> **interglossa said:**
> I see people are having issues with 11.04 on asus netbooks.  Has anyone installed it on an eee 701 - as in, the original model from Dec. 2007 with 4GB SSD, and no upgrade?  I have Lucid Lynx 10.04 running on it very well actually and would be sad to replace something working with something not.  Specifically I wonder how this would work with only 4GB now that they no longer offer a netbook-specific release?
Hello,
[http://gobitech.blogspot.com/2011/06/install-ubuntu-1104-on-asus-eee-pc-701.html](http://gobitech.blogspot.com/2011/06/install-ubuntu-1104-on-asus-eee-pc-701.html)

---

