---
title: "install help on PowerPC G5"
date: 2020-03-17
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-03-17
Hello all,

I am attempting to install Lubuntu on an old PowerPC Dual G5 and after the installation it passes the first stage bootstrap but it then reboots after the second stage.

I have found this thread and followed the instruction but it did not work [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718724](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718724)

Below is my yaboot.conf file. Attached a screenshot of gparted.

Any help please? THANK YOU!

```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot="/dev/disk/by-id/ata-INTEL_SSDSA2BW080G3_CVPR21110126080BGN-part3"
device=/ht@0,f2000000/pci@9/k2-sata-root@c/@ffffffffffffffff/@0
partition=5
root="UUID=0d8be704-0c23-439d-87bc-cad5502be2b1"
timeout=50
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"


```

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2020-03-23
You don't seem to mention which version of Lubuntu that you are trying to install on yr G5 . . . possibly if you G5 is "64 bit" there might be some distro support for PPC out there.  I believe Lu dropped support with 16.04 PPC . . . U-MATE went to testing for 17.04 PPC . . . those are 32 bit that most of the ubuntu world has dropped support for . . . .  Other than that I don't know much about G5 machines, often times in PPC you have to get your boot parameters entered in the Yaboot conf file . . . added into the "append" line . . . . 

Part of the problem with the link you supplied is that is from 10.04 days, which would likely be ten years back??  if you are trying to install Lu 10.04 then maybe it will apply??  My first question is whether you were able to boot and run the live dvd/cd of the iso of choice on your machine?  If you can't run the live system, then the first step is to get that working, before trying to run an install . . . .

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-03-24
Hi and thanks!

The G5 should be 64bit indeed. I downloaded Lubuntu from this website, I followed the links for the PPC version which took me to Lubuntu 16.04.3. Yes, it works from the Live CD so it seems it's just a matter of instructing the PPC on how to boot properly!

I did not realise the above instructions were for 10.04 thanks.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-03-24
> I downloaded Lubuntu from this website

This web site doesn't provide downloads, and I'm guessing you got it from a non-Ubuntu, and non-Lubuntu web site myself. The Lubuntu web site ([https://lubuntu.me/downloads/](https://lubuntu.me/downloads/)) doesn't appear to offer it, as Lubuntu 16.04 reached EOL some time ago

> [COLOR=#555555][FONT=Ubuntu] Lubuntu 16.04 will be supported until April 2019.[/FONT][/COLOR]  ([https://lubuntu.me/test-xenial-6/](https://lubuntu.me/test-xenial-6/))

>  [PPC support was dropped in February]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/lubuntu-devel/2017-February/000970.html")[COLOR=#555555][FONT=Ubuntu], making Xenial Xerus the last Lubuntu release for this architecture.[/FONT][/COLOR] ([https://lubuntu.me/bionic-released/](https://lubuntu.me/bionic-released/))

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS only supports `ppc64el` which is 64-bit, and most consumer devices are `ppc` only ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ppc64el](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ppc64el)).

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-03-24
I didn't realise I was redirected to a different website. So let me clarify: I downloaded it from the website from which I was redirected here when I clicked on "FORUMS". See picture attached.

I am confused: is lubuntu.net not the official Lubuntu website? I do not see any mention on the description. Anyway you're saying that 18.04 is the version I want to test for my G5, am I correct?

Thanks!

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2020-03-24
> **tony359 said:**
> I didn't realise I was redirected to a different website. So let me clarify: I downloaded it from the website from which I was redirected here when I clicked on "FORUMS". See picture attached.

I am confused: is lubuntu.net not the official Lubuntu website? I do not see any mention on the description. Anyway you're saying that 18.04 is the version I want to test for my G5, am I correct?

Thanks!

@tony:

the .net site isn't the "official" site, but as mentioned above support is likely dropped, so I don't think that "unofficialness" of the site would make any difference in the grand scheme of ubuntu distros.  16.04 was the last supported version, but even in a fresh install it seems like the installer is bringing in ppc packages that aren't working . . . bit of a mess to try to get it working.  If the checksum numbers check out from what you downloaded then the file itself is "clean" . . . look through the PPC wiki and see if they show boot parameters for the G5, likely depending upon the video card it has . . . that data would go in at the second Yaboot screen where you would type, "Linux xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx" sometimes hitting the tab key will show options, could be as simple as, "Linux video=ofonly" or a series of words that might include "powerpc" . . . you have to play with it.

Other options, like yesterday I booted my PM 3,1 back into OSX 10.5 . . . machine has 2GB RAM so it just doesn't move fast, but now OSX works better than the U-MATE 17 install that I have in it.  Or, look around, as mentioned above there are other distros that are still supporting 64 bit PPC, you just have to look around for them.  Another poster mentioned macrumors as a site that has an active PPC support community . . . it's now taking more effort to run linux on PPC, and it always took a fair bit to get it going in the recent past.  Enjoy the games, etc.

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-03-24
Hi

I thought Lubuntu was an easy "out of jail" for my Dual G5 - yes I have OSX 10.5 and it works but I was hoping for a supported OS. I am just tinkering though, not the end of the world. I'll keep looking, if anybody has any more advise, please let me know! :)

Thanks

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-03-25
I just wanted to follow up. Indeed I've found a working version on Macrumours

[https://forums.macrumors.com/threads/lubuntu-16-04-remix-updated.2204742/](https://forums.macrumors.com/threads/lubuntu-16-04-remix-updated.2204742/)

This has worked out of the box BUT only when the drive was connected to the top SATA cable - somehow Linux doesn't like the bottom one. Also, if you burn on a USB stick you'll have to boot from OpenFirmware by issuing the following command (which at least worked for me): 

```
*boot ud:,\\:tbxi*
```


I hope this helps future readers :)

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-03-25
Me again! :)

Lubuntu loads ok when it's the only drive in the system. I have added a second drive on which I have installed OSX 10.5. OSX works no worries on its own or even when the Lubuntu drive is connected. Lubuntu, however, refuses to boot when the OSX drive is connected. 

It goes past the first screen and then I get

[I]Welcome to Yaboot version 1.3.16
Enter "help" to get some basic usage information
boot: Linux
Please wait, loading kernel...[/I]

but nothing happens. Again, if I remove the OSX drive it loads fine.

Any help? Thank you! :)

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-05-30
Hi there - I am still stuck at that step. Any ideas? Thanks!

---

### Post by gsahli on 2020-05-30
I don't have a G5, but I'll try to help. Your Mac has its own bootloader, which you activate by holding Option/Alt key immediately after the restart gong sound. Hold it until you see the menu of booting options appear. If everything is installed in the right place, linux will show up there as an icon along with MacOS. Click on linux and then the right arrow.
If this doesn't work tell us what happens. 
It is possible you'll have to run "ybin -v" to get all boot choices registered in yaboot - the ppc bootloader.
Here's more help:
[https://www.debian.org/ports/powerpc/inst/yaboot-howto/ch9.en.html](https://www.debian.org/ports/powerpc/inst/yaboot-howto/ch9.en.html)
[https://www.osxbook.com/book/bonus/ancient/whatismacosx/arch_boot.html](https://www.osxbook.com/book/bonus/ancient/whatismacosx/arch_boot.html)

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2020-05-30
Sorry, I didn't get any notifications on the recent posts until today . . . as "gsahli" suggests . . . you should be able to use the "alt/option" key to get the OSX bootmanager window to open and then select the OS of your choice . . . 10.5  or 16.04 . . . .  I don't know why having one plugged in or both drives, shouldn't be a problem.

But, because there are so many potential places where problems could crop up it might be "difficult" to troubleshoot your issues . . . as several have mentioned "PPC is unsupported by ubuntu."  Also as I believe I mentioned before, the first level is to boot the live iso and try to run the system as "live."  If you can't do that then the level of difficulty goes higher; if you can boot and run the live system, then the install should go well, etc.

Since you have a 64 bit machine, there are other distros that offer support for 64 bit PPC . . . I believe opensuse has one option, there might be a few others??  Try them, because they would be "supported" vs "unsupported" . . . if you can see the distinction.

OR, if you must run ubuntu based system I found a thread here in the last few months that had a mention or link to "Wicknix" respins of 16.04 PPC & 12.04 PPC.  I got the iso's and burned them to dvd and booted them up . . . did not install on my G4 machines . . . .  He is offering new browser and other newer stuff stacked on the 16.04 base system . . . there are some "rules" that have to be followed, so if you go that route, read his instructions to be sure you aren't going off track . . . but . . . I think his distros are 32 bit??????  I don't know, point is they work on my G4s . . . with the proper boot parameters . . . .

If I had a 64 bit G5 I would look for a "supported" distro . . . burn it to dvd or flash drive and try to boot it "live" for the first test question.

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-06-01
Hi - thanks for your help.

Please see my previous post:

> [COLOR=#000000]Lubuntu loads ok when it's the only drive in the system. I have added a second drive on which I have installed OSX 10.5. OSX works no worries on its own or even when the Lubuntu drive is connected. Lubuntu, however, refuses to boot when the OSX drive is connected.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]It goes past the first screen and then I get[/COLOR]

[I]Welcome to Yaboot version 1.3.16
Enter "help" to get some basic usage information
boot: Linux
Please wait, loading kernel...

but nothing happens. Again, if I remove the OSX drive it loads fine.[/I]

So Lubuntu works but only when one disk is connected. 

Indeed looking for a more supported OS could be a better solution. I'll look into that, thanks!

---

### Post by gsahli on 2020-06-02
You haven't told us if you tried the Alt/Option key method.
You haven't mentioned Open Firmware, or ybin -v.
We want to help troubleshoot, but you're keeping us in the dark.
On my G4, to get triple boot (10.4, 10.5, and Ubuntu 16.04), I had to use Open Firmware to discover the paths to the bootable drives.

---

### Post by tony359 on 2020-06-03
Gsahli,

I appreciate your - and everyone's - help on this. Last thing I want is that you feel that I am just expecting the community to guess my issue and solve it for me. Apologies if this is what's transpired from my message.

I've been doing some tests and it looks like the behaviour is a bit erratic. 

First I just booted up (first time since March) and it just booted into Linux just fine without me doing anything. 
Then I rebooted, hold ALT to get into the boot manager. Selected OSX and it booted just fine.
Then, I power cycled and tested it again with no intervention: it attempted to boot into Linux but it got stuck on "Loading Kernel" as mentioned before.

So I followed your advice. Power cycled and got into the boot manager; selected Linux and it booted fine. 

At this point I rebooted and tried again: held ALT, got into boot manager, selected Linux. This time I went into "Please Wait, loading kernel... Elf64 kernel loaded...  Loading Ramdisk..." and then it got stuck.

I am wondering whether it's just a bad disk? I'm not sure why it should work intermittently like that.

Anyways, I went ahead and followed your recommendations.
I reset the NVRAM, after doing that the system wouldn't boot up anymore in Linux, showing the attached error message. If I hold ALT and get into the boot manager, I get the same error.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]286082[/ATTACH]

I went into OF and I can see the below

[ATTACH=CONFIG]286083[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]286084[/ATTACH]

I can go into yaboot by typing boot hd:2,yaboot. I am then prompted with the boot: prompt but then I am a bit lost as I can't seem to be able to go any further.

I suppose I need to find out the path of Linux and just add it to the configuration file?

Thanks!
Tony

---

### Post by gsahli on 2020-06-03
Thanks for more info.
I agree that it seems like a drive problem.
When at the boot prompt, I just type Linux.
But there are some "parameters/arguments" that can be added after that, like Linux video=ofonly
Video configuration probs can cause linux to appear to just stop.
I'm sure you've read the ppc FAQ:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ)

---

### Post by ernsteiswuerfel on 2020-06-21
If you want a much more painfree experience with Linux on G3/G4/G5 hardware just skip this outdated distro and use another one. Also G3/G4/G5 PPC is no longer supported by Ubuntu.

These are (better) alternatives with bootable isos, current software (working browser, etc.) and current kernels:
[https://voidlinux-ppc.org/](https://voidlinux-ppc.org/)
[https://www.adelielinux.org/](https://www.adelielinux.org/)
[https://fienixppc.blogspot.com/p/download.html](https://fienixppc.blogspot.com/p/download.html) (64bit only, USB boot image)

Also no need to fiddle around with yaboot any longer. Void and Adelie use grub just like you know it from Linux on regular x64_64 hardware.

---

