---
title: "OS X boot loader overwritten when installing Ubuntu?"
date: 2012-07-14
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by logan01 on 2012-07-14
Hello

                                  I have an iMac with OS X 10.6.8. I created a roughtly-100GB partition on my 1TB internal hard drive to install Linux to. I downloaded Ubuntu 12.04 (version for 64bit intel-mac) and burnt the ISO on a CD Disc Utility. The installation from CD worked fine, Ubuntu loads up nicely. Except that, during installation I had some difficulty getting past the stage of setting up the linux boot loader. I can't remember the details, but on 'automatic' mode the installer kept halting at this boot loader step. So going 'manual' was my next option. In short, from what I've understood, I allowed the installer  to write the linux boot loader (I think it's Grub, right?) over the OS X boot loader (EFI with its own small partition, correct?). I was plainly told by the 'warning' message that this might cause trouble loading up OS X but any issues could easily be reverted in grub in the future. So I say, 'OK, go for it.' 



 And here I am, unable to get back into OS X. Somebody please be kind enough to guide a novice. I've spent two days trying things and made things worse, but managed to get back to square 1 (or -1). I've read lots of forum posts and played with utilities but I haven't had luck with finding the particular solution i'm after. It's been a great learning curve, sure, but I really need to get back in and start work. Please be explicit with certain commands I may need to enter, since I may stuff things again!


In case it helps, here are some results:


```
$ sudo gptsync /dev/sda



Current GPT partition table:
 #      Start LBA      End LBA  Type
 1             40       409639  EFI System (FAT)
 2         409640   1750348719  EFI System (FAT)
 3     1750611968   1948285795  Basic Data
 4     1948285796   1948287749  BIOS Boot Partition
 6     1950242829   1950547516  Linux Swap
 7     1950547517   1953525118  Basic Data

Current MBR partition table:
 # A    Start LBA      End LBA  Type
 1              1       409639  ee  EFI Protective
 2 *       409640   1750348719  af  Mac OS X HFS+
 3     1750611968   1948285795  83  Linux
 4     1948285796   1948287749  da  Non-FS data

Status: Tables are synchronized, no need to sync.

``````
$ sudo /dev/sda


Current GPT partition table:
 #      Start LBA      End LBA  Type
 1             40       409639  EFI System (FAT)
 2         409640   1750348719  EFI System (FAT)
 3     1750611968   1948285795  Basic Data
 4     1948285796   1948287749  BIOS Boot Partition
 6     1950242829   1950547516  Linux Swap
 7     1950547517   1953525118  Basic Data

Current MBR partition table:
 # A    Start LBA      End LBA  Type
 1              1       409639  ee  EFI Protective
 2 *       409640   1750348719  af  Mac OS X HFS+
 3     1750611968   1948285795  83  Linux
 4     1948285796   1948287749  da  Non-FS data

MBR contents:
 Boot Code: GRUB

Partition at LBA 40:
 Boot Code: None (Non-system disk message)
 File System: FAT32
 Listed in GPT as partition 1, type EFI System (FAT)

Partition at LBA 409640:
 Boot Code: GRUB
 File System: HFS Extended (HFS+)
 Listed in GPT as partition 2, type EFI System (FAT)
 Listed in MBR as partition 2, type af  Mac OS X HFS+, active

Partition at LBA 1750611968:
 Boot Code: None
 File System: ext4
 Listed in GPT as partition 3, type Basic Data
 Listed in MBR as partition 3, type 83  Linux

Partition at LBA 1948285796:
 Boot Code: None
 File System: Unknown
 Listed in GPT as partition 4, type BIOS Boot Partition
 Listed in MBR as partition 4, type da  Non-FS data

Partition at LBA 1950242829:
 Boot Code: None
 File System: Unknown
 Listed in GPT as partition 5, type Linux Swap

Partition at LBA 1950547517:
 Boot Code: None
 File System: ext4
 Listed in GPT as partition 6, type Basic Data
```
  ```
$ df -T

Filesystem     Type     1K-blocks    Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda3      ext4      98682936 5043064  88698028   6% /
udev           devtmpfs   2006588       4   2006584   1% /dev
tmpfs          tmpfs       806152     904    805248   1% /run
none           tmpfs         5120       0      5120   0% /run/lock
none           tmpfs      2015372     988   2014384   1% /run/shm
/dev/sr0       iso9660       1462    1462         0 100% /media/disk
```

---

### Post by logan01 on 2012-07-14
oops, the second block of code was generated by:

$ sudo showpart /dev/sda

---

### Post by logan01 on 2012-07-15
Hi again,

I'm really over my head here, I am currently stuck at the grub prompt and it can't load either OS X or Ubuntu. For Ubuntu, it says "file not found" and "you need to load the kernel first". For OS X the errors are "no such disk" and "file not found". 

At this point I would be so grateful if anyone can help me just restore OS X and get my files in the HFS+ partition. Please respond guys!  :D

---

### Post by uRock on 2012-07-15
Moved to the ***Apple Users*** sub-forum.

---

### Post by pissedoffdude on 2012-07-15
What exactly do you mean by 'manual?' Like you chose the where you wanted to install grub and ended up picking /dev/sda?

Also, how did you format the ubuntu partition?  I'm a bit confused at the output you posted because, AFAIK, a hard drive should only have one partition scheme: GTP OR MBR.  Yet it looks like you have two separate partition schemes on one hard drive.

Give rEFIt a try.  Put it on a flash drive or cd, hold the option key when you start your mac and try syncing the disks, then try booting osx: [http://refit.sourceforge.net/doc/c1s1_install.html](http://refit.sourceforge.net/doc/c1s1_install.html)

If this doesn't work, boot the ubuntu cd and post the output of ```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2012-07-15
> In short, from what I've understood, I allowed the installer to write the linux boot loader (I think it's Grub, right?) over the OS X boot loader (EFI with its own small partition, correct?). I was plainly told by the 'warning' message that this might cause trouble loading up OS X but any issues could easily be reverted in grub in the future. So I say, 'OK, go for it.' 

I would recommend keeping Ubuntu and Mac OS X separate on 2 hard discs to avoid issues like these.

The files on the Mac OS X partition should all be intact despite the issue with the boot loader, I think, and from there you can make a new install of Mac OS X on a new hard disc, later making a backup of the files of your old system, setting everything up for 2 hard discs.

Not sure if this is the best advice, but this is what I would do.

---

### Post by logan01 on 2012-07-15
Pissedoffdude, yes I chose to put the Linux boot loader on sda as this was the only device hooked up (the internal hd). I chose the first small partition (approx 200MB) to put it on, so sda1. This is where the warning came up so I would say this is where OS X boot loader normally goes. 

I have tried all sorts of key combinations found through google at startup: Opt, C, X, Opt + C, Cmd + Alt + O + F... stupid thing doesn't work. To make things worse, out of NO WHERE I switched the Mac on today to try again and fix it and after the white screen it just comes up black saying "No bootable device -- insert boot disc and press any key." Oh #@$& 

I found this page describing how to fix this:  [http://www.bricode.com/macosx-wont-boo/](http://www.bricode.com/macosx-wont-boo/)

Scroll down to Paul's message and he says a problem might be that wireless keyboard drivers aren't picked at early boot up? I use a wireless kb, so I'm hoping this is why I'm getting nowhere... I'm gonna hook the standard wired USB keyboard that came with my Mac and see how that goes... I'll keep you both posted

---

### Post by nsicad on 2012-07-15
You need to remove this partition / delete which contains linux booter (i.e. grub).

1. Use the livecd or liveusb that you use to install Ubuntu in this machine to delete that partition. Delete the partition and boot. Hopefully, you can get the original Mac OS X boot.

2. Inorder for this ubuntu installation to work in Mac, use EFI boot. 

Ubuntu 12.10 has EFI boot (I think the older old (i.e. 12.04 does not have this EFI boot yet).

Linux Mint 13 (Maya - Cinnamon) has EFI boot. Linux Mint 13 is 12.04 ubuntu. I created Linux Mint 13 liveusb to boot my MacBookpro Retina (10.1).

BTW, is there a way to avoid, the last step of Ubuntu installation - the installing the boot loader, not to install it?

---

### Post by pissedoffdude on 2012-07-15
So you have already written rEFIt onto a cd and tried booting it with one of those key combos?

The error you're getting isn't instant, so it may simply be due to the fact that the boot files on that small 200 mb EFI partition were overwritten by grub.  But, as another poster suggested, your other partitions should still be intact

Try another keyboard and let us know if you still get the same error while trying to boot off of a cd.

If you end up being able to boot a cd and rEFIt doesn't help, then try your osx cd if you have one and reformat that first partition as fat32, or as it originally was.  Then go to startup disk and choose your main osx partition.

---

### Post by logan01 on 2012-07-15
I've yet to get the keyboard out of storage, but just wanted to confirm that I'd tried to solve things with rEFIt all along with no luck. Actually, the contents of the CD at /dev/sr0 is the rEFIt iso image and each time the Mac turns on it sounds like its trying to read from it. I don't know, but I thoroughly checked (back when Ubuntu was loading) that the disc burnt well and contained both directories -- rEFIt ad Tools. Unfortunately, the Sony wireless keyboard I'm currently using has no eject key so the CD is stuck in there for now...

---

### Post by logan01 on 2012-07-15
FIXED ! ! !

All this time, the problem could have been solved with Opt at start up... The very first thing I tried, and dozens of times afterward. Lesson out of all this is to check that the system is loading the proper device driver at start up. Get rid of wireless devices when troubleshooting!

Thank you all for your kind help, I hope I won't be needing it any time soon :)

---

