---
title: "16.10 - wifi connects, no internet , have tried all in this forum"
date: 2017-04-02
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by possa82 on 2017-04-02
Hi,

I am a beginner user in Linux. I did a clean install of ubuntu 16.10 as dual boot on my 2008 MacBook Pro  4.1. Everything works except for wifi. Ethernet works fine, wifi connects but I get no internet. I have tried all the solutions I could find in this forum and none worked. The hardware is a Broadcom. All my other devices work with the wifi, including a pc with Linux mint. I need this wifi working because using the cable is not practical due to my layout. Change the layout to be close to the router is not an option. 

Since cê I did lots of things to try to fix the problem, I did a new clean install and the system is untouched now. Can someone please guide me on a step by step way to fix this problem ? 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-02
Click on the wireless script in my signature and follow the directions for running it and posting the link created to pastebin here.

---

### Post by possa82 on 2017-04-04
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/24314572/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/24314572/)

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-04-04
Thread moved to the "*Apple Hardware Users*" forum.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-04
Please make sure your system is up to date by doing:
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt dist-upgrade
```
Then remove the incorrect driver:
```
sudo apt purge bcmwl-kernel-source
```
Now install the correct driver:
```
sudo apt install firmware-b43-installer
```
Reboot

---

### Post by possa82 on 2017-04-07
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> Please make sure your system is up to date by doing:
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt dist-upgrade
```
Then remove the incorrect driver:
```
sudo apt purge bcmwl-kernel-source
```
Now install the correct driver:
```
sudo apt install firmware-b43-installer
```
Reboot


I tried to do that before I reinstall Ubuntu again and what happened is that wifi disapeared and when reverse it to bcmwl it wifi show up again, but still no internet (but the wifi connects to the router).

---

### Post by possa82 on 2017-04-08
Well, I tried again the indications above and this time it worked. No ideia why the last time wifi disapeared doing the same thing. Anyway, it is working. Problem solved. Thanks a lot !

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-08
When this driver bcmwl-kernel-source is installed which is the wrong driver for your device it blacklists the b43 driver so it does not load hence no internet. When it is not installed the b43 driver is allowed to load.

Glad it is working.
Enjoy!

---

