---
title: "Is 9.04 ready for macbook 4,1 ?"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by monsterfromthefuture on 2009-05-31
I installed ubuntu 8.10 on my white macbook and used the following tutuorial  [http://fosswire.com/post/2009/3/how-to-ubuntu-810-on-white-macbook/](http://fosswire.com/post/2009/3/how-to-ubuntu-810-on-white-macbook/)


I was wondering if I upgrade to 9.04 will all of my settings and bug fixes be carried over( such as isight being fixed and so on)?  Or will have have to do it all over again.


Also, does 9.04 have better support for the intel gma X3100 graphics card? Will I be able to enable desktop effects?  I'm currently running Gnome Do-Docky and it is choppy when I maximize firefox.  Will 9.04 show an improvement or will it be incompatible with Docky.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-06-01
> **monsterfromthefuture said:**
>  I was wondering if I upgrade to 9.04 will all of my settings and bug fixes be carried over( such as isight being fixed and so on)?  Or will have have to do it all over again.
I would always recommend a reinstall rather than an upgrade as they don't always go well. Additionally, since things tend to change (like module names) between releases, some of your fixes may not carry over.


> **monsterfromthefuture said:**
> Also, does 9.04 have better support for the intel gma X3100 graphics card? Will I be able to enable desktop effects?  I'm currently running Gnome Do-Docky and it is choppy when I maximize firefox.  Will 9.04 show an improvement or will it be incompatible with Docky.
Actually, compiz has that card blacklisted (again) in Jaunty, so it will not work immediately, but there are way to workaround the blacklist. you can do a search here on 'compiz blacklist' and I am sure you will find some results to help.

In the end, if your system is working fine for you, then why upgrade at all?

---

### Post by monsterfromthefuture on 2009-06-01
yeah your right, I'm gonna stick with 8.10 and try to optimize it to its max potential.  Thanks for the info.

---

