---
title: "9.04 PPC installed on iMac G3 333, but won't boot off the HD"
date: 2010-01-17
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-17
So, I got 9.04 PPC installed on my old Strawberry iMac G3 333, but I can't for the life of me get the thing to boot from the HD. I can only boot the alternative CD and the live CD. I've briefly delved into OpenFirmware to try and make the thing boot manually, but no dice. I've run "ybin -v" several times and assume it's doing the right thing.

I've read that some Macs need some special partitions present for OpenFirmware to start the proper boot sequence, but I'm unsure if my iMac is one of those. I recently swapped the HD out for a WD 40GB IDE disk. It's configured to run in cable select mode, if that makes a difference.

Would anyone be able to point me in the right direction?
Much thanks!

---

### Post by oswaldkelso on 2010-01-17
Sounds like the 7gb partition limit as you've swapped out the drive. info in my sig.

---

### Post by B_Free on 2010-01-17
I have tried every version of Ubuntu to install on my iMac 266. Your only hope would be
[http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/releases/breezy/](http://old-releases.ubuntu.com/releases/breezy/)
Use the alternative CD. The live version doesn't have an install from it. Maybe you could update from there. You might have to partition the HD. The old iMacs only recognize the first 8 gigs.

---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-23
> **oswaldkelso said:**
> Sounds like the 7gb partition limit as you've swapped out the drive. info in my sig.

i'm still searching your site but i can't find a direct link to instructions for the 7gb partition. could you reply with a link to instructions that will help me?

specifically, i need to know exactly what size and filesystem i need to create partitions with to make my imac g3 333 /only/ boot linux. i have no macOS installed at all an have no boot cds for it.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-01-23
can you show us your partition table please ? From the liveCD, you just type mac-fdisk in the shell:

```
sudo mac-fdisk /dev/sda
``` (if sda is your hard disk; then a "p" for print and a 'q' to exit.

it could also be
```
sudo mac-fdisk /dev/hda
```

---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-23
so, here's what i tried:

Apple_Bootstrap   512MB   HFS
BOOT   512MB   ext2   /boot
ROOT   6.4GB   ext3   /
HOME   6GB   ext3   /home
swap   768MB   swap
USER   <rest>   ext3   /usr

this still didn't work.
"printenv" in openfirmware gives me:

```
boot-device      /pci@80000000/mac-io@10/ide@20000/disk@1:2,\\:tbxi
```If i tell OF to "boot", i get:

```
can't OPEN: /pci@80000000/mac-io@10/ide@20000/disk@1:2,\\:tbxi
```what else is there to try?

---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-23
> **linuxopjemac said:**
> can you show us your partition table please ? From the liveCD, you just type mac-fdisk in the shell:

```
sudo mac-fdisk /dev/sda
``` (if sda is your hard disk; then a "p" for print and a 'q' to exit.

it could also be
```
sudo mac-fdisk /dev/hda
```

is there a way to do this with the alternate CD? i don't want to go through the trouble of booting the live CD and adjusting Xorg.conf to get the display working.

will that work in rescue mode?

also, note that my disk is being detected as primary (or secondary, don't remember ATM) slave. does it need to be master?

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-01-23
I am not sure whether you can also do this from the alternate CD. I guess you have to then chroot your way into your system after you went into a tty shell, if you know what that is...

[http://mac.linux.be/content/chroot-system-livecd](http://mac.linux.be/content/chroot-system-livecd) (for chroot)

---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-23
Here's what I got from rescue mode:

```
/dev/hdb
        #                    type name                 length   base     ( size )  system
/dev/hdb1     Apple_partition_map Apple                    63 @ 1        ( 31.5k)  Partition map
/dev/hdb2         Apple_Bootstrap Apple_Bootstrap     1000001 @ 64       (488.3M)  NewWorld bootblock
/dev/hdb3         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 BOOT                1000001 @ 1000065  (488.3M)  Linux native
/dev/hdb4         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 ROOT               12500001 @ 2000066  (  6.0G)  Linux native
/dev/hdb5         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 HOME               11718751 @ 14500067 (  5.6G)  Linux native
/dev/hdb6         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 swap                1500001 @ 26218818 (732.4M)  Linux swap
/dev/hdb7         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 USER               50446541 @ 27718819 ( 24.1G)  Linux native

Block size=512, Number of Blocks=78165360
DeviceType=0xf61b, DeviceId=0x9e4
```

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-01-23
if you boot, do you get into yaboot or not? If so, then your yaboot.conf file is not set properly to boot from /dev/hdb3. The boot partition is within the first seven Gb, so that's not the problem. Maybe your iMac, if you don't see yaboot if you boot, want to boot from /dev/hda. You have to make sure that if that is the case that you have a bootloader there too with yaboot, kernels and stuff (the same as in /dev/hdb3). I don't know a way to force a mac to boot from another drive

Make sure that in the /boot partiton on /dev/hdb3 you have an initrd.img, and a kernel (vmlinux and probably an config file. in /etc/yaboot.conf you should have something like this:

```
boot=/dev/hdb3
device=/pci@f2000000/pci-bridge@d/mac-io@7/ata-4@1f000/disk@1:
partition=4
root=/dev/hdb4
timeout=50
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot

enablecdboot

image=/boot/vmlinux
label=Linux
read-only
initrd=/boot/initrd.img
append="quiet splash"



macos=/dev/hda9 (if you want to boot MacOS on the other drive)
```

then a:
```
ybin
```

to set everything in the bootloader.

I am not sure what happens but I guess the problem lies in the fact that you don't boot into yaboot, that is due to the fact that you don;t have a bootloader on the hda drive. If you do boot into yaboot, you just have to set the right yaboot.conf

Another thing which is important is the "device" part in yaboot.conf. This should point to /dev/hdb. You can find  out what that is by doing:
```

ofpath /dev/hdb
```

copy the outcome of that into the device section in yaboot.conf

Hope this helps you on the way

---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-23
The thing is I have no /dev/hda drive. There is only /dev/hdb. The iMac G3 333 can only handle a single hard disk inside. so, i'll play with the jumper on the HD to see if I can make it the master. If so, then this might just "go away".

also, i have no MacOS installed nor will I ever have it installed, so there will be no booting from "the other drive" or partition. It's just Linux.

I assumed the Ubuntu installer would know what partitions to create. If it doesn't, I'll just have to do it manually again.

I'll try once more and let you know what happens.

---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-24
might as well close this thread now.
my hardware died while i tried to make the HD master instead of slave.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-01-24
I am sorry to hear this. Maybe you can buy a cheap HD to continue your project.

---

### Post by neflyte on 2010-01-24
No, No. The machine won't even power on. It's completely dead from what I can tell.
A new HD won't help. In fact, I'm sure the HD is perfectly fine and I intend to re-use it somehow.

But the new RAM i bought for the machine is useless, so I can only hope there someone who wants to buy it from me.

---

