---
title: "New 12.04 install : No wireless keyboard or mouse"
date: 2012-04-13
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by drmikenz on 2012-04-13
hey all,

Just installed 12.04 B2 on my iMac, during install bluetooth parked with my apple wireless keyboard and mouse after a small delay. After rebooting into OSX I had to re-pair with OSX for some reason and now on my first boot into Ubuntu I get no keyboard or mouse response at all at the login screen. Keys work in rEFIt and in grub but nothing once I get to the login screen. tried powering off and on both keyboard and mouse, rebooted a few times but no luck. I don't have a spare USB keyboard and mouse sitting here before anyone suggests that... any other ideas?

---

### Post by Lithaerien on 2012-04-14
Try the solution in this thread for both the keyboard and mouse. I haven't tried it but it seems promising. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11488754&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11488754&postcount=2)

---

### Post by drmikenz on 2012-04-14
> **Lithaerien said:**
> Try the solution in this thread for both the keyboard and mouse. I haven't tried it but it seems promising. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11488754&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11488754&postcount=2)

thanks but I can't login as they keyboard and mouse don't work, so that solution is currently impossible.

---

### Post by bearbear on 2012-04-15
Literally the exact same position, (12.04,iMac, apple kb and mouse, no wired alternative around, works in grub,)

I even went ahead and reinstalled it so it would autologin and no luck there either.

---

### Post by andrewbrown22 on 2012-04-22
Ok, so my first guess here is that the keyboard is paired with the Mac side of things (that would likely be the reason EFI and grub both work) as opposed to the Ubuntu installation. 

I guess the keyboard worked during the Ubuntu install though. 

You don't have any spare USB boards around to get past the login screen?

---

### Post by matti777 on 2012-04-26
Well then. I just updated 11.10 -> 12.04 on my desktop PC and now my Logitech wireless keyboard/mouse do nothing when ubuntu login screen boots. In BIOS/grub they work fine. 

Tips appreciated. I also do not have other (wired) keyboard/mouse available to me at the moment.

- M

EDIT: Oh incorrectly post in the Mac section
EDIT2: picking an older kernel I was able to log in - to a completely broken ubuntu (no icons, windows not getting frames/focus, you name it)

---

### Post by Sinister-Kid on 2012-04-27
Bump

I'm having the exact same problem. Has anyone been able to find a solution?

---

### Post by thorinside on 2012-04-27
I am also having the same problem after performing the upgrade from 11.10 to 12.04 I am no longer able to log in to my Linux box, it's mouse and keyboard do not function in either the XWindows session, or the Rescue mode. I also didn't enable SSH, so I'm effectively locked out of my system now.

---

### Post by mobisallen on 2012-04-28
it seems that there is an installation error which is not allowing to connect the key board and mouse. u much check either the bluetooth is compatible with OS ..

---

### Post by Patleod on 2012-06-28
I have the same problem, but this can help ;)

suspending the system and then power-up again and keyboard is working until next shutdown...

I know this is a workaroud .. but help finding the real problem (I hope)

---

### Post by pbhedlund on 2012-06-28
Try the script in this bug report [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/1001825](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/1001825). But I guess that will be difficult with no keyboard...

---

### Post by Lunarts on 2012-06-28
By experience with this issue I must say it is a good idea to get a cheap usb keyboard(from a well know brand). It will makes things a lot easier. Do the same for an usb mouse if you do not have a wacom tablet or something.

---

