---
title: "5.10 Help on iBook"
date: 2009-02-21
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Arcane Light on 2009-02-21
I've installed Linux Ubuntu 5.10 on my old iBook, with a PowerPC processor.
During the installation I gave the following answers to the following questions:
I chose not to set up the network.
I chose to wipe the entire hard drive.
I chose to partition the disk.
The installation afterwards was a complete success.
However, now when I boot the computer up, it gives me a DOS-style command prompt and I have no idea what to do with that. An actual operating system would be nice, and it's been extremely frustrating ever since. Anybody got any help for me?

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-02-21
first of all 5.10 is outdated and not supported anymore. It's 4 years old. Instead of trying to get this to work as a fresh install I really urge you to download the latest ubuntu version or at least the latest ubuntu LTS version.

On a side note there may be no problems at all. Maybe you just installed the server version.

---

### Post by Arcane Light on 2009-02-21
My iBook is PowerPC, I was told by a friend that later versions of Ubuntu were not supported by PowerPC and only worked on Intel. But, if that's the case then I'll get it.

---

### Post by Simian Man on 2009-02-21
For PowerPC, I'd go with Fedora.  All versions of it support PowerPc and it is pretty similar to Ubuntu.  Why use something over 3 years old?

---

### Post by Arcane Light on 2009-02-21
Fedora? I think I had it on my really old Windows ME computer that I got for free.
Why use something that old? Because I got it for free, too, and I have literally no money. It's either that or an old, OLD Clamshell iBook. So, that's why.

---

### Post by flaggh on 2009-02-21
Read the following post for information on downloading the latest PowerPC images
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=427714]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=427714")

---

### Post by Simian Man on 2009-02-21
> **Arcane Light said:**
> Fedora? I think I had it on my really old Windows ME computer that I got for free.
Why use something that old? Because I got it for free, too, and I have literally no money. It's either that or an old, OLD Clamshell iBook. So, that's why.

The newer versions of Ubuntu don't support PowerPC.  According to the link above, their is a community version, but Fedora (and also Debian if you prefer) [support PowerPC directly]("http://fedoraproject.org/en/get-fedora-ppc").  They are also free.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2009-02-21
I have been running Ubuntu on my G4 Ibook since 6.06. I am now using 8.10 and downloading 9.04. I seem to have gotten all the support I needed from this forum. The only problems I have had have been caused by myself. 8.04 should be the easiest late model distro to boot up.

---

### Post by Arcane Light on 2009-02-22
Okay, thanks for your help!

---

