---
title: "9.10 ppc iso image is too big to burn"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by ubuntpan on 2009-11-05
The released iso CD image of Ubuntu 9.10 is too large to be burned onto 
a standard CDROM. I notice that in the daily builds this is marked as a 
bug, but since 9.10 is supposed to be the currently usable release 
version, I had hoped a burnable iso image would be available.

From the listing at[INDENT][http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/ports/releases/9.10/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/ports/releases/9.10/release/)
[/INDENT]you can see that the file size for[INDENT]     ubuntu-9.10-desktop-powerpc.iso 
[/INDENT]is 705MB, which will not fit onto a standard CD.

Will a burnable CD image be forthcoming for PPC/Mac users who do 
not have DVD or Flash drives with the capacity for the released image???

---

### Post by guidop on 2009-11-05
MinimalCD Installer images are available here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD")

---

### Post by vodsonic on 2010-02-22
I just ran into the same problem. Two hours to download the image over bittorrent, only to be told by my burning software that my blank CD isn't big enough.

I'm just trying this as an experiment on an old PowerBook with a bad hard drive. Burning to a DVD or trying to make a bootable flash drive would be mega-overkill, considering that I just want to have a quick look at the specs and see if the thing is worth salvaging.

Next, to download the Jaunty PPC .iso at:

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/jaunty/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/jaunty/release/)

---

### Post by vodsonic on 2010-02-22
...and, nobody is seeding the torrent.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2010-02-22
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1335735](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1335735)

---

### Post by vodsonic on 2010-02-23
Thanks - the tutorial worked but the disc I created apparently isn't bootable. I posted more details in that thread.

Since there were no seeders for the 9.04 PPC torrent, I tried downloading it directly yesterday, which failed. Trying again now with a download manager.

---

### Post by rumel1988 on 2010-04-14
same problem with Xubuntu 10.04 beta2 :@ 
but ubuntu team says its a bug. is that fix on final release?

---

### Post by conal on 2010-04-14
Overburning worked for me but you can also buy writable CD's with extra capacity.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2010-04-14
From a Windows machine I used 'InfraRecorder' and selected 'allow overburning' and 9.10 & 10.04 both worked great.

---

### Post by conal on 2010-04-14
Thanks DougieFresh4U. Also (if you have already have a working installation of linux somewhere), then Recent versions of Brasero and Gnomebaker allow overburning.

---

### Post by shawnhcorey on 2010-04-14
Most disk burners allow over-burning.  The problem is the discs themselves.  You have to get special over-sized ones.

---

### Post by conal on 2010-04-14
You can sometimes pull it off with a normal size disk, (if it's just over size) - I managed it with the Ubuntu 9.10 ppc live ISO. I think some of the other 9.10 ISOs' are even bigger though.

---

### Post by shawnhcorey on 2010-04-14
I tried that with 9.04.  It got through 95% of the install and crapped out.  Really irritating since it took almost an hour to just discovered I was overly optimistic.  :(  Get the right-sized disk; strongly recommended.

---

