---
title: "eMac 1.25 Ghz + Radeon 9200: How do I get radeon driver to work? Use ConnectorTable?"
date: 2008-12-19
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by kerryhall on 2008-12-19
Ok, this is driving me insane. I installed Hardy on my 1.25 Ghz eMac. It booted up with a black screen. I followed crapple's guide, and managed to get X to start by using the driver "fbdev". However, it seems to be possible to get the Radeon driver to work, and support 3d acceleration as well. 

Here is what I tried:

*Tried setting driver to "ati" or "radeon". For both of these, the screen flickers twice, then I hear the start up noise with a black screen.

*Compiled the xorg-xserver-video-ati package, no difference.

*fglrx driver won't work, 9200s aren't supported.

*Tried most of these options in various combinations:
[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/hardy/man4/radeon.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/hardy/man4/radeon.html)
No effect.

*After exhaustive google searching, I found this relevant thread:
[http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.freedesktop.xorg/34703/focus=34740](http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.comp.freedesktop.xorg/34703/focus=34740)
I tried basically everything that they tried there. I tried the various modelines, with no effect. Still the screen flickers twice, then goes black. 

*The ONLY thing that had ANY effect on the video output was trying various "ConnectorTable" options suggested on that thread. These caused various white lines to appear on the display, then it would go back to a black screen.

Does anyone have any idea what I should do? Has anyone actually managed to get the radeon driver to work on an eMac? What connector table options should I try? Also it seems like there is something about DVI or reversing DDC? What is that?

Oh, and the xorg log file has no apparent errors.

---

### Post by kerryhall on 2008-12-21
Bump.

---

### Post by jaw1959 on 2009-01-17
Sorry I can't help, much, but I will mention that I'm seeing the exact same problem with a slightly older eMac with a Radeon 7500 gpu. 

I will mention that I had Debian Etch running rather well on this machine for quite a while, but one day a circuit breaker tripped, and I no longer had a stable system.  Regardless, I had video working quite well, as I used the system as solely as a MythTV frontend.  It may not be the solution you're looking for, but if you really want Linux on the machine, you may want to give Debian a try.  

If anyone does know how to get the ATI video drivers working on eMac hardware, I'd really like to know how.  

Thanks,

 Josh

---

### Post by inigomontoya on 2009-01-17
I'll research this more.  I saw a link that fixed an issue like this.

edit: found the post, [http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6496973](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6496973)

this should steer you in the right direction

---

### Post by jaw1959 on 2009-01-18
I just installed debian etch again, and here's my xorg.conf, just in case it helps:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV200 QW [Radeon 7500]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:0:16:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"iMac"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	71-73
	VertRefresh	70-140
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV200 QW [Radeon 7500]"
	Monitor		"iMac"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by kerryhall on 2009-01-27
Hey all! Thanks for your help!

I ended up posting on the x.org dev forums. It turns out that I needed the bleeding edge video driver.

I don't want to mark this as solved quite yet, I need to type up what I did. It's on my to do list.

Thanks again everyone!

---

