---
title: "8.10 RC Live CD outputs kernel panics and mayhem"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by JacaByte on 2008-11-01
Alright, I may be new to these forums, but this isn't my first entanglement with Linux or forums in general. But I'll say "Hello World!" anyway.

To start out, I've got two Macs that this concerns; one's a New World Mac and the other is an Old World Mac. One's a Mirror Door Drive 1.25 GHz G4 and the other is a Power Mac 9500/200 upgraded with a 233 MHz G3 processor. Hopefully you guys know which is which, and which one is giving me more problems.

Before I had the G4, I tried installing Debian on the Power Mac. That ended in flames and glory when I discovered that the X Windows environment does not appreciate the Ati Rage 128 the mac utilizes and that Debian required a special package in order to run the GUI. I got ticked and dropped the project for about 1.5 years, mostly because I wanted another set of CDs, and I was using 56k dialup at the time.

Now to the present. I'm picking up the Linux issue again, so I can hopefully get a modern OS on the Power Mac and get it out of the house, but now I'm going to use the G4 as a meter stick of how hard it would be to install Linux on the Power Mac. Who knows, I might even stick my old 40 GB HDD in the G4 and install Ubuntu on it. Then I'd have a triple boot system. Assuming I can get the Live CD to work.

You see, I can use Yaboot correctly to boot up the CD using the C or Opt keys on startup, but then things go down hill. No matter what boot parameters I pass, the boot up always ends with either a black screen of death or it dumps me into a busybox with "(initramfs)" (I'm assuming this means the initial ram filesystem, or the ramdisk) appended on the command prompt.

I've given the kernel boot parameters including live-nosplash-powerpc, live-powerpc, and live-nosplash-powerpc video=ofonly. The latter parameter is what gave me a black screen of death, and thus far it's the only time I've encountered it. I tried a complex parameter recently: "live-nosplash-powerpc modprobe ide_core video=radeonfb:1024x768-24" which dumped me into a busy box like all the other parameters, including the default. ("live") The commands "return" and "exec xserver" (I remembered this from trying to get Debian to work on the Power Mac) give me an ominous "Kernel Panic! Init tried to kill kernel! Restart in 180 seconds..." with complaints from the kernel before that about file directories that do not exist, mainly "/root/var/logs" and "/dev/".

It looks to me like the ram disk is not being set up on my MDD G4 properly, and I don't know how I'd check this or force the kernel to make one. I've got 1.25 GB of ram on this machine; surely that's enough (or not too much) for a Live CD to run on. Thoughts? I could try passing the kernel the "memory=1280 MB" parameter on boot; that might clear something up.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-11-01
Do you have any USB/Grafic PCI Cards? If yes, remove them before installing and zap the PRAM (cmd+opt+P+R)
I had often this problem. Ubuntu (as Debian as well) should run greatly on this machine.
I installed Xubuntu also on a PowerPC 7500 (with a 500MHz g3 Upgrade). It works, but I use it very seldom&#8230;

---

### Post by JacaByte on 2008-11-01
Um, the Power Mac G3 has a PCI VGA card, but the MDD G4 uses an AGP Ati Radeon 9000 Pro. Great little card, had to be reseated because of an annoying "color cycling" problem, but I haven't had any other trouble with it.

Perhaps I should try burning an Xubuntu Alternate Install CD (because by all the accounts I've read, old world Macs can't use Live CDs) and installing it directly onto the Power Mac instead of going through the MDD G4 tangent?

Here's a thought; would it be easier to install Ubuntu or Xubuntu on the MDD G4 and install Linux onto the Power Mac via ethernet? I don't even know if it's possible, but if things could be made simpler, I'm all for it.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-11-01
I meant just extra PCI Cards (USB/FireWire Cards) that you have added to the 'standard' Hardware. 
Anyway let's talk separately on the two computers.

1. PowerMac 9500. To boot and to install Linux on it you need BootX, that you install on the MacOS9 - Yaboot does not work on OldWorld Mac. Here you can download it and get some information.
[http://penguinppc.org/bootloaders/bootx/](http://penguinppc.org/bootloaders/bootx/)
[http://penguinppc.org/historical/benh/](http://penguinppc.org/historical/benh/)
You could even boot a LiveCD on such machines, but it is tricky and not advisable. The processor is too slow and you don't have enough ram. The best solution for me was to install a light and basic system and then to add the software I need, using the Net-Installer of Debian.But there is also one of Ubuntu: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)

2. PowerMac G4 Can you please explaine, which system are you trying to install and if you get to the yaboot prompt.
Are you sure, that it is an Ubuntu 8.10 LiveCD for PowerPC? Where did you download it?

---

### Post by JacaByte on 2008-11-01
I am 100% sure that I'm using a Ubuntu Live CD for PowerPC. I downloaded the CD from [here]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/daily-live/current/").

1. I am entirely aware of the fact that old world Macs cannot use Yaboot. That's why I specified "old world" and "new world" for the machines in my first post. I used Xboot for starting the Debian installer when I attempted to install it way back when.

2. I don't understand what you're asking, here...

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-11-02
> **JacaByte said:**
> I am 100% sure that I'm using a Ubuntu Live CD for PowerPC. I downloaded the CD from [here]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/daily-live/current/")

This is a daily-image of the Live-CD, I haven't tried it and I don't know how much stable it is (therefore I was asking, which system are you trying to install)

You may want to use the Intrepid alternate-CD. You can download it here
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/intrepid/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/intrepid/release/)
[ftp://ftp.gnome-db.org/mirror/cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/intrepid/release/](ftp://ftp.gnome-db.org/mirror/cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/intrepid/release/)

The first server is oft overloaded
Here is also a link for a torrent
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963868](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=963868)

Please, read this thread, if the installer can't detect your CD-ROM
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964904](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964904)

::::::
If you prefer  a Live-CD, than you use better the Hardy Live-CD. Read the first thread of this forum to know where you can download it.

---

