---
title: "10.04 to Oneiric Upgrade Reboot Failure"
date: 2011-10-28
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by displaced on 2011-10-28
Hi,

I had been running natty (Xubuntu) on a PowerPC G4 Mac Mini quite happily.

Then, I was prompted to upgrade to Oneiric, which I accepted.  Not my brightest decision!

The machine was fully up-to-date, other than the Oneiric upgrade.  The upgrade itself appeared to run perfectly normally.  At the end I was prompted to reboot - which I did.

Now, the machine gets through the open-firmware part of the boot process and begins starting linux.  

It then drops me to a busybox prompt with the error: "Gave up waiting for root device"

Has anyone got any ideas about how I should start to fix this?

Thanks!
Chris

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-10-28
See section 3.9 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11020435&postcount=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11020435&postcount=1)

---

### Post by displaced on 2011-10-30
Hi, and thanks for the reply.

I've played with every conceivable variant of the boot and root args at the yaboot prompt without any joy.

Each time I get the 'gave up waiting for root device' error, ending with ALERT! /dev/hda3 (or whichever path I've specified in the args) does not exist.

Interestingly, after I'm dropped to the busybox shell, my USB keyboard no longer works - even the caps lock key LED fails to illuminate.  Disconnecting and reconnecting throws the usual USB disconnect/reconnect messages, but there's no mention of a class driver being loaded in response.

If I enter 'old' at the yaboot prompt, it starts up successfully using the 2.x kernel. There, I've checked the content of /boot and there Is the expected initrd file for the 3.x kernel along with the symlink from it to initrd.img (as well as the initrd.img.old symlink to the 2.x kernel initrd)

Is this something odd involving the 'bootstrap' partition that these NewWorld PPC Macs use for Linux? 

Thanks for any more assistance anyone can provide.

Cheers,
Chris

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-10-30
Can you post up your /etc/yaboot.conf file please?

---

### Post by displaced on 2011-10-30
Here it is:

```

boot="/dev/hda2"
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0
partition=3
#root="UUID=ee6b95f9-e9bc-4702-af38-86a4d33eb8d0"
root="/dev/hda3"
timeout=10
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="nosplash video=vesafb"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="quiet splash"

```

As you can see from the commented-out **root** statement, I've been trying the suggestions of switching between absolute paths and UDIDs for the parameters.  The 'old' config boots fine with either /dev/ paths or UDIDs, but the Linux config (Oneiric, 3.x) always has the problem described.

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-10-31
Hmm..... thinking......
 
Let's start with the basics......
 
You've tried at the second yaboot prompt entering "Linux root=/dev/sda3" right? 
 
If you are editing your yaboot.conf then I would set the boot= line to the more generic:
 
boot="/dev/disk/by-label/bootstrap"
 
When you edit the yaboot.conf you are then running the command "sudo ybin -v" right? And you get no errors?
 
If you are doing all of the above then I am a bit flummoxed. You could try maybe
 
Linux root=/dev/sda3 rootdelay=10
 
The only other thing I can suggest is that you try the 11.10 live-cd and see if the hard drive drivers are working on that. Maybe you need to change sda to something different?
 
Btw, I couldn't help but notice the video=vesafb! Is that something you put in? I think that is not the optimum setup for you.....   (thinking about it some more, it may seem obscure, but I wonder if this is your problem since I know the new kernels have a lot of the fb's stripped out?)

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-10-31
The other thing to try is doing it via the openfirmware path. At the second yaboot prompt type:
 
hd:3,/boot/vmlinux root=hd:3 ro
 
or the longer
 
/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:3,/boot/vmlinux [EMAIL="root=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:3"]root=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:3[/EMAIL] ro
 
You can try adding an initrd= parameter too. 
 
When you finally get it working it maybe that in your yaboot.conf you might have to add the line 
 
ofboot=hd:2

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-10-31
Right, is this your solution?! [http://lists.debian.org/debian-powerpc/2011/08/msg00050.html](http://lists.debian.org/debian-powerpc/2011/08/msg00050.html)

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2011-11-02
> **rsavage said:**
> Right, is this your solution?! [http://lists.debian.org/debian-powerpc/2011/08/msg00050.html](http://lists.debian.org/debian-powerpc/2011/08/msg00050.html)OMG I want to have your children, rsavage.  One search and I found this thread, you totally fixed my problem.

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2011-11-03
> **Ms. Daisy said:**
> OMG I want to have your children, rsavage.  One search and I found this thread, you totally fixed my problem.Well perhaps I jumped the gun on my jubilation.  I'm following the debian thread you linked above and it works like a charm until I go to make the permanent change.  
```
echo pata_macio >> /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
```I tried this code, plus adding all combinations of sudo and chmod +x, chmod u+x, chmod u+s.  They all end in "Permission denied". If I had the wrong ATA controller, wouldn't I see a different error message, something along the lines of "no such directory"?  How do I gain permission to run this command?

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-11-03
Debian has a root account and so a lot of their instructions expect you to be in that. There are various ways you can switch to root in ubuntu. For example
 
sudo su
 
If you then run the debian command it will work. Basically the command is a fancy way of adding a line to a file. You can achieve the same thing in xubuntu by
 
gksudo mousepad /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
 
and typing pata_macio on a new line.

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-11-03
I've just been reading about sudo to make sure I'm telling you right [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo) .  I think they are saying the best way to switch to root is to use 

sudo -i

But, it is still naughty to do it this way.  The ubuntu equivalent of the debian command (and the 'proper' thing to do) is

echo pata_macio | sudo tee -a /etc/initramfs-tools/modules

---

### Post by Ms. Daisy on 2011-11-03
```
sudo mousepad /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
pata_macio
``` bash complained about the "tee" command.  But that sequence above worked. I rebooted straight to the GUI.  THANK YOU!!!!

---

