---
title: "v. high load average, many kworker in D state, short freezes, low CPU"
date: 2016-08-25
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by G_Muh on 2016-08-25
This is Lubuntu 16.04 64-bit on a 2008 Macbook, 3GB RAM, SSD.

I'm having a problem with very high load averages, which may or may not be related to trackpad freezing. The problem is intermittent and can be solved by logging out of Lubuntu and then back in.

When the load is high and the trackpad freezes, it's possible to regain trackpad function for a few seconds to a couple minutes by switching virtual terminals out of X to a text console and back. However, a virtual terminal switch (X to console or vice versa, e.g. ctrl-alt-f1) can be delayed for up to 3 minutes or so, while various windows or the text console are usable with the keyboard just fine, but not the frozen trackpad. It's as if the ctrl-alt-f1 (virtual terminal switch) is in some kind of queue that has to drain out.

This problem makes the system essentially unusable when it happens. A session restart is required.


uname:

Linux mybox 4.4.0-34-generic #53-Ubuntu SMP Wed Jul 27 16:06:39 UTC 2016 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

top:

top - 21:29:22 up 1 day,  5:57,  2 users,  load average: **223.67**, 179.10, 166.01
Tasks: 448 total,   1 running, 447 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
%Cpu(s):  4.3 us,  1.0 sy,  0.0 ni, 94.5 id,  0.2 wa,  0.0 hi,  0.0 si,  0.0 st
KiB Mem :  4011084 total,   557060 free,  2009348 used,  1444676 buff/cache
KiB Swap:  2999804 total,  2607704 free,   392100 used.  1574160 avail Mem  


a lot of kworkers:

$ ps ax | grep kworker | wc -l
271


which are in D state:

$ ps -e -o state,pid,cmd | grep ^D | grep kworker | wc -l
257


$ vmstat 5 5
procs -----------memory---------- ---swap-- -----io---- -system-- ------cpu-----
 r  b   swpd   free   buff  cache   si   so    bi    bo   in   cs us sy id wa st
 2  0 392128 578212  24952 1408652    7   13    56    88  312  130 19  5 76  0  0
 0  0 392128 576068  24968 1410780    0    0     0    37  677  942  2  1 97  0  0
 0  0 392128 576188  24968 1410908    0    0     0    21  765  944  4  1 95  0  0
 0  0 392128 576044  24976 1410812    0    0     0    10  791  910  2  1 97  0  0
 0  0 392128 576728  24976 1410976    0    0     0     0  904  996  4  1 95  0  0

---

### Post by banceu_sergiu_ione on 2016-08-25
Hi
You may wan to provide the full output. So who read may understand more of what its going on.

```
top -n 1
```
```
lscpu
```
```
ps --forest -eo user,pid,ppid,%cpu,%mem,cmd
```
```
free -m
```
```
grep "Out of memory" /var/log/syslog
```
or
```
grep oom /var/log/syslog
```
```
ps -eo rss,vsize,user,pid,cmd | sort -nk 1 | tail -n 5
```
```
ps -elf | grep " D "
```
```
ps -elf --forest
```
```
iostat -x 10 3
```
iostat have to be installed.

---

### Post by G_Muh on 2016-09-08
I've characterized the mouse freeze behavior a bit better: it appears to happen when I remove my finger from the touchpad after moving the cursor, but not always. It doesn't seem predictable.

There seem to be a lot of kworker threads waiting for disk, but iowait is low. The machine has an aftermarket SSD, no other weird problems like this with Mint 17, etc.

I can't post properly here, so I had to make a pastebin of the output you requested: [http://pastebin.com/1N8YEte2](http://pastebin.com/1N8YEte2)

---

### Post by theethee on 2016-09-09
Hello,
i've found this thread in search for a solution for the very same problem.
I'm on a macbook late 2007 running Ubuntu 16.04 with Gnome and I as well have to deal with the Kworkers in D state.
They're producing a very high load (sometimes over 200) and the sudenly the touchpad freezes, if that sounds familiar.

What I found out so far ist, that it's seems to be related to the ACPI management, which seems to have problems with the Bios of Mac (I haven't really found out, what the bios in Mac's is, but I've read about non Mac users, who changed something in their Bios to fix the Problem.)
But there seems to be a problem with ACPI interrupts since Kernel 2.6. :


[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20232](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20232)


However, I found a workaround that doesn't solve all my Problems but that betters the situation a lot:

[http://sudoremember.blogspot.de/2013/05/high-cpu-usage-due-to-kworker.html](http://sudoremember.blogspot.de/2013/05/high-cpu-usage-due-to-kworker.html)

(Note: switch to Root [sudo -i] an then make the cronjob, otherwise it won't be initialized on startup.)

After this there still sometimes is a Kworker in D state left but hte load is the about 8 and I can use the Computer. 
When I boot in Mac Os, to then reboot into Ubuntu even this process is gone but it reapers after closing the lid and suspending,
which points me more in the direction, that this bug is related to powermanagement.

I hope, this helps to get in the right direction.

Cheers

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-09-09
Thread moved to the "*Apple Hardware Users*" forum.

---

### Post by theethee on 2016-09-12
Update:
Like I suspected in my case, the Kworker problem is related to the ACPI.
I discovered, that each I time plug or unplug my power adapter I get a Kworker in D state.
When I boot without being connected to the plug erverything is fine, when I plug it in before I boot, everything is fine. Plugging and unplugging with lid closed (in hibernate) is fine as well.
The Problem is caused by plugging and unplugging while the system is up. And a reboot won't fix it, the Kworker will only go away, when the Macbook is shut down or, as I previously stated, once booted into mac os.

So far I have no clue how to solve this because I don't have the time at the moment to learn the the details of Ubuntu's ACPI.
But maybe you can reproduce and or confirm this behavior with your Macbook?

---

### Post by G_Muh on 2016-09-14
> **theethee said:**
> What I found out so far ist, that it's seems to be related to the ACPI management, which seems to have problems with the Bios of Mac (I haven't really found out, what the bios in Mac's is, but I've read about non Mac users, who changed something in their Bios to fix the Problem.)

Where did you find this out? Do you have some URLs to share? :)

> But there seems to be a problem with ACPI interrupts since Kernel 2.6. :


[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20232](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20232)

At first glance, I don't think this is related - I've had various flavors of Linux with different kernels installed on my machine, and this is the only one that's had this problem. Beyond that, the bug report mentions 100% CPU usage - I have low CPU usage with very high load average.

> So far I have no clue how to solve this because I don't have the time at the moment to learn the the details of Ubuntu's ACPI.
But maybe you can reproduce and or confirm this behavior with your Macbook?

I'll try. For me, I'm not sure this is related - the problem seems to crop up out of nowhere at times, but maybe I haven't been monitoring well enough.

It's also possible that my charger is coming "unplugged" briefly at times without me noticing it, as the connector is a little wonky. I can't easily test only on battery though as my battery is very old. I'll see what I can find out. Thanks!

---

### Post by G_Muh on 2016-09-14
Okay, I'm trying to crudely diagnose this. I'm monitoring load with 'top' and the number of active kworker threads with 'while true; do ps ax | grep kworker | wc -l; sleep 5; done'

Then with the number of kworker threads being printed every 5 seconds, I plug and unplug the power connector.

My current test is going thusly:


[LIST]
[*]system is idle and booted into lubuntu desktop, battery is fully charged, kworker threads stable at 16 for about a minute
[*]unplug charger, kworker threads immediately jump to 23 and remain stable at 23 for about a minute
[*]plug charger back in, kworker threads jump to 24 and remain stable at 24 for about half a minute, then drop to 23
[*]unplug charger, popup reports battery fully charged, kworker threads remain stable at 23 for about a minute
[*]plug charger back in, popup reports battery 17% (!!), kworker threads start to skyrocket. Interval 5 seconds after plugging in charger: 28, 35, 48, 56, 56, 56, 97, 104, 104, 132, 132, 146, 160, 174, 174, 197, 210, 223, 223, 223, 254, load average now passing 1 from 0, 254, 271, 271, 271, load average spiking past 20, past 40, kworker threads stable at 271, load drops to 32, increases to 50, then 66, then 82, 96 ... increasing this much with every refresh of 'top'. Number of kworker threads are stable at 271.
[/LIST]

So it appears that it doesn't happen on every plug/unplug of the charger, at least not in my single test here.

Also interesting is that upon plugging the charger back in, my "fully charged" battery (which should indeed be fully charged, as it had been on the charger for days, and can last half an hour or so at least) was being reported at 17% charge ... after some time observing the spiking kworker threads and load, I notice that the panel battery widget is again reporting full charge.

My question now, is this actually a kernel bug of some kind, or is it an interaction with software contained in Lubuntu or similar (are you running Lubuntu or Ubuntu?)

---

### Post by G_Muh on 2016-09-14
I'm now observing the system with 'powertop' and noticed a couple other interesting things.

First, when the system has very high load, ACPI-related wakeups are near the top of the 'powertop' Overview screen, and one in particular has Usage of 500 to over 1000 ms/s, which to my uneducated eye seems like it could very well cause high load.

However, while observing 'powertop', I exited my running 'top' job and killed my 5-second kworker monitoring loop, and the desktop freezes stopped happening! So I restarted 'top' and the kworker monitoring, and the load average was decreasing rapidly. The number of kworker threads had fallen from 271 to 270, remained stable at 270 for about a minute, and then dropped to 14. As I write this, load remains low and kworker threads are stable at 15.

(FWIW, I'm typing this message on a different machine, so I'm not using a browser, etc. on the affected machine.)

Very strange! But, I'd seen a spontaneous recovery or two from the freezing behavior - it appears I caught one in the act, and it's associated with a drop in load average *followed* by a huge decrease in the number of kworker threads.

WEIRD.

---

### Post by G_Muh on 2016-09-17
Top of 'powertop' summary before power disconnect:

```
Summary: 294.0 wakeups/second,  2.1 GPU ops/seconds, 0.0 VFS ops/sec and 6.7% CPU use


                Usage       Events/s    Category       Description
            100.0%                      Device         Audio codec hwC0D0: Realtek
              6.0 ms/s      54.1        Process        /usr/lib/chromium-browser/chromium-browser --enable-pinch
             38.0 ms/s      48.5        Process        /usr/lib/chromium-browser/chromium-browser --type=renderer --enable-pinch --enable-features=D
            362.1 µs/s      29.8        kWork          dbs_timer
              1.6 ms/s      27.3        Interrupt      [9] acpi

```

And 2 refreshes after power disconnect:

```

Summary: 300.8 wakeups/second,  3.8 GPU ops/seconds, 0.0 VFS ops/sec and 1084.8% CPU use


                Usage       Events/s    Category       Description
             **9627 ms/s**       9.9        kWork          acpi_ec_event_processor
             **1138 ms/s**      16.3        kWork          acpi_os_execute_deferred
             13.8 ms/s     236.5        Interrupt      [9] acpi
            100.0%                      Device         Audio codec hwC0D0: Realtek

```

---

### Post by G_Muh on 2016-09-17
I've filed a kernel bug: [https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=169241](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=169241)

---

