---
title: "11.10 aluminum iMac no sound"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by mbaucco on 2011-10-18
Hello,

I have tried adding stuff to the alsa-base.conf as suggested on this page:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Intel_iMac#Sound](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Intel_iMac#Sound)

but nothing worked. I also tried uninstalling and re-installing pulseaudio on the recommendation of another page, but so far nothing works. Can anyone help?

Thanks,
Matt

---

### Post by mbaucco on 2011-10-20
I am still unable to get the sound working and when I cam into work this morning it was locked up. Am I the only person trying to run 11.10 on an aluminum iMac, or am I the only one having trouble?

Thanks,
Matt

---

### Post by Markrtfm on 2011-10-20
I am having a similar problem also. I get sound from the main imac speakers but not from the headphone jack. It is late here so I am done for the night. If I get it working I will update this tomorrow.

---

### Post by Tres99 on 2011-10-21
[FONT=Arial][SIZE=2]I have the same problem, no sound in iMac aluminium (21").
It can be resolved by the following:

Open terminal
$  sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/modprobe.conf

A new file will be opened, write a line below then save.

options snd_hda_intel model=mb5

Close file
Reboot the computer.
After rebooting, speaker will show in a mute, adjust the sound preference and set "The selected device" to "Analog Stereo Output" or "Analog Stereo Duplex"
Hope this will work for you.
Cheers  



[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by mbaucco on 2011-10-24
Nope, no luck. Still no sound. None of the ones here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Intel_iMac#Sound](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Intel_iMac#Sound)

worked either.

Thanks,
Matt

EDIT: I wiped and re-installed Ubuntu one more time and this time Tres99's suggestion worked. Thanks very much! :)

EDIT 02: If you use mbp5 instead of mb3 the headphones work also. :)

---

### Post by cdizzle on 2012-01-18
I know this is "solved", but I have an aluminum iMac 8,1 and I needed to set the model to mb31 as opposed to mbp3 in order to get my speakers and headphones working. With mb5, imac24, and imac91 only the speakers would work. Hope that helps someone in the future!

---

### Post by philak on 2012-02-14
cdizzles solution fixed my issues. Same machine. Thanks.

---

### Post by jessepage1989 on 2012-02-14
same problem with me on 10.04. but currently trying to fix my internet problem lol no network drivers detected...

---

### Post by Lime Blast on 2012-08-24
> **cdizzle said:**
> I know this is "solved", but I have an aluminum iMac 8,1 and I needed to set the model to mb31 as opposed to mbp3 in order to get my speakers and headphones working. With mb5, imac24, and imac91 only the speakers would work. Hope that helps someone in the future!

I just wanted to say thank you for this. I have an imac 8,1, and was just about to give up, but I saw your post. +100 Internets to you sir.

---

### Post by CaloCuervo on 2012-09-03
Having the same sound problem with Imac g5 (white) .  I have tried to edit the files with nano but get an error message "permission denied".  Problems with display as well, need to scroll up/down few times in order to read screen.
Any ideas?
Calo
Imac G5 PowerPC Lubuntu 12.04.01 PPC

---

### Post by TdarKoNe on 2012-09-15
> **cdizzle said:**
> I know this is "solved", but I have an aluminum iMac 8,1 and I needed to set the model to mb31 as opposed to mbp3 in order to get my speakers and headphones working. With mb5, imac24, and imac91 only the speakers would work. Hope that helps someone in the future!

After trying so many suggestions I tried yours and was SO happy when I rebooted and had sound! Thanks so much cdizzle!!! ):P

---

