---
title: "Dual boot issues"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by benl11235 on 2008-05-29
I have a Powerbook G4 that previously had Fedora on it. I installed Ubuntu 8.04 and lost the ability to boot Fedora. Help would be appreciated. The installer did recognize Mac OS X though. Thanks for any help you could provide.:confused:

---

### Post by ethand320 on 2008-05-29
make sure that your hard drive is partitioned so that the when you install one OS it does not overwrite the other. I had a similar problem but it worked out once i partitioned my hard drive, one half for mac OS, the other half i installed ubuntu linux

hope this helps

---

### Post by benl11235 on 2008-05-29
The hard drive partition layout is fine there is a boot partition for fedora and Ubuntu and Mac OS X, a swap partition and  storage partitions. Fedora is there but I can't access it. I was wondering if there was a way to edit grub, and if so could I get instructions? It even tagged the fedora boot partition with /boot in gparted.

---

### Post by oswaldkelso on 2008-05-30
If you can't boot both on boot by pressing the l (small L) then TAB and selecting fedora you may need to re-bless your yaboot.conf file

sudo fdisk -l 

to list your partitions and get you partition numbers. 

sudo ofpath (hda etc)

to get your openfirmware path to your hd

see:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=802528&highlight=yaboot](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=802528&highlight=yaboot)

[http://www.my2bits.org/?p=49]("http://www.my2bits.org/?p=49")

---

### Post by benl11235 on 2008-05-30
I found the correct yaboot.conf. How would I edit it to include an option to boot an ext3 hda4 partition that starts fedora. examples of fedora/ubuntu boot appreciated or a link to a setup guide would be very helpful.

---

### Post by benl11235 on 2008-05-30
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda6
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=7
root=/dev/hda7
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="quiet splash video=ofonly"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
	label=old
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
	append="quiet splash video=ofonly"

This is my Ubuntu yaboot.conf file

---

### Post by oswaldkelso on 2008-06-01
Add fedora to your yaboot.conf this is the section for fedora on mine with notes.

####################################
##fedora8
## path to kernel
image=/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.23.1-42.fc8
## path to fedora root
root=/dev/hda7
## the name that will be displayed on the screen after I press L then tab on boot.
label=fedora
read-only
## the real open firmware path to my hard drive
device=/pci@f2000000/mac-io@17/ata-4@1f000/disk@0:
## the alias path to my hard drive (not used)
#device=hda:
## the partition no I dont think I need this a it's already pointed to partition 7 with root. I keep it anyway as is works!
partition=7
## path to img
initrd=/boot/initrd-2.6.23.1-42.fc8.img

########################################

Add to your yaboot.conf with YOUR device path and root partition details etc.

Bless it 

sudo ybin -v


done. on boot ubuntu will be the default, but if you press l ( small L) then tab. Fedora will show up. type fedora (or what ever you called it in label, "rose" for e.g. :) ) and your good to go.

---

