---
title: "13.04 install on mbpro 8,2: black screen"
date: 2013-05-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by supermario87 on 2013-05-01
Hi, I downloaded both the 64bit and 64bit+mac version of the iso and used them to boot both from CD and USB (EFI BOOT FROM rEFInd).
I reach to grub2 screen and then is black screen.
If I add some modeset(i915, radeon etc.) to grub2, the same used in the past to switch off video cards and get working framebuffer, I can watch the system loading process trough framebuffer but X fails to start even if I manually load radeon or i915 drivers.
So.. any way to get at least the boot process fully working?

Thanks

---

### Post by bootlessxfly on 2013-05-02
You should try efi stub loader. It may work better for you. Although i have as of yet not been able to get graphics card switching working(both intel and ati boot up and run) i have no trouble booting up. Im not sure why radeon isn't working for, but i know the intel card will show a black screen everytime i switch to it. Although the fact that your using grub my be the reason why radeon wont boot. Without bios mod the vbios for the card doesnt load right. Im using efi stub loader on the same system as you and it boots radeon just fine(Other than the fact that catalyst drivers don't want to play friendly. Im pretty sure this will load the your ati card into a working condition. Alternativley you can try compiling your own kernel and patching it to load the vbios in grub. This would from what i read boot you with both discrete and integrated graphics working. The instructions can be found here(and they are actually rather recent). [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2103743](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2103743). When he points you toward the patch webpage use the gentoo one. Im currently(although slowly since i have finals) trying to see if i recompile my kernel with these settings if i can get my gpu switching to work. Id also recommend using ubuntus kernel source(can get it with apt) since at that point youll have the same kernel setup except one patch as you did before.

But once again if you dont want to go through the trouble of compiling a new kernel use efi stub loader which can be achieved through refind. If your using ubuntu 13.04 your kernel will support this method.
If you need any  help doing this let me know.

---

### Post by supermario87 on 2013-05-02
> **bootlessxfly said:**
> You should try efi stub loader. It may work better for you. Although i have as of yet not been able to get graphics card switching working(both intel and ati boot up and run) i have no trouble booting up. Im not sure why radeon isn't working for, but i know the intel card will show a black screen everytime i switch to it.
 
Well, I've already reported a bug, I get te exact problem with EFISTUB and 3.8 kernel!

[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56911](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56911)

[QUOTE=bootlessxfly]
Although the fact that your using grub my be the reason why radeon wont boot. Without bios mod the vbios for the card doesnt load right. Im using efi stub loader on the same system as you and it boots radeon just fine(Other than the fact that catalyst drivers don't want to play friendly. Im pretty sure this will load the your ati card into a working condition. Alternativley you can try compiling your own kernel and patching it to load the vbios in grub. This would from what i read boot you with both discrete and integrated graphics working. 
[/QUOTE]

From what I've read about kernel 3.8, one of the major fixes that it brings it's the solving of the radeon bios loading problem! At least this would be in the plans of the developers.

[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26891](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26891)

[QUOTE=bootlessxfly]
The instructions can be found here(and they are actually rather recent). [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2103743](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2103743). When he points you toward the patch webpage use the gentoo one. Im currently(although slowly since i have finals) trying to see if i recompile my kernel with these settings if i can get my gpu switching to work. Id also recommend using ubuntus kernel source(can get it with apt) since at that point youll have the same kernel setup except one patch as you did before.

But once again if you dont want to go through the trouble of compiling a new kernel use efi stub loader which can be achieved through refind. If your using ubuntu 13.04 your kernel will support this method.
If you need any  help doing this let me know.[/QUOTE]

I will try this as a last chance, thanks!

---

### Post by bootlessxfly on 2013-05-02
> **supermario87 said:**
> Well, I've already reported a bug, I get te exact problem with EFISTUB and 3.8 kernel!

[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56911](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56911)

I just took a look at your bug report. I have the exact same problem on my mbp8.2. I could be wrong about this becuase I've never gave grub a second look when i found out about efi_stubs, but wouldnt this be an intel xserver bug and not an EFI stub bug. Or have you been able to get intel to work with xserver on ubuntu 13.04 before? I do know that EFI stub boots ubuntu with the gallium radium drivers working just fine.

I also think it'll be useful to point out that other people using 13.04 and there hybrid graphics. I think its a problem with x-server. 


[QUOTE=From what I've read about kernel 3.8, one of the major fixes that it brings it's the solving of the radeon bios loading problem! At least this would be in the plans of the developers.

[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26891](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26891)

I will try this as a last chance, thanks![/QUOTE]

Yes this is why i am able to boot it through EFI stub. I can even turn on the intel card. But if i try to make it the active driver, the screen blacks out. But the computers boots using the radeon card by default so it work, Id just like it to work better, The main reason why i said this is because i wasn't sure if grub was the problem in loading or not. If you can't get it to boot with grub. Ive been booting mine off stub for a week or so now. Works fine except intel card wont display properly)

I tryed compiling the kernel using the ubuntu source as a base and patching only the file for storing vbios and it did not work for me. Once it booted all it did was flash stripes at me(this is more than it's done before when i tell intel gpu to do anything, it ussually just stays black) So im thinking that it has to be xserver(maybe It's a newer version not playing nice). Im still gonna keep the kernel(The guy who wrote the article wrote it for kernel 3.8) It may be important to note that i didn't use grub like the directions said but instead used stub loading. Could of been the problem but im still thinking xserver. 

Another useful bit of advice is that fglrx(catalyst) would install but would never display when i rebooted(another reason why i think it is xserver)

So having said all that i just came across an article of potential interest. His proccess he uses fglrx. But im sue you could use gallium if you wanted. I think the main thing that should interest you about this is that it removes xvideo intel and replaces it with one customized for ati/intel switching


I havn't had a chance to test this yet.. but if you decide you wanna try, id recomend making a little uninstall script somewhere on your root. That when you restart your computer if the display wont work you can go into console and fix it.

and also make sue you dont let ubuntu update to their new driver. Otherwise there is a good cahnce your display will not be working when you reboot
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/205112/how-do-i-get-amd-intel-hybrid-graphics-drivers-working/288355#288355](http://askubuntu.com/questions/205112/how-do-i-get-amd-intel-hybrid-graphics-drivers-working/288355#288355)

But anyways, I still think if you cant get grub to boot at all that booting with the stub loader would be best for now.

Edit:

By the way when i turn on my intel card and grep the x.org.0.log file i get this:
[    22.387] (==) Matched intel as autoconfigured driver 2
[    22.449] (II) LoadModule: "intel"
[    22.449] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/intel_drv.so
[    22.522] (II) Module intel: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    22.598] (==) Matched intel as autoconfigured driver 2
[    22.599] (II) LoadModule: "intel"
[    22.599] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/intel_drv.so
[    22.599] (II) Module intel: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[    22.599] (II) UnloadModule: "intel"
[    22.599] (II) Unloading intel
[    22.599] (II) Failed to load module "intel" (already loaded, 0)
[    22.603] (II) intel: Driver for Intel Integrated Graphics Chipsets: i810,
[    22.681] (II) intel(G0): SNA compiled: xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.21.6-0ubuntu4 (Bryce Harrington <bryce@ubuntu.com>)
[    23.010] (EE) intel(G0): [drm] Failed to open DRM device for pci:0000:00:02.0: No such file or directory
[    23.010] (EE) intel(G0): Failed to become DRM master.
[    23.010] (II) UnloadModule: "intel"

So im thinking that the patched xserver driver is the best option for this problem.

---

### Post by supermario87 on 2013-05-04
I finally managed to install ubuntu 13.04 from usb with grub2 method, I used the old(but gold) method of switching off radeon from grub2.
Now I'll try to follow the method from **Chav**

---

### Post by bootlessxfly on 2013-05-04
I hope it works for you. If it does let me know. I tried to use the modded intel package. But that does not seemed to have had much affect. I read around and people have suggested running this through kernel params: "i915.lvds_channel_mode=2 i915.modeset=1 i915.lvds_use_ssc=0 i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 $vt_handoff." So might be worth trying. Im going to start working on getting this to work again now that my finals are done. Hopefully one of us can get it working.

---

### Post by supermario87 on 2013-05-05
As mentioned in the other thread, I've some problem to boot the kernel compiled with full support to vga switching, I think is a driver related problem!
I cant post any log because the kernel goes in panic at boot.

---

### Post by johund on 2013-05-26
Hi,

has anyone of you guys already solved the black screen issue after switching to the integrated graphics device?

I have installed Ubuntu 13.04 using ```
ubiquity -b
``` just like in [this]("http://randomtutor.blogspot.de/2013/02/installing-ubuntu-1304-on-retina.html") tutorial. Hence I shouldn't have GRUB-Bootloader installed. Nonetheless after installing I found a GRUB Bios partition on my disk. I guess it is not in use but still I dread deleting it before knowing whether it could be useful sometime.
I can use Ubuntu perfectly just until I try to switch output to the integrated graphics device using vga switcharoo. After restarting the Xserver my screen remains black but Ubuntu is still running as I am able to reboot via terminal.

At the moment I use rEFInd to boot Ubuntu in EFI mode. I also tried the kernel params mentioned before: ```
i915.lvds_channel_mode=2 i915.modeset=1 i915.lvds_use_ssc=0 i915.i915_enable_rc6=1 $vt_handoff
```
Unfortunately with no effect so far. The same applies if I only use ```
i915.lvds_channel_mode=2 i915.modeset=1
```
Deactivation of the radeon graphics device with ```
radeon.modeset=0
``` results in errors and low graphics mode.

So is there finally a solution to get the integrated intel graphics working with a 13.04 install?

---

### Post by johund on 2013-05-29
Hello,

can anyone post his /etc/X11/xorg.conf file please. I edited mine and later reversed the changes after nothing worked any longer. But since then I always have to reboot several times to see the login-screen. VGA switcheroo isn't working any longer, too.:-|

At least I can state that the following tutorial does not work on MacBook Pro 8,2: [http://petevalentine-residence.clients.fishnet.net.nz/ubuntu](http://petevalentine-residence.clients.fishnet.net.nz/ubuntu)

---

### Post by bootlessxfly on 2013-07-09
I do not believe the xorg file is used by default anymore. I could be wrong about this but i do not see one in my set up(ubuntu 13.04). I know this won't help you now but next time make a back up before you mess with stuff like that.

As far as switching, as far as i can tell and see this is a bug. I think this may also be why i can't correctly install the catalyst driver's. Last i saw no one had started working on this problem. But i havn't been keeping up with is for a while.

Would be interested to know if anyone finds a workaround for this and also if anyone has been able to get catalyst working in ubuntu 13.04.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2013-07-11
I have an 8,2 and getting any Linux flavor running on it, reliably, has been a long exercise in frustration.

Ubuntu's "Mac" images boot and install in simulated BIOS mode.  Those images install and run on my 8,2.  However, the onboard Intel is invisible, the Radeon is, therefore, always used, and it runs very hot with the fans maxed at all times.  Not worth it.

Linux on the 8,2 will not "see" the onboard Intel video unless it is installed and booted in EFI.  The trick then becomes disabling the Radeon so the Intel is actually used.  This must be done before the kernel is loaded. Various howtos described how to insert code into a grub config to do this.  I was able to make this happen with 13.04 on the 8,2.  However, it broke beyond redemption at the very first upgrade.

I wasn't able to get video switching to work. 

Recent Fedora versions take a somewhat different approach to installing on Macs, and do install in EFI mode rather painlessly.  However, I've not been able to get that grub bit to work on Fedora. So, again, the only the Radeon can be used.

---

