---
title: "9.10 in VMware Fusion 3 or Parallels Desktop 5?"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by bookworm656 on 2009-11-13
Has anyone successfully upgraded to 9.10 in VMware Fusion 3 or Parallels Desktop 5? (I currently have trial copies of both.) 

I read somewhere that Fusion 3 doesn't like 9.10 at all, so I haven't even tried upgrading in that. I've tried upgrading in Parallels 5, and it booted the first time I tried, although there was a giant menu I had to pick from at boot. Once it started up the mouse was invisible (I could click on things, but I couldn't see the pointer). So I restarted but chose a different option from the boot menu thing, and then it wouldn't start at all (no matter what option I chose), the screen just flickered.

---

### Post by svensen on 2009-11-16
I've got karmic x86 working in fusion 3. Everything is running smoothly except for sound.
Had to install manually from alternate iso, then
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r`
```
before installing vmware tools.
For some extra performance set
```
vmi.present = "TRUE"
```
in the vm's .vmx file

regards,
sven

---

### Post by darkangelace on 2010-01-28
your codes doesnt work when i enter in terminal,,

gavintse@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-'uname -r'
[sudo] password for gavintse: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package linux-headers-uname -r
gavintse@ubuntu:~$ vmi.present = "TRUE"
vmi.present: command not found
gavintse@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by tchoklat on 2010-02-09
I have OS X, XP and 9.10 all working 100% on a new IMAC. Everything works after tools installed. I am really happy with it especially since my Weather Station now works as it required Windows to be running and connects via a USB. Camera, sound, bluetooth and WiFi all work.
 
tchoklat

---

