---
title: "11.04 install from CD: blinking cursor"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Silmeron on 2011-04-30
Hi there,

Having trouble installing 11.04 64-bit Desktop from CD on a MacBook Pro 5,3 - getting a blank screen with flashing cursor and CD spins down.

More detail: I currently have a triple booting Mac OSX / Windows 7 / Ubuntu 10.10 install, and when trying to boot from an 11.04 CD, it gets past the ISOLOADER, it changes video modes and shows the typical blank screen with an image at the bottom that I don't quite recognize :), and after a bit, it goes to a blank DOS screen with a blinking cursor, the CD drive spins down and that's the end of that.

Thinking it might have been my ISO, I tried downloading the Torrent version and direct, burnt both copies of that with the same results.

Any ideas?  Is there a more verbose mode I can run it in to see what might be happening?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by nandaiyo on 2011-04-30
Also having a blinking cursor problem here with my MBP, with both 32 and 64-bit versions of the install disc.

---

### Post by garydtaylor on 2011-04-30
I am having the same issue.  I got a little further with the alternate installer, but still did not manage to get a full working system.

I then went back to 10.10 and did an upgrade from there which worked, but I would have preferred a brand new installation.

I have now broke it completely by trying to have a go with gnome 3.  If anyone else wants to go down this route - as of today - don't - well, not without a backup anyway.

---

### Post by Technoviking on 2011-04-30
One solution is just to upgrade Ubuntu 10.10 to Ubuntu 11.04. This should work you don't have a ton of 3rd party deb and PPA installed.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NattyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NattyUpgrades)

It is uncommon now, but sometime burning the CD at lower speed help.

T-V

---

### Post by Silmeron on 2011-04-30
Thanks Techno, I've tried burning the CD and doing verifies afterward as well as burning at the slowest possible speed, and I downloaded it both from a torrent and from the Ubuntu site itself.  Ended up burning about six discs, all with the same results.

Thanks for the upgrade link - I ended up downloading the alternate, mounted it and am running the upgrade now, but I do still think there might be something to that blinking cursor on startup as it seems a few others are experiencing it too.  If anyone knows how to display things more verbosely, I'd be happy to help track this down.  I suppose if I need to run a live CD for any reason I can use 10.10.

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2011-04-30
I had the same problem except I only ended up with 5 CD's.  Anyhow I'm also going to install 10.10 and then upgrade from there.  I'm also on the boat to help track this bug down and get a fix for it.  Don't ask me how to go about it, but I'm sure we can find a guide for it.

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2011-05-01
Sad to say I was having problems with OSX and I was going to re-install when I get home ... so I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.10 and then upgraded to 11.04.  Everything is running silky smooth. 

The only thing I can complain is I've grown accustomed to using the "Command" key instead of the control, but with sometime I'm sure I will go back to the regular.  Or maybe I can change the mapping. But just wanted to post and tell everyone that upgrading from 10.10 is just as good.  I'm impressed at how much ubuntu has improved since I last tested it which was 9.04 ... I'm probably going to invest in a system 76 as my main and just leave my macbookpro as a macbook pro.  :guitar:

---

### Post by Hatsune Miku on 2011-05-01
I get this sometimes when installing ubuntu. Try putting the boot setting **_ACPI=OFF_** sometimes that gets me into the install screen. I will never understand why Intel based Macintoshes hate Linux so much D:!

---

### Post by chiklit on 2011-05-22
I had this problem as well. The solution for me was to burn the iso to disk using Toast Titanium instead of disk utility. Apparently disk utility doesn't make proper bootable CDs.

---

### Post by rwhite on 2011-06-16
I had this same problem on a Toshiba. The solution is to use F6 for other options and check "nomodeset". I just did this and it installed on my Macbook Pro perfectly. Hope this helps.

Check this out for more info:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions")

---

### Post by jless on 2011-07-11
After install Ubuntu 11.04 , I also had the same black screen with blinking cursor on boot. It is somewhat solved after I hit the _delete key_ it goes on nicely to boot normally.I hope it solves someone one else problem as well.

---

### Post by Jalaska13 on 2011-07-11
Pressing the Escape key during the initial purple screen (displayed right after the ISOLINUX line is displayed) will bring you to the boot menu used in older versions of Ubuntu Live CDs (I think the last to use it as a default was 9).  Once in that menu, pressing f6 (fn+f6 on built-in mac keyboards) will bring you to a menu that alters boot options.  Turn on "nomodeset" by navigating to it and pressing enter.  Hitting escape closes that box and then you can go on your merry way.

---

### Post by pyjimbo on 2011-07-28
I am running a MacBookPro5,1 and had the blinking cursor issue before I could get to the graphical installation screens or after installing with the alternate 11.04 disc, just a blinking cursor at the top left corner of the screen. I tried installing 11.04 with wubi and was able to install graphically by disabling ACPI within the boot menu, on reboot the blinking cursor came back.

As others have stated installing with 10.10 and then upgrading to 11.04 works well. I found a wubi 10.10 installation file floating around and went from there. I am running 11.04 64bit just fine now (after burning 4 discs though). :P

Are the nvidia drivers/chipset confusing linux/ubuntu? I've read things about the EFI boot not working well on Mac laptop hardware with nvidia chips. Does this issue need an entry on the wiki for the 5 series MacBookPro models?

---

### Post by kojart on 2011-08-09
Hey

My computer was in the same situation (aspire one ZG5 with Intel 945G graphics card) and I resolved it by making sure that during installation ( in the "Something else" option) I set as installation boot-loader the hard disk (sda not the live cd: sdb or a partition: sda1).

Sincerely

---

### Post by konaexpress on 2011-08-09
Hi, I'm new here but hope this helps:

Ubuntu seems to have a problem accessing the super-drive on a mac while it is engaged, so when installing and you get to the purple screen, hit escape or what ever.  This will pull up another screen, hit one of the F-keys (I think it was F6 or the number after F7, whats up with the stupid smileys? Third time to edit this) and a smaller menu will pop up and the first option is the ACPI=OFF. Hit the Return key or the space key to put an X next to it, mind you the whole menu system is touchy and it is easy to fly past a menu option. At this point the super-drive should still be spinning, STOP! Do not hit escape until the super drive spins down, sit back and take a drink of coffee. When the super drive stops, hit the escape key and Ubunto will start the install process. I found that some times you have to let the super-drive spin down when using rEFIt before you click on the install disk too.  

Hope this helps, going off of ram here -John :P

---

### Post by OliverHaslam on 2012-04-05
Strangely enough, I am having this exact problem right now on a PC. I'm going to try the route of installing an older version and upgrading, but I'd love to know why the 32-bit version is fine, but the 64-bit version just refuses to boot.

---

