---
title: "Need Help with monitor refresh rate and direct rendering"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by nmvictor on 2010-05-18
I have an iBook which I just installed karmic after several tries due to issue beyond this thread. The specs of the are listed here: [http://lowendmac.com/ibooks/12in-ibook-g4-800-mhz.html](http://lowendmac.com/ibooks/12in-ibook-g4-800-mhz.html) ,but basically it boils down to the following:
    * introduced 2003.10.22 at $1,099; replaced by 1.07 GHz model 2004.04.19
    * requires Mac OS X 10.3 through 10.4.x, 10.5 not officially supported
    * CPU: 800 MHz G4
    * bus: 133 MHz
    * performance:
          o Geekbench 2 (Leopard): 450
          o Geekbench 2 (Tiger): 433
    * ROM: 4 MB, NewWorld ROM in RAM architecture
    * RAM: 256 MB (128 MB of SDRAM soldered in place and one removeable 128 MB SO-DIMM), expandable to 1.125 GB using one 1.25" PC2100 compliant SO-DIMM (PC2700 compatible)
    * Level 2 cache: 256 KB on-chip cache
    * Video: ATI Mobility Radeon 9200 4x AGP
    * VRAM: 32 MB
    * display: 12.1" 24-bit SVGA (1024 x 768) color active matrix, resolution scaling for 640 x 480 and 800 x 600 modes
    * video out: VGA and composite video
    * hard drive: 30 GB UltraATA-100
    * optical drive: 16x8x8x24x Combo (CD-RW/DVD)
    * floppy drive: external USB only
    * expansions bays: none
    * USB: 2 USB 2.0 ports
    * FireWire: 1 FW400 port
    * ethernet: 10/100Base-T
    * modem: v.92 56k
    * WiFi: 802.11g AirPort Extreme optional
    * microphone: built in
    * PC Card slots: none
    * Battery: rated at 5 hours
    * size: 11.2 x 9.1 x 1.35" (28.5 x 23.0 x 3.4 cm)
    * weight: 4.9 pounds (2.2 kg) with battery
 its an iBook/800 for the record. I have managed to get somethings working but i must say that ubuntu on an iBook isnt the best experience, things just dont work right out of the box.
Anyway, enough of my complains, > lspci | grep VGA  reveals my graphics card as:
> 0000:00:10.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x (rev 02)
Now this system is abit slow, especially when switching between open windows, a problem i'd like to believe is due to refresh rate and or anything to do with Xserver.
I beleive it can get better if i tweaked xorg.conf(Im well aware xorg.conf is not necessary in 9.10+ , but i beleive this system needs it)

direct rendering is enabled if you are asking
> nmvictor@nmvictors-linuxbox:~$ glxinfo | grep render
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: Software Rasterizer
nmvictor@nmvictors-linuxbox:~$ 


I hope someone is going to help either with tweaking xorg.conf or any other necessary assistance to get this systems working properly. I beleive the mac that came with it was capable of the video and graphics that i am unable to see in ubuntu,may someone please help. 

Here is my current xorg.conf:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
HorizSync 58-62
VertRefresh 75-117
#ModeLine "1024x768" 78.75 1024 1044 1140 1328 768 781 784 820 +hsync +vsync
#ModeLine "800x600" 62.40 800 821 901 1040 600 609 612 644 +hsync +vsync
#Modeline "640x480" 49.90 640 657 721 832 480 481 484 514 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16 
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "768x576" "640x480"
#Virtual 1024 768
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
#Disable "dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
Option "XkbVariant" "intl"
Option "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
VendorName "ATI Technologies Inc"
BoardName "Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x"
Driver "ati"
Option "AgpMode" "2"
Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
Option "Accel" "true"
Option "CCEusecTimeout" "100000"
#Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-18
If you want compiz, have a look at this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1484208](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1484208)

Many xorg.conf files for inspiration:
[http://mac.linux.be/content/cross-distribution-issues](http://mac.linux.be/content/cross-distribution-issues)

---

### Post by nmvictor on 2010-05-19
> **linuxopjemac said:**
> If you want compiz, have a look at this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1484208](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1484208)

Many xorg.conf files for inspiration:
[http://mac.linux.be/content/cross-distribution-issues](http://mac.linux.be/content/cross-distribution-issues)

Hi, the above was helpfull as I could tell from the behaviour of my screecsavers, they have bocome more colorfull and a bit fast. However, compiz isnt working yet, an attemt to start it from the terminal gives the following errors:
> nmvictor@nmvictors-linuxbox:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: Not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity
 
then the screen redraws itself for a while before reverting back to it. Trying with 'compiz -fusion' gives the following:

> nmvictor@nmvictors-linuxbox:~$ compiz -fusion
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: Not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 
metacity: Unknown option -fusion
nmvictor@nmvictors-linuxbox:~$ 


I don't know what I am supposed to do but I believe their is got to be something I could do because yesterdays progress proved that thins could get better.May someone please help. My xorg.conf at the moment stands at this:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier "Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync 58-62
	VertRefresh 75-117
	#ModeLine "1024x768" 78.75 1024 1044 1140 1328 768 781 784 820 +hsync +vsync
	#ModeLine "800x600" 62.40 800 821 901 1040 600 609 612 644 +hsync +vsync
	#Modeline "640x480" 49.90 640 657 721 832 480 481 484 514 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Monitor "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth 16
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "768x576" "640x480"
		#Virtual 1024 768
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load 	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load   	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver "kbd"
	Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option "XkbVariant" "intl"
	Option "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier "Configured Mouse"
	Driver "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier "Configured Video Device"
	VendorName "ATI Technologies Inc"
	BoardName "Rage Mobility M3 AGP 2x"
	Driver "ati"
	Option "AgpMode" "2"
	Option "EnablePageFlip" "true"
	Option "Accel" "true"
	VideoRam 8192
	Option "CCEusecTimeout" "100000"
	#Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection
```

Thanks in advance to those will extend their help.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-19
What happens if you add
```

[CODE]Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```[/CODE]

and

```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Option		"AIGLX"	"true"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
```


To the file ?

---

### Post by nmvictor on 2010-05-19
> **linuxopjemac said:**
> What happens if you add
```

[CODE]Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```[/CODE]

and

```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Option		"AIGLX"	"true"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
```


To the file ?

Thanks for coming out to assist, really appreciate. ok, I tried that yesterday but it failed,gdm could not be started due to X erro, I wish I had saved the x0-org.log at that time so i would [CODE] it here,anyway it just pointed to a line [90] of the xorg.conf which on checking was where i had added the above quoted lines. Concidentally, i googled for a possible cause and stumbled upon this: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver
which to quote it, was clear that:"**.... has fewer dual head support and does not support[COLOR="Red"] AIGLX[/COLOR] at all. ...**" which is why the error must have occurred.so im stuck, dont know what to do...

---

