---
title: "(5.10) Screen stays orange after log in"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Brammm on 2008-07-12
Hey all,

A long time ago, I ordered some Ubuntu 5.10 cd-roms, which never got used, but I recently got an old Powerbook G4 with a broken hard drive. I replaced the hard drive and decided to put Linux on the thing (simply because I don't have a Mac OS cd rom lying around :p). 

Now I tried the Mac Live CD, and everything worked fine, i saw the loading thingies, but afterwards the screen just stayed orange, nothing happened.
I downloaded Xubuntu 6.06 and the Live CD works fine, but the installer keeps crashing. I decided I'd try to install Ubuntu 5.10 on the powerbook, but now when I boot it, I get a logon screen, but when I enter my name and password, I just get the orange screen again.

I've been googling this problem for over an hour now and the only useful thing I found was a guy saying some things worked when he chose to use a GNOME session, which doesn't work for me. All the other topics returned by Google were people with similar problems, but no answers.

Should I just try a newer version (which?) or is there some way to work around this?

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-07-12
> **Brammm said:**
> 
 and everything worked fine, i saw the loading thingies, but afterwards the screen just stayed orange, nothing happened.
I downloaded Xubuntu 6.06 and the Live CD works fine, but the installer keeps crashing. I decided I'd try to install Ubuntu 5.10 on the powerbook, but now when I boot it, I get a logon screen, but when I enter my name and password, I just get the orange screen again

5.10 (Edgy) has reached EOL (End-Of-Life). so I'd advise switching to 6.06 or better.

If you would still like to persist with 5.10, then, when you're at the orange screen, try restarting gnome window manager with the following sequence:

To restart GDM, switch to Ctrl+Alt+F1, login, give the command
```

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

, then when you get the [OK], switch back with Ctrl_Alt_F7.

Post back if problems persist, or for further help with 6.06 installation.

---

### Post by Brammm on 2008-07-12
when I enter that line, I just get my login screen again... nothing happens.

I'll download dapper drake (or could my powerbook run feisty fawn?) after 12pm and get back to you if that one works...

Thanks for the advice so far!

---

### Post by Brammm on 2008-07-12
Okay, I'm getting the feeling my Powerbook is kinda messed up beyond the hard drive.

I put Ubuntu 6.06.1 for powerpc on a disk, booted from it, but now I get an error "There was an error starting the GNOME Settings Daemon. Some things ..... may not work correctly.

Last error message was:
System Exception: IDL:omg.org/CORBA/COMM_FAILURE:1.0

And then a ******** of questions: "the panel encountered a problem while loading "OAFIID:GNOME_Something" delete / don't delete "
I'm also getting an error "Nautilus can't be used now, due to an unexpected error from Bonobo when attempting to locate the factury. Killing bonobo-activation-server and restarting Nautilus may help fix the problem"

I can start applications, can't access places (due to no nautilus apperently) but I do see a background top bar and bottom bar (which is just gray... dunno if that's right).

I'm not seeing any install icons either, but I'm guessing that has smth to do with nautilus not running, seeing as I can't access desktop from Places....

edit: when I enter that previous command in terminal (sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart) I get two lines: stopping GNOME Display Manager... [ ok ]
starting GNOME Display Manager... [fail]


Edit: okay, please bare with me that I am a nervous poster, I just post stuff and then I go searching for it  :p so now I found out my problems were related to a gnome date error. I fiddled with some commands in the terminal and 5.10 started great. I'm booting from the 6.06 disk now and i'm gonna check if I can upgrade to it...

---

