---
title: "64 or 32 bit?"
date: 2010-06-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by roberto.tomas on 2010-06-01
I'm on a quad-g5 on lucid, want to know if my kernel is running in 64bit mode, supporting elf64 binaries.
```
uname -a
Linux quad-g5 2.6.32-21-powerpc64-smp #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 10:28:57 UTC 2010 ppc64 GNU/Linux
```"ppc64" would typically imply that it is in fact running 64 bit. a more convincing test really is the file command:
```
file /boot/vmlinux-2.6.32-21-powerpc64-smp 
/boot/vmlinux-2.6.32-21-powerpc64-smp: ELF 64-bit MSB executable, 64-bit PowerPC or cisco 7500, version 1 (SYSV), statically linked, not stripped
```

But then the other test:

```
file /sbin/init
/sbin/init: ELF 32-bit MSB shared object, PowerPC or cisco 4500, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked (uses shared libs), for GNU/Linux 2.6.15, with unknown capability 0x41000000 = 0x13676e75, with unknown capability 0x10000 = 0xb0401, stripped
```that "32-bit" says the opposite. Which is it?

reason:
This get's complex.

IEEE754 specifies standards of floating point operations. With doubles (binary64 in the standard), they must conserve 16 significant digits. Any error, from rounding should only seep in to the 17th bit.
1.{15 zeros}15 should round to 1.{15 zeros}2 usuing the default rounding scheme.
and
1.{14 zeros}15 should preserve exactly.

Errors appear to creap in in our implimentation in lucid though:
```
ruby1.9.1 -e 'p 100.0 - 91.6' && ./fp2 && cat fp.c
8.40000000000001
C's concept of the double: 8.400000e+00
double's full register: 8.400000000000005684341886080801486968994140625
double's representation of ruby's result: 8.400000e+00
#include <stdio.h>
#include <math.h>

int main(){
    double cien = 100.0;
    double frac = 91.6;
    double ruby = 8.40000000000001;
    printf("C's concept of the double: %e\n", cien - frac);
    printf("double's full register: %.50g\n", cien - frac);
    printf("double's representation of ruby's result: %e\n", ruby);

    return 0;
}
```When I brought this problem up with ruby over at redmine, I found they had already identified that ruby does not provide the same naive float as C .. in the current trunk it is fixed. and reports 8.400000000000006 instead.

But the problem I am facing is that the those junk-bit errors are at the 16th digit, junk bit erors should only occur **after** the 17th digit. And I think I might know why.

gcc is compiled without softfloat for Powerpcs
> gcc -v
Using built-in specs.
Target: powerpc-linux-gnu
Configured with: ../src/configure -v --with-pkgversion='Ubuntu 4.4.3-4ubuntu5' --with-bugurl=file:///usr/share/doc/gcc-4.4/README.Bugs --enable-languages=c,c++,fortran,objc,obj-c++ --prefix=/usr --enable-shared --enable-multiarch --enable-linker-build-id --with-system-zlib --libexecdir=/usr/lib --without-included-gettext --enable-threads=posix --with-gxx-include-dir=/usr/include/c++/4.4 --program-suffix=-4.4 --enable-nls --enable-clocale=gnu --enable-libstdcxx-debug --enable-plugin --enable-objc-gc **--disable-softfloat** --enable-secureplt --enable-targets=powerpc-linux,powerpc64-linux --with-cpu=default32 --disable-werror --with-long-double-128 --enable-checking=release --build=powerpc-linux-gnu --host=powerpc-linux-gnu --target=powerpc-linux-gnu
Thread model: posix
gcc version 4.4.3 (Ubuntu 4.4.3-4ubuntu5)I got to imagine this is to support older (like g3ish, maybe g4) powerpcs.

If that's true, we should really have two different builds, one with powerpc and --disable-float in gcc, and another with powerpc64 and no --disable-float in gcc. 

It may be that MPC (providing soft float functionality) also has to be told to build elf64 binaries, as by default the configure script builds 32bit binaries for powerpc64 for some reason this could lead to errors in gcc. It has to be done in the configuration file, as there is no -melf64-powerpc flag you can pass to the config script.

---

