---
title: "11.04 Beta Upgrade"
date: 2011-03-31
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-03-31
Has anybody successfully upgrade to 11.04 beta on ppc? I got some errors regarding broken packages... :-(

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-10
OK so this is where I am now with my G5 mac:
I can run the beta iso live, but the installer hangs reporting a 'Bad Mirror' even if I'm installing off-line - looks like it's trying to find some kind of hard-wired repository rather than lookin on the CD itself.
I can install 10.10, run the updates and then run th edist-upgrade. This gets me into 11.04 but I cannot boot the new kernel! It will only boot on the 10.10 kernel.
What's weird is that the 11.04 kernel shows as a shared library and not an executable. Do I need to have the 32 bit kernel loaded too and this calls the 64 bit as an .so ???

I filed a bug against ubuiquity for the installer problem.

Anyone else at all testing 11.04 on powerpc??

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-11
alternate install iso from [here]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily/current")

type ```
ports.ubuntu.com
``` for the mirror

IT WORKED :)

I now have Firefox 4 goodness on a G5!!

---

### Post by Fr33K1e on 2011-04-11
how you finding 11.04?

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-11
So far so good, a few minor bugs, like the gnome panels blanking out (autohide is a workaround)

Firefox 4 is brilliant, especially with the new sync feature. Very, very slick!

From my own work point of view, it has python2.7 with support for scipy and numpy so it's already useable.

I partitioned with a separate /home that I can access from either Maverick or Natty (one partition for each /) and it seems to work fine. I&#472;e had to do quite a few wipes and installs in the last few days to get it working though, be warned!

Very happy!

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-12
Unity-2D works well, but the icon colours are strange :-/ Washed-out looking, not like the bright icons on the x86 installs

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-14
> **pauljwells said:**
> Unity-2D works well, but the icon colours are strange :-/ Washed-out looking, not like the bright icons on the x86 installs

If anyone else is trying unity-2d on ppc please take a look at this bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/758782]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/758782")

Thx!

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-22
> **pauljwells said:**
> If anyone else is trying unity-2d on ppc please take a look at this bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/758782]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/758782")

Thx!

*bump*

sometimes feels like I'm alone trying to run on PPC :-(

---

### Post by teachop on 2011-04-22
> **pauljwells said:**
> *bump*

sometimes feels like I'm alone trying to run on PPC :-(
Sorry, you are not alone.  I have natty running on a G4 eMac.  I needed to do a tweak here or there, but on the whole, it is running very well.  Unity will not run due to video hardware, but I have run Unity quite a bit on a laptop and do not miss it at all!

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-22
To be honest, I prefer Gnome 2.3 for now too! I have Unity 3D on my netbook, which I quite like, but the 2D version on the G5 has the colours all wrong. If you have a chance to look and you get the same result please add yourself to the bug. There's not much chance of a fix if it only affects one person and it would be nice to at least have the option, especially as it could well be the only option we have at 11.11

---

### Post by teachop on 2011-04-22
> **pauljwells said:**
> it could well be the only option we have at 11.11
Another option is to install xubuntu-desktop after ubuntu, which gives a simplified version of something kind-of similar to classic.  It runs gnome apps very well, and is nice and clean.  If you do this, it will change the login and boot artwork too, and it will double-up some of the application coverage (like both gnumeric and libreOffice calc).  There is no actual Xubuntu PPC install CD as far as I know.

Gnome classic is more feature-full that Xfce, but as you say we look to be out of luck come 11.11 on that score.

Even though PPC support is no longer mainlined, the community is doing a great job.

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-04-24
Isn't xfce based on gnome 2 also, so its days are numbered too? :-/

My G5 is dual cpu with 9GB RAM; it's not a low resource machine and can easily run gnome! I'd just like to think such a beautiful machine has a future... :-(

---

### Post by teachop on 2011-04-24
> **pauljwells said:**
> Isn't xfce based on gnome 2 also, so its days are numbered too?
Yikes.

---

### Post by rich-york on 2011-04-25
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman][COLOR=#333333][FONT=Lucida Grande]Great articles & Nice a site…

Richard
[/FONT][/COLOR][/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by turtleJP on 2011-05-05
> **pauljwells said:**
> Isn't xfce based on gnome 2 also, so its days are numbered too? :-/

My G5 is dual cpu with 9GB RAM; it's not a low resource machine and can easily run gnome! I'd just like to think such a beautiful machine has a future... :-(


I share your sentiment. I feel the same about a couple of my PPC machines. At this point they have been relegated to email, IRC, web -flash, audio streaming, spreadsheets, word processing and watching some video files.  It's for the most part all I need to do on a day to day basis, and they machine handles most it it quite well. 

I understand that PPC is long in the tooth and  a niche segment for Linux support at that, but damn it I want to keep the ball rolling as long as I can. Although, I stopped investing hardware wise into the machines a long time ago, I know that at the first sign of a repair cost, I'll be looking into a refurb x86 machine. But until that day. I'm PPC and ARM to the core. 

turtlejp

---

