---
title: "8.10 on mackbook (1st black model) install problems"
date: 2008-10-21
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by kaiwondergoo on 2008-10-21
I have a black macbook (blackbook?) that will just not boot 8.10 after an install. 8.04 installs and boots just fine, 8.10 gives me a blinking folder with the ? in it. I have tried both 1386 and amd64 with the same results. I have even tried using the 8.04 livecd to set up the hd then install 8.10 without formatting, same result. As I am writing this I am installing 8.04 again and will attempt to upgrade, more on that later.

The system is set up single boot, ubuntu only

I searched the forums and google to no avail. Any ideas?


macbook (1st version of it - nice numbering system, I know) core2duo 2.0

thanks
--
kai

---

### Post by ditsch on 2008-10-21
Do you use rEFIt to boot? Did you perform a GPT sync after install (as recommended)?

---

### Post by kaiwondergoo on 2008-10-21
rEFIt, no. I had used it once, but then stopped once I decided to single boot ubuntu only and found that I could just install "guided use entire disk" (up till now that is)

As far as the GPT sync (as recommended) I have yet to find virtually any information about installing 8.10 on a makbook other than a few post about networking. I do not have the information you speak of.

Ironically the network worked out-of-the-box (liveCD) for me with 8.10. I was amazed

--
kai

---

### Post by kaiwondergoo on 2008-10-21
UPDATE - The upgrade finished. and the system booted fine.

--
kai

---

### Post by gmc on 2008-10-21
> **kaiwondergoo said:**
> UPDATE - The upgrade finished. and the system booted fine.

--
kai

So if I understand you here.. you installed 8.04 and then upgraded to 8.10? Ironically I've been banging my head against the wall for the last day or so... with the flashing ? & folder problem too.

Is this correct?

Gord

---

### Post by kaiwondergoo on 2008-10-21
> **gmc said:**
> So if I understand you here.. you installed 8.04 and then upgraded to 8.10? Ironically I've been banging my head against the wall for the last day or so... with the flashing ? & folder problem too.

Is this correct?

Gord


Ya, works like a champ too. I installed 8.04.1 clean, updated, then upgraded (update-manager -d)

--
kai

---

### Post by gmc on 2008-10-21
> **kaiwondergoo said:**
> Ya, works like a champ too. I installed 8.04.1 clean, updated, then upgraded (update-manager -d)

--
kai

Crap-ola! I've got 8.10 installed and booting (sort of). Grub seems to think that (hd0,4) is my boot partition where is should be (hd0,0). After running 'find /boot/grub/stage1' it report (hd0,0), so I tried 'setup (hd0)' from the grub command line.  Then I end up at a initramfs prompt!

I've also tried changing the UUID from (hd0,4) to the UUID from (hd0,0), this also allows me to sort of boot and drops me back at the initramfs prompt.

I've come to the conclusion that Intrepid on a Mac is not a good idea at this time... I'm head back to 8.04.

Thanks!
Gord

update: HA! more than one way to skin a cat.. I chose LILO instead of GRUB and that seems to work. So the problem is either GRUB or Intrepid is mucking about with the partitions and screwing up the GUID (which is wierd since I used OSX disk manager to set the drive to MBR).

Never the less, anyone reading this thread, my want to try LILO.

Cheers.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-10-21
If you are single booting, you should start gparted and make sure that the disk is in the normal MBR format and not GPT.

---

