---
title: "mouse issues - right click"
date: 2008-05-07
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by eschmidt90 on 2008-05-07
Hi, I'm using an intel macbook running ubuntu 7.10

I'm trying to set up my mouse right click.  I have tried everything from installing libraries proported to fix it to editing xorg.conf - all suggestions found on these forums.  I cannot right click despite all that I have tried.

any ideas?

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-05-07
Try F12; it works for me.

---

### Post by Rog-Mahal on 2008-05-07
have you tried the commands in the community docs [here?]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook#head-b0c1214684daee45c97d31d9113d7719accdf060") Their first option under right/middle click worked like a charm after I restarted x. It maps right click to the small enter key on the right of the space bar. What model and generation of macbook do you have anyway?

---

### Post by eschmidt90 on 2008-05-07
I have no idea how to chart generations, but my macbook was purchased in february of this year.

f12 is mapped to volume at the moment because thats the picture on the button.  f12 worked out of the box (so to speak) when I had 6.10 on my iBook.

I have tried every suggestion I could find on this forum, but I'll have a look and see if I've tried those yet.

#####################EDIT####################

I went to try the above commands, but my macbook has no such lower right enter key - I don't know what to put in its place.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-05-07
Oops; wrong thread. Sorry.

---

### Post by flaggh on 2008-05-07
Try replacing the Input Device section of your xorg file with the one embedded in the following post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3910525&postcount=103]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3910525&postcount=103")

You will have to restart X for the changes to take effect.  To right click you just need to quickly tap two fingers on the touch pad.  Tapping three fingers will work as a middle mouse button and a single finger is a normal click.  There is also two finger scrolling and other features included.

---

### Post by flaggh on 2008-05-07
You should also take a look at the Ubuntu Macbook wiki:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook_Santa_Rosa]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook_Santa_Rosa")

It has plenty of info on setting up the touchpad.

---

### Post by eschmidt90 on 2008-05-07
I have already tried both of the above solutions.  Both to no avail, and therein lies the rub.

---

### Post by flaggh on 2008-05-07
> **eschmidt90 said:**
> I have already tried both of the above solutions.  Both to no avail, and therein lies the rub.

Does your touchpad still work?  Do any of the other added functions work?  It will be easier to help if you post your xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by eschmidt90 on 2008-05-07
touchpad works, added features do not.

here is xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"true"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option		"TapButton1"		"1"
	Option		"TapButton2"		"3"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Color LCD"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Color LCD"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by flaggh on 2008-05-07
Do you have a USB mouse plugged into the computer while you are trying this?  If you do, first thing I would do is restart the computer with no mouse connected.

Rather than selectively choose parameters as it appears you have done, have you tried copying and pasting the entire touchpad section from the wiki?  There may be other parameters that are necessary such as MaxTapTime, FingerLow, FingerHigh, etc.  I would try the whole thing first and then eliminate the options as you see fit.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-05-07
> **eschmidt90 said:**
> f12 is mapped to volume at the moment because thats the picture on the button.  f12 worked out of the box (so to speak) when I had 6.10 on my iBook.
For some unknown reason, Apple decided to make the default action of the F-keys whatever special function is assigned to them instead of, well, the actual f-key. When support for these keyboards was added to Linux, whomever made the needed changes decided to mimic this behavior.... thus, F12, is actually Fn+F12.

---

### Post by eschmidt90 on 2008-05-08
tried - and failed.  I copied the whole section, this still isn't working.

---

### Post by flaggh on 2008-05-08
Sorry.  I wish I could be more help.  One last thing you could try is to comment out the line at the bottom that says: ```
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
```

It may be overiding any touchpad settings you have.

---

### Post by eschmidt90 on 2008-05-08
This, and here's the big surprise, did not work either.  I'm begining to think my lap top is simply taunting me.

---

