---
title: "2008 Mac Pro (2x2.8Ghz) + 9.10"
date: 2009-11-09
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by halfloaf on 2009-11-09
Hi all!

I've got a 2008 Mac Pro I'd like to run 9.10 on. I intend on putting OS X to one side as I've had enough of Apple's terrible graphics driver support on 3D apps like Maya. I don't play games so that's OK with me. Happy to use GIMP as well for graphics. I'll be keeping a copy of OS X 10.6 on a external firewire drive for system updates.

I've run the liveCD and even dual booted the system so it runs OK. Only thing I'd like to know is should I be worried about heat and fan control? Or is this a non-issue on 9.10? Do I need some sort of SMC control extensions installed?

If I do keep 10.6 on the system, could I just install 9.10 on a second internal drive? Will GRUB and Apple's EFI bootcode work?

Sorry for the 101 questions, I'm used to IRIX on a SGI machine.

Cheers!

Jacques

---

### Post by Nadav34 on 2009-11-14
Hi,

 Are you getting heat related issues with your 2008 mac pro? You have the same one I do except mine is the 3.2ghz model. Even with SMC turned off, my fans haven't rev'ed much. When I have smc fan control installed, it reads like 81 degrees which is way below normal. I am sure that ubuntu reports the same as well.

---

### Post by kyuubi777 on 2009-11-14
> **halfloaf said:**
> 
Sorry for the 101 questions, I'm used to IRIX on a SGI machine.


that is sooo cool.. i am going to buy an SGI comp sometime, just to relive the glory days... Jurassic Park baby!!.. so nostalgic

---

### Post by halfloaf on 2009-11-22
Under 10.6, the machine runs quite a bit hotter in 9.10, you can feel it by the exhaust air. But the fans don't spin any faster...

If IRIX was still being developed today I'd use it as my main OS. It's stable, never had had crash or KP in two years. Memory management and application threading is just suburb!

Start with an Octane or a Fuel, stay away from the O2, Indy, and Indigo2 machines. They really are long in the tooth. 

The Octane2 takes Dual MIPS 600Mhz procs and will handle 8gb of RAM, more than enough for anything you could throw at it. Pixar used to model on Octanes with dual 195 & 250mhz machines and 4mb texture ram!!!

-Jacques

---

