---
title: "11.04 on MBP 7,1:*save deactivation of bluetooth"
date: 2011-05-28
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by albiurs on 2011-05-28
Hi,

I Installed Ubuntu 11.04 on my MacBook Pro 7,1 and configured it according to:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Natty](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Natty)

Now I have the following difficulty in configuration:


[LIST]
[*]The bluetooth can be deactivated but the setting isn't saved as  well. After rebooting it's activated again. Is there a way to save the  setting?
[/LIST]

Any suggestions?

Thanks!

---

### Post by pakattak on 2011-10-24
Bump.

I'm wondering the same thing too...

---

### Post by tomodachi on 2011-10-25
yes I do have a suggestion

sudo rfkill list

will list all of your wireless devices. 
Take note of the devicenumber for your bluetooth device

in my case the devicenumber for bluetooth is 1

sudo rfkill block 1
will disable bluetooth.


you can simply but this in a script. that you launch on boot time
save the stuff within the ---snip --- and add it to your startup scripts! 

--- snip ---
#/bin/sh
rfkill block 1
--- snip ---

---

### Post by tomodachi on 2011-12-20
here is a better way of doing it.
I noticed that sometimes when i boot. My wifi / bluetooth device changes ids with each other, hence sometimes  my wifi is disabled, and other times my bluetooth

so i made a script that actually checks for the correct device ,and just blocks that one.
this script actually gets the number of the device containing the  word Bluetooth , and disabled that device!


--snip---
#/bin/bash
bluetoothdev=`rfkill list |grep Bluetooth | cut -c1`
rfkill block  $bluetoothdev
--snip---

---

