---
title: "9.04-9.10 upgrade download"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by EvansFive on 2009-10-29
For those that have already upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10...can you please tell me how many Mbs were downloaded as part of the upgrade process?

Our ISP connection has peak and off-peak download quotas...so I want to try and fit it in within the off-peak period....hence my question?

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-10-29
> **EvansFive said:**
> For those that have already upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10...can you please tell me how many Mbs were downloaded as part of the upgrade process?

Our ISP connection has peak and off-peak download quotas...so I want to try and fit it in within the off-peak period....hence my question?

 If it fits on a CD it is just under 700 MiB, from 640 for the server version to 696 for the 64bit alternative in Koala. If you want a fast download torrent it and seed if you can. [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/downloadmirrors)  Actually I missed that you were asking for the upgrade MiBs, it is generally considered best with Koala to do a fresh install.

---

### Post by EvansFive on 2009-10-29
At the moment I have 9.04 all set up with the various packages etc that I use daily and for development.

If I do a fresh install of 9.10 won't that destroy all the work I have done in setting up 9.04?

OR...is there a way of doing a fresh install of 9.10 and re-installing all the packages etc...ie without having to manually install the lot again?  

I can restore /home from backups it is just all the other stuff that I would have to re-install again!!!

That is why I was planning to take the upgrade path from 9.04 to 9.10 and just stick with ext3 file systems.

Please tell me if I have got the picture wrong.....I have not been through a Ubuntu upgrade as I have only been using Ubuntu 9.04 since it came out.

---

