---
title: "Lack of 3D accel. with iBook Radeon 9200 due to faulty DRI module[solved]"
date: 2009-05-02
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by ramenite on 2009-05-02
I installed Ubuntu 9.04 on my iBook with a Radeon 9200 Mobility, and could not get 3d acceleration to work. I had direct rendering, but it was still using the software rasterizer. I tracked it down to this in my log:

[drm:radeon_do_init_cp] *ERROR* could not find ioremap agp regions!

Reading though the DRI mailing list, it was a known problem with the DRI module in the kernel that 9.04 shipped with. So I updated my kernel to the latest stable kernel. Good directions to follow to make your own kernel are at:

[http://avinesh.googlepages.com/howtobuildcustomkernelonubuntu](http://avinesh.googlepages.com/howtobuildcustomkernelonubuntu)

After I updated the kernel, everything worked as intended. Compiz Scale worked even better than Expose under OSX. I got speedy framrates with glxgears, and it was using the hardware for rasterization.

I've seen a few threads about 3D hardware support being a little goofy when it worked fine in 8.10. A new kernel worked for me--it may for you too-- although I'm not sure how much the DRI issues affect other cards not ATI. But if you want to try a new kernel, give it a shot.

---

### Post by Shazz.ng on 2009-05-17
Ramenite, I get the same issue with my mac mini PPC/Radeon9200. I tried the workaround (Option         "BusType" "PCI"), it is a little better (500 FPS) but very glitchy.

So can you describe how you have updated the 9.04 ubuntu kernel ? I tried using the link you posted but it did not work, it seems some steps are missing :)

thanks !

---

### Post by Shazz.ng on 2009-05-17
I find a very good tutorial to build the kernel ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=453497](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=453497)), so I have upgraded to 2.6.29.-3 and it works really better... from 100 FPS with the older kernel, 1300 FPS now... I guess it should be more (about 2000 FPs for a Radeom 9200) but should be enough for the moment !

Thanks for the tip Ramenite !

---

### Post by VanHammersly on 2009-05-29
Thanks Shazz.ng and ramenite.  This worked for me.  I have a G4 iBook that is running much snappier now thanks to this.

---

### Post by heluani on 2009-06-03
It didn't for me, I'm running 2.6.29.4 on PPC (G5), with ATI Radeon 9600. 
```
$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: Yes
```
but it's using the software rasterizer.

---

### Post by Shazz.ng on 2009-06-05
please quote your xorg.conf here

---

### Post by szemy on 2009-06-06
I have one of the last ppc models (with 1.5Ghz cpu, rv280).
Same problem here. Added the BusType PCI and now it is just usable.
I am not going to compile a kernel, the system is just fine now, hope we get it in form of a update.
I have a other problem with sound. I can play movies in vlc by setting it to use OSS, but could not figure out how to make ubuntu use OSS for as default. Any idea?

---

### Post by billyjmc on 2009-06-13
> **Shazz.ng said:**
> please quote your xorg.conf here

Ditto. I've upgraded the kernel on my iBook G4 (mid-2005), but I'm having issues with video still. One of my specific problems is that glxgears typically causes the system to become completely unresponsive, except that I can move the mouse. No clicking, no switching to terminals with Ctrl+Alt+Fx, no Ctrl+Alt+Backspace restarting of X11 (which I explicitly enabled). Reboot with Cmd+Ctrl+Power works, though.

Apparently, I've got something not quite right with the xorg.conf. So, if somebody is willing to share, that'd be great.

---

### Post by szemy on 2009-06-16
xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        BusID           "PCI:0:16:0"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
        Option          "BusType" "PCI"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection



Everything is default except the Bustype pci part.

---

### Post by tsgoldsun1 on 2009-07-04
Shazz.ng, I have the same mac mini, and to no avail can I get a higher fps on glxgears than ~500. I've tried following the tutorial you posted, but when I boot into it it doesn't give me a higher fps. 

Do you think you could post your .deb packages from your kernel install? It would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Shazz.ng on 2009-07-10
> **tsgoldsun1 said:**
> Shazz.ng, I have the same mac mini, and to no avail can I get a higher fps on glxgears than ~500. I've tried following the tutorial you posted, but when I boot into it it doesn't give me a higher fps.

Then, did you update your xorg.conf ? I'll post my xorg.Conf later if needed

> **tsgoldsun1 said:**
> 
Do you think you could post your .deb packages from your kernel install? It would be much appreciated.

if it can help.....
[http://tmpstore.free.fr/ubuntuppc/](http://tmpstore.free.fr/ubuntuppc/)

kernel 2.6.29.3 recompiled with my existing config file, no special optimizations.

---

### Post by tsgoldsun1 on 2009-07-10
So I just revert my xorg.conf back to default, or to what szemy posted?

---

### Post by tsgoldsun1 on 2009-07-10
Here's my xorg.conf. I'm getting around 800 fps with glxgears now.

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    BusID        "PCI:0:16:0"

EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Nausser on 2009-09-11
I have installed Jaunty on a PowerBook G4. Everything seems to run wonderfully with the exception of flash and any gl support/frame rate.

Installed is the 2.6.28-6-powerpc kernel on a processor somewhere over 1Ghz and 1.25 Gigs of RAM.

Attepting to follow directions @:
[http://avinesh.googlepages.com/howtobuildcustomkernelonubuntu](http://avinesh.googlepages.com/howtobuildcustomkernelonubuntu)

I attempted to follow the forum link; however, I became stuck at the make menuconfig. It is stated that the author prefers to do is command in ncurses mode; however, I did not find any instructions on how to do this.

When executing the "make menuconfig" command I am returned this:
"make: *** No rule to make target `menuconfig'.  Stop."

I also tried to move along to the command "make-kpkg clean", also with no prevail. I am returned with:
"We do not seem to be in a top level linux kernel source directory
tree. Since we are trying to make a kernel package, that does not make
sense.  Please change directory to a top level linux kernel source
directory, and try again. (If I am wrong, and this is indeed a top
level linux kernel source directory, then I have gotten sadly out of
date with current kernels, and you should upgrade kernel-package)"

I have attempted this command from /boot, ~home/.config and root. 

I know this page hasn't been posted in a while, so I hope everyone is still monitoring in some fashion out there.

Thank you for any clarification you can bring me.

---

### Post by szemy on 2009-10-04
Well we don't have to wait much longer until the next version of Ubuntu comes along. Hope we'll have normal fps rates than.

---

### Post by szemy on 2009-10-31
I have installed kubuntu 9.10, but cannot run glxgears, the system locks up each time i try, so that i have to do a hard reset.

Anyone tried 9.10?

---

### Post by fraterf93 on 2009-11-01
No I haven't tried, and I'm not really looking forward to it.  Not only do most Ubuntu ppc upgrades fail to fix things they often break things.  I'm really at my wits end here, and about to give up on Linux PPC.  I guess I'll have to keep my eye on the developments in RISCOS.

---

### Post by anders_gud on 2009-11-04
Switch to Debian powerpc! My old TiBook runs great on Debian testing (Squeeze). Sound, airport with PSK, OpenGl (Blender), Suspend and Resume which was lacking in Ubuntu since Hardy - all work almost out of the box on Debian.
Ubuntu is moving too fast now and powerpc being unsupported means no testing or bugfixes before release. Don't get me wrong, Ubuntu 9.10 is great on my netbook but that's i386 - a supported arch.

---

### Post by fraterf93 on 2009-11-04
I have used Debian before.  Do we have 3d hardware acceleration for Radeon 9200 with the latest Debian?  Ubuntu PPC had it in Intrepid 8.10, but broke it in Jaunty 9.04.  I'm really pi$$ed that it doesn't seem to work still.

---

### Post by anders_gud on 2009-11-05
> **fraterf93 said:**
> I have used Debian before.  Do we have 3d hardware acceleration for Radeon 9200 with the latest Debian?  Ubuntu PPC had it in Intrepid 8.10, but broke it in Jaunty 9.04.  I'm really pi$$ed that it doesn't seem to work still.

My TiBook has a radeon 9000, but it's the same driver right - you should try it out (just remember to check that linux-firmware gets installed. It contains the radeon firmware, mine was missing on install and I got these errors:
platform radeon_cp.0: firmware: requesting radeon/R200_cp.bin).

Good luck!

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-11-05
have a look at this post:

[http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=43786&p=251426&hilit=radeon+9200#p251426](http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=43786&p=251426&hilit=radeon+9200#p251426)

---

### Post by senorgomez on 2010-10-27
> **Shazz.ng said:**
> Then, did you update your xorg.conf ? I'll post my xorg.Conf later if needed



if it can help.....
[http://tmpstore.free.fr/ubuntuppc/](http://tmpstore.free.fr/ubuntuppc/)

kernel 2.6.29.3 recompiled with my existing config file, no special optimizations.

I tried to send PMs but my inbox isn't showing any sent items. 

I made a thread here about what I think is poor video performance on my ibook g4:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10032236#post10032236](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10032236#post10032236)

You wrote about some success on the same hardware after compiling a realtime kernel:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1145849](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1145849)

Have you upgraded to 10.10 and have you compiled a realtime kernel once  more? What kernel options do you recommend? Have you had any problems  with a realtime kernel on your ibook?

Can you post your xorg.conf?

---

