---
title: "15.10 ubuntu mate live boot black screen after kernel"
date: 2016-01-27
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by dan_williscroft on 2016-01-27
Massive newbie!

Can I do the following and how on a live boot on ubuntu mate 15.10?

[FONT=Helvetica]Desktop on Nvidia graphics works but nouveau KMS is badly broken. Must use nvidiafb
to get MATE desktop.[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](1) Comment out "blacklist nvidiafb" in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer.conf[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](2) Turn off openfirmware framebuffer and nouveau - 
Add to a stanza in /etc/yaboot.conf : append=" video=offb:off modprobe.blacklist=nouveau"
(2a) Run "sudo ybin -v"[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](3) Add "nvidiafb" to /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
(3a) Run "sudo update-initramfs -u -k all"[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](4) Reboot![/FONT]

---

### Post by sandyd on 2016-01-27
You can either edit the file from a livecd, or try editing it from the grub menu.

I'm not sure if you are asking about fixing this on a LiveDVD/USB that you boot from, or a installed system.

The below is for an installed system.

Lets start with editing it from the GRUB menu, that is easier.

After installation, you will get a menu like:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/3NDhuaY.png[/IMG]
If it does not show up, shut it down, and repeatedly press the shift key on boot.

Press the letter 'e'.

The screen should now look like this.
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/Uow9adD.png[/IMG]

Use the arrow keys to move down until you see a line that starts with 'linux'. Using the left/right arrow keys, move along the line that starts with 'linux' until you reach the end of the line (should be right before $vt_handoff).

There, add the following text.
```

nouveau.modeset=0
```

It should look like this.
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/NZXNqa2.png[/IMG]
Press control+x to boot and your system should start up, and you can make any changes you want.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-01-27
> **dan_williscroft said:**
> Massive newbie!

[COLOR="#FF0000"]Can I do the following and how on a live boot on ubuntu mate 15.10?[/COLOR]

[FONT=Helvetica]Desktop on Nvidia graphics works but nouveau KMS is badly broken. Must use nvidiafb
to get MATE desktop.[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](1) Comment out "blacklist nvidiafb" in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer.conf[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](2) Turn off openfirmware framebuffer and nouveau - 
Add to a stanza in /etc/yaboot.conf : append=" video=offb:off modprobe.blacklist=nouveau"
(2a) Run "sudo ybin -v"[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](3) Add "nvidiafb" to /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
(3a) Run "sudo update-initramfs -u -k all"[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](4) Reboot![/FONT]

Not possible I'm afraid as every time you reboot you are back to the same OS you started with.

You can save your own files and also some configuration settings in a live system if you set it up with persistence, but as far as I'm aware, any upgrades to applications in the OS are lost at reboot.

To do what you want you will have to install to a drive not run as a live OS.

EDIT:
Sorry but seeing what sandyd said, I think I may have misunderstood what you are trying to do here.  Do you have an installation of Ubuntu 15.10 on a hard disk that you are trying to configure by using a live system?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2016-01-27
With ajgreeny's thoughts, here it is for LiveUSB/DVD. I just realized that if the liveUSB/DVD was having this issue as well, you wouldn't be able to boot into the USB/DVD to install anyways.

Here are instructions for LiveDVD.

Screenshots may look a tad different, I made these in Ubuntu.

When booting from DVD (USB will vary due to creation method), you will see this screen.
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/el1vFa8.png[/IMG]
Quickly press a key, and you will be allowed to choose your language.

Press F6,and choose Expert mode with the enter key. Then pres ESC.

You will get to the following place:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/NXqKxrz.png[/IMG]

Move the cursor to the end of the line, like the screenshot below
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/NXqKxrz.png[/IMG]

Add in
```

nouveau.modeset=0
```
like the screenshot below.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/RULd9oZ.png[/IMG]

Press enter key to boot.

---

### Post by dan_williscroft on 2016-01-28
Cheers for the help still wont boot the live cd. I have lubuntu installed and wanted to try out Mate but it wont boot at all. Probably doesn&#8217;t help that I am on a apple mac G5.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-01-28
Having now told us the machine is a G5 iMac I have moved the thread to the Apple hardware sub-forum where you may get better and quicker answers specific to your situation.

---

