---
title: "10.04 on G3 iMac low-graphics mode"
date: 2011-03-07
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by c4c on 2011-03-07
Hello all,

Very nooby (only a PPC Mac OS user until earlier today), so apologies in advance for silly questions, not enough/too much info, and/or general ignorance.

I've successfully installed Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lucy (from the PPC Maverick .iso burned on CD) on an iMac G3 500 MHz Slot-Loading (Summer 2001) machine with 384 MB RAM just this morning. :D However, it runs in low-graphics mode and I don't know what to do to change that. It hasn't caused me any real problems per say, but I'm planning on giving this machine away (and repeating this install on several other similar gum-drops) and don't want this low-graphics error(?) greeting it's new user on day 1.

Searching these forums and others, I found the appropriate xorg.config file ([http://mac.linux.be/files/xorg/imac6.txt](http://mac.linux.be/files/xorg/imac6.txt)), made it work temporarily while installing Ubuntu by hitting Ctrl+Option+F1 when the screen went black, commented out(?) Load "dri" by making it #Load "dri" (the HorizSync and VertRefresh numbers were already correct according to what I'd read). I got some errors that went by too quickly for me to comprehend, and then I got a warning "Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode." Not knowing what else I could do at that point I said "OK" and the Ubuntu install proceeded. I did the whole xorg.config process again after the install completed (and after a reboot) to make sure it "stuck" and it did. I see everything just fine as far as I can tell.

The "Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode" warning happens whenever the Ubuntu desktop loads. The next dialog box asks what I'd like to do - but since I don't really know what I'm doing, I've just been choosing the first selection: "Run Ubuntu in low-graphics mode for just one session" instead of Reconfigure Graphics, Troubleshoot the error, Exit to console login or Restart X.

If it helps to know, this is not a dual-boot machine, no other OS is running besides Ubuntu 10.04.  Preferences > System > Monitor Preferences shows only an Unknown Monitor, Resolution 1024x768 (4:3), Refresh Rate 75Hz, Rotation: Normal. And although all that is listed in drop-down menus, none of it is changeable from there. The "Detect Monitors" button in the same dialog box doesn't do anything either.

Ran across a different post in this forum referencing 3D graphics in a similar G3 iMac which says to reduce the default depth to 16 from 24 in my XF86Config-4 file, but don't know if this would help (or have anything to do with my problem).

Thanks to whomever can shed some light.

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-03-07
Hey what you need to do is find terminal and type sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf hit enter then type your password. and then copy and past this make sure you even copy the # sym. Then press ctrl+o and hit enter then press ctrl+x and then close terminal restart computer. and then use my post here is the link [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1676488](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1676488) and this link [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1689694](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1689694)

######imac-ppc-slot-loader-500-600-700-xorg.conf###########



#ref:

# [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191080](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191080)

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file) #
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database. #
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.) #
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades only
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package. #
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# su dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg


Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 Pro Ultra TR"
Driver "ati"
Option "UseFBDev" "false"
Option "SWcursor" "true"
Option "ForcePCIMode" "true"
Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
Option "DRI" "true"
Option "NoInt10" "true"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "dri"
Load "dbe"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 58-62
VertRefresh 75-117
Modeline "1024x768_60.00" 63.50 1024 1072 1176 1328 768 771 775 798 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "800x600_60.00" 38.25 800 832 912 1024 600 603 607 624 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "640x480_60.00" 23.75 640 664 720 800 480 483 487 500 -hsync +vsync
Option "PreferredMode" "1024x768_60"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 Pro Ultra TR"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
Option "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-03-08
just that xorg.conf file i posted its the one i use and it works it still sounds like a driver problem oh and in the second link is where i help a guy with the same imac you and on the second page of that post i posted picturs along with its so just fallow thos to

---

### Post by c4c on 2011-03-08
Perfect! This worked as soon as as I tried it. Wonderful job. Thanks so much. If possible, can you please look into adding this file to or updating the imac6.txt file at the only central place I know to get these: [http://mac.linux.be/content/xorgconf-files](http://mac.linux.be/content/xorgconf-files)? I think this would help a lot of people get it right the first time.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-03-08
I will add it, thanks.

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-03-08
Good to know it worked for you now just update that beast and add xubuntu to it.

---

### Post by euskir on 2011-05-14
Hello snafu006:
It was today my first experience with Ubuntu, installing the OS on an old iMac G3, I was stuck with the "low-graphics" issue, and your solution was fresh water in the desert.
Thanks!
Best wishes, as always,
Federico (aka euskir)

---

