---
title: "8.10 log in screen size?"
date: 2008-11-22
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by dcnicholls on 2008-11-22
I've just installed a new VMWare Fusion virtual machine on my MacBook Pro (15") using the latest Ubuntu 8.10 iso image,

When I start the VM, things run normally until the log-in screen appears.  It's not the normal size and although it fits into the MacBook Pro screen, the fonts are very small until the OS boots, whereupon it sets itself to the correct size (as set in Screen Appearance).  

Is there something that I can adjust in Ubuntu that determines the size of the log-in screen, before it reads the screen resolution preferences?

I don't have this problem with 8.04 on a Dell PC or on my iMac VM of 8.04.

(Similar post sent to the VMWare forums, but not quite the same).

DN

---

### Post by dcnicholls on 2008-11-22
I did a forum search and found thread 151192 which refered to /etc/X11/xorg.conf so I opened it in the 8.04 VM install on my iMac VM.  In the section 'Subsection "Display"' the 2nd through 5th entries specified a screen resolution of 1024x768.

I opened the corresponding file in the 8.10 VM on my MBP and - curiously - the "modes" (resolutions) were specified as "1366x768"

So on a whim I changed them all to 1024x768 ( sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf ) and saved the revised file.

BINGO! The login screen is now the correct size and the fonts are readable.

I don't know enough about VMWare Fusion or Intrepid 8.10 to know why the setting was as it was, but the change seems to have fixed things.

DN

---

