---
title: "16.04 LTS on MacBookPro11,3 - Reboot fails but shutdown + manual boot works"
date: 2017-12-08
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by greggy.ubunter on 2017-12-08
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]Hi,

MacBookPro11,3 here (8 x Core i7 @ 2.5 GHz w/ 16 GB RAM), with **only** 16.04 LTS installed (I wiped out MacOS). No ReFIT installed.
I cold boot fine: grub kicks in and the rest loads up.

However, if I reboot from linux (either via "reboot" or "shutdown -r now") the system shuts down, a chime is heard, but grub doesn't load (I can see the screen powered up though).
Then I have to manually hold the power button until it goes off, then power it up, and only THEN grub loads.

This is painful because it prevents remote reboots (after kernel upgrades for example)...
Is there any magic I'm missing?

TIA
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by bpbiszkopt on 2017-12-27
I have the same situation on my old acer laptop - there is no uefi bios, it is old c2d.
I've  check xubuntu 32 and 64 bit os, on both situation is the same, when  normally starts system boots without problem if i reboot it wont boot...
Its long break in bios, then only black screen,  after couple mins it show " No operating system found"...
My xubuntu is installed from usb stick.

There is another option for grub for reboot??
My paste bin ```
https://paste.ubuntu.com/26264509/
```

---

### Post by kevin160 on 2017-12-27
Sometimes the boot loader gets into a strange state and I need to hold down Option on boot and then hold Control to set the default partition.  

You might want to clear your pram and smc.  You may not need it, but have a bootable usb drive with macOS on it so you can re-bless and/or set the startup disk if you need to.

---

