---
title: "12.04 + Macbook 2,1 = S-L-O-W bootup"
date: 2012-12-28
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by edfast on 2012-12-28
Hello all,

upgraded from 11.04 a couple of months ago, and after some fiddling, such as disabling error messages and ditto reports etc, am quite happy with both speed and performance. However; on startup, I have to wait around 28 secs from login to desktop, and considering that used to take a mere 4-5 secs under 11.04, I suspect something might in fact be not-quite-right. It is an old processor, I know, but I would feel a lot more comfortable if it turned out that other 'old mac' owners experienced the same problem, if problem it is.

Additional info: 1. startup times have not increased over time, but remain constant. 2. no 'unwarranted' hangs. 3. running real-time sunlight wallpaper on startup, which lately has had problems renewing satellite image content - but should have no propblems first time of a session.

Help?

---

### Post by powerpcliberation on 2012-12-29
I imagine it is Unity that is taking so long.  It became noticeably more resource hungry and slow in 12.  

I recommend installing GNOME and the GNOME panel.  Not only will GNOME give you a much faster experience but the panel give you the ability to log into Unity, Unity 2D, GNOME classic and GNOME 3.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-12-29
If I were you I would first check which programs are started automatically. Since you already mention 

> 3. running real-time sunlight wallpaper on startup, which lately has had  problems renewing satellite image content - but should have no  propblems first time of a session.


is that application pulling content from the web? Have you tried disabling it to see if things change?

---

### Post by edfast on 2013-01-08
Thank you both. Here are my reflections:

@ powerpcliberation: This was my first thought, almost a reflex. It seems to be the received wisdom on the forums. However, only startup is slow. Once started, I do not get the impression that processes are slower at all. Any thoughts on how I can test this properly (now that I know longer have 11.04 installed)?

@ 2F4U: I tested this, but it makes no difference if I run sunlight wallpaper or not. The point is, for startup I have the exact same setup as I did with 11.04, but boot up time has quadrupled. What I'd like to know is if users running 12.04 with similarly old hardware share the same problem?

---

