---
title: "11.10 aluminum iMac crashing..."
date: 2012-01-11
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by mbaucco on 2012-01-11
Hello,

I am having an intermittent problem with my iMac. Every once in a while I will find that my iMac has crashed and the whole screen looks like blue corduroy ( or maybe herringbone tweed :P ). I am pretty sure it only happens when I am logged off, but other than that I can't figure out what might be causing it.

Is anyone else having this problem or does someone know how I can fix this?

Thanks!
Matt

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-01-12
Moved to the Apple forum.

---

### Post by mbaucco on 2012-01-12
Hmm, now it is happening more often as soon as I log off.

Thanks,
Matt

---

### Post by Wolfador on 2012-01-12
do you have to power off and back on for it to come back or you can switch screens to a terminal prompt?

---

### Post by mbaucco on 2012-01-12
Hm, I just power off, but I will look up the keyboard shortcut and try that next time. Thanks!

---

### Post by Wolfador on 2012-01-15
if you can switch it then the problem is with the X windows system. Maybe a bad video driver.

---

### Post by mbaucco on 2012-01-15
I tried launching a terminal, but it didn't work. The Mac has to be manually powered down and restarted.

Thanks,
Matt

---

### Post by Q-collective on 2012-01-15
- Does the issue occur in OS X?
- If yes, which version of OS X is on it?
- What iMac is it? ("aluminum" really is rather vague, you can find the build in OS X -> Apple -> About this Mac -> More info)
- Did you try a [SMC]("http://support.apple.com/kb/ht3964") and or [PRAM]("http://support.apple.com/kb/ht1379") reset? (This resets several hardware components to their factory settings, read the links)
- Do you have warranty still? (if it is a hardware issue)

---

### Post by mbaucco on 2012-01-17
Hello,

The issue does not occur in OS X, but I am running 10.5.8. All my firmware is up to date. The crash only happens in Ubuntu 11.04, it never happened in 10.10, and it always seems to happen after log off. Here are my specs:

      Model Name: iMac
      Model Identifier: iMac8,1
      Processor Name: Intel Core 2 Duo
      Processor Speed: 2.4 GHz
      Number Of Processors: 1
      Total Number Of Cores: 2
      L2 Cache: 6 MB
      Memory: 1 GB
      Bus Speed: 1.07 GHz
      Boot ROM Version: IM81.00C1.B00
      SMC Version (system): 1.29f1

    ATI Radeon HD 2400 XT:

      Chipset Model: ATI Radeon HD 2400
      Type: Display
      Bus: PCIe
      PCIe Lane Width: x16
      VRAM (Total): 128 MB
      Vendor: ATI (0x1002)
      Device ID: 0x94c8
      Revision ID: 0x0000
      ROM Revision: 113-B2250H-259
      EFI Driver Version: 01.00.259

I have not reset the PRAM, not have I tried the SMC, I will give those a shot.

Thanks!
Matt

---

### Post by mbaucco on 2012-02-23
It looks as if I was able to stop the crashing by disabling the proprietary ATI driver. I have also set Unity to 2D mode. No crashes yet!

---

