---
title: "9.04 upgrade to PPC 700mhz LCD imac failed - HELP!!!!"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by lfmiller on 2009-04-30
OK - So I upgraded to 9.04 on one of my imac 700mhz machines with out problems and without incendants --->>> SO I figured - ok I will upgrade the other machine! - Big mistake! -
Sometime during the upgrade (Not sure I wasn't really watching it) - The machine Froze up (Lock up) - It was asking if I wanted to keep a file or replace it with the new version unfortuntally I don't remember what the file was - normally I say keep -- well, since it locked up on me, nothing happend, I waited and waited thinking it would come back -- It did not - so I did a hard reset (restart) - what else could I have done, it wasn't responding to anything - The upgrade must have been almost done, it booted backup just fine, and then got to the screen that asks for a user name and password - I entered my old user name  and password - and got the error: "Incorrect username or password. Letter must be typed in the correct case."

So is there a default password/user that is created? 

I tried root with no password didn't work -
I even tried to get in via hit the ctrl/alt F1 key, no luck - 

I am running on a LCD Imac 700mhz with 256mb ram, 100gb hard drive - I did NOT backup my stuff before hand and really would like to recover what I can. 

Any HELP would be great! 
Thanks, LeRoy, KD8BXP

---

### Post by stream303 on 2009-04-30
Ah, if any of the live-cd releases don't work, you can recover what you can with the sysadmin/recovery disk for PPC at:

[http://www.finnix.org/](http://www.finnix.org/)

You'll only end up with a commandline environment, but you should be able to salvage / copy your existing data and then try again - this time with a fresh install of 9.04.

I've seen that username/password issue crop up recently for upgrades, so the best bet would be to start fresh imho.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2009-04-30
My 9.04 upgrade froze like that twice at about 60%. The only thing I did was reinstall 8.10. I think if I wait  a few weeks the bug will be solved. If not I have a ppc minimal install disk for 9.04 and I will see how that works.

---

### Post by lfmiller on 2009-04-30
> **stream303 said:**
> Ah, if any of the live-cd releases don't work, you can recover what you can with the sysadmin/recovery disk for PPC at:

[http://www.finnix.org/](http://www.finnix.org/)

You'll only end up with a commandline environment, but you should be able to salvage / copy your existing data and then try again - this time with a fresh install of 9.04.

I've seen that username/password issue crop up recently for upgrades, so the best bet would be to start fresh imho.

I have not had much luck with the live CDs, I think because I am running minial ram, but I will give it a try I did download 9.04ppc live maybe it will work a little better -- I guess I could always goto something like 6.04 I don't think I ever had issues with 6.04 - at least use that to get backinto the system backup what I want...and try again!

Thanks for the idea - LeRoy, KD8BXP

---

### Post by lfmiller on 2009-04-30
> **mkvnmtr said:**
> My 9.04 upgrade froze like that twice at about 60%. The only thing I did was reinstall 8.10. I think if I wait  a few weeks the bug will be solved. If not I have a ppc minimal install disk for 9.04 and I will see how that works.

There must be different models of the Imac 700mhz lcd screen - The one I am having problems with has a power cord that is removable - the other one (the one I didn't have problems with) has a hardwired power cord - SO there might be some hardware differences or something..
I have had the "common" problems with both before - the modprobe ide_core problem when I upgraded to I think 7.10?? and I had both slow way down after an upgrade once (something about the graphics card that was loaded I forget, it was an easy fix) - but until now, I have never had one do something different then the other....so....I am going to try a live cd - I haven't had much luck with live cds before....but I will try it.

Thanks - LeRoy, KD8BXP

---

### Post by lfmiller on 2009-05-01
I had a brain storm!! -- 9.04 Live CD worked, and run quickly and didn't give me any problems - so after I verified that all of my files where still intact - and of course backing the important ones up to a flash drive - I
had a brain storm - what if I reinstall 9.04 over top of itself - with out formating the hard drive or making changes to the partition - SO that is what I did --- it worked, I now have access to all of the files, as well as my bookmarks and a few other settings - It did uninstall some of my custom software, and lost one of my theme settings - but over all I can live with that!
It works - Thanks for the help and ideas -
LeRoy, KD8BXP

---

