---
title: "Cant Change Resolution from 800x600"
date: 2008-07-09
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by VK18 on 2008-07-09
Hello I recently installed Ubuntu 8.04 on my PowerMac g4 450 dual processor. The video card is ATI 128 Rage Pro with 16mb of video ram, and the monitor i am using is a samsung sync master 932bw with a max resoltion of 1440x900. But i cant change the resolution of the screen to anything other than 800x600 when i go into system>preferences>screen resolution. Can anyone help?

---

### Post by ssam on 2008-07-10
you may need to force xorg to use the rage r128 driver. have a look at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ#head-ffefeb40b6b03a892fdebfa6e6f633929024f1ec](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ#head-ffefeb40b6b03a892fdebfa6e6f633929024f1ec) which has a bit of information.

also please put 'powerpc' in the title or a tag, so that your posts can be seen in the sea of intel mac posts.

---

### Post by JOHNNYG713 on 2009-07-08
Hi, I have a mac G3 B&W POWERPC with an ATI 128 rage and was having the same problem here is what i did and it worked for me! :p

   :KS    PLEASE READ THE WHOLE THING FIRST ! USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!:KS

- First backup your "xorg.conf" in a terminal type or copy and past

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf -backup

  - now copy and past this to your favorite note pad or text editor


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath    "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
    FontPath    "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "GLcore"
    Load    "i2c"
    Load    "bitmap"
    Load    "ddc"
    Load    "dri"
    Load    "extmod"
    Load    "freetype"
    Load    "glx"
    Load    "int10"
    Load    "type1"
    Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "CoreKeyboard"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc104"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
    Option        "Protocol"        "ImPS/2"
    Option        "Emulate3Buttons"    "true"
    Option        "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 (RE/SG)"
    Driver        "ati"
    BusID        "PCI:0:16:0"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Generic Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS"
    HorizSync    28-51
    VertRefresh    43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Device        "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 (RE/SG)"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        4
        Modes        "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        8
        Modes        "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        15
        Modes        "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        16
        Modes        "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes        "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode    0666
EndSection





--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The above xorg.conf comes from the ubuntu 5.10 install ,when installed has multiple resolutions 1024,800,640. I just copied and pasted to my xorg.conf and it works fine! on my g3 with a ATI 128 rage


now, in terminal, the command 

sudo nautius
 
enter your pass word

this will bring up a root gui file browser NOW the scary part,but you have backed up your original xorg.conf so here we go!

navigate   >file system>etc>X11   goto  xorg.conf    and   display

goto edit>select "all"        right click on the page    and delete

now open the xorg.conf (suppled above) from your desktop

goto edit>select "all"

right click "copy"   close that window

goto your empty xorg.conf

right click and "past"     then at the top click "save" 

 Now if we did everything right you should have a 1024X768 display after reboot!

REBOOT

because we backed up the xorg.conf the worst case is you will still have a 800X600 
display

NOTE: After you are up and running and are tired of the rather drab look of plain old ubuntu (In my opinion).TRY THIS [http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=100855](http://www.gnome-look.org/content/show.php?content=100855)
Ultimate edition 2.2 theme lots O nice stuff!
Any way hope this helps you out:guitar:



johnnyg

---

### Post by millermayhem on 2009-08-12
sudo nautius is non responsive

sudo: nautius: command not found
richard@richard-desktop:~$ 

I am having the same issues and this looks like the right thread.

thank you

---

### Post by fbugnon on 2009-08-12
> **millermayhem said:**
> sudo nautius is non responsive

sudo: nautius: command not found
richard@richard-desktop:~$ 


I think this is a misspelling: try nauti**l**us instead.

---

### Post by Breath! on 2009-08-14
Hi! 

I have the same problem in both Intrepid and Jaunty... But my on-board graphics card is an ATI RageM3... Or that's what Apple's System Profiler told me.

Can someone help me there?

---

### Post by nickmayfield on 2009-10-08
i'm using ubuntu 9.04

I'm having one hell of a time with this old video card. i've been all over reading and trying all sorts of things. i tried copy and pasting that xorg file above but when i restart i get a pop up window that says it needs to run in low graphics mode. if anyone can help me with getting this to Rage 128 pro to work that would be awesome. when i run lspci here is what i get

kids@kids-desktop:~$ sudo lspci
[sudo] password for kids: 
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82850 850 (Tehama) Chipset Host Bridge (MCH) (rev 04)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82850 850 (Tehama) Chipset AGP Bridge (rev 04)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 04)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801BA ISA Bridge (LPC) (rev 04)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801BA IDE U100 Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM USB Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM SMBus Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.4 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM USB Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801BA/BAM AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 04)
**01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 PF/PRO AGP 4x TMDS**
02:0b.0 Ethernet controller: Lite-On Communications Inc LNE100TX (rev 21)
kids@kids-desktop:~$ 

what i don't get is that is sees the card but can't make it work at all. 
here is a copy of my xorg file

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



what am i doing wrong and what do i need to fix it. 800 by 600 can drive a person crazy.
thanks for your time

---

### Post by gifford on 2009-11-05
I'm having the same problem with my dual G4 500Ghz. Open Suse 11.1 will find the correct driver and install it at first boot. Only problem is getting Open Suse to recognize dual G4 processors. Couldn't find any documentation on how to change it so settled back with Ubuntu 9.10 and will live for now with the poor resolution.

---

### Post by oswaldkelso on 2009-11-05
You could use gtf to find the info you need then force it using preferred mode. see:

[http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=16&t=26577](http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?f=16&t=26577)

---

