---
title: "12.04 ppc. G4 sawtooth with dreaded agp rage 128. Tried heaps of things, mini ISO?"
date: 2013-04-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by loopylew on 2013-04-12
I have done a great deal of reading on this topic, and alas have had no luck so far in getting 12.04 to install on a sawtooth. To cut a long boring story short, as I am a relative newcomer to the linux world, here is a key question I would love to know the answer to (although other advice would be very welcome..)

How do I go about installing Lubuntu 12.04 ppc using an Ubuntu 12.04 ppc mini ISO to get a minimal core installed so that I can then get a net install of Lubuntu 12.04 to finish it off as it were? 
(I am happy to let the sawtooth download the updated packages that contain the work-arounds to the dreaded Rage 128 troubles and think that this might be the best way to go for me; I have followed religiously all the advice given about the rage 128 issues and have had no luck to date; being a relative newbie to linux I would be happy to hear from anyone with this nuisance graphics card on a swatooth who has some success stories to share.

I have done enough reading to be persuaded that 12.04 Lubuntu is going to be my best bet for this machine, if it was just for my own use I would buy a radeon 7000 for thirty bucks as advised by a few, trouble is I have 6 of these sawtooths and zero budget.....(although I am starting to think that maybe $180 on graphics cards might be the best option all round!)

I have set myself the interesting technical challenge of getting them to surf the web, youtube or viewer etc., so that I can donate them to the local refugee centre, so I don't really want it to cost me money (after all I have already spent many hours on this)
But if I don't solve the problem soon then where I work will force me to throw them out! (I know they are decent machines and I have a decent amount of ram for them all)

Please excuse me if there is a magic answer is in a thread somewhere that I have missed. I have done my best to search.

Thanks in advance

Lew

---

### Post by str8bs on 2013-04-15
Are you struggling [getting the mini installer going]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ#How_do_I_install_from_the_mini_iso.3F"), or with issues post install?

Others have reported success on G4 with R128 with [this method]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues#A12.04_Precise_Pangolin") . 

In the iMacG3 thread linked there, another poster mentioned issues booting the mini. [URL="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues#A12.04_Precise_Pangolin"]
[/URL]

---

### Post by loopylew on 2013-04-16
Thanks for your reply.

Yes, having trouble getting the mini installer going. 

I am using this one [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/installer-i386/current/images/netboot/non-pae/mini.iso](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/installer-i386/current/images/netboot/non-pae/mini.iso) 

Had a few attempts at burning and nothing seems to happen when I put it in the G4 - other cd's boot no problem.

Am I using the right one?

Also, I managed to get Lubuntu 12.04 to actually install successfully but it boots into text only. I have tried the sudo install get update command from there but it never seems to get completed, possibly because here at Uni we have a managed network where I have to log in, so I'm never quite sure if my network connection is live or not, it may have an aoutomatic time-out..

Please help!

---

