---
title: "12.10 Can't boot 12.10"
date: 2012-10-18
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by nerdkiller14 on 2012-10-18
On 12.10 I cannot get it to boot it says something to the effect of 

Intranmfs: no bootable medium found 

this is using a USB stick while using dd on Macbook pro retina.

---

### Post by frankob on 2012-10-19
I was unable to boot from USB, too on my HP Compaq 6820s. But I don't get ANY messages at all. Just a blinking cursor, and it stays that way forever.

This is the first version of Ubuntu I couldn't boot ever since 6.10... and with this laptop since 8.10. Makes me feel somehow disappointed... :-/

---

### Post by nerdkiller14 on 2012-10-19
> **frankob said:**
> I was unable to boot from USB, too on my HP Compaq 6820s. But I don't get ANY messages at all. Just a blinking cursor, and it stays that way forever.

This is the first version of Ubuntu I couldn't boot ever since 6.10... and with this laptop since 8.10. Makes me feel somehow disappointed... :-/

I fixed my issue anyone using the amd64+mac it will not find boot medium.

---

### Post by frankob on 2012-10-19
I don't have a mac so I guess our issues are not completely related... But still, I don't think I understood what you just said above... Could you explain it better? How exactly did you fix your issue?

---

### Post by nerdkiller14 on 2012-10-19
> **frankob said:**
> I don't have a mac so I guess our issues are not completely related... But still, I don't think I understood what you just said above... Could you explain it better? How exactly did you fix your issue?

The Ubuntuxxxxxx_amd64+mac.iso is broken. So when burning a Live USB it will not find bootable medium. I would recommend redownloading the iso for the other user that responded in this forum post.

---

### Post by frankob on 2012-10-20
Already tried it, but no luck... :-/

---

### Post by DarkAz on 2012-10-20
Deleted

---

### Post by Windoze Refugee on 2012-10-20
Im having a similar prob. 
My ubuntu just stopped booting around a week ago. 

Ive now tried various software tools including Live 12.04.01, Rescatix and various other grub salvage/rebuilders.
 In each instance I just end up with the blinking cursor.

Its like Ubuntu has vanished altogether

In windoze (also on the same drive but different partition) the Drive manager can find the partition but shows it as an unknown format.

(I was aware of a failing HD and copied everything over to a separate drive, but didn't mirror, so any hope on copying it all back to a fresh drive/install would be awesome).

Any ideas anyone?

Cheers
WR

---

### Post by satspy on 2012-10-27
Hi !

I can confirm that Ubuntu 12.10 is NOT WORKING with HP Compaq 6820s anymore.

12.04.1 LTS works fine.

I tried boot from USB and DVD, just cursor blinking after loading initrd.

Something is broken, i suspect that KMS is causing the problem, it already causes some minor problems on previous versions on the Ubuntu ( USB mouse stuttering and freezing ).

EDIT:
I just have tried boot Ubuntu 12.10 with "nomodeset" option enabled, and it worked !
You can try "radeon.modeset=0" also, it should do the same as "nomodeset" option.
Sad thing is, that HW Accel 3D is completely disabled with that option, just 2D works.

So, if anyone can fix this.
Thx !


Cheers !

---

### Post by sikemo on 2012-10-27
I'm having the same issues and now can't boot into Ubuntu or Win7. When I try to boot into Ubuntu, I get a black screen and a blinking cursor... When I try to boot into Windows 7, I get GRUB RESCUE>... Additionally, I can no longer boot to Ubuntu on the USB stick as it's also generating some kind of error. Very frustrating! I think the only way I'm going to get anywhere with this at this point is by installing 12.04.

---

