---
title: "8.04.1 initramfs shell (ash) no input from USB KB"
date: 2008-11-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by IQRules on 2008-11-12
After 8.04.1 alternate installation on G3 500Mhz, reboot failed to find vmlinux (not booting).

I can enter rescue mode and do apt update/upgrade to complete the installation.
So I go back to rescue mode, do this,
# chroot /target

add "break=top" to /etc/yaboot.conf file.
Run ybin -v.

I got (ash) initramfs prompt, but it does not take any KB inputs.

And I also added these to /etc/initramfs*/modules, no error from update-initramfs -u.
ehci-hcd
usb-storage
scsi_mod
sd_mod


Thanks for the help

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-11-13
If it's a G3 500mhz iMac, they have a 128gb partitioning limitation for / (root) if you have installed a larger replacement hard drive.

See everymac.com for details..

If this is true, you'll need to manually partition the drive to keep root under 128gb, make it 125gb to be safe, and usually dedicate the rest of the drive to /home and swap, not to mention the two special apple partitions.  The easiest way is to waste the rest of the drive, and just resize root to be around 125gb...

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2008-11-13
Use break=bottom

---

### Post by IQRules on 2008-11-13
> **stream303 said:**
> If it's a G3 500mhz iMac, they have a 128gb partitioning limitation for / (root) if you have installed a larger replacement hard drive.

.

It is Maxtor 120gb. I installed 40G OSX on 1st partition and verified the firmware is update one.

Do I still need new world boot partition? I don't like to mess around the 1st OSX partition.
Not easy to install Kbuntu alternate, lots of effort.:)

---

### Post by IQRules on 2008-11-13
> **pxwpxw said:**
> Use break=bottom

Let me try this,

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

Thanks

---

