---
title: "9.10 - Adjusting Screen/KB Brightness, MBP5,3"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by besweeet on 2009-10-29
I installed the latest GPU drivers from Nvidia for my 9600M GT (256MB). It's 190.42, 64-bit. Compiz is working, and so is my external LCD through Mini-DP>VGA. I can't adjust the brightness on the Color LCD; they keys don't do anything.

I also can't use the keys to adjust the keyboard brightness unless I do the echo 255 thing in Terminal, which will only turn it on, and not let me adjust it.

I'm so close! I'm actually enjoying Ubuntu quite a bit, even more than Snow Leopard (too many beach balls!).

---

### Post by yesno on 2009-10-30
> **besweeet said:**
> I installed the latest GPU drivers from Nvidia for my 9600M GT (256MB). It's 190.42, 64-bit. Compiz is working, and so is my external LCD through Mini-DP>VGA. I can't adjust the brightness on the Color LCD; they keys don't do anything.

I also can't use the keys to adjust the keyboard brightness unless I do the echo 255 thing in Terminal, which will only turn it on, and not let me adjust it.

I'm so close! I'm actually enjoying Ubuntu quite a bit, even more than Snow Leopard (too many beach balls!).

Same here--I'm not sure how to adjust my screen brightness in 9.10.  I'm running a Core Duo Macbook with Intel graphics.

---

### Post by sandeepjshenoy on 2009-10-30
Same problem here too, unable to adjust screen brightness via keyboard. Also my power button stops working once ubuntu starts! Anyone else have similar issues?:(

---

### Post by Silmathoron on 2009-10-30
I do... it works when installing the old mbp-nvidia-dkms for jaunty but the system seems to become a bit unstable, so I uninstalled it. It's weird because on the wiki they say it is supposed to work out of the box. Too bad !

---

### Post by e-rebus on 2009-10-31
I downloaded and installed mbp-nvidia-bl-dmks package from Jaunty's Mactel PPA ([https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive/ppa/+files/mbp-nvidia-bl-dkms_0.22~jaunty_all.deb](https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive/ppa/+files/mbp-nvidia-bl-dkms_0.22~jaunty_all.deb)) and it works just fine on Macbook Pro 5,3.

---

### Post by besweeet on 2009-11-02
> **e-rebus said:**
> I downloaded and installed mbp-nvidia-bl-dmks package from Jaunty's Mactel PPA ([https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive/ppa/+files/mbp-nvidia-bl-dkms_0.22~jaunty_all.deb]("https://launchpad.net/%7Emactel-support/+archive/ppa/+files/mbp-nvidia-bl-dkms_0.22%7Ejaunty_all.deb")) and it works just fine on Macbook Pro 5,3.

That did the trick!!!! Screen brightness is working.

Is there anyway to get the keyboard backlight controls working? I can force it a certain value (0-255) and it'll stay on but if this is hard then that's ok, since I usually keep it off anyway.

---

### Post by sandeepjshenoy on 2009-11-02
> **e-rebus said:**
> I downloaded and installed mbp-nvidia-bl-dmks package from Jaunty's Mactel PPA ([https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive/ppa/+files/mbp-nvidia-bl-dkms_0.22~jaunty_all.deb](https://launchpad.net/~mactel-support/+archive/ppa/+files/mbp-nvidia-bl-dkms_0.22~jaunty_all.deb)) and it works just fine on Macbook Pro 5,3.

I use a HP laptop with intel graphics card. Do you think installing this package will enable the screen brightness adjustment via keyboard?

---

### Post by _mario_ on 2009-11-03
> **sandeepjshenoy said:**
> I use a HP laptop with intel graphics card. Do you think installing this package will enable the screen brightness adjustment via keyboard?

no. mbp-nvidia-bl has been written specifically for MacBookPros and extended to support some other Apple machines. never HP. 

btw: if you have an Nvidia graphics adapter (either incorporated into the chipset or separate), i'd suggest to use nvidia-bl **instead of** mbp-nvidia-bl.

ciao,
Mario

---

### Post by sandeepjshenoy on 2009-11-03
Can anyone suggest me how to adjust screen brightness via keyboard for karmic in a laptop with intel graphics card? (This feature worked flawlessly in Jaunty)

---

### Post by proycon on 2009-11-04
Install pommed from Mactel PPA, that did the trick for me regarding screen brightness and keyboard lights.

---

### Post by Nikos.Alexandris on 2009-11-04
> **proycon said:**
> Install pommed from Mactel PPA, that did the trick for me regarding screen brightness and keyboard lights.

Pommed works on mbp51. It feels faster than OS-X ;-). The only minor issue with it is that no notification appears when changing the keyboard brightness and a minor annoyance is that when the kbrd brghtns is set to 0, it re-activates itself somehow at some level.

Besides these 2 things, it's smooth. And kbrd brghtns auto-dimming while not typing is great.

---

