---
title: "6.06 vs 8.04 What am I missing?"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by pgflmac on 2008-12-22
I have had numerous frustrations getting 8.04 to run nice on my late iBook G3. I use this version under VMWare on my Macbooks successfully so I thought I would load it up on my iBook G3 that was doin' nothin'.

Well I have a very hard time getting this machine to go into 1024x768 screen resolution instead it is stuck on 800x600 scrunched into the upper left corner- and has this funky 1/3 screen "reflection" on the bottom left. I tried editing xorg.conf as recommended in these forums but I cannot get the resolution correct. 

I saw a post about using 6.06's xorg.conf so I installed 6.06 ans it was so easy. Everything looks great. I set up a printer to print xorg.conf and even emailed it to myself. 

I then went back and re-installed 8.04 but evolution email configuration tool was messed up - the "forward" "next" and "cancel" buttons are do not display. 

I went back and tried sudo nano xorg.conf again and I am yet to fix resolution. No luck.

Soooo, my questions are: why should I not just stick with 6.06? Is there anything special 8.04? Is there anything wrong with 6.06? Seems like there is a configuration step in 8.04 that is not building a correct xorg.conf? And what's up with evolution? Is there a way to skip the set up wizard and just edit a para file?

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2008-12-22
On my G4 IBook I find 8.04 to be a great improvement over 6.06. I liked 6.06 but 8.04 just gives me more. I faced a few small problems but not like you seem to be having. I guess only you can decide.

---

### Post by pgflmac on 2008-12-22
Could you tell me if and how you got 1024x76  vs 800x600 resolution? And did you have any issues with the e-mail set up wizard or did you do it manually?

Thank you for your response, Rob

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2008-12-23
My screen is just 1024 x 768. I didn't do anything. As for email I have never used it. I nhave always used Yahoo and never tried any of the clients.

---

### Post by Racecar56 on 2009-01-18
Sorry for this bump, but maybe you need your proprietary drivers.

---

### Post by DurocShark on 2009-01-19
> **Racecar56 said:**
> Sorry for this bump, but maybe you need your proprietary drivers.

Is there a walkthrough somewhere for this? I have the exact same issue as the op on my G3 iBook.

---

### Post by pgflmac on 2009-01-19
It was kind of a pain but I installed 6.06 and emailed the xorg.conf file. Then I installed 8.04 and got my email and sudo cp xorg.conf from the email to its proper location. That fixed it.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2009-01-19
Nope - there are no proprietary ppc video drivers.  We have to rely on manually editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf, or in some cases the display is just usable as-is.

---

