---
title: "10.10 x64 Full Encrypted Disk LVM Install on Macbook Pro 5,3,  Shows nothing at boot!"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by nukedeath on 2010-10-13
Hello!

I Tried installing Ubuntu 10.10 x64 from the Alternative CD on my Macbook Pro 5,3, I used guided full disk encryption and everything went fine untill i restartet.

It shows nothing at boot :(

But if i run the livecd and boot form the first disk, it boots!
So i dont really know whats wrong :confused:

---

### Post by zeroti on 2010-10-14
Hm. Did you use select that as an option, or did you do it manually? Because it's important to have at least an unencrypted /boot partition so that the kernel can start up and decrypt the rest of the hard drive. I'm not sure how to set it up for Ubuntu, you might have to add some extra settings. For example, these are ways to do it manually on Arch Linux:

[http://www.pindarsign.de/webblog/?p=767](http://www.pindarsign.de/webblog/?p=767)
[http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/System_Encryption_with_LUKS_for_dm-crypt](http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/System_Encryption_with_LUKS_for_dm-crypt)

Although, that distribution takes "not holding your hand" as a philosophy, so it will probably be different with Ubuntu.

Note how the above instructions add some settings in important files before rebooting.

Good luck!

---

### Post by zeroti on 2010-10-14
By the way, is the screen totally black, or does it show grub, which shows nothing to boot?

---

### Post by nukedeath on 2010-10-14
Hello!

I dont use rEFIt, i just hold the ALT button at startup so i can choose on EFI what to boot.

Normaly, standard Ubuntu install without encryption, i see Windows, choose it, and it boots up Ubuntu.

When installed with LVM and full disk encryption, when pressing ALT at startup to choose what EFI boots, it shows nothing at all, just the EFI background with no options.

To boot, still having encrypted disks, i have to run the live ubuntu cd, and choose boot first disk.

So what can i do to get disk encryption?

Must i use rEFIt?, wont i need a HFS+ partion and somehow install rEFIt on that partion?

---

### Post by zeroti on 2010-10-15
did you choose an option to encrypt your disk, or did you do it manually?

in order to boot up your encrypted drive, the kernel needs to be able to decrypt it. if the kernel is encrypted, there is nothing that will decrypt it except the live cd kernel. so you need a decrypted kernel. this is usually done by making a separate unencrypted "/boot" partition containing any linux kernels you have. again, if you did this all manually, you may have not done this. if you selected an option from the live cd, then I don't know what went wrong, as it should have been designed not to do that.

---

### Post by nukedeath on 2010-10-22
> **zeroti said:**
> did you choose an option to encrypt your disk, or did you do it manually?

in order to boot up your encrypted drive, the kernel needs to be able to decrypt it. if the kernel is encrypted, there is nothing that will decrypt it except the live cd kernel. so you need a decrypted kernel. this is usually done by making a separate unencrypted "/boot" partition containing any linux kernels you have. again, if you did this all manually, you may have not done this. if you selected an option from the live cd, then I don't know what went wrong, as it should have been designed not to do that.
It seems EFI cant boot the encrypted drive for some reason, but both rEFIt and any livecd can boot into the disk. So i guess its a EFI problem^^

---

