---
title: "iMac (12,2) on 11.04"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by zacbarton on 2011-05-09
I've just installed Ubuntu 11.04 (64 bit) on the latest iMac 27' (12,2 - May 2011) and thought I'd let other interested people know that I didn't encounter any issues.

[s]The only thing I had to do was to add "options snd-hda-intel model=mbp55" and turn up the front speakers via "alsamixer" to get better sound quality although sound did work out of the box (was just bit tinny).[/s] Sound works out of the box. I only had to turn the volume up on the "front speaker" and un-mute the "surround speaker".

Plugging in a headset unfortunately doesn't mute the internal speakers.

The Radeon open source divers and ati drivers both work.

The wifi works out of the box (ath9k).

The webcam works out of the box.

Suspend/resume works out of the box (only tested using the open source Radeon driver).

I've installed a OCZ Vertex 3 (Sata III - 6gbps) drive and am getting read speeds of ~460 MB/s so Sata III is working.

To still test:
 * mic via headset

Here's my iMac specs:
 * cpu: i5 2500S (2.7ghz)
 * grx: ati radeon hd 6700m 512m
 * audio: hda intel - cirrus (00:1b.0)

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-05-15
Hi,
could you give more information ?
which procedure did you follow to install ubuntu :
* using bootcamp, refit, grub-efi-amd64 (the default in 11.04) ?
* are you booting in BIOS mode or EFI mode ?
* did you reformat your disk or just resized/added a partition ?
* does radeon kms is enabled ? (what's your xorg log ?)
* do plugging a headphone switch off front speakers and works ?
* what's your imac panel size, 27" ?

Regards,
Jérémy.

---

### Post by zacbarton on 2011-05-17
Jérémy,

I installed Ubuntu using the bootcamp method so I boot via BIOS emulation.

For this install I resized the osx partition and installed Ubuntu on the remaining free space. My drive looks like: efi (210m), osx (16g), unknown (1m), ubuntu (220g), swap (4.3g). Note that the Ubuntu installer created the unknown (1m) partition most likey for aligning (guessing). Previously I've installed Ubuntu on the entire disk.

I've since replaced the default HDD with a OCZ SSD (Vertex 3) so that's why my partition sizes look smaller than what you might be expecting.

Yes my Radeon HD 6770m has KMS enabled, "[drm] radeon kernel modesetting enabled".

Plugging in a headset unfortunately doesn't mute the internal speakers. I haven't tested using a mic on a headset yet.

I've got the 27".

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-05-20
All right, same thing here : booting from bios (actually, from cd chaining to hard drive) gives the same results.
The headphones problem is getting solved, at least i have a patch for this :
[https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=5364](https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=5364)
it gives a perfect behavior of alsa sound controls.
though that patch is "fix my imac12,2 only" for now.

It's possible to run that model with efi, but some patches are needed :
[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23202](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23202)
[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26891](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26891)
and it kills screen backlight control (some memory mapping bug,
probably caused by the first patch).

Everything else (i know of) works. I wonder if the intel gpu is shut down. Temperature is getting quite high (near 70°c idle in a 25°c room), so i had to change applesmc min fan speeds (in /sys search fan1_min).

I avoided bootcamp, because it does weird things with the partition table.

---

### Post by mbarvian on 2011-06-05
do your bluetooth devices (magic mouse, apple keyboard) work too?!  I can't get them to work no matter what I try.  also, could you give me a few pointers to install via boot camp? :D

thanks a lot, I was about to give up hope

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-06-10
Update : linux 3.0.0-rc1 is able to boot an imac12,2 in EFI mode,
and fglrx works (i tested with 11-4 and 11-5), but aticonfig doesn't, so one has to create a simple xorg.conf by hand (search google...). Fglrx also does a great job at keeping the computer cold : there's a 10°c difference with radeon kms (but that driver needs some patch to load vbios to work).
Getting headphones working requires a patch. I mentionned that in some other places.
To answer the question : magicmouse is working, but was broken with 2.6.39 and fixed just after.
The only thing that does not work is lcd backlight control.

---

### Post by Dougxdrums on 2011-06-11
Anyone tried this on an iMac 12,1?  I'm downloading 11.04 right now for my 12,1, I'll let everyone know how it goes, just curious if anyone has done it yet.  I think the only difference between the 12,2 and the 12,1 is mine is a 21.5in model and has a slower processor as well as different graphics card.

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-06-12
> **Dougxdrums said:**
> Anyone tried this on an iMac 12,1?  I'm downloading 11.04 right now for my 12,1, I'll let everyone know how it goes, just curious if anyone has done it yet.  I think the only difference between the 12,2 and the 12,1 is mine is a 21.5in model and has a slower processor as well as different graphics card.

Have a look at :
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/linux/+bug/542660](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/natty/+source/linux/+bug/542660)

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-06-13
I'm stuck with backlight control under EFI...
Writing directly to 0xB2/0xB3 io ports does not work (it does when booted under BIOS).
Any idea welcome...

---

### Post by mbarvian on 2011-06-14
> **kapouer said:**
> I'm stuck with backlight control under EFI...
Writing directly to 0xB2/0xB3 io ports does not work (it does when booted under BIOS).
Any idea welcome...

I just installed rEFIt, allocated some free space for linux with disk utility, and installed ubuntu with grub installed into the same partition, but I can't get my bluetooth working for the life of me.  I can see the devices, but they disappear from blueman after a split second, then re-appear later.  I installed kernel 2.6.39; what did I miss?

Any help at all would be GREATLY appreciated. I've been tearing my hair out about this for about a week now. :(

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-06-14
> **mbarvian said:**
> I just installed rEFIt, allocated some free space for linux with disk utility, and installed ubuntu with grub installed into the same partition, but I can't get my bluetooth working for the life of me.  I can see the devices, but they disappear from blueman after a split second, then re-appear later.  I installed kernel 2.6.39; what did I miss?

Any help at all would be GREATLY appreciated. I've been tearing my hair out about this for about a week now. :(

I'm not 100% sure it's your case, but you might be hit by a regression in 2.6.39, see for example :
[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=35022](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=35022)

I had the same exact symptom as yours, using magicmouse...
i outsmarted you by not buying the bluetooth keyboard :]


Also note it's a pity people install rEFIT, since there is really no need to do that now. Latest grub2-efi-amd64 + kernel 3.0.0 can boot the imac2011 without much pain.

---

### Post by mbarvian on 2011-06-14
> **kapouer said:**
> I'm not 100% sure it's your case, but you might be hit by a regression in 2.6.39, see for example :
[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=35022](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=35022)

I had the same exact symptom as yours, using magicmouse...
i outsmarted you by not buying the bluetooth keyboard :]


Also note it's a pity people install rEFIT, since there is really no need to do that now. Latest grub2-efi-amd64 + kernel 3.0.0 can boot the imac2011 without much pain.

When you say "without a pain", does that mean Bluetooth working? :). 

And thanks for the insight! I'll stop using refit in the future.

---

### Post by eivindsm on 2011-06-20
Hi guys!

I also ran into the mouse and keyboard problem after installing ubuntu 11.04 on my fancy 27" 12.2 iMac this weekend., double booting the system with rEFIt. 

When I activate the mouse/keyboard I'm being prompted for a PIN for a spilt second. For the time being I'm stuck with my ugly black plastic keyboard from Dell.  

Another thing I have not been able to sort out is how to access the disk partitions on both sides, that is how to access my linux home directory from OSX, and how to access the mac disk in ubuntu. I was planning to store my music/pictures/files in one place. 

Any good ideas?

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-06-20
> **mbarvian said:**
> When you say "without a pain", does that mean Bluetooth working? :). 


Try with latest linux kernel, for example the one from :
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.0-rc2-oneiric/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.0-rc2-oneiric/)

i compiled mine, so i did not test that one.

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-06-20
> **eivindsm said:**
> Hi guys!

I also ran into the mouse and keyboard problem after installing ubuntu 11.04 on my fancy 27" 12.2 iMac this weekend., double booting the system with rEFIt. 

When I activate the mouse/keyboard I'm being prompted for a PIN for a spilt second. For the time being I'm stuck with my ugly black plastic keyboard from Dell. 

i had that issue, but now it has disappeared. Maybe because i'm using latest bluetooth stack/kernel.
Try reconfiguring your mouse using blueman: pair, trust the devices.
I have to make a long click on the mouse to activate it after a fresh boot.

> 
Another thing I have not been able to sort out is how to access the disk partitions on both sides, that is how to access my linux home directory from OSX, and how to access the mac disk in ubuntu. I was planning to store my music/pictures/files in one place. 

Any good ideas?

same problem. Reading osx partition is easy from linux. Writing to it is a very bad idea. I think there is some fuse ext4 available for osx, but it's really a pain to install/use.

---

### Post by eivindsm on 2011-06-21
Great, thanks man! 

I used blueman to pair and trust, and now they work perfectly. For the mouse I need to type the secret PIN, which is 0000

---

### Post by mbarvian on 2011-06-22
> **eivindsm said:**
> Great, thanks man! 

I used blueman to pair and trust, and now they work perfectly. For the mouse I need to type the secret PIN, which is 0000

glad to see it worked. I'm still having issues not being able to use them. for the keyboard I can't connect to the input service with blueman (Connection refused (111)), and for the trackpad I can't pair when it asks me to enter the PIN :-/

---

### Post by Snorkr on 2011-10-05
> **kapouer said:**
> All right, same thing here : booting from bios (actually, from cd chaining to hard drive) gives the same results.
The headphones problem is getting solved, at least i have a patch for this :
[https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=5364](https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=5364)
it gives a perfect behavior of alsa sound controls.
though that patch is "fix my imac12,2 only" for now.



Hi. I just installed 11.04 64 bit on my brand new 27" i5 iMac. Everything works expect the headphone. What do I need to do to apply this patch? Or will this issue be fices in 11.10?

Best regs,
-S

---

### Post by kapouer on 2011-11-02
> **Snorkr said:**
> Hi. I just installed 11.04 64 bit on my brand new 27" i5 iMac. Everything works expect the headphone. What do I need to do to apply this patch? Or will this issue be fices in 11.10?

Best regs,
-S

The patch you mention works, but is crap and won't be added as is to any official kernel. You have to patch and compile the kernel yourself. Ubuntu has many wiki pages about that.

---

### Post by ricklerre on 2011-11-08
> **kapouer said:**
> Also note it's a pity people install rEFIT, since there is really no need to do that now. Latest grub2-efi-amd64 + kernel 3.0.0 can boot the imac2011 without much pain.

I don't see any write-ups of this "refit-less" install on this page:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MactelSupportTeam/AppleIntelInstallation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MactelSupportTeam/AppleIntelInstallation)

Are the instructions written up anywhere?  Is it as simple as manually partitioning, installing, and restarting the machine?

Thanks.

---

### Post by bonuswhore on 2011-12-12
are the thunderbolt ports supported (i.e. can I hook up 2 external monitors to an iMac 2011 running Ubuntu?)

---

### Post by scognito on 2011-12-12
> **kapouer said:**
> I'm stuck with backlight control under EFI...
Writing directly to 0xB2/0xB3 io ports does not work (it does when booted under BIOS).
Any idea welcome...
What do you mean booted under bios? I've this problem with backlight...I boot Ubuntu 11.10 on my iMAC12,1 with refit, then with grub (I'm using triple boot).
Windows backlight works only if I boot Windows pressing alt-option key at boot.
I'm planning to write a complete guide for iMAC12,2 but want to solve the backlight issue first.
My current workaround is calling:
[FONT="Courier New"]redshift -o -l 0:0 -b 0.65 -t 6500:6500[/FONT]
but does not work for mouse pointer :P

---

### Post by kapouer on 2012-01-16
Update :
hello, situation is better since linux 3.2 (radeon drm works).
Headphones are working in linux trunk, so probably will in 3.3.

Take care to read :
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting#Using_Apple_bootloader_itself_.28safest_option.29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting#Using_Apple_bootloader_itself_.28safest_option.29)

(EFI partition is /dev/sda1)

---

### Post by kapouer on 2012-01-16
> **scognito said:**
> What do you mean booted under bios? I've this problem with backlight...I boot Ubuntu 11.10 on my iMAC12,1 with refit, then with grub (I'm using triple boot).
Windows backlight works only if I boot Windows pressing alt-option key at boot.
I'm planning to write a complete guide for iMAC12,2 but want to solve the backlight issue first.
My current workaround is calling:
[FONT="Courier New"]redshift -o -l 0:0 -b 0.65 -t 6500:6500[/FONT]
but does not work for mouse pointer :P

For more information :
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting)

Apparently no one can change brightness yet (when EFI booting).

---

### Post by artik1024 on 2012-01-29
Damn, I'm so unlucky with Imac 27.... The first one I bought has black screen, never sloved, I sold it, and buy a 2011 model. Black screen if fixed, woaw ! but .... brightness burn my eyes ....

I'm defently tired of getting a working Imac.

kapouer, have you seen this  :

> Some hardware features might not work reliably : screen brightness control, suspend/resume, etc.

On the page you suggested ? : [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting)

My question is : is there a way to get brightness working using normal BIOS ?

---

### Post by kapouer on 2012-02-13
> **artik1024 said:**
> Damn, I'm so unlucky with Imac 27.... The first one I bought has black screen, never sloved, I sold it, and buy a 2011 model. Black screen if fixed, woaw ! but .... brightness burn my eyes ....

I'm defently tired of getting a working Imac.

kapouer, have you seen this  :



On the page you suggested ? : [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting)

My question is : is there a way to get brightness working using normal BIOS ?

I am not booting under normal BIOS anymore, only EFI. But i'm sure i was able to change backlight (/sys/class/backlight) when booting on CD (which forces bios mode).
Now i just boot on osx to change backlight and it keeps the value set under linux indefinitely.

---

### Post by artik1024 on 2012-02-15
Hi kapouer !

Woaw, you gave me an amazing answer. I definetly never boot under EFI, only Bios emulation. It's why I was never be able to change backlight even if I change it under MacOS, it's always full backlight.

Then I tried to install ubuntu using EFI boot. Waow ... not easy ! I followed a HOWTO at this adress : [http://www.rodsbooks.com/ubuntu-efi/index.html](http://www.rodsbooks.com/ubuntu-efi/index.html) but I crashed my linux partition (using gkdisk under OSX)see "Fixing the Installation" steps.

After few things I understood, my EFI boot is shown at the ReFit menu, but when I select it, ubuntu doesn't launch, I have a grub command line :

grub>

The good thing is the backlight under Grub is set to the one I selected under OSX, cool !

From this point I really don't know what I did wrong, could you give me mainline to help me to install a EFI booting ubuntu ? did you follow another HOWTO ?

Few steps to follow could really help me.

---

### Post by kapouer on 2012-03-26
> **artik1024 said:**
> Hi kapouer !

Woaw, you gave me an amazing answer. I definetly never boot under EFI, only Bios emulation. It's why I was never be able to change backlight even if I change it under MacOS, it's always full backlight.

Then I tried to install ubuntu using EFI boot. Waow ... not easy ! I followed a HOWTO at this adress : [http://www.rodsbooks.com/ubuntu-efi/index.html](http://www.rodsbooks.com/ubuntu-efi/index.html) but I crashed my linux partition (using gkdisk under OSX)see "Fixing the Installation" steps.


I think this "howto" is wrong, because it does a lot of unnecessary steps.
Basically, starting from a pristine imac hard drive (with osx installed), the steps are :

* burn and boot on a ubuntu livecd - resize osx partition, leave empty space on hard drive.
* install ubuntu
* install grub-efi-amd64
* make sure there's a copy of grub.efi at /dev/sda1 /EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI

Use alt key at boot to choose which OS you want to boot from (using pristine efi chooser).

Then if all is right, you can make ubuntu the default os :
Under OSX, do :
sudo -s
mkdir /Volumes/efipart
mount -t msdos /dev/disk0s1 /Volumes/efipart
bless --mount /Volumes/efipart --setBoot --file /Volumes/efipart/EFI/BOOT/BOOTX64.EFI

---

### Post by artik1024 on 2012-04-29
kapouer, you make my days .... no more burning eyes !

---

### Post by luckylud on 2012-05-06
> **kapouer said:**
>  ... fglrx works (i tested with 11-4 and 11-5), but aticonfig doesn't, so one has to create a simple xorg.conf by hand (search google...). Fglrx also does a great job at keeping the computer cold : there's a 10°c difference with radeon kms (but that driver needs some patch to load vbios to work).

Hello kapouer, 
I am looking for some patchs for fglrx to have my radeon 6750 on macbook pro 8.2 working with the fglrx driver instead of the radeon kms for temperature and noise reduction in EFI boot :)
The radeon kms module work fine with a kernel patch to load a bios dump vbios.bin but with fglrx 12.4 I have this Xorg errors :
V_BIOS address 0xd00 out of range
 (II) fglrx(0): Invalid ATI BIOS from int10, the adapter is not VGA-enabled
(EE) fglrx(0): Invalid video BIOS signature!
(EE) fglrx(0): GetBIOSParameter failed
(EE) fglrx(0): PreInitAdapter failed
(EE) fglrx(0): PreInit failed


Could you give me more informations about fglrx patch to load bios dump ?

---

### Post by kapouer on 2012-06-24
Update : using linux 3.4 everything works except :
* backlight can only be set by OSX or by BIOS boot
* radeon power_method dynpm flickers. It's a pity since "mid" profile is too slow, and "high" profile is too hot !

Not related to linux kernel but interesting to note :
* fans control by firmware leave the imac too hot IMO.
  hacks can be done to fancontrol (the one from lmsensors) to support applesmc.

---

### Post by kapouer on 2012-07-29
Update : using linux 3.4 everything works but :
* backlight can work by applying those patches from Alex Deucher:
[http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/dri-devel/2012-July/025535.html](http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/dri-devel/2012-July/025535.html)
* radeon power_method dynpm flickers. It's a pity since "mid" profile is too slow, and "high" profile is too hot !

Not related to linux kernel but interesting to note :
* fans control by firmware leave the imac too hot IMO.
  hacks can be done to fancontrol (the one from lmsensors) to support applesmc.

I am currently happy with these settings :

```

DEVPATH=hwmon0=devices/platform/applesmc.768
DEVNAME=hwmon0=applesmc
INTERVAL=10
# fan1 : Optical Disk Drive, near GPU
# temp15 : TG0D	GPU Die
# fan2 : Hard Disk Drive
# temp45 : Tp1P Power board
# fan3 : CPU
# temp5 : TC0P CPU Proximity
# temp14 = TCXc CPU casing ?
FCTEMPS=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=hwmon0/device/temp47_input hwmon0/device/fan2_min=hwmon0/device/temp45_input hwmon0/device/fan3_min=hwmon0/device/temp49_input
FCFANS=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=hwmon0/device/fan1_output hwmon0/device/fan2_min=hwmon0/device/fan2_output hwmon0/device/fan3_min=hwmon0/device/fan3_output
MINPWM=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=100 hwmon0/device/fan2_min=100 hwmon0/device/fan3_min=800
MAXPWM=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=2100 hwmon0/device/fan2_min=5500 hwmon0/device/fan3_min=2500
MINTEMP=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=45 hwmon0/device/fan2_min=45 hwmon0/device/fan3_min=45
MAXTEMP=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=63 hwmon0/device/fan2_min=63 hwmon0/device/fan3_min=63
MINSTART=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=100 hwmon0/device/fan2_min=100 hwmon0/device/fan3_min=100
MINSTOP=hwmon0/device/fan1_min=100 hwmon0/device/fan2_min=100 hwmon0/device/fan3_min=800

```

/usr/sbin/fancontrol must be patched to be able to run them.
The patch is
```

--- fancontrol.bak    2012-06-03 16:23:37.000000000 +0200
+++ fancontrol  2012-07-06 02:03:03.274389144 +0200
@@ -114,6 +114,12 @@
                        echo "MINTEMP must be less than MAXTEMP" >&2
                        exit 1
                fi
-               if [ "${AFCMAXPWM[$fcvcount]}" -gt 255 ]
-               then
-                       echo "Error in configuration file (${AFCPWM[$fcvcount]}):" >&2
-                       echo "MAXPWM must be at most 255" >&2
-                       exit 1
-               fi
                if [ "${AFCMINSTOP[$fcvcount]}" -ge "${AFCMAXPWM[$fcvcount]}" ]
                then
                        echo "Error in configuration file (${AFCPWM[$fcvcount]}):" >&2

```

---

### Post by kapouer on 2012-07-29
Forgot to say the three patches i'm talking about better apply with
[https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/af437cfd3](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commit/af437cfd3)
applied before.

---

