---
title: "11.04 on Macbook Pro 5.5"
date: 2011-08-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Jaxilian on 2011-08-01
Hi all,
I tried installing Ubuntu 11.04 (64bit) on my Macbook Pro 5.5, but it hanged during installation and now I cannot get the CD out. It hangs whatever I do.

I looked at link [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro5-5/Natty](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro5-5/Natty) and thought it would be ok to install after doing the partitioning.

Any help on this? Is my Mac lost?

---

### Post by Jaxilian on 2011-08-01
I managed to get CD out so I can reinstall Snow Leopard again. :D

Is it not possible anymore to install Ubuntu 11.04 on todays Macs?

---

### Post by Jaxilian on 2011-08-01
I had another go at it, but still hanged at same place in the installation as before(where you get to choose keyboard layout).

Damn! I don't wanna have MacOS on it. They locked out Sweden from iTunes so I want Ubuntu instead.
Feels so damn frustrating!! :confused:

---

### Post by blane2 on 2011-08-01
Itunes didn't block sweden. It's the other way around (and good for them!)

What you should do is install SnowLeopard and then partition the drive manually so that OSX partition is fairly small. 

The hang issues may be caused by a corrupt install disc... As others have obviously installed ubuntu on mac hardware (i did not more than two nights ago)

So here's my advice... 

burn a new 11.04 DVD

follow this guide skip the windows parts

[http://lifehacker.com/5531037/how-to-triple+boot-your-mac-with-windows-and-linux-no-boot-camp-required](http://lifehacker.com/5531037/how-to-triple+boot-your-mac-with-windows-and-linux-no-boot-camp-required)

Pay attention to the size of the partitions you create. Because you're not going to install windows, the linux partition you create will not match up with the partition number in the guide.

Be sure to install it on the correct partition. Make sure you install the bootloader in the Linux partition not the MBR, or the SWAP partition.

11.04 install options are in different places from the screenshots in the guide, but if you do it correctly, it will work perfectly.

---

### Post by EkuquoL on 2011-08-01
... Did you install Ubuntu using Macintosh Bootstrap ? ...

When you are installing multiple OS on a system a major problem can occur... Indexing errors. That is when the system gets confused and does not know what to load.
Ubuntu is reall Bad about that ... Ubuntu trys to install any or even ALL boot loaders.

You will have to reinstall your Mac. 
Install Macintosh's "BootStrap" it is a VM ware
**Install Ubuntu using the Macintosh "Bootstrap" ...

Attempting to just install Ubuntu on a mac conflicted the system.

---

### Post by Jaxilian on 2011-08-02
I finally got everything to work
I installed Ubuntu only on it....meaning no macOS at all.

I have everything working except microphone, iphone calendar sync.

---

