---
title: "16.04 Server, kernel update will not boot /boot/efi unable to mount"
date: 2017-01-17
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by egandt on 2017-01-17
I have a MAC Book Pro with Ubuntu 16.04 Installed it works great running kernel 4.4.0-53, however running either newer kernel: 4.4.0-57-generic  4.4.0-59-generic it fails to boot, as it can not mount the /boot/efi partition (which is vfat formated).  Since the initial kernel works, but not the ones created after the initial installation, I assume the issue is with initrd image not containing the correct drivers, however in all 3 cases vfat is part of the config file and is not a module.

config-4.4.0-53-generic:CONFIG_VFAT_FS=y
config-4.4.0-57-generic:CONFIG_VFAT_FS=y
config-4.4.0-59-generic:CONFIG_VFAT_FS=y

I've been searching for a solution, and normally the suggestion is to add the correct driver, but in this case vfat is not a module, but is builtin in all cases.  Since one kernel boots, but not the other two it is not an fstab issue, but something to do with how the kernels are being installed/configured.

I checked also the grub.conf to see if there are an option (or options that differed) but again do not see anything:
4.4.0-53: /boot/vmlinuz-4.4.0-53-generic.efi.signed root=UUID=2a02e25a-1f34-4cec-94e5-26fc682f5ebf ro  libata.force=noncq
4.4.0-59: /boot/vmlinuz-4.4.0-59-generic.efi.signed root=UUID=2a02e25a-1f34-4cec-94e5-26fc682f5ebf ro  libata.force=noncq

So everything is pointing to something being wrong with the initrd image, but I do not know what could be the issue.  I can at least boot using 4.4.0-53, but would like to be able to update the kernel and still boot, as well as understand what is wrong

4.4.0-53:
root@egandt-MacBookPro:~# systemctl status boot-efi.mount
&#9679; boot-efi.mount - /boot/efi
   Loaded: loaded (/etc/fstab; bad; vendor preset: enabled)
   Active: active (mounted) since Mon 2017-01-16 08:53:37 EST; 24h ago
    Where: /boot/efi
     What: /dev/sda1
     Docs: man:fstab(5)
           man:systemd-fstab-generator(8)
  Process: 746 ExecMount=/bin/mount /dev/disk/by-uuid/67E3-17ED /boot/efi -t vfat -o umask=0077 (cod

Jan 16 08:53:37 egandt-MacBookPro systemd[1]: Mounting /boot/efi...
Jan 16 08:53:37 egandt-MacBookPro systemd[1]: Mounted /boot/efi.

4.4.0-59:
Will try to get this, as it does not get saved from a bad boot.

Thanks,
ERIC

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-01-17
Thread moved to the "*Apple Hardware Users*" forum.

---

