---
title: "10.10 and 10.04 won't boot on Mac Mini (mid-2010 model)"
date: 2011-03-10
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Tadpole on 2011-03-10
I've been attempting to boot Ubuntu on my Mac Mini with absolutely no success. I tried 32-bit and 64-bit versions of 10.10 and 10.04. In all cases, I see the little keyboard and man at the bottom of the screen and then the screen goes black (i.e. my monitor stops receiving input).

My monitor is connect via the HDMI-to-DVI convertor, so is this a driver issue related to that? Thank you.

---

### Post by macsforever2000 on 2011-03-14
I have the same problem with a new Mac Pro 2010 8 core Westmere. I was using the recommended 10.04.2 boot CD. It would boot but the display went blank. i tried connecting the display to all of my display ports but that did not help. My workaround so far is to boot with the 9.04 64-bit install CD which worked and upgrade Linux to 10.04. A quicker solution would be appreciated.

---

### Post by macsforever2000 on 2011-03-14
Never mind. My workaround does not work because the ethernet ports are not recognized in 9.04. So I cannot update easily.

---

### Post by jaself on 2011-03-15
I had the same problem (blank screen installing 10.10 64bit on a new mac mini) a couple of weeks ago and solved it by selecting the "nomodeset" boot option before proceeding with the install and again on the first reboot after. This is no longer needed after you load the nvidia graphics and broadcom wireless drivers from the Ubuntu System->Administration->"Additional Drivers" menu.

---

