---
title: "Dual Monitor Setup with macbook"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by mclarenracer on 2009-04-27
Hi, I can only select clone in the multiple monitor setup. How would I go about making my second screen extended, as opposed to cloned?

Thanks in advance.

btw- I have the adapter for mini dvi to vga, is that the problem?

---

### Post by __david on 2009-04-28
Which MacBook model do you own?

Run ```
sudo dmidecode -s system-product-name

``` and post the output here.

---

### Post by __david on 2009-04-28
> **mclarenracer said:**
> btw- I have the adapter for mini dvi to vga, is that the problem?

I guess you own a late 2008 aluminium notebook &#8230;

Install the nvidia drivers (if not already installed) through *System > Administration > Hardware Drivers* and reboot (or just restart X, whichever is easier for you).

When logged in again, you should find *nvidia settings* somewhere in the *System* menu. Open it and configure your screens. You may want to save your configuration to xorg.conf (The program can do that for you).

---

### Post by mclarenracer on 2009-04-28
Hey, thanks for responding, no i dont have the aluminum macbook, i have the late 2007 santa rose chipset.


the output from the sudo line you gave me: Macbook 3,1

---

### Post by __david on 2009-04-29
Ok, you&#8217;ll have to install the proprietary nvidia driver first.

Open up *System > Administration > Hardware Drivers*  and install the &#8220;NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (version 180)&#8221; from there. If it doesn&#8217;t show up, you will have to install the corresponding packages manually:

Do
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx nvidia-settings
```
or select the two packages in Synaptic (can be found *System > Administration*). Make sure, that nvidia-glx-180 is selected as dependency.

If you installed the driver manually, you also have to add it to xorg.conf.

After intalling reboot your computer or restart X. After logging in, start *Nvidia Settings* (search the System menu for it) and configure your displays.

---

### Post by mclarenracer on 2009-05-01
What exactly do I add to xorg.conf?

---

### Post by __david on 2009-05-04
Can you post your current xorg.conf, even if it&#8217;s empty?

---

### Post by mclarenracer on 2009-05-09
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
#	Driver		"synaptics"
#	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
#	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
#	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
#	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	2640 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
	#	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by mclarenracer on 2009-06-22
Can someone please pick up where he left off...

---

### Post by rifak on 2009-08-02
i too have a macbook3,1 (santa rosa) and am currently trying this method. ill keep you posted on what happens

---

### Post by thecheeks on 2009-08-03
I actually have a Macbook 3,1 and dual monitors worked out of the box for me with a Dell 20" Widescreen. Maybe the monitor isn't supported?

This was Ubuntu 9.04 by the way.

---

