---
title: "8.10 on PPC won't load GDM"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by pidayman on 2008-11-01
So, on 8.04.1 LTS, I followed the upgrade steps and everything went fine. When rebooting, however, it said it couldn't find a usable configuration for my monitor, fine. At least I could boot in low-graphics mode. the xorg.conf file is fine, except for touchpad items being commented out for this HAL thing.

So, now I burn the alternate install CD, and install fine (I had to reformat my stuff in the process to get it to install). So, now it won't even say "no usable configuration." I check /etc/X11/xorg.conf. It's EMPTY!

I am using a G3 PowerBook Pismo (firewire built-in) with 384MB ram and a 12GB hard drive. I am using an ATI Rage 128 graphics card in my LCD screen, which used to work fine in 8.04. For the moment, I'm going to have to re-install and continue using 8.04.

By the way, can someone PLEASE tell me all these problems on the Apple computers are normal for a just-released ubuntu OS? Otherwise I'm going to have to believe this as the most problematic new ubuntu for PPC/Mactel computers ever.

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-11-01
Ubuntu doesn't officially support PPC anymore, If you want a distro that has good support for PPC and old macs, check out Yellow Dog.

---

### Post by spencercarran on 2008-11-01
Yeah, Ubuntu hasn't supported PPC for a couple releases now. Go for Debian, they still support every architecture known to man. And Ubuntu's based off Debian, so it shouldn't be too foreign.

---

