---
title: "Imac g3 ppc users dream xorg.conf,read!!!"
date: 2009-07-16
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by JUGGALOXDARKANGELX3 on 2009-07-16
do you have a a problem with display properties?low color?photos look ugly?firefox browsing seems unpleasant?desktop environment looks crinkly and not smooth?cant find that pesky ATI RAGE 128 DRIVER? well,no worries im here to help.

i had the same problem with my apple iMac G3 PPC 350MHZ,256mb ram,30gb hdd,(slot loading), UBUNTU 9.04 (JAUNTY JACKALOPE)  until i found this from another source,if you know how to modify the XORG.CONF file in the terminal this will help with the ugly pictures in firefox browser as well as your desktop environment,photo viewer too! this one really works,ive search many forums trying to get the right xorg fle and have only been running the new OS for a couple of days and since this is open source you can make changes to it too of course i havent as it works good enough,ok ,well enough of me talking here it is,enjoy! : *note:remember to backup the original xorg.conf file,then reboot after you overwrite to for changes to take effect.
if you dont feel like typing all of this copy the entire code then with the xorg.conf file opened in terminal press backspace/or delete until nothing is in it,then paste. 

                                         Goodluck! :grin:



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "macintosh"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "fr"
    Option        "XkbVariant"    "latin9"
    Option        "XkbOptions"    "lv3:rwin_switch"
endSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    #Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
    Option        "CCEusecTimeout"        "100000"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
    HorizSync    43-62
    VertRefresh    74-118    
#    ModeLine "1024x768"     78.75   1024 1044 1140 1328    768  781  784  820 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine "800x600"      62.40    800  821  901 1040    600  609  612  644 +hsync +vsync
    Modeline "640x480"      49.90    640  657  721  832    480  481  484  514 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Subsection "Display"
    Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubsection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Disable "dri"
EndSection

---

### Post by emgaron on 2009-07-17
Did you change anything else on your set-up besides xorg.conf? I just tried to use your xorg.conf on my freshly installed iMac G3 DV 400MHz and as a result X fails with the error message:

```
(II) FBDEV(0): using default device
(II) Running in FRAMEBUFFER Mode
(**) FBDEV(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) FBDEV(0): RGB weight 888
(==) FBDEV(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) FBDEV(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(II) FBDEV(0): hardware: OFfb ATY,Rage12 (video memory: 600kB)
(II) FBDEV(0): checking modes against framebuffer device...
(II) FBDEV(0):  mode "1024x768" test failed
(II) FBDEV(0):  mode "800x600" test failed
(II) FBDEV(0):  mode "640x480" test failed
(II) FBDEV(0): checking modes against monitor...
(--) FBDEV(0): Virtual size is 800x600 (pitch 800)
(**) FBDEV(0):  Built-in mode "current": 100.0 MHz, 119.0 kHz, 186.0 Hz
(II) FBDEV(0): Modeline "current"x0.0  100.00  800 816 824 840  600 616 624 640 -hsync -vsync -csync (119.0 kHz)
(==) FBDEV(0): DPI set to (96, 96)
(II) Loading sub module "fb"
(II) LoadModule: "fb"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libfb.so
(II) Module fb: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
        compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.0.0
        ABI class: X.Org ANSI C Emulation, version 0.4
(**) FBDEV(0): using shadow framebuffer
(II) Loading sub module "shadow"
(II) LoadModule: "shadow"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules//libshadow.so
(II) Module shadow: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
        compiled for 1.6.0, module version = 1.1.0
        ABI class: X.Org ANSI C Emulation, version 0.4
(==) Depth 24 pixmap format is 32 bpp
(EE) FBDEV(0): FBIOPUT_VSCREENINFO succeeded but modified mode
(EE) FBDEV(0): mode initialization failed

Fatal server error:
AddScreen/ScreenInit failed for driver 0

```

Apparently, the mode is checked against the frame buffer settings, which are somehow wrong. I've already filed a bug report ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-r128/+bug/398204]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-r128/+bug/398204")), but I'll probably refine that one shortly.

As an aside: From /var/log/Xorg.0.log I noticed that the following sections of your xorg.conf are ignored under Ubuntu 9.04:

> **JUGGALOXDARKANGELX3 said:**
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
[...]
Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "macintosh"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "fr"
    Option        "XkbVariant"    "latin9"
    Option        "XkbOptions"    "lv3:rwin_switch"
endSection
[...]


The log file says: 
```

[...]
(II) Cannot locate a core pointer device.
(II) Cannot locate a core keyboard device.
(II) The server relies on HAL to provide the list of input devices.
        If no devices become available, reconfigure HAL or disable AllowEmptyInput.
[...]

```

This is confirmed by "man xorg.conf", in the paragraph about "AllowEmptyInput". If I leave out those sections I see no difference in behaviour.

---

### Post by JUGGALOXDARKANGELX3 on 2009-07-17
before i applied those settings i remember:-k i went into the **synaptic package manager **to install the drivers for the rage 128, A.K.A r128,check to see if you have those installed click **SYSTEM>ADMINISTRATION>SYNAPTIC PACKAGE MANAGER,**type **ATI** in the quick search THERE ARE 18 CHECK BOXES IN MINE checked as follows:
(*note **X** represents the check or grey shaded boxes in the list,ON THE LEFT LIST IS HIGHLIGHTED **ALL**)

**X  **xserver-xorg-video-ati-dbg
**X  **xserver-xorg-video-radeon-db
**X  **xserver-xorg-video-ati
**X  **xserver-xorg-video-radeon
**X  **xserver-xorg-video-mach64-dl
**X**  xserver-xorg-video-r128-dbg
    envyng-core
    envyng-qt
**X  **radeontool
**X  **xserver-xorg-video-mach64
**X**  xserver-xorg-video-r128
    libibtk-dev
    libibtk0
**X  **jockey-gtk
**X  **jockey-kde
**X**  jockey-common
    server-xorg-video-radeonhd-
    server-xorg-video-radeonhd


:)i hope this works for you,and everyone else looking to get their display working as well.i know how much of a pain it is,the xorg.conf file i posted earlier is what i am currently using with no changes made to it,i found it from another source and it has been woking fine with no problems,hopefully someone that knows how to modify it will make it better for all of us with apple imac g3's.i have tried myself but there is no diference yet in improvement,it is currently displaying 800x600 24depth color which is fine so far i think 1024x768 would be too small to read documents and internet browsing and lag on the games too.

---

### Post by Georgesl on 2009-08-08
I used your procedure to fix the screen resolution on my Dell Dimension 4100 with ATI Rage 128 card and a fresh install of Jaunty.

It would not go higher than 800x600 resolution which was unacceptable.  :(

I made the changes in the Synaptic package manager exactly as you specified.  The download and install went smoothly.

I then did a 

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

and then cut and pasted the entries you specified _but I did not_ cut and paste the two "inputdevice" sections as those parts of my system were working fine.  This is the only deviation I made from your instructions.

Saved the xorg.conf file and rebooted.

Success!  It came up in my desired 1024x768 configuration!

I'm an absolute ubuntu newbie making my very first install and had to figure out how to do things like edit the config file from the terminal so I could save it.

Now I get to go play without all that horizontal scrolling!  :)

Thanks again!

---

### Post by bnjfy on 2009-12-27
I can't seem to get this to work with a resolution of 1024x786, any idea what to add to make that work?

---

### Post by solsonik on 2009-12-27
I've been trying to do this with Karmic Koala and I can't even find the xorg.conf file. It's nowhere to be found. I successfully installed Edgy Eft on this same machine with no issues, but when I tried installing the more recent version, I got the problem with bad low-res colors and I can't find xorg.conf in any of the locations where it would be expected to be.
:confused:

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-12-28
By default, 9.10 does not have a /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. If one is needed/desired, the same must be created by the user. What I've done is to open the terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal) and typed ```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```which, after typing in my password, opens an empty file. I then create a file with the desired lines, ^o to write it, ^x to exit nano, and reboot. Yes, a bit clumsy, but it has worked for me. YMMV.

---

### Post by solsonik on 2009-12-29
OK, I got it working. Thanks! Installed the drivers as described above. Opened the blank xorg.conf and got the info written into it successfully (ignoring the Input Device lines) and now the colors are fine. After restarting, I couldn't get 1024x768 to show up, so I went back into xorg.conf and removed the "#" from in front of its line. Now I can get 1024x768, but the bottom and side edges are cut off - the bottom toolbar is off screen, etc...
Something I'm missing that will properly fit the desktop to the screen? The Edgy Eft install I have on a different partition displays 1024x768 just fine.

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-12-29
Hi, there's a whole load of other tips over at the PowerPCFAQ wiki area --> [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ)

Phill.

---

### Post by Azyx on 2011-05-26
[QUOTE=JUGGALOXDARKANGELX3;7628239]do you have a a problem with display properties?low color?photos look ugly?firefox browsing seems unpleasant?desktop environment looks crinkly and not smooth?cant find that pesky ATI RAGE 128 DRIVER? well,no worries im here to help.
....

/QUOTE]

Still work on a g3 400MHz slot-load on 10.04LTS-sever.

I ```
sudo apt-get install lubuntu-desktop
```, but the screen was totaly black after reboot, but I could log in via ssh and paste your text in ```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```. 10.04 don't make any xorg.conf anymore, but if there are any, it use it. 

cheers

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-05-26
OK old post the xorg.conf file might still work but ubuntu is changing its not so much about the xorg.conf file but about getting the Imac G3 to even see the ubuntu cd. and imac g3 can run 10.04

---

### Post by Azyx on 2011-05-26
> **snafu006 said:**
> OK old post the xorg.conf file might still work but ubuntu is changing its not so much about the xorg.conf file but about getting the Imac G3 to even see the ubuntu cd. and imac g3 can run 10.04

My iMac seing the ubuntu-desktop cd, but it newer get any picture, it why i install the server first. I only was able to run ubuntu live-cd, then they was separated from install, as I recall...

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-05-26
you can install ubuntu from a live cd when you are on the desktop or gnome shell then after the install when yaboot comes up press tab and type Linux install video=ofonly then find your xorg.conf file for your computer spec and thats it reboot update and put xubuntu shell

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-05-26
this is from a guy i help > it was the live no=splash option or something like that i cant remember  for sure. if you press tab or something it gives you a list of options  and it lists it there. it was the command you were telling me to try but  "live" instead of "install"

So what he did was i think at yaboot press tab Type Linux live no=splash

---

### Post by Azyx on 2011-05-26
> **snafu006 said:**
> you can install ubuntu from a live cd when you are on the desktop or gnome shell then after the install when yaboot comes up press tab and type Linux install video=ofonly then find your xorg.conf file for your computer spec and thats it reboot update and put xubuntu shell

But with g3, you never come to live-desktop...Or?

---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-05-26
i didnt do it that way to be he got somehow lol try it see if that works

---

### Post by Azyx on 2011-05-26
> **snafu006 said:**
> i didnt do it that way to be he got somehow lol try it see if that works
I don't understand, It's complicated.

---

### Post by narcisgarcia on 2011-11-25
Colaborative wiki for Apple iMac G3 and others:
[http://wiki.lapipaplena.org/index.php/AppleImacG3350-ubuntu1104](http://wiki.lapipaplena.org/index.php/AppleImacG3350-ubuntu1104)

---

