---
title: "9.04 powerpc upgrade, frozen cursor"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2009-04-25
I went to upgrade last night and went to sleep before I finshed. I found the cursor frozen and in trying to fix it <i fouled it up. I thought it was because I missed something and I reinstalled 8.10 and started the  upgrade again. At about the 60% point of installing the packages it froze again. I think I better ask if anyone knows what to do before I mess it up again.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2009-04-25
I wonder if upgrading via the cli instead of via the gui might help (as in doing it like it was a server).

Maybe boot into Linux single, (or shut down X) and then do the apt-get routines:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading)

The reason I mention this is that I wonder if along the way X is getting confused with old mouse-related info in xorg.conf, whereas in the new xorg.conf, there is NO mouse information:

My 9.04 xorg.conf:
```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        BusID           "PCI:240:16:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

I don't have Intrepid's old xorg.conf handy, so this may not be accurate at all...

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2009-04-25
Well I have 8.10 back. It is a shame I like 9.04 on my other machine but I guess I can wait. I think next week I will try a minimal install of 9.04. I have done a few of those and always liked doing them. Maybe I should sell my ppc laptop and get something better for Ubuntu but I have had it so long I am afraid I couldn't get by without it.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2009-04-27
At least give the clean-install rather than the upgrade method a shot.  After all the time you've put in on ppc, it would be a shame to lose you now! :)

Fortunately, 9.04 doesn't seem to have those up-front problems that 8.10 had...

---

