---
title: "12.04 installation hangs after network configuration"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by vincebs on 2012-05-03
Hi everyone,

I am trying to install 12.04 on my MacBook4,1, which currently has Mac OS X 10.7, Windows 7, and Ubuntu 10.04 on it. I'm using the 64-bit DVD ISO. The Install window is hanging after the network configuration screen where you can choose whether to connect to Wi-Fi or not. I tried first not connecting, then restarting (by going into the terminal and doing a sudo init 6) and connecting to my Wi-Fi, which it does successfully, but either way, the Install window is frozen. What could be wrong? Could it be that it is trying to load a partitioning program and is confused with my partitioning scheme? I can vaguely recall having problems due to having to have the dual partitioning system often required to get Windows and Mac OS X to coexist. But otherwise my three OS's seem to be working okay.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by vincebs on 2012-05-05
Update:

As I suspected, the error is due to the partition setup. I still can't get Ubuntu 12.04 to work. It probably has to do with having both GPT and MBR, or due to something not jiving well with HFS+ partitions.

Anyway, it turns out that the Install program is hanging because it is waiting for the "grub-mount" process to finish while loading a set up page for hard disk partitions. I know this is true because if I go to the terminal and kill the process with "sudo kill -9 ****" (where **** is grub-mount's process ID gotten with a "ps- A | grep grub" command), the install program will continue and in fact install everything I need to run Ubuntu, except GRUB!

So now Ubuntu starts but since GRUB isn't working, I can't get into either Ubuntu or Windows anymore! Using the "boot-repair" utility also hangs when it tries to run the "grub-mount" command, and "grub-install" can't install grub onto my hard disk due to GPT.

Can anybody help? I'm going to go back into Mac OS X and disable HFS journaling and see if that unsticks grub-mount.

---

### Post by farhigh on 2012-05-06
Try to shrink the OSX partition in advance in osx itself and format the free space as FAT, than use the alternate iso for text based installation so u can manually setup network and partitioning. That's what worked for me..

---

### Post by vincebs on 2012-05-06
I have Windows 7 and Ubuntu 10.04 installed already. I have stuff in my NTFS partition so I can't just wipe out everything and make a FAT32 partition.

It looks like the bug has been recorded:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/988583](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/988583)

but when are they going to fix it?

---

### Post by Ronan0912 on 2012-05-09
Hi everyone,

It's the same problem as this thread : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966261&highlight=installer+immediately+freezes](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966261&highlight=installer+immediately+freezes)

From the latest news of the bug report ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/988583](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/988583)), it seems that they rebuilt a new grub2. The developer says that now the installation completes successfully (without any kill -9 on the grub-mount).

But now, how gets the fixed image (iso) of 12.04 x64 ? We need to wait for the next version (12.10 Quantal Quetzal) or they are going to publish a new one (nothing on the daily live) ?

---

### Post by vincebs on 2012-05-10
I wonder why not all Macs are affected (otherwise this forum would be full of threads about this issue). Maybe it only affects triple booters.

If someone can recompile the updated source code and make a LiveCD, then we could theoretically fix GRUB after installing 12.04.

---

### Post by Ronan0912 on 2012-05-16
Hello,

Any news ?

It doesn't only affect triple booters because I don't have windows installed.

Maybe, it's possible to install ubuntu 12.04 (with kill -9 grub-mount) and then install grub2 with ubuntu 12.10. Anyone already tried this way ?

---

### Post by vincebs on 2012-05-17
If you're willing to wait until 12.10 comes out, then you can do that. We need someone (anyone!) to compile a .deb package for a version of grub2 that has been fixed. Then we should be able to use the 12.04 CD/DVD and install the package, then run the command to install grub on our hard disks.

---

### Post by ExHakks on 2012-05-19
Hey, I'm having the same problem on a HP Pavillion g6 (not sure of the exact model) and it is installing right now behind firefox. I'm not sure what to do. Do I reboot? will I be able to boot into windows 7 still? (I installed side by side) I don't know what to do? Help would be much appreciated :eek:

---

### Post by Ronan0912 on 2012-05-24
Hello,

Someone published on the ubuntu bug report a procedure to replace grub-mount from the installation disk by a working one.

See this link : [http://newlsiit.u-strasbg.fr/avr_fr/index.php/12.04_LTS_on_MacBook_Air_mid_2011](http://newlsiit.u-strasbg.fr/avr_fr/index.php/12.04_LTS_on_MacBook_Air_mid_2011)

---

### Post by vincebs on 2012-05-27
Okay I tried that link and now it fails near the end of the installation (the installation bar is two-thirds full) at:

"Exécution de "update-grub"" (Running update-grub)

I run ps -A and it shows the usual culprits of os-prober, 20macosx, grub-installer, grub-mkconfig, and grub-mount.

when I kill grub-mount, all of these processes disappear and the installation wizard then goes to "Vérification des paquets à supprimer" (Checking packages to delete) and continues installing. I will update this post when the installation program is done and I can check whether I can boot.

Update: Yay! The problem has been solved. After the installation, GRUB2 is loaded correctly. Someone ought to host this file on a permanent server if it isn't already.

---

