---
title: "B W G3 9.04 Install Help Needed"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
HI there,

I have wound up here with hope for some help on getting Ubuntu 9.04 installed on this old mac i have.

I have a G3 BW 450MHz  model with around 500 MB of Ram. Installed is an IDE 30 Gig harddrive ready to be cleared for whatever type of partitioning i need to have.

I have MAC OEM 9.2 install disk and also a 10.1.3 install disk available. Prefer the 9.2 system, its smaller and i have worked with it more.

I do not care if i have a mac operating system on this or not. Dual booting would be cool, but i want to have the easiest way to install this and reinstall if i ever have an issue. So if it is possible to have only Ubuntu that is the way i wanna go.

I was wondering what version of Ubuntu do i need to burn to a cd to use to do the install. I have several already burned, just not sure what i need to use. Desktop or alternate install. I have always thought of this as a PowerPC PPC Oldworld but now i understand this a newworld PC but it is NOT an Intel version.

I have tried a few different installs, everytime it seems to hang on the reboot. I see a yaboot message appearing on the screen. During the reboot i know the monitor goes to sleep at one point, i get a white screen then a black one again and then i think when it starts to actually start i get a small white mark in the upper left hand screen, and then i can't go any further.

I am not sure about the partitioning either, the last install that i tried i installed the 9.2 system with 2 partitions. 1 for the MAC OS and the other called ubuntu left free space. When i got to the ubuntu install, i used the guided partitioning system to use that free space. The install went fine as far as i could tell. Do not know how to, if even possible, few any files on the Ubuntu partition at this point to check any setting or modify any files???

Would this hanging black screen be one of the following issues????

A. Monitor issue? I have a slightly older 15" HP flat screen
B. PRAM battery issue? , i am pretty sure it is dead.
C. Rescue Mode? Is that the only way to change file settings at this point?
D. I have ordered a new battery for the PRAM it should arrive soon. I think that might be a problem. 

I hope someone can understand the point where i am at, the moment of clarity is near, i can feel it. I am sure someone can help me get through this, i am tired of banging my head on the wall. Would love to move forward now, just need some pointers.

Jason

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-11-29
Most probably you have just a monitor problem (dvi or vga), so that you will need to edit the file xorg.conf.
Before doing that, try following. You get two yaboot prompts, right? When you are asked, which kernel you want to boot, press TAB, you will see a list of different options (2), type there Linux nosplash video=ofonly

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
I have an issue now before i can try anything again, i stuck the mac disk back in the drive to try and see if i could see on the partition where the ubuntu was, now i cant get it to try to reboot into ubuntu at all.

Should i try to put the ubuntu install CD in again ??

If so what option should i choose 

rescue mode from an alternative disk

or 

expert
or
video=ofonly from the normal disk

???

I keep hitting roadblocks ????

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-11-29
What happens if you press the Option-Key at boot up?

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
It goes into mac again everytime.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-11-29
What have you done, when you booted from the Mac Installer? If you must reinstall Ubuntu, do you still want to dual boot with MacOS?

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
I truly have no clue what had happened.

I really do not need the mac operating system for anything, it is too old for the audio software i want to run. 

I am more than happy to blow it all away and start over again. I actually prefer it to be a simple install, but i do think the video will cause some issues. I do have the original rage card installed and i am using a LCD HP 15" that i had laying around. 

Any help would be great.

Jason

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-11-29
Ok, I don't know what happened, anyway before reinstalling again Ubuntu, try to reset PRAM+VRAM. Press Command-Option-P-R key at booting up ([http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1379](http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1379)) 
If you need to reinstall, since you don't want to dual boot with MacOS, you don't need MacOS Installer - just boot the Ubuntu Installer pressing C-key and leave the Ubuntu Installer format the HD for you.

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
OK i have tried to reset the PRAM + VRAM no go with that.

I am wanting to do the reinstall now, but before i do it i want to make sure i have correct version going into it. I am not sure if the PowerPC version is what i need now. 

I only want to have Ubuntu on the harddrive booting by itself. Please advise me to which version i need..

Thanks alot for helping me out on this one.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-11-29
Here you find the latest version of Ubuntu for PowerPC
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.10/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.10/release/)
Download the alternate CD to boot and install faster
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.04/release/ubuntu-9.04-alternate-powerpc.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.04/release/ubuntu-9.04-alternate-powerpc.iso)
If you don't feel comfortable with the alternate CD and you prefer a live-CD download this image 
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.04/release/ubuntu-9.04-desktop-powerpc.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.04/release/ubuntu-9.04-desktop-powerpc.iso)
Be aware that the Live-CD is bigger that 700MB, and you need therefore to burn it to a DVD (you should use another computer, because I don't think that the g3 CDROM can burn DVD)

Alternatively you can use the Jaunty Live-CD (9.04)
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.04/release/ubuntu-9.04-server-powerpc.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ports/releases/9.04/release/ubuntu-9.04-server-powerpc.iso)

After downloading check the integrity of the .iso image and burn it at LOW SPEED burning it as iso image (not like data).

After installing boot in Ubuntu as explained before. Let us know if it works, and then will try to refine the video configuration to fit to your video card.
---

Since your computer is quite old, it could be a good idea to use Xubuntu (or Debian) instead of Ubuntu. But it's up to you, Ubuntu should work as well. If you are interested in Xubuntu, you will find it here
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/9.10/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/9.10/release/)

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
I have reinstalled it again, when i get to the point where u asked me to do the following i can not type a capital L for Linux. 

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]*When you are asked, which kernel you want to boot, press TAB, you will see a list of different options (2), type there Linux nosplash video=ofonly*[/COLOR]


When i hit a tab key i get a message like this

Linux             old

and that is it.

when i do the linux nosplash video=ofonly 

no such file or directory message appears.


Where do i go from here?

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-11-29
if you only see "Linux old" then I would try:

```
Linux old nosplash video=ofonly
```

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
Ok i will try that later on, i wont be able to be working on this for about 3 more hrs, then i will resume where we left off.

I take it the upper or lower case L / l doesnt matter in this case.?!@#

Thanks Jason

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-11-29
I meant capital L

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
I think the capital L is part of the problem, i can't get it to make a capital at all, it just doesn't work. I think i should have selected the option for the installer to do something with the keyboard layout maybe. I am using an old keyboard that was from Holland, that is where i used to live and where i bought this G3 back in 99, ( Does the MACHOUSE still exist?? would the Dutch keyboard be part of the issue???

Please advise me to how to get the capital L , i have no clue at all at this point. Except maybe to go back somehow and have the system do something with the keyboard layout settings, or i go buy a different one. I think that might help?? The capital function works fine in Mac OS when it was installed earlier.

Please advise from here on, i am at your mercy heheh.

Jason

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-11-29
You have to boot from the liveCD and chroot into your installed system:
```

sudo mkdir /mnt/root
sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sda4 /mnt/root
sudo mount -t proc none /mnt/root/proc
sudo mount -o bind /dev /mnt/root/dev
sudo chroot /mnt/root /bin/bash
```

Then in your system, you have to change the keyboard settings for the console. Follow the next part:

Keyboard configuration - console

To configure your console keyboard layout, install console-date: 
```
sudo apt-get install console-data
```

If the package console-data is already installed, use the following command instead
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure console-data
```

When the configuration dialog is displayed, choose to select a keymap from the "arch list".

The most tipical keyboard layout is "qwerty" (look at the first row of letters in your keyboard) so choose this unless you have something different.

Next, select a keyboard layout. My keyboard has a Portuguese layout so I chose that.

In case you're also choosing a Portuguese layout, when asked about a specific keymap, select the "Standard" option. I haven't looked into other options so this may vary a little bit for your configuration.

Press OK and you're done. Reboot your computer to use your new keyboard layout. 

BTW MacHouse still exists :)
[http://www.machouse.nl/index_home.tpl?show=home](http://www.machouse.nl/index_home.tpl?show=home)

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
Ok 

Well i got a different keyboard, that solved the upper lower case issue.

I used the command

Linux nosplash video=ofonly

and then it finally went a step further.


I am only dealing with the monitor issues now.

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
Ok i think i finally got somewhere with this now, i have attached 2 images.

Need to change the monitor settings, just dont know what to change 


I think if someone can tell what i need to look for  in the startup errors i can find it, and then tell me what i need to change in the config file i can get it. 

I know this has to do with the Rage 128 card in this thing, it is the original one. I am using a 15 inch HP LCD.

I am sure this is a common issue, just cant find a thread that tells me exactly what to do.



Not sure where to look for what and what to change.

I need some guidance at this point.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-11-29
Choose to run Ubuntu in low-graphic mode. Then check the video card you have looking at ```
lspci
```
Then you have to edit the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf according to your video card. I can't help you further because I don't know your card, but you should find easily in this forum or with google an answer

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
The card is the original RAGE 128 card that they all came with. I will try and figure out what to do, thanks though. If you have any idea since the card is known please throw it out here, i am leaving the mac on until till get this done.

Jason

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-29
Well i was actually in Ubuntu one time.

I changed the conf file to look like this one in this posting.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...light=rage+128]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1114297&highlight=rage+128")

I should have taken a photo of the original, i have attempted to change it back to get back into Ubuntu again but i do not remember a few lines. I am too new to know what i am really doing. Trying to read all i can to learn some basics on this system. Well back to the situation.

I went to restart when i was trying to get the internet up and going and i can not get back into it at all. I get lost in a few different prompts, one being 

initramfs 

[COLOR=Blue](see photo, it seems something it is not being recognized now????)[/COLOR]

The other strange thing is, i can type in my username but the password field will not show anything and it keeps failing login for some reason.

Is this possible due to having to pull the plug later to shut it all down, i still have a dead PRAM battery, it should come in the mail tomorrow. 

I do not know where to type the command that you posted to use.


>>>> SWAP GRAPHICS CARD <<<<<<

or follow instructions on this thread 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1114297&highlight=rage+128](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1114297&highlight=rage+128)

Since this is all graphic card related, it seems to me that i could rip the standard Rage card out and replace it with an average PCI card and be done with all of this. It seemed to take care of the keyboard issue right away. 

I believe i have an extra one laying around somewhere. If this is an easy fix for a newbie i am game but so far it seems that Ubuntu and some of these obscure components require some tweaking to get them working, i am looking to build a simple system that can be reinstalled without too much effort.

Please adise, i have 3 days left to do this then i will have to put it on hold for at least 3 weeks due to work.

You guys are great on here though, i really mean it, lots of knowledge. 

I am just confused reading dozens of threads, mostly are related to IMac or laptops. I am not sure what is relevant to this G3.

Any help is appreciated.

Jason

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-11-30
Can you be more specific about the exact model of your Powermac? I want to know exactly what card you have. I had a look at the wiki here:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_Macintosh_G3_(Blue_&_White](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_Macintosh_G3_(Blue_&_White))
it seems that you have an Ati Rage 128 card. About your monitor, I don't know what you use. This could also be a problem. Tell me what monitor you use. It can be out of sync when you use "just an Xorg.conf". But we can first tya to set the right video card conf file. We can tweak the monitor later on. Another issue you have is the dead PRAM. Look here how to solve that:
[http://mac.linux.be/content/login-problems-powerbook-g4-dead-pram](http://mac.linux.be/content/login-problems-powerbook-g4-dead-pram)

You have to change the Xorg.conf file. The newer versions of Ubuntu don't seem to set the right video settings for older type PPC machines. Here I give you an example of an Xorg.conf which might work for you, note that the monitor settings are for an iMac 400 MHz, we might have to tewak that later on:

```
Section "Files"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/cyrillic"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
FontPath "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi" # paths to defoma fonts
FontPath "/var/lib//defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TruType"
FontPath "/var/lib//defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"

Section "Module"
Load "GLcore"
Load "i2c"
Load "bitmap"
Load "ddc"
Load "dri"
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
Load "int10"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc104"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 PR/PRO (AGP TMDS)"
Driver "ati"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "iMac"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 60-60
VertRefresh 75-117
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 PR/PRO (AGP TMDS)"
Monitor "iMac"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection
```

---

### Post by boprestoration on 2009-11-30
Here is a bit more info of what i have.
 
 [COLOR=Blue]**G3 450MHz desktop**[/COLOR] with around 500MB of Ram build date Jun 1999 model
 
 The video card is the standard Rage 128 card, it isnt a PCI card, i cant remember what they called it.
 
 **[COLOR=Blue]Monitor  [/COLOR]**HPL1506 15" 
 
 **[COLOR=Blue]PRAM  [/COLOR]**like i mentioned earlier it is dead and the new one is in the mail coming....
 
 I will try open the firmware and change the date to log in and see if that takes care of that.
 

Thanks for the example conf file.
 
 I am a bit confused about how to know what to put between the brackets on such a conf file. I am new to this system i have some experience with web programming but not systems like this. 
 
 Is there a thread that explains how to determine what you need to put in where when you want to edit this file. This seems a bit overwhelming to figure out for a newbie, thanks for stepping up and helping, sure makes a difference having members who are willing to help.
 
 I assume on the HP website i can find alot of this info to fill in, just not sure about doing this. I am a bit hesitant to start modifying it at this point.

Thanks again

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-11-30
just copy and paste into the Xorg.conf file after you moved the old xorg.conf into a backup file:

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.bak
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

you come into an editor. Paste the complete xorg.conf text from above in there, then CTRL+X to quit, save the file. done

then 

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

to restart X

for more info and monitor settings:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=gdm+stop](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=gdm+stop)

---

