---
title: "14.04 Sound Problem (has been following the step in PowerPCFAQ but still not working)"
date: 2014-04-26
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Leo_Lam on 2014-04-26
I am new to the Ubuntu family and I have just deployed Lubuntu in my PowerBookG4.

Thanks to the folks in the fourm, I can overcome serveral problems in the deployment of my Lubuntu, such as the dark screen, but there is no luck in the sound problem.

I have already followed the advices in [PowerPCFAQ]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ#Why_do_I_have_no_sound.3F") to enable snd_sos_* in /etc/modules and remove the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.local.conf (actually I have renamed it) following a reboot,

However, it does not work in my PowerBookG4.

The following show my /etc/modules

leo@PowerBookG4:~$ cat /etc/modules
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.
# Parameters can be specified after the module name.

apm_emu
i2c-dev
#snd-powermac
#snd_powermac
snd-aoa-i2sbus
snd-aoa-fabric-layout
snd-aoa-codec-tas
snd-aoa-onyx
snd-aoa

On the other hand, I have also evlaute my alsa package by running alsa-info.sh.

The following link to the result:
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=d3b1da3910c652b7fb50cfa2aaf1344278c328ed](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=d3b1da3910c652b7fb50cfa2aaf1344278c328ed)

It is strange that it does not recognize my PowerBookG4 in DMI Information and there is no sound card discovered by ALSA.

I have been searching for a solution from day to night and I am still cannot find a clue.

Can anyone give me a helping hand, please?

---

### Post by rsavage on 2014-04-26
You'll find more info on the known issues page.  Unfortunately some users will have to to compile kernel modules to fix sound in 12.10 - 14.04.  This is a generic problem with any recent PowerPC distro.  12.04 still has 3 years of support so is probably the best option still for many.

---

### Post by Leo_Lam on 2014-04-26
Hi rsavage,

Thank you for your reply.

I have a look to the [download page of Lubuntu 12.04]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/PreviousReleases") and it said that the support for this version has been ended on October 2013.

Will I receive update as I use 12.04 now?

By the way, I will have a try on compiling the kernel by myself.

Any other advices are also welcome!!

---

### Post by TREESofRIGHTEOUSNESS on 2014-04-27
hi, I have the exact same problem!
So do others.  Please mark this bug effecting you
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/+bug/1296373](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/hw-detect/+bug/1296373)

Lubuntu 12.04 will not be receiving any updates to the Lubuntu components, however all the other Ubuntu components will.
I would very much like to have this bug fixed, so please update the bug with your info, as well!

---

### Post by Leo_Lam on 2014-04-28
Dear Trees,

Thank you for your advice.

I have followed your link and marked the bug effecting me as well.

I am going to give up 14.04 and install a 12.04 to have a try.

By the way, I found that my PowerBookG4 is recognized as PowerBook 3, 5 in Lubuntu.

Should I stick on using snd_powermac instead of using snd_aoa_*?

I am lost now...

---

### Post by TREESofRIGHTEOUSNESS on 2014-04-28
I think sound works fine in 12.04 :)

---

### Post by Leo_Lam on 2014-04-29
Thanks all!!

I have my Lubuntu 12.04 running in my PowerBook G4 and it is running well.

I have no more problem of the monitor and sound out of the box and the disappearing fonts problem was solved automatically after software updated.

I have encountered only the Network Problem and I can find a solution easily following advice here.

[http://osjayaprakash.blogspot.hk/2012/07/wired-network-connection-not.html](http://osjayaprakash.blogspot.hk/2012/07/wired-network-connection-not.html)

I am now very happy using my PowerBook G4 with 12.04.

I really hope that Ubuntu will fix PPC issue soon on next release of Lubuntu so that I can upgrade my PowerBook using the latest version of OS.

---

