---
title: "12.04 on a B&amp;W G3"
date: 2013-02-27
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by aaronparr on 2013-02-27
I have successfully installed Precise Pangolin - Desktop Version - on a B&W G3.

I installed from the Alternate CD as I could not figure out how to get the Live CD to work on this machine. Initially the computer only operated in low graphics mode - booting into the command line interface after explaining that it had encountered errors etc....

To solve the low graphics mode problem I followed the instructions in the FAQ and Known Issues pages. The recommended xorg.conf edits did not appear to do anything but following that with the update enabled me to escape low graphics mode, and experience the Unity Desktop. For the record that involved in my case being logged in as myself (not root) and entering the following commands:

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo reboot

So far so good.

Next on my agenda is ensuring that I am getting the most out of my hardware. I have an upgraded CPU in this machine which does not seem to be operating at maximum efficiency. I would appreciate hearing from others who happen to have the same CPU.

Its an upgrade made by Power Logix and called PowerForce G3 ZIF, with IBM PowerPC 750GX
The problem is that the CPU was designed to respond to a software enhancment. In Mac OS X it operates at around 1000 MHZ after you used some software released with the CPU. Without running the software, this CPU operates at around 500 MHZ. On the Mac I only had to run the software once, and thereafter I got max performance out of it.

I would like to know if anyone has a method of unlocking this improved performance in Ubuntu.

Thanks.

---

### Post by barbaGNU on 2013-02-27
you have to study how it works (on Mac OS) the small piece of software that fix your cpu speed. Anyway 1000MHz for a G3 cpu it is amazing!

---

### Post by aaronparr on 2013-02-28
That is a bit beyond my abilities. First I am looking into more light weight flavors of Ubuntu to improve performance. Lubuntu appears very promising.

My hope is that someone else has solved this problem and can help me.

---

### Post by aaronparr on 2013-03-01
Lubuntu 12.10 is working well on my B&W G3.

I used the alternate install, and the install was thankfully uneventful. I also used the Software Update application in the GUI to update the system to the latest build rather than update and upgrade by commandline. It worked just fine.

While I have not figured out how to overclock my upgraded CPU yet (I assume that this is what is happening in OS X to get 1 GHz out of it), my machine is responding better to Lubuntu's GUI than it did to Ubuntu's.

I also installed Shotwell, copied my iPhoto library to the partition with Lubuntu, and then proceeded to migrate the original photos to Shotwell. I intend to migrate all of my media over the course of the next couple weeks.

---

