---
title: "iMac 2006"
date: 2018-02-15
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by jcinjapan on 2018-02-15
Hi.

I'm very new to all of this. I have read up and I know my old trusty 2006 iMac is right on the cusp of where things changed. 32 bit, 64 bit 32 EFI... (I have no idea what that means actually but anyway).  To be safe I installed Ubuntu 16.04 32 bit several days ago and it seems to run pretty well. I did look at how much RAM Ubuntu can use, and it says 2.9 GiB, though I have 4 installed.  I assume this is the 3Gib wall I have read about.

I decided to try out the 64 bit version of Ubuntu 16.04 (bootable CD only so far) and my Mac does boot and seems okay.. I should be clear, I downloaded an .iso from this site: [https://mattgadient.com/2016/07/11/linux-dvd-images-and-how-to-for-32-bit-efi-macs-late-2006-models/](https://mattgadient.com/2016/07/11/linux-dvd-images-and-how-to-for-32-bit-efi-macs-late-2006-models/) which provides altered versions for 2006 iMac with 64 bit 32 EFI. It did boot up from the CD, so does this mean it WILL boot up it I fully install it? I ask because it seems these iso's aren't all necessarily vetted, and I don't know enough to make a judgment whether booting up with a CD or from the hard drive is any different. My guess is Yes, but I figured I'd ask people who know a lot more than me.

 And more importantly, assuming my first condition is met: if I installed is 2.9 GiB enough for a comfortable experience or would it likely be too slow? Please don't throw too much jargon at me. I really am boning up quickly but still a newb for sure.

Thanks for your time.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2018-02-15
*Thread moved to **Apple Hardware Users, a more appropriate forum**.*

---

### Post by jcinjapan on 2018-02-15
Thanks for the tips. I ended up going with the 32 EFI altered 64 bit Ubuntu 16.04 full install (well on a partition, I left the 32 bit on just in case for now).  It seems to be running pretty smoothly.

---

### Post by newhacker1746 on 2018-02-19
I used to go to a school with 2006 iMacs running Leopard. I had shown the IT department Mountain Lion running via MLPostFactor - just fine. Ultimately, the 32 bit efi can boot 64 bit os's, just look for tiano's boot.efi for OS X 64 on 32, or grubia32.efi for anything else, which can boot 64 bit kernels. I think it should be just as stable. Just my 2 cents.

---

