---
title: "8.10 Update in VMWare Fusion"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Zerocool3001 on 2008-11-01
I just upgrade my 8.04 virtual machine running in VMWare Fusion 2.0 to 8.10 using the update manager. During the process I was asked to discard old configuration files for a number of packages (I assume this was normal). When I restarted I no longer had a theme set (it defaulted to a n odd custom theme) and the resolution, screen, and mouse were all out of proportion. Anyone have any ideas? Where some necessary config files not replaced? The screen is so small I can't see what I'm doing, even when trying to fix it.

Here's what I've done to try and solve the problem:
-Run vmware-config-tools.pl
-Rebooted

Any help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by schugabe on 2008-11-01
Hi!

I installed 8.10 from scratch in VMWware Fusion and it's not working very well. I think there is a problem with the vmware tools. I fear we have to wait for VMWare to fix their vmware tools.

My Problems are also about the screen. The picture is scaled to the size of the window without chancing the resolution. So if the window is small everything in Ubuntu is very small. 

I can't share the mouse between OSX and Ubuntu. To move the mouse in Ubuntu i have to click into the window... 

I haven't tried more because I assume when these basic features aren't working the more advanced won't too.

Maybe someone knows a fix...

---

### Post by Zerocool3001 on 2008-11-01
If you're mouse is currently working, don't try reinstalling vmware-tools. Doing so will completely break mouse use in Ubuntu. The vmware-tools issue is apparently known, although no word on whether they're working on it or not.

The real problem is that if you, like me, have tried to reinstall vmware-tools, your mouse may now no longer work. This presents a problem should an update ever be released, since the mouse would be necessary to install the updated tools (not to mention the screen resolution is so small I can't read what I'm doing). I may have to reinstall Ubuntu from scratch.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-01
> **Zerocool3001 said:**
> This presents a problem should an update ever be released, since the mouse would be necessary to install the updated tools
y? keyboard shortcuts and the terminal are you friend

---

### Post by Zerocool3001 on 2008-11-01
> **cyberdork33 said:**
> keyboard shortcuts and the terminal are you friend

Quite right :) Unfortunately the keyboard drivers are on the fritz as well and it tends to be a bit hard to type when you can't read what you're typing.

Aside from that, the only things I would need the mouse for is to open the terminal.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-02
> **Zerocool3001 said:**
> Aside from that, the only things I would need the mouse for is to open the terminal.
ALT+F2 to open the run box, then run gnome-terminal.

What is wrong with your keyboard?

---

