---
title: "12.10 on Mac mini - doesn't like graphics card"
date: 2012-10-20
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by myotis on 2012-10-20
I run 12.04 in Virtualbox on a MacMini with an AMD Radeon HD 6630M graphics card.

When trying to upgrade to 12.10, I get a warning that 12.10 is incompatible with the installed card and that I should stay with 12.04.

Has anyone actually risked this upgrade.

Many thanks,

Graham

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2012-10-20
> **myotis said:**
> I run 12.04 in Virtualbox on a MacMini with an AMD Radeon HD 6630M graphics card.

When trying to upgrade to 12.10, I get a warning that 12.10 is incompatible with the installed card and that I should stay with 12.04.

Has anyone actually risked this upgrade.

Many thanks,

Graham

I would stay with 12.04 if I were you. We are having many issues with installing 12.10 powerpc on radeon graphics even though the Lubuntu powerpc.iso is out for distribution.  

I could do the upgrade on my testing G4 PowerBook for you but I believe you do not want 12.10 at this point.

Many problems beyond the graphic issues that are real tough.. I have yet to get sound working on the latest spins. 

Greg nm_geo

---

### Post by myotis on 2012-10-21
> **nm_geo said:**
> I would stay with 12.04 if I were you. We are having many issues with installing 12.10 powerpc on radeon graphics even though the Lubuntu powerpc.iso is out for distribution.  

I could do the upgrade on my testing G4 PowerBook for you but I believe you do not want 12.10 at this point.



Thanks Greg, but you mention a G4 and Powerpc, this MacMini is Intel and less than 2 years old. Does you advice still apply.

Graham

---

### Post by SwedishWings on 2012-10-24
On MBP 5,1 the nvidia drivers do not work either. It complains in Xorg.log:

```
[  1349.956] (EE) Failed to load module "nvidia" (module does not exist, 0)

```

I only boot in EFI mode, not tried BIOS mode yet - Just had no time to try to fix this.

---

