---
title: "11.04 on MBP6.2"
date: 2011-08-25
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Aybara on 2011-08-25
10.10 ran fine on my machine, but [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro6-2/Natty](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro6-2/Natty) looks scary. Can anybody confirm that Kernel stability, Suspend/hibernate and SSD still are problem areas? 

Does it look like 11.10 wll be better for this machine?

Will SSDs work poorly on 10.10 as well?

---

### Post by pantropik on 2011-08-25
Actually 11.04 works pretty flawlessly and effortlessly on my MBP 6,2. The only thing to really be mindful of is fan control. You MUST install macfanctld or your laptop will slowly bake. And search the forum for the mtrack driver for the trackpad. I also added the xorg-edgers stable ppa to get the latest nvidia drivers and xorg. Other than that everything pretty much just works. I have gone through many sleep/resume cycles and have used it every day for 8-10 hours at work without any stability issues at all.

I would also suggest googling for powermizer settings and setting the appropriate DWORDS in xorg.conf to enable backlight brightness control and have the nvidia card set to adaptive on AC power but locked to lowest power settings when on battery. I get 5-6+ hours doing light web surfing with the screen turned way down.

Honestly, a properly-configured Natty feels like an upgrade after using Lion for a while. If you need any help getting it set up just ask and I'll try to help.

Oh, and don't forget to enable trim support in your fstab. Google for Linux trim fstab discard or some such and you should find lots of info. I don't have an SSD in mine so I can't speak to how well it works.

---

### Post by Aybara on 2011-08-25
Cool! I hoped the wiki was a bit outdated.

Seems your tips are covered in the wiki, so I'll follow that and see how it goes. The SSD stuff is a bit worrying though, judging from the wiki.

I've also upgraded to Lion, and though some things took a bit of getting used to, I'm quite pleased with it. But, I'm an Ubuntu'er at heart :)

---

