---
title: "16.04 LTS on Xserve 1,1"
date: 2016-07-16
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by ozfer2 on 2016-07-16
Have a dual cpu dual core 8GB ram Xserve 1,1 trying to get ubuntu on it from USB.

I have the standard ubuntu server x64 ISO and I tried getting it on my usb using LILI to create the stick. I read somewhere that I needed bootia32.efi in the EFI/boot folder and LILI seems to place it there. I also read that it needed to be FAT16 (maybe FAT32 also works??), so I have the drive formatted FAT16. I know this has a 32bit EFI but its a 64 bit system and I also read its not compatible with the discs that try to boot both EFI and BIOS plus I dont think it would work with the MAC versions of ubuntu since Xserve doesnt have the bios emulator the normal macs had. 

Once while LILI was in the middle of copying over the ubuntu files I clicked the escape button accidentally (not sure if LILI was done yet) and plugged the USB drive into the Xserve without thinking and OBVIOUSLY it found the USB and started booting into the installation that time(asked keyboard layout and stuff)... but it then said the kerenal wasnt right or something so I figured I must not fully copied it over so I tried LILI again and waited for it to finish and obviously the Xserve wont find the USB anymore no matter how many times I try to remake the USB :confused:. 

I am totally unsure of what I should do to get it to work since most guides are really outdated and talk about compiling GRUB 2 from source and I know it did boot it from EFI mode once.

---

### Post by ozfer2 on 2016-07-17
BUMP

Still cant get it to boot, still dont know what files this looks for upon starting that are not included with 16.04 server

---

### Post by luigiburdo on 2016-07-18
Did you try the i386 version?

---

### Post by ozfer2 on 2016-07-18
I don't think it works since 32 bit doesn't come with EFI support, if I have read other people correctly. Plus I would rather 64 bit since its a 64 bit server with over 4GB ram...

---

### Post by ozfer2 on 2016-07-21
Okay so the ubuntu community kinda failed me on this one. Good thing Vmware ESXi works without a problem and boots right up and I can install ubuntu in that...

---

