---
title: "12.04 - macbookpro8,1 no bluetooth"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by watgrad on 2012-04-27
Hello - I have got 12.04 installed and running on my macbookpro8,1
All works except the bluetooth - 
lsusb shows the bluetooth as:
"Bus 001 Device 008: ID 05ac:821a Apple, Inc. Bluetooth Host Controller"

Im not sure what next steps to take the community doc page suggestions didn't work. [[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BluetoothSetup]](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BluetoothSetup])

"hcitool dev" shows no devices...

Any ideas?

I upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10 - everything else works fine...

---

### Post by mode7 on 2012-04-29
I have the exact same Macbook, and bluetooth works just fine for me, along with wireless networking.

What steps did you take to enable the b43 wireless? I know some of the older solutions (Pretty much anything used with 11.10) could not coexist with bluetooth, so resulted in bluetooth failing to work.

Anyhow.. I upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10, and I believe it worked, IIRC. Afterwords, I wiped and installed 12.04 clean, and simply used firmware-b43-installer to get b43 firmware for wifi. Bluetooth is working for me. 
I did add the mpodroid repo, but I did not see a firmware-b43-installer package in it's Precise repo, so IDK if that is necessary. I'd add it for completeness' sake. Luckily, b43 compatibility is in 3.2 kernel, so none of that compat-wireless crap is necessary any longer.

---

### Post by watgrad on 2012-04-29
Hi - I upgraded from 11.10 - so maybe that is the problem.
I finally did get bluetooth to work by following these directions:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1541357](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1541357)

but replacing btusb-0.0.1 with btusb-1.0.6

All is working now - perhaps I will do a fresh install when I can afford the time - but for now all is working OK.

---

