---
title: "OSX 10.6.1, Macbook 3,1 unable to make a partition"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by blenderman345 on 2009-11-06
Hey guys,
I'm trying to partition my HDD with Boot Camp or Disk Utility, in complete failure. 

I have a 
160 GB HDD 
90-99 GB used
Trying to make a partition of 20-25 GB

And it's not happening!
It gets halfway and it stops, and says something. 
I don't remember now, it was last night, and I don't want to have to retry to partition it again. :lolflag:

---

### Post by summersk on 2009-11-07
Try just creating free space using "Disk Utility" rather then using bootcamp and creating a partion
When booting Ubuntu and booting with the CD and getting ready to install, choose the 2nd option when perparing the install partition
"use "free space".
I've installed OS X 10.6.1, Windows7 and Ubuntu 9.10. Ive installed
"rEFIt-0.13" to better manage booting and choosing between what system to boot. (I hardly use Windows 7)
Hope this makes sense.

---

### Post by blenderman345 on 2009-11-07
I completely get what you're saying, problem is, I've already tried that. :( 

On the Apple Forums, one of the guys said that maybe it was because once, my HDD had more than what it has now, then I erased files, down and down and down, till It's at where it is now. I don't think that's very likely.

EDIT: Note: I've been a Mac User for 2 years, and using Ubuntu for some time now, and I'm fairly experienced with command lines, etc. So if the work I need to do is bottom of the system, the grubby, shelly bottom of the system, I can most likely do it.

---

