---
title: "Ppc 11.04"
date: 2011-05-07
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by newbody on 2011-05-07
Good evening,
 
I have a Apple Mac G5 PPC.
I'm now running Ubuntu 10.10. A few days before I got the message Ubuntu 11.04 availebale. So I did a distribution Update. But after that, I got the error message "No valid ELF Image availebale"
So I had to reinstall 10.10. Then I tried the upgrade with a DVD-Upgrade.
Again the error.
So I tried to install it directly over the DVD (no upgrade).
But I got the error with a Ubuntu Mirro
 
Greetings

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-05-07
Do a clean install from the alternate install DVD

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718737]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1718737")

and if you're brave

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/758782]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-2d/+bug/758782")

---

### Post by tiresia on 2011-05-07
I had the same problem. After rebooting with the old Kernel (at the second yaboot prompt you can choose 'old') I reinstalled the new Kernel (linux-image-2.6.38-8-powerpc64-smp). Now it is ok.

---

### Post by newbody on 2011-05-08
I can't do a clean install beacause I got the error with Ubuntu Mirror during the installation.
 
And also I can't always reinstall Ubuntu beacause the PC is used

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-05-08
> **newbody said:**
> I can't do a clean install beacause I got the error with Ubuntu Mirror during the installation.
 
And also I can't always reinstall Ubuntu beacause the PC is used

That's why I said to use the alternate installer. If you read through the thread I posted you would see that the mirror issue is solved

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10663534&postcount=3]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10663534&postcount=3")

---

### Post by newbody on 2011-05-08
I did but then I have a "Terminal"-Ubuntu

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-05-08
I don't understand your reply.
The alternate install CD just uses a text-based program for the installation. It still installs a full, graphical Ubuntu.

---

### Post by newbody on 2011-05-08
> **pauljwells said:**
> I don't understand your reply.
The alternate install CD just uses a text-based program for the installation. It still installs a full, graphical Ubuntu.
 
NO!!! After the installation I've got a terminal Ubuntu.
And I get this Mirror error too with the Ubuntu Alternate CD

---

### Post by avtolle on 2011-05-09
Did you use the alternate iso or the server iso? Presuming you did a CLI install from the alternate iso, did you manually input the correct mirror at the appropriate point in the install? 

Since you state you are just getting a terminal after the install, you need to (at the prompt, after logging in, assuming you input the correct mirror during the install) ```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install xorg ubuntu-desktop
```assuming you want the full 11.04 desktop (be it Gnome or Unity 2-D). 

Please note that the alternate install cd takes a bit more interaction, especially when doing a cli-only installation. Defaults are usually OK, but once in a while, the user needs to indicate something different. Good luck.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2011-05-09
You should review [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748661](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748661), especially post #3.

---

### Post by newbody on 2011-05-15
MANY MANY THANKS!!!!
 
 
And how exactly I use Unity 2D?

---

