---
title: "9.10 on a 3-1 MBP with a broken Filesystem and cant boot to CD to reinstall ubuntu."
date: 2009-12-15
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by ctpwwner on 2009-12-15
Heres the story:
I've been running Ubuntu on my Macbook for ~2 months now. I got really sick of OSX and totaly trashed my 10.4 install. When I installed Karmic on my machine I opted for a single full disk partition for my new OS. 
 
After installing I found I loved the flexability of linux so much I went on to install xdm and Xmonad for my window management needs, taking off all gnome utilities and dependencies. I think I took off some needed feature for handling filesystem failsafes when the laptop ran out of batteries. 
 
After several powerlosses due to lack of battery on my laptop I had some issues booting and start X11, every once in a while it would say I was running in low graphics mode or something of the sort and gave me three options to start in command line mode, check my x11 config and the last one I dont remember. Eventually I just opted to start without X11 everyboot so I would alt f1 into a tty and start x manually. This was all fine and dandy untill I tried to run alsamixer to controle my volume last night and was told my machine could not dynamicaly load the binary. At this point I figured something was obviously wrong with my filesystem as I had checked over my x11 config multiple times and couldn't find any thing that might cause the problem at xserver start. 
 
Anyways so i ran fsck last night, sat there pressing y to a TON of inode fixes and references. It seems like i put half of my Inodes in lost+found. Finally that is finished and I go to reboot to see if i can run alsamixer/if fsck fixed anything. Now heres where i think i screwed up. apparently fsck isn't supported for ext4 (atleast tot he best of my knowledge). I didnt know that untill after i ran it of course... Everytime i reboot I get the grey EFI boot screen, it finishes and grub starts. Grub tells me I have an invalid elf filetype and prompts me with a grub rescue line. The only thing I can figure out how to do with this prompt is the ls command which shows me (hd0),(hd0,3)(hd0,2),(hd0,1). 
 
Essentially I just want to reinstall ubuntu 9.10 fresh and not have to worry about the headache of fixing the corrupt filesystem I have. 
 
So thats the story/history of how i screwd things up. Heres the problem I'm now faced with:
 
I cant boot from my 9.10 cd in any manner. Holding the option button at EFI screen shows a single harddrive partition labled windows(assuming its my ubuntu partition because its the only one that shows up). There is no cd icon at all. OK so i look things up and you can hold down C to boot from cd, thats a no go...
 
Does anyone have any idea how I can either whipe my hard-disk/reset EFI somehow and possibly boot from cd. or allow me to boot from cd without whiping the disk and allow the ubuntu setup to repartition and set up the disk. 
 
Thanks very much for taking the time to read this. 
Cheers!

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-12-16
I guess you could take an OSX CD, wipe the whole partiton, reboot and try again. If that does not work, I would make a small partition with OSX, a big one for linux and a small one for swap. Install OSX on the small partition, install rEFIt, like all the others here, boot from LiveCD and install Ubuntu. My 2 cents. I have no experience with single boot Linux without OSX....

I also read somewhere that you might wanna try a rEFIt boot CD
[http://mac.linux.be/content/single-boot-linux-without-delay](http://mac.linux.be/content/single-boot-linux-without-delay)

---

