---
title: "14.04 upgrade on iBook G4--how to fix jagged graphics, lightdm, suspend?"
date: 2014-08-24
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2014-08-24
[FONT=arial]Folks:

[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]Fired  up the iBook to check for 12.04 updates and a window opened asking me  if I "wanted to upgrade to 14.04 ?". . . so I figured what the heck . . .  said it was going to take two hours . . . wound up at 4.  I figured  that using the GUI "Distribution Upgrade" app would preserve my system  and set it up to run the way it was before better than a fresh install  via DVD . . . didn't exactly go that way.  

On restart I got the 14.04 splash, got the cursor, but then the  cursor turned to "highlight" or "link" symbol, however the "I" . . . was  floating on what was now a totally black screen . . . took a minute to  figure that the lightdm login window was not visibly showing up, but  possibly log in cursor was blinking.  So I typed my password, and  "viola" . . . got to a desktop, fairly good resolution, but desktop  color was changed from the blue XFCE to a red w/vert line Op Art look . .  . the background image colors in the gmail browser window are low  resolution blotchy/jaggy, same thing in the Settings DE photo.  Fonts appear  to be rendered fairly well compared to the images.

[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]The iBook has the radeon driver  and I saw comment in the past that the radon driver was "not supported  in 14.04." But, I saw that "video-xserver-radeon"??? was downloaded  & installed, but "radeon" is not showing up in "lsmod" . .  I  "nano'd" the /etc/X11/xorg.conf  file and it's empty.  Is there a way other than an xorg.conf file to set "radeon" as the video driver?  

[/FONT]So, what happened to "lightdm"  log in window, I saw in the install it was "set up" . . . but logging  out goes to a black window . . . so I can't see how to switch from  Xubuntu to LXDE or Openbox . . .   ?????

[FONT=arial] 
[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]Also, last night there were multiple toolbar applets  for battery (2) . . . and (4) applets for notepad . . . .   And there still seems to be the issue with window dragging being  somewhat off kilter from mouse movement . . . that has not changed from  my testing of the LiveDVD . . . but, it's installed.  [/FONT]

Today, 3 battery applets, two Notepad, and two of something else.   Still no lightdm log in; no suspend--goes to blinking boot cursor . . .  have to shut down to get back from suspend.  And, the "add'l drivers"  app opens a "Software & Updates" window frame only . . . it's  transparent . . . nothing visible inside . . . .  Fan blowing a lot just  with web browser and Mail open, and Notepad . . . .  [FONT=arial]Maybe in the  coming months if I can get some of these things straightened out I'll  try to find the spare time to set up the "qe" thingie, or whatever it's  called . . . .  Thanks for any assistance.[/FONT]

e.e.p.

---

### Post by xeno74 on 2014-08-26
Hi,

The X server doesn't configure automatically on Lubuntu 14.04. You have to create manually a **xorg.conf** file. For  example my xorg.conf file: [http://forum.hyperion-entertainment.biz/download/file.php?id=711](http://forum.hyperion-entertainment.biz/download/file.php?id=711). I also had the problem that the  fonts were not displayed. The solution is to set the option "**RenderAccel**" to "**false**" in the xorg.conf file.

Rgds,

Christian ([www.amigalinux.org](www.amigalinux.org))

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2014-08-27
> **xeno74 said:**
> Hi,

The X server doesn't configure automatically on Lubuntu 14.04. You have to create manually a **xorg.conf** file. For  example my xorg.conf file: [http://forum.hyperion-entertainment.biz/download/file.php?id=711](http://forum.hyperion-entertainment.biz/download/file.php?id=711). I also had the problem that the  fonts were not displayed. The solution is to set the option "**RenderAccel**" to "**false**" in the xorg.conf file.

Rgds,

Christian ([www.amigalinux.org]("http://www.amigalinux.org"))

@xeno74:

Thanks for the reply, since I posted I did try to "manually" create an xorg.conf file using "sudo Xorg -configure" . . . and it did make the file, but still hasn't seemed to have mad any difference . . . it doesn't seem to show "screen refresh" rates . . . so I have to figure out where to put them . . . .  Thanks for the link to your file, I'm in OSX right now, so it doesn't "understand" it . . . I'll check later.  In my case fonts are OK and readable; it's colors, no suspend, empty window frames . . . .  I'll post back if and when I get something figured out.

e.e.p.

[Edit:  I quickly looked at your xorg.conf file . . . in Libre Office format . . . but, it doesn't appear radically different than what "Xorg -configure" came up with for me, but which isn't seeming to make a difference . . . to my system.  What machine is your file for?  Also G4 iBook with radeon video card?]

---

### Post by xeno74 on 2014-08-28
> **este.el.paz said:**
> @xeno74:
What machine is your file for?  Also G4 iBook with radeon video card?]

It's an [AmigaONE X1000 PowerPC]("http://www.supertuxkart-amiga.de/amiga/x1000.html").

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2014-08-28
> **xeno74 said:**
> It's an [AmigaONE X1000 PowerPC]("http://www.supertuxkart-amiga.de/amiga/x1000.html").

Handsome . . . not sure if that relates to the laptop format . . . but, as I said the xorg.conf file don't seem too far off.  Well, I'm going to fiddle with it a bit in a day or so and if it doesn't resolve I'll probably try a fresh install using radeon fb boot parameters and see if it "figures it out" in the install . . . .  I'm very late for a very important appointment . . . no time.

e.e.p.

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2014-08-30
Can anybody take a look at the xorg.conf file that "sudo Xorg -configure" came up with and make any suggestions about what should be adjusted?  Looking at various samples doesn't seem to be that much different, but isn't taking care of the jagged graphics problem....

e.e.p.

[edit: Never mind, got the xorg thing straightened out . . . testing will continue to see if suspend works or not."]
[edit2: So, the jagged graphics and lightdm login page issues are resolved . . . but reviving from suspend remains as a problem.  Clicking suspend brings a black screen, but the fan continues to blow like it is still "awake" . . . but, clicking on the desktop or space bar, moving mouse does not revive the computer . . . have to shut down and do a cold boot . . . .]

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2014-09-05
> **este.el.paz said:**
> Can anybody take a look at the xorg.conf file that "sudo Xorg -configure" came up with and make any suggestions about what should be adjusted?  Looking at various samples doesn't seem to be that much different, but isn't taking care of the jagged graphics problem....

e.e.p.

[edit: Never mind, got the xorg thing straightened out . . . testing will continue to see if suspend works or not."]
[edit2: So, the jagged graphics and lightdm login page issues are resolved . . . but reviving from suspend remains as a problem.  Clicking suspend brings a black screen, but the fan continues to blow like it is still "awake" . . . but, clicking on the desktop or space bar, moving mouse does not revive the computer . . . have to shut down and do a cold boot . . . .]

Bump:  Any ideas on how to get suspend working?  Can that be adjusted in the xorg.conf file?  Interesting how over on the main forum somebody posted "Screen locking in 14.10 . . . plz help" . . . and got like two people replying with answers within a couple hours . . . .  Whereas in Apple users it must be more complicated . . . ???

e.e.p.

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2014-09-10
Folks:

Testing continues . . . with recent upgrades the "applet thing" seems to have been straightened out, but the "failure to wake from suspend" thing has not been resolved . . . I've filed a bug report . . . [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1366624](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1366624)

I posted some comments about FF crashing on another thread here > this AM FF (latest version, where do we find that in the new version?)  crashed 4 times while trying to log into FB "messaging" . . . happened  in LXDE, Openbox, and XFCE . . . so I'm assuming it has nothing to do  with DE and something to do with FF?  Would I spend time to revert to an  earlier version of FF?  Nah, just renders the system less use-able . . .  decision will be whether to drop back to 12.04 . . .

e.e.p.

[edit:]  Same computer, back over on OSX 10.4.11, Ten4Fox was able to log into FB messaging, send a message . . . w/o crashing . . . .

---

