---
title: "18.04 release: Takes 1 minute to load some settings."
date: 2018-04-24
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by eugw on 2018-04-24
[COLOR=#2C2C2C][FONT=Open Sans]Hi there. n00b Ubuntu user here, so be gentle. [/FONT][/COLOR];)[COLOR=#2C2C2C][FONT=Open Sans]

I had Ubuntu 17.10 installed and it seemed to work fine on my Core 2 Duo 2.4 GHz MacBook 2008 with Intel 330 SSD and 4 GB RAM. That machine is also known as MacBook4,1 and has GMA X3100 for the GPU. Ubuntu was the only OS on the machine.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#2C2C2C][FONT=Open Sans]I tried upgrading from 17.10 to 18.04 beta 2 but got this weird bug. While the OS works, trying to load up system settings takes eons. For example, if I go to Activities and type in "Time" to load up the Date & Time setting in Settings, it takes literally over a minute to load. I then downloaded the latest beta a couple of days ago (which I read is due out this week as the release version of 18.04 apparently), and did a[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2C2C2C][FONT=Open Sans] brand new clean install with it, but I still get the same issue.[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#2C2C2C][FONT=Open Sans] I timed it and it actually took 63 seconds to load up the Date & Time setting. In contrast, Firefox loads in under 5 seconds, and the default home page is loaded at about the 10 second mark. The Files application loads in just a couple of seconds. Firefox Netflix also works fine.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#2C2C2C][FONT=Open Sans]I loaded up System Monitor to see what was happening when trying to load the Settings, and System Monitor appears locked up during that period when Time is trying to load. I can't do anything at all, and neither can System Monitor. It sort of feels like the machine is short on RAM is constantly swapping to a hard disk, but I have 4 GB RAM (with half that free) and an SSD (with 100 GB out of 120 GB free). I even tried setting the vm.swappiness to 10 with no effect.

I'm sorry, I cannot provide a log report, as I've since re-installed 17.10 as a clean install, and everything works fine again. Is this a known issue with the 18.04 beta? I couldn't find any reference to this in the bug list, but it's a big list to sift through. I see that 17.10 will be supported through July 2018, so I'll stick with that for now, but I wanted to see if this was a known issue or not.

---

BTW, OS animations are really slow on this old machine. Is it correct to assume there isn't much GPU acceleration? I found no separate GPU driver for this Intel X3100. I guess I could try disabling the animations.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

Edited to reflect that this also applies to the release version of 18.04 on this machine, a MacBook4,1 (aka early 2008 white MacBook Core 2 Duo).

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-04-24
the slowness is a snap thing, but ubuntu is trying hard to push it.
if you run-> snap list <-in a terminal you'll see the main parts(ui) of the system are snap.

i couldn't take the slowness ethier, i moved to pop!_os, i'm using there 18 testing version. there doing some interesting things so i thought i'd play with them for a while, at least until version 4 of solus comes out. i haven't come across another distro that beats solus in speed, it's just fast.

---

### Post by eugw on 2018-04-29
Yeah, turning off animations makes the overall OS speed acceptable. However, that's not my main concern. My main concern is the bizarre 1 minute delays for loading up simple settings in 18.04. BTW, I see from another forum that I'm not the only one, and it's not just with Apple hardware.

For me, doing that action in 17.10 just takes a few seconds, so I don't understand why the same action would take literally a minute in 18.04.

I'll stick for 17.10 for now.

---

### Post by eugw on 2018-05-06
Because technically the 18.04 I installed was a beta (albeit downloaded just days before the release), I tried a USB boot with the final release version. Exact same results. Loading up the settings takes forever, but loading up other applications takes seconds.

It must be some weird Gnome thing, or some incompatibility with this MacBook4,1.

---

BTW, what is the best solution for right click on these machines? I don't like using tap-to-click because there are far too many inadvertent clicks.

---

