---
title: ".toast files burned easily"
date: 2008-06-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by ruialexbarbosa on 2008-06-12
I searched for a way of burning toast files, couldn't find it. So I tried, and succeeded the first time:

1 - Open K3B burner
2 - Choose BURN DVD ISO
3 - Select the .toast file (you must change the filter box to ALL FILES)
4 - Wait for K3B to check the file.
5 - It will say it's not an ISO file, but nevermind, it burns it anyway...
6 - SUCCESS!

Maybe most of you knew this, but I couldn't find it.

:guitar:

---

### Post by Stu09 on 2008-06-13
Handy tip to know. Thanks ruialexbarbosa

---

### Post by spiffy2000 on 2008-12-17
> **ruialexbarbosa said:**
> I searched for a way of burning toast files, couldn't find it. So I tried, and succeeded the first time:

1 - Open K3B burner
2 - Choose BURN DVD ISO
3 - Select the .toast file (you must change the filter box to ALL FILES)
4 - Wait for K3B to check the file.
5 - It will say it's not an ISO file, but nevermind, it burns it anyway...
6 - SUCCESS!

Maybe most of you knew this, but I couldn't find it.

:guitar:

I had to make one additional change to get that to work for me. I had to change the image type to ISO9660 from auto detection on a CD .toast image. burned fine.

---

### Post by rmtatum on 2009-03-29
I tried it and it didn't work. :-(

---

### Post by BurkDP on 2009-03-29
I found this nugget on the FILExt website: "[[Note: The following has not been verified by FILExt and is user input only and so may be wrong.] User vataipreikia has posted in the forum that the program 7-Zip can open a .TOAST file on a PC as well.]("http://filext.com/file-extension/toast")". You can install "p7zip-full" which is the *nix equivalent and try extracting it.

From a terminal type:
*sudo aptitiude install p7zip-full*
(buncha installing information flys by)
*cd <path to file>*    ---> if it's under your home folder that'd be ~/something  (ex ~/Desktop/file.toast)
*7z x <filename.toast>*

I haven't tried it, and I know it's bad form to simply post advice you haven't tried, but I'd be curious to see if that works.

I know there is a command line tool called **nrg2iso** that extracts ISO9660 data from Nero .nrg CD-ROM, but I can't seem to find an analogous tool for .toast files.

---

### Post by Ekos on 2009-03-30
Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by otakudc on 2009-08-15
Thanks for this.

For anyone wondering, this works in Brasero too.

---

### Post by ConstintineVamp on 2009-11-24
This works in brasero? ill give it a go...

---

### Post by oryan_dunn on 2009-12-22
Worked for me as well, brasero was complaining about my blank dvd not being blank, so cannot report if it works in brasero.  Also, the resulting dvd was bootable.

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2010-11-06
wondering if there is a way to mount a toast file?

---

### Post by datacrusher on 2010-11-11
Im in an akward situation, i need a friend to author a dvd in his mac using final cut, but he only knows to finish it via roxio toast. Searched many foruns for this interoperability with toast images and pcs / *nix systems... im waiting for him to upload the .toast image to my ftp so i can test, but some forums iv steped in the suggestion (doubt it, must be tested) that renaming the .toast file to .iso should work with many image manipulators. 

cant right now test it, but feel free to help me break this mith ;)

---

### Post by vasiliymeshko on 2011-06-23
If anyone still finds this usefull...

I've been playing with SheepShaver and mac emulation lately, and have discovered that Brasero can burn these. The CD then mounted nicely in the Virtual Mac.

As for mounting try:

mount -o loop -t hfsplus imagename.toast [mount point]

---

