---
title: "8.10 PPC No Applications Will Open!"
date: 2009-02-19
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by chort27 on 2009-02-19
So I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my G3 iBook, and whenever I try to open an application it shows the 'opening' message on the bottom, but the application never starts up. I can open my file browser just fine, however I cannot edit any of the files because I can't open a text editor. I also can't install updates because the administration preferences won't open!
Any help?

---

### Post by jjpcexpert on 2009-02-19
> **chort27 said:**
> So I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my G3 iBook, and whenever I try to open an application it shows the 'opening' message on the bottom, but the application never starts up. I can open my file browser just fine, however I cannot edit any of the files because I can't open a text editor. I also can't install updates because the administration preferences won't open!
Any help?
Get a MacTel and install Ubuntu and GRUB EFI on top of that.
Mactel = Intel/Macintosh

---

### Post by chort27 on 2009-02-19
i have an intel mac. but i dont want to put linux on it. thats why im putting it on my non-intel mac, cuz i dont care if i screw that one up.

---

### Post by ghostz on 2009-02-21
im having the same issues is ther any kind of fix ?

---

### Post by chort27 on 2009-02-21
I downgraded to 8.04 and it works flawlessly now. I also fixed the no desktop effects issue on it too :D 0 but that required a little more work then just downgrading... but it wasn't too hard.

---

### Post by ghostz on 2009-02-25
try maxing out ur ram

---

### Post by chort27 on 2009-02-25
> **ghostz said:**
> try maxing out ur ram

i don't know how... ubuntu is my main OS... nothing else installed on my mac

---

### Post by ghostz on 2009-02-25
> **chort27 said:**
> i don't know how... ubuntu is my main OS... nothing else installed on my mac

ok what u do is u just ad memory to ur pc how much physical memory do u have on ur pc ? 512,256,128?

---

### Post by chort27 on 2009-02-25
> **ghostz said:**
> ok what u do is u just ad memory to ur pc how much physical memory do u have on ur pc ? 512,256,128?

256 I think, I can open in failsafe terminal mode.... Is there a cmd I can type to fix stuff

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-02-25
> **chort27 said:**
> 256 I think, I can open in failsafe terminal mode.... Is there a cmd I can type to fix stuff
he is talking about purchasing RAM and installing it in the machine.

---

### Post by pzl00 on 2009-04-24
> **chort27 said:**
> So I just installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my G3 iBook, and whenever I try to open an application it shows the 'opening' message on the bottom, but the application never starts up. I can open my file browser just fine, however I cannot edit any of the files because I can't open a text editor. I also can't install updates because the administration preferences won't open!
Any help?
------------------------------------------------

I have the exact same problem with Ubuntu 8.10.  My G3 has 512m memory. Ubuntu 8.04 ran OK on the same iBook. 
Any fix for this yet, or any more ideas?    Thanks in advance.
-------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by Jumpin Jack Flash on 2009-04-24
Most likely the Altivec libpixman issue have a look here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961107](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961107) on page 2 for my resolution

---

### Post by stream303 on 2009-04-24
The easiest fix is to either go back to 8.04.x, or move up to 9.04 Jaunty.  Intrepid 8.10 had some major infrastructure problems in addition to initial installation issues for ppc.

You have enough ram to support 9.04, although with the G3 you'll probably want to lighten things up if it proved a bit sluggish - which would have been the same issue with a golden 8.10.

Easiest tip if you run Ubuntu on a G3 and want to gain some extra desktop snappiness is to turn off desktop animations (ie you'll use wireframe window drags etc)

As a user, fire up the terminal and then make some changes to Gnome:

```
gconf-editor
```

Look for **Apps > Metacity > General** and make sure that **reduced resources** is checked.

There are many other tips that can help aside from running a different DE or perhaps just a window manager.  With 512mb on board, you may find this tip acceptable.

---

### Post by ubonetu on 2009-04-25
I had the same problem on my iBook White:

[http://members.cox.net/koistone/libpixman-1-0_0.12.0-1_powerpc.deb](http://members.cox.net/koistone/libpixman-1-0_0.12.0-1_powerpc.deb)

If you switch to console via ctrl-opt/alt F1 and run

```
sudo dpkg -i libpixman-1-0_0.12.0-1_powerpc.deb

```

Then reboot or ctrl-opt/alt F7 and kill the xserver:  which is something like opt/alt-command-shift-delete or fn-delete and log back in, you'll be fine, just uncheck libpixman's upgrade request when you are updating.

I'm running 9.04 and it has some xserver problems (locks on sleep, etc.).  You may want to stay on 8.10 for a while.

Hope that works for you.  I didn't write it, I just wanted to make sure I had a copy handy.

---

