---
title: "Imac G3 running 10.04 100% with wireless net"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by snafu006 on 2011-01-27
So here is how i got the Old Imac G3 running.

My spec are:
Imac G3 Ubuntu 10.04
600mhz
1GBram
20GB HHD

XORG.CONF file this file is a cut and copy of two xorg.conf files

######imac-ppc-slot-loader-500-600-700-xorg.conf###########

 

#ref:

# [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191080](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=191080)

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file) #
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database. #
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.) #
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades only
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package. #
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# su dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg


Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 Pro Ultra TR"
Driver "ati"
Option "UseFBDev" "false"
Option "SWcursor" "true"
Option "ForcePCIMode" "true"
Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
Option "DRI" "true"
Option "NoInt10" "true"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "dri"
Load "dbe"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 58-62
VertRefresh 75-117
Modeline "1024x768_60.00" 63.50 1024 1072 1176 1328 768 771 775 798 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "800x600_60.00" 38.25 800 832 912 1024 600 603 607 624 -hsync +vsync
Modeline "640x480_60.00" 23.75 640 664 720 800 480 483 487 500 -hsync +vsync
Option "PreferredMode" "1024x768_60"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 Pro Ultra TR"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
Option "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

And to get the wireless internet to work ( **THIS FIX IS FROM USER danpwright**)


Upon installing Ubuntu 10.0.4, immediately open the terminal and type:

sudo aptitude install wicd

Follow the instructions. Next, 

sudo aptitude remove network-manager

Follow the instructions.

Next, open up WICD which should be in your applications area, find your network, click properties and enter the password in. Click connect.

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-01-27
I had to do the same thing to get the WPA wireless working on my G4 ibook with airport extreme card.  I spent a whole morning on the darn thing!!!  One extra step I needed before it worked though was to reboot my machine. 
 
I've been reading back through the forum and recently came across the post where you probably got your solution ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1549815&highlight=wpa](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1549815&highlight=wpa)).  If I understand correctly you could then reinstall network manager and it would work.  I haven't dared do this yet, but I have removed the wicd applet (that sits on the top panel) from my startup applications.  I didn't like the applet icon!  Besides, it was just taking up resources and wicd works without it. 
 
Incidentally, if anybody wants installation instructions for the ibook then this thread ([http://art.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1498559](http://art.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1498559)) is a good place to start.  My ibook xorg.conf has the following options:  Option "GARTSize" "16" and Option "AccelMethod" "EXA".

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-02-27
Just to follow up my above post....

I removed wicd and tried the network manager that normally comes with Ubuntu (the one with the better applet icon!).  And it works!!!

So if you can't get wifi to work, check that you are a member of the netdev group before you do any complicated solutions (like installing wicd etc).  

Go to   System -> Administration -> Users and Groups -> Advanced Settings -> User Privileges

Make sure "Connect to wireless and ethernet networks" is ticked.

Reboot.

You can double check by typing "groups" in a terminal.

---

