---
title: "10.04 LTS iBook - Gave up on waiting for root device."
date: 2011-12-20
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by JackPM on 2011-12-20
Installed 10.04 LTS on PPC iBook G4.  On reboot, it goes to BusyBox shell.  I can boot to Ubuntu but I am missing something during booting. See below.

Thanks



Gave up waiting for root device. Common problems:
- Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)
-Check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough?)
-Check root= (did the system wait for the right device?)
- Missing modules (cat /proc/modules; ls /dev)
ALERT! /dev/mapper/EXIFM-root does not exist. Dropping to shell!

BusysBox v1.13.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of commands.

(initramfs) modprobe dm-mod
(initramfs) lvm
lvm> vgchange -a y
lvm> exit
(initramfs) exit

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS EXIFM tty1

EXIFM login:


exifm@EXIFM:~$ sudo fdisk -l
/dev/hda
# type name length base ( size ) system
/dev/hda1 Apple_partition_map Apple 63 @ 1 ( 31.5k) Partition map
/dev/hda2 Apple_Bootstrap untitled 2048 @ 2048 ( 1.0M) NewWorld bootblock
/dev/hda3 Apple_UNIX_SVR2 untitled 499712 @ 4096 (244.0M) Linux native
/dev/hda4 Linux_LVM untitled 77635584 @ 503808 ( 37.0G) Unknown
/dev/hda5 Apple_Free Extra 1984 @ 64 (992.0k) Free space
/dev/hda6 Apple_Free Extra 768 @ 78139392 (384.0k) Free space

Block size=512, Number of Blocks=78140160
DeviceType=0x0, DeviceId=0x0

exifm@EXIFM:~$ vi fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>
proc /proc proc nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
/dev/mapper/EXIFM-root / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# /boot was on /dev/hda3 during installation
UUID=8d9fd512-4f65-4872-94ab-560b12f75812 /boot ext2 defaults 0 2
/dev/mapper/EXIFM-swap_1 none swap sw 0 0

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-12-21
Isn't dm-mod compiled into the kernel, so is it necessary to modprobe it?
 
Can't help you with lvm - I had to look it up on wikipedia.  Why have you gone for such a complicated partitioning scheme?

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-12-21
After a bit more googling it appears there should be an easy fix. You just need to add a rootdelay I think. See the yaboot section of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11020435&postcount=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11020435&postcount=1) and look at the links for what to put in the yaboot.conf. "sudo ybin -v" to copy it across to the boot partition.
 
EDIT: At the 2nd yaboot prompt try 
 
Linux rootdelay=10

---

### Post by JackPM on 2011-12-21
Thanks for the reply.

If I don't modprobe dm-mod at the BusyBox prompt then go into LVM with vgchange -a y - I get:

 'Failure to communicate with kernel device-mapper driver' error.

The result of vgchange -a y is:

 '0 logical volumes in volume group now active'

So the modprobe dm-mod, then vgchange -a y gives me:

 '2 logical volumes in volume group now active'

Then exit, exit..Ubuntu boots.


As far as the complicated partitioning, I tried to delete all of those manually but the changes do not take during install.

I might be able to delete them later though.

I have tried a few changes to yaboot.conf and used ybin but so far, all I get is kernel panic and then I have to re-install...

Changing the time, rootdelay hasn't made a difference...

Here is the current yaboot.conf:

## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=3
root=/dev/mapper/exifm-root
timeout=50
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot

image=/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-12-21
Well I'm not sure if this will work, but you could add dm-mod to the /etc/initramfs-tools/modules file.
 
```

echo pata_macio | sudo tee -a /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
sudo update-initramfs -u

```
 
This should make dm-mod available on boot and you shouldn't have to modprobe it manually.
 
As I said on a previous post, you can test root delays at the yaboot prompt without editing the yaboot.conf.
 
Don't know anything about lvm to help you further I'm afraid.  I was interested why you went for it instead of a 'normal' partitioning scheme.  I wondered what the advantages were as I had never heard of it before today?

---

### Post by JackPM on 2011-12-21
I will give your suggestion a try.

I installed 10.04 LTS with basically all the default choices plus SSH - basically a minimum install.  When I looked at LVM, I had no idea that all those partitions were out there.  Then I tried a manual LVM install, not guided, tried to delete those partitions without success.

I can't seem to get rid of the Apple partition no matter what I do.  So it is interesting that booting from a CD, installing doesn't remove all the partitions.

I have played with different delays but it didn't make a difference.  Then I just out the rootdelay and boot from CD.  Commenting out root from CD saves quite a bit of time.

Thanks for taking time for responding.

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-12-23
I just noticed a typo in my instructions!....sorry!  I cut and pasted the code from another thread and forgot to change it.  It should be:
 
```

echo dm_mod | sudo tee -a /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
sudo update-initramfs -u

```
 
Basically, it adds "dm_mod" to the end of the /etc/initramfs-tools/modules file and then runs the command to update the initramfs.
 
I would imagine you still need the two Apple partitions hda1 and hda2.  This is what I meant by a nomal partitioning scheme [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11316970&postcount=200](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11316970&postcount=200) .  That yaboot.conf would then look like this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11108858&postcount=27](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11108858&postcount=27) . 
 
Good luck with it and Happy Holidays!

---

### Post by JackPM on 2011-12-27
Thanks for your help and reposting!

This worked!

It was very frustrating to get so close but not being able to get the system installed properly.  I suppose this has to do with the fact that the hardware is PPC versus i386.

I will research this to try to understand it better along with the partitioning for Apple/PPC.

I assumed that I could just delete all partitions during install.  Fdisk is the same with no swap listed.  I am guessing that Ubuntu installed the OS and swap on the large physical partition hda4 the logical partitions OS and swap...

It is working right now but probably not the best way to install...

Thanks again.

Happy New Year!

---

### Post by JackPM on 2013-03-14
Installing 12.04 LTS was very straight forward versus 10.04 LTS.
It will give the iBook a little more life.

---

