---
title: "18.04 on MacbookPro8-2 stuck on Purple Booting"
date: 2018-05-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by kwint2 on 2018-05-12
Hi Guys,

For the last 3 days I've been trying to install Ubuntu on a MacBookPro8-2 running Hight Sierra, in order to run an IOTA node.

I've tried Ubuntu 18.04 into a VM first and I quite like it.
I also can use it when booting from USB drive.

So I started from a clean install of my MacbookPro and followed all the tutorials I could find online.
The one that appeared to me as the most Beginner friendly was this one, even though its for 16.04... tried 1604, couldn't even install.
[https://www.lifewire.com/dual-boot-linux-and-mac-os-4125733](https://www.lifewire.com/dual-boot-linux-and-mac-os-4125733)

- Partitioning the SDD
- Creating Bootable USB Drive with Etcher
- Installing rEFInd
- Booting
- nomodeset to prevent getting stucked on Boot
- Installing from "Try Ubuntu without installing"
- Selecting FAT32 partition
- Installing

All these steps are going flawlessly.
Then I Restart, and remove USB Drive.

Upon restart I select my Ubuntu install in rEFInd and press enter.

But then I see a black screen with some text in the middle. It does not stay more than a fraction of a second so I can't read.
Then I get the Ubuntu purple background screen, without the logo or login prompt. And it just stays there forever.

I ended up having the same issue regardless the tutorial I was following. I even tried to install Ubuntu as my only OS, removing OsX, ending up with the same problem.


If this is a known error, please assist me. Please also consider me as a real beginner with all the Linux, booting system, things... I'm just an 'advanced' Mac user really.
I'd be happy to provide any information that may help.

Thank you for you much appreciated help!

Kwint

---

