---
title: "8.10 on Mac Mini"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by starcraft2fan on 2008-11-01
I plan to run Ubuntu 8.10 in dual boot with 10.5 (which is already set up and fully updated using Software Updates and I don't want to touch it) in a mid-2007 intel C2D mac mini with 2Gb ram custom-upgraded from Apple (see [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_mini](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_mini)), and I found the following documentation (outdated):

8.04 - [http://blog.costan.us/2008/04/ubuntu-804-on-mac-mini.html](http://blog.costan.us/2008/04/ubuntu-804-on-mac-mini.html)
7.04 - [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Mac_mini](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Mac_mini)

My question is, will there be any issues with installing 8.10 in dual boot with 10.5? (I'm fine with boot camp or whatever is needed, as long as it works, aesthetics can take a back seat.)

Please let me know if more info is required.

Best regards.

---

### Post by elamsusa on 2008-11-01
I'm struggling with the disk partitioning, can someone please clarify how that works on this application?

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-01
> **starcraft2fan said:**
> 8.04 - [http://blog.costan.us/2008/04/ubuntu-804-on-mac-mini.html](http://blog.costan.us/2008/04/ubuntu-804-on-mac-mini.html)
7.04 - [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Mac_mini](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Mac_mini)

My question is, will there be any issues with installing 8.10 in dual boot with 10.5? (I'm fine with boot camp or whatever is needed, as long as it works, aesthetics can take a back seat.)
It is pretty much all the same still. Use boot camp to partition the disk, startup the LiveCD and run the partition editor in the system menu. Delete the last partition that was created by Bootcamp (Fat32 or NTFS) then apply all the changes.

Start the installer and when prompted tell it to use the largest free space.

That's it. If you have other hardware issues after installing, just post again if the documentation doesn't help the situation.

---

### Post by starcraft2fan on 2008-11-02
Everything worked great according to the 8.04 guide, until:

"Upon rebooting, go to EFI Console in rEFIt."

The correct phrase is the Partition program instead of the console. i.e. the icon second from left at the rEFIt menu.

elamsusa, delete the FAT32 partition created by boot camp then create a swap partition and the main partition -- location should be blank.

I selected "/" and now all the program stuff are installed in //. :(

Otherwise, solved! Thanks!

---

### Post by pixkid on 2008-12-23
At first, when I tried to install using Ubuntu's built-in partitioner, It did not work, so I booted into Mac OS X. 

Finder didn't work at all, so I backed up my data and reinstalled Leopard... 

This is definitely a much smarter and less threatening method, thanks! Everything works like a charm!

---

### Post by victorcostan on 2009-03-06
I have written a new guide for installing 8.10 or 9.04 on the Mac mini. This time I included more details, so it should be easier to follow.

[http://blog.costan.us/2009/03/ubuntu-810-or-904-on-mac-mini.html]("http://blog.costan.us/2009/03/ubuntu-810-or-904-on-mac-mini.html")

I hope this is helpful!

---

### Post by nblender on 2009-03-15
I bought one of the new Mac Mini's (3,1?) with 5 USB ports.  As with my older (2,1) version, I want it as a MythTV frontend and so using an Apple bluetooth keyboard is important to me.

Getting bluetooth to work on 8.10 was an absolute bear on my first Mac Mini but not so much because of the apple hardware (the device seems to work ok) but simply pairing and keeping it paired...

I decided on this Mini to upgrade to 9.04 after struggling with BT on 8.10 for a few days.. On 8.10, I was able to sporadically get the keyboard paired but never seamlessly after a reboot and never consistantly using the same set of commands..

With 9.04, it seems ever so slightly better.  However, there are a few other regressions with 9.04 that have me boggled.

(0) in addition to the previously noted items (no 'reboot'. Need to power cycle. alsa out of the box.)
(1) Until I get the apple BT keyboard to work consistantly after a reboot, I'm using a logitech wireless keyboard.  On a reboot, the keyboard/mouse don't work by default.  I have to unplug the USB dongle and plug it back in to get keyboard/mouse action.  This wasn't an issue on the same hardware prior to upgrading to 9.04.
(2) Under 9.04, I can't seem to kill X with <ctrl>-<alt>-<backspace> as I'm used to.  Due to a local aberration, my machine boots and automatically logs in as user 'mythtv' which runs mythfrontend but while debugging, I sometimes wants to get back to gdmlogin... Not sure if disabling c-a-backspace is a new 'feature' or 'bug'.

BT keyboard support is slightly better under 9.04 though it still doesn't work "out of the box".  I'm still trying to get something that works consistantly across a reboot (without running my own script at boot).

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-03-15
> **nblender said:**
> (2) Under 9.04, I can't seem to kill X with <ctrl>-<alt>-<backspace> as I'm used to.  Due to a local aberration, my machine boots and automatically logs in as user 'mythtv' which runs mythfrontend but while debugging, I sometimes wants to get back to gdmlogin... Not sure if disabling c-a-backspace is a new 'feature' or 'bug'.
This is documented in the release notes.

> **nblender said:**
> BT keyboard support is slightly better under 9.04 though it still doesn't work "out of the box".  I'm still trying to get something that works consistantly across a reboot (without running my own script at boot).
Which keyboard are you using? the Aluminum one?

---

### Post by nblender on 2009-03-15
> This is documented in the release notes.

Yes. I see that now. Thanks.
> 
Which keyboard are you using? the Aluminum one? 

yes. Aluminum Bluetooth.  It's likely related to the following:

```
Mar 15 07:16:41 tivvy2 bluetoothd[3522]: Can't read class of adapter on /org/bluez/3522/hci0: Unknown error 18446744073709551611 (-5)
Mar 15 07:16:41 tivvy2 bluetoothd[3522]: Can't read class of device on hci0: Input/output error (5)
```

There are certain functions on this bluetooth adapter that don't work:

```

hci0:   Type: USB
        BD Address: 00:24:36:EB:DD:19 ACL MTU: 1021:5 SCO MTU: 64:1
        UP RUNNING 
        RX bytes:163 acl:0 sco:0 events:19 errors:0
        TX bytes:324 acl:0 sco:0 commands:19 errors:0
        Features: 0xff 0xff 0x8f 0xfe 0x9b 0xff 0x79 0x83
        Packet type: DM1 DM3 DM5 DH1 DH3 DH5 HV1 HV2 HV3 
        Link policy: 
        Link mode: SLAVE ACCEPT 
Can't read local name on hci0: Input/output error (5)

```

whereas on the previous gen MacMini with 8.10:

```
hci0:   Type: USB
        BD Address: 00:1F:F3:AF:DE:70 ACL MTU: 384:8 SCO MTU: 64:8
        UP RUNNING 
        RX bytes:580925 acl:21398 sco:0 events:11001 errors:0
        TX bytes:200376 acl:10302 sco:0 commands:76 errors:0
        Features: 0xff 0xff 0x8f 0xfe 0x9b 0xf9 0x00 0x80
        Packet type: DM1 DM3 DM5 DH1 DH3 DH5 HV1 HV2 HV3 
        Link policy: RSWITCH HOLD SNIFF PARK 
        Link mode: SLAVE ACCEPT 
        Name: 'tivvy3-0'
        Class: 0x0a0100
        Service Classes: Networking, Capturing
        Device Class: Computer, Uncategorized
        HCI Ver: 2.0 (0x3) HCI Rev: 0x7ad LMP Ver: 2.0 (0x3) LMP Subver: 0x7ad
        Manufacturer: Cambridge Silicon Radio (10)

```

I can make my keyboard work after a boot by running the following:
```

    grep -q 00:22:41:D9:AC:45 /proc/bus/input/devices  || (hciconfig hci0 down; hciconfig hci0 up; hciconfig hci0 reset; hcitool cc 00:22:41:D9:AC:45)
```

but for some reason, /etc/init.d/rc.local either isn't run at boot, or it's unable to run /etc/rc.local on its own. both are 755.

Now, with regards to my keyboard not working after boot.  This appears to only affect the 2 USB ports closest to the center. The 3 USB ports closest to the edge don't cause this problem. 

This is all a work in progress...

---

### Post by nblender on 2009-03-15
> Now, with regards to my keyboard not working after boot. This appears to only affect the 2 USB ports closest to the center. The 3 USB ports closest to the edge don't cause this problem.

Clarification:  I mean 'with regards to my Logitech keyboard not working after boot'.  A seperate issue than my bluetooth keyboard not working after boot.

---

### Post by nblender on 2009-03-15
ok. rc.local was somehow my problem.  Resolved. So the above series of hciconfig/hcitool commands lets my BT keyboard work on boot.

Alsa works to the optical output no problem using the minor patch identified in victorcostan's blog.

---

