---
title: "12.04 LiveCD does not work on MacBook Pro"
date: 2012-10-22
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by anoni on 2012-10-22
Hello, I am trying to use a LiveCD of a newer version (at least 12) of Ubuntu on my MacBook Pro. 10.04 works fine. But when I burn 12.04 (desktop i386) to a DVD the disk is unreadable.

When I reinsert it, it says "The disk you inserted was not readable by this computer." When I boot up, I can select the disk for startup but all that appears on the screen is a blinking cursor.

It's almost certainly not a problem with the DVD; I've tried this multiple times. Please help, I am running out of ideas. Thanks.

edit: It's a mid-2012 model.

---

### Post by anoni on 2012-10-22
bump

Anybody?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-10-22
How are you burning the disk?

---

### Post by mode7 on 2012-10-23
If it has anything to do with Apple hardware, you should definitely post it in the Apple Users forum. There's a lot of users who are rather knowledgeable about the issues you'll encounter attempting to run non-OSX stuff on Apple computers.

Anyhow, try to use 64 bit versions of Ubuntu with recent Apple hardware. I'm not sure how much an effect that will have on bootability, but you might as well use it.

I have a late 2011 Macbook Pro (8,1), and the normal 12.04 and 12.10 images boot by themselves. For 11.10, I needed to also burn the image to a USB drive because the CD would fail to read after booting from it for some stupid reason.

There's also the question of whether you want an EFI or BIOS install. I used to use BIOS emulation, but recently I've gone to using EFI. If you insert the disc and hold the Option key (I think Alt), and select EFI boot, it should start up. You'll want to make an EFI partition to install Grub to. I'm no authority on the matter, though... If you research the subject a bit, it should start to clear some of the mist with Apple installs.

Lastly, you might as well try 12.10 too, since you're using 12.04. On mine, though, 12.10 breaks wireless.

---

### Post by anoni on 2012-10-23
> **Slim Odds said:**
> How are you burning the disk?

Using the Disk Utility.

> **mode7 said:**
> If it has anything to do with Apple hardware, you should definitely post it in the Apple Users forum. There's a lot of users who are rather knowledgeable about the issues you'll encounter attempting to run non-OSX stuff on Apple computers.

Thanks :)

> Anyhow, try to use 64 bit versions of Ubuntu with recent Apple hardware. I'm not sure how much an effect that will have on bootability, but you might as well use it.


I think I tried the 64-bit one too. I'll post something in the other forum. Is USB more likely to work? I might just do that instead. I do need an internet connection (Ethernet or wireless).

In fact, internet capability is the only reason why I wanted to try the newer version. The Broadcom driver doesn't come with 10.04 and I have no idea how to install it.

---

### Post by anoni on 2012-11-03
Original thread [here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12312074#post12312074). I have a mid-2012 edition MacBook Pro, and I want to have a working Ubuntu LiveCD with a functional internet connection. Ubuntu 10.04 works fine but with no internet. It doesn't have the Broadcom wireless driver installed, and it seems to be a major pain to install it without an internet connection. I understand that 12.04 comes with the driver preinstalled.

When I burn a DVD of 12.04 (using the DIsk Utility following [these instructions](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/help/burn-a-dvd-on-mac-osx)) and reinsert it, Mac says "The disk you inserted was not readable by this computer." When I boot up, I can select the disk for startup but all that appears on the screen is a blinking cursor.

Any suggestions? Why isn't the disk readable? Would a USB stick work better?

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-11-03
Duplicate threads merged.

---

### Post by anoni on 2012-11-03
> **howefield said:**
> Duplicate threads merged.

Thanks.

---

### Post by anoni on 2012-11-05
Bump

Anybody have experience with this? Is it just impossible?

---

### Post by Popenuj on 2012-11-09
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.10/ubuntu-12.10-desktop-amd64+mac.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.10/ubuntu-12.10-desktop-amd64+mac.iso)

---

### Post by anoni on 2012-11-11
> **Popenuj said:**
> [http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.10/ubuntu-12.10-desktop-amd64+mac.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.10/ubuntu-12.10-desktop-amd64+mac.iso)

Thank you, but this one gives the same behavior.

---

