---
title: "10.04 on ppc"
date: 2013-01-10
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by zmatt on 2013-01-10
Hi all, this is my second attempt in a few months to get Linux working on my old G4 Powerbook 12inch. 

About 2 1/2 years ago I had Ubuntu running fine with very little config work on the powerbook before the hard drive died. 

After I replaced the hard drive I tried the newer releases. They either didn't boot live, crashed while installing or gave trippy video artifacts. 

I decided to download 10.04 ppc my logic being if Ubuntu used to work then an old version still should. But I am still running into issues. Live always kernel panics no matter what mode I use. I try live-power pc and live video=ofonly and I get the same results. 

I thought PPC was supported? Frankly it's kind of sad given how homogenous macs are, there are very few changes to account for unlike PC's yet no distro seems to work.

---

### Post by barbaGNU on 2013-01-11
it's strange, i noticed a good number of success using 10.04 on ibook/pbook

---

### Post by zmatt on 2013-01-11
I booted with noflash and got a lot of errors, 

chroot: cannot execute mktemp: input/output error
chroot: cannot execute debconf-communicate: input/output error
chroot: cannot execute /usr/sbin/locale-gen: input/output error
chroot: cannot execute dpkg-divert: input/output error
ln: /root/usr/sbin/anacron: file exists
chroot: cannot execute dpkg-divert: input/output error
chroot: cannot execute fontconfgig-voodoo: input/output error
chroot: cannot execute apt-cdrom: input/output error
chroot: cannot execute dpkg-divert: input/output error
kernel panic 

seems it can't load half of the important stuff it needs. The MD5 passed but it looks like a corrupt image. thoughts?

---

### Post by barbaGNU on 2013-01-12
do you have enough amount of memory ?

---

### Post by zmatt on 2013-01-12
I've maxed it out to 1.25GB

---

### Post by zmatt on 2013-01-12
tried crux 2.7a as well also kernel panicked, said it was unable to mount root fs on unknown block. Before that it clearly detected the hard drive and the existing partitions. 

right now it runs MintPPC but the wifi and video dont work. WiFi is totally inoperable and the video is special needs. colors are strange and windows jump around the screen.

---

### Post by barbaGNU on 2013-01-13
mmh, maybe the problem (ubuntu and cruxppc) could be related to this warning:
 
***[SIZE=1]from CRUX PPC 2.7 Release Notes[/SIZE]***
```
As CRUX PPC 2.7a uses new pata drivers, all the disks are now seen 
as scsi, so what used to be hda will now be *sda*, and the cdrom will be *sr0* 
and if you still experience any problems booting then try 
adding "rootdelay=20" or more.
```

---

