---
title: "2.6.31-17 upgrade has broken my Macbook Pro display"
date: 2010-01-09
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by &lt; Tristan &gt; on 2010-01-09
Hi,

Today I installed all the updates that were associated with the 2.6.31-17 kernel upgrade on Ubuntu 9.10.

It appears the update has broken my stock 17-inch Macbook Pro 5,2 because after restarting my screen is just black. I don't see the ReFit choice menu (I have OS X and Ubuntu installed), and even when I let the machine boot all the way into Mac OS X the screen just remains black. The apple logo on the back of the screen doesn't turn on at all.

I can see the keyboard backlights eventually come on (which is normal when you get to Mac OS X login prompt) - so its almost as if its booting but just wont talk to the display. When you press the brightness buttons you can faintly see the shade of black changing.

What the heck has happened? I just paid a big load of money for this baby and I'm very sad now :( I love Ubuntu but this is ridiculous.

---

### Post by &lt; Tristan &gt; on 2010-01-09
Just tried booting using an external monitor - and this time I could see some output (apple logo with progress bar) - but when it got to the login prompt it went black again.

So I thought, I'll enter my password - and whoila - it logged in but didn't show any icons. It showed the standard purple starry blackground but that was it.

Very strange.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-01-10
I think you have a hardware problem, bring it to an Apple repair center.

---

### Post by spatuluk on 2010-01-10
Something's definitely wrong with 2.6.31-17.  My Samsung NC10s display goes black after Ubuntu starts loading.  Thankfully, it still works under 2.6.31-16.

I searched a bit, and it seems to be only laptops that're getting the problem, so my guess is it's a power management issue.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-01-10
I am running the same kernel on a MacBook 2,1 and I have no problems at all...It's difficult to understand for me that software would kill hardware. What happens if you reset PRAM? Boot with option command "P" and R" pressed. You have to hear another chime then you can let go. Then boot with the option (alt) key pressed. Try to boot into OSX...Does that make a difference ?

---

