---
title: "OS X not booting with yaboot"
date: 2011-02-19
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by agreimann on 2011-02-19
Hello, everyone!

I'd like to start by mentioning I have used Linux for a while now, and completely understand it on Intel-based computers... but not quite so much on powerpc.

I'm aware that PowerPC Macs use Yaboot, and I read all the man pages before posting here. My problem is simply this--someone gave me an iBook G4 that had OS X in it that I needed to resize the main partition on. OS X 10.4.11 "Tiger" was installed on it, but in a small 7.3 GB hfs+ partition.

Disk Utility, and diskutil --resizePartition did not work with his G4. Looks like its only for Intels. I used Disk Utility (in OS X) to restore OS X to a flash drive, and booted up a Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick powerpc Live DVD. After letting the installer figure out the partitions, I promptly formatted 30 GBs as hfs+ and 7.9 GB as ext4 mounting at /.

Installation was successful, and I copied the files and directories from the flash drive to the new 30 GB partition. Everything made it, and I was excited. I edited the /etc/yaboot.conf file, adding in that MacOS X was at /dev/hda3 and also tried it with and without the "brokenosx" bit, since I thought the CoreServices folder might not be blessed. 

Again, I know my way around a PC and grub, but yaboot is really different. I'm really concerned I'll have to mention I wound up breaking the machine.

Please help out. I need to get the Mac back to him tonight. ALL assistance is seriously appreciated!!! :)

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-02-19
post your /etc/yaboot.conf
be sure, after editing that file, to issue
```
sudo ybin -v
```
to have it installed in the bootloader..

---

### Post by agreimann on 2011-02-19
Thank you so much for your help! :)

Here is the yaboot.conf file from /etc I currently have on his iBook G4:
[I]
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2[/I] [I]
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=5
root=/dev/hda5
timeout=50
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
defaultos=macosx
macosx=/dev/hda3
enablecdboot
protect

image=/boot/vmlinux[/I] [I]
    label=Linux
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img
    append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old[/I] [I]
    label=old
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
    append="quiet splash"[/I]


As you can see, I have modified the file, and when I go to boot OS X by pressing x during boot, the screen flashes gray, white, black, white, then goes back to the first stage bootloader again, within a matter of a few seconds.

I want to end up booting OS X by default on his computer, because that is the system he primarily wants to use. [B]I have run ybin -v after editing this file several times, with the same result.

[/B]Thank you so your help so far! It is highly appreciated! What am I missing here?

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-02-19
```
sudo mac-fidsk /dev/hda
p
```

give me the output of that

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-02-19
if osx is indeed on /dev/hda3 I don't see any mistakes in your yaboot.conf file. It could be that yaboot does not work properly in Ubuntu?

---

### Post by agreimann on 2011-02-19
Sorry about my slower responses. I can see that yours were quick and also have been **VERY** helpful. _Thank you_ so much!

Here is the output of two commands:
[B]
The first is the one you requested from mac-fdisk. [/B]

[I]/dev/hda
        #                    type name                 length   base     ( size )  system
/dev/hda1     Apple_partition_map Apple                    63 @ 1        ( 31.5k)  Partition map
/dev/hda2         Apple_Bootstrap untitled               2048 @ 2048     (  1.0M)  NewWorld bootblock
/dev/hda3         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 Macdisk            58593280 @ 4096     ( 27.9G)  Linux native
/dev/hda4         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 swap                2985984 @ 75153408 (  1.4G)  Linux swap
/dev/hda5         Apple_UNIX_SVR2 untitled           16553984 @ 58597376 (  7.9G)  Linux native
/dev/hda6              Apple_Free Extra                  1984 @ 64       (992.0k)  Free space
/dev/hda7              Apple_Free Extra                  2048 @ 75151360 (  1.0M)  Free space
/dev/hda8              Apple_Free Extra                   768 @ 78139392 (384.0k)  Free space

Block size=512, Number of Blocks=78140160
DeviceType=0x0, DeviceId=0x0[/I]


**The second is from parted -l **(this is more like it--a command I use on PCs): :)

[I]Model: FUJITSU MHS2040AT D (ide)
Disk /dev/hda: 40.0GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: mac[/I]
[I]
Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name      Flags
 1      512B    32.8kB  32.3kB                  Apple
 2      1049kB  2097kB  1049kB  hfs             untitled  boot
 3      2097kB  30.0GB  30.0GB  hfs+            Macdisk
 5      30.0GB  38.5GB  8476MB  ext4            untitled
 4      38.5GB  40.0GB  1529MB  linux-swap(v1)  swap      swap[/I]

As you can see, I did use the mkfs.hfsplus command on /dev/hda3 before copying the contents of OS X to it.
[B]
What am I doing wrong?

Thanks for your help, once again![/B] :)

---

### Post by agreimann on 2011-02-19
One more question, if I may ask....

Supposing that yaboot in Ubuntu is having a little trouble (I doubt it, but then again, I'm new to PowerPCs), can I give a path for it to find the Mach kernel or BootX in CoreServices?

In other words, I saw Linux has it's kernels with the image flag in yaboot.conf. However, is there anything that I can do to map, say, /dev/hda3/System/Library/CoreServices/BootX, or /dev/hda3/mach, if nothing else? Would yaboot even see this?

And, yeah, OS X is on /dev/hda3.

Thanks for all your help. :) Hope you don't mind the extra question. :D

---

### Post by agreimann on 2011-02-19
OK. I've been working on this Mac for several hours, and I'm beginning to understand it. 

Switching the macosx bit to /dev/sda, I got his computer to boot at least up to the Mach kernel. That shows me that OS X is functional, and works, considering the fact that this particular model does not natively support USB booting without hacking the OpenFirmware (having yaboot translate /dev/sda to OF code made this trick work).

However, I notice that when I switched yaboot to /dev/hda (the root of the disk), yaboot could not boot into OS X from there... luckily, I got back into Linux where I'm writing now. I think what I should do, since he wants OS X and not Linux anyway, is to recopy the OS X extracted to the flash drive back over.

Thank you for all your help. Hopefully, I won't run into a PowerPC Mac again, but now I've got somewhat of a clue what I'm doing on one. :)

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-02-20
Can't you select OSX by booting with the command key (=Alt key) pressed during boot ? You should get a OS selection screen...

---

### Post by agreimann on 2011-02-21
I had already fixed the Mac by using dd to copy the backup of the hard disk I made back to the hard disk. OS X made it back on fine, and the computer now works. I was able to give it back to its owner, relieved it ran Tiger still. :)

I would like to note to readers that holding Option will in some cases will not work. I tried that, though on some Mac models, from what I've heard, it *does* work... To get it to boot, I had to directly modify yaboot.conf or OpenFirmware (which isn't as bad as it seems--just a little bit of a different language). :D

Thank you for your assistance.

---

