---
title: "14.04 alt tab (app switcher) randomly popping up"
date: 2014-04-24
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by spencer8 on 2014-04-24
Installed Ubuntu 14.04 along side osx mavericks.

I noticed that while using Ubuntu, the app switcher pops up randomly here and there. 

Would this be a track pad issue (perhaps some motions triggers it)?

---

### Post by codehalo on 2014-05-17
Same here. Trying to figure out the issue. Ubuntu 14.04.

---

### Post by Matt86 on 2014-06-20
Ditto. Any luck solving this?

---

### Post by frank73 on 2014-07-13
I am having the same issue. I am running 14.04 on a macbook pro 5,3. It happens erratically when I rest my fingers on the trackpad. Is there a way to disable all forms of triggering "app switcher" other than alt+tab?

---

### Post by shadesofoctober on 2014-07-14
There might be a utility out there that handles this easily, but I usually use a mouse, so I haven't focused on this issue.
(But yeah it happens to me too when I use the trackpad)

I don't know if the 3 finger app switcher is considered part of the gesture system (I would assume so), but check this out:
> [COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu Beta]We've made a ton of changes in how X works in Ubuntu starting in 12.04 LTS. One big change was a move of the gesture stack to the client side of the X server instead of being embedded as huge patches in the server itself. This means the gesture stack relies on XInput touch events.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu Beta]Unfortunately, X can't send touch events if it is also sending other events caused by the same touches. For example, if you have two finger scrolling enabled for a touchpad, X can't send touch events until you put three touches down.[/FONT][/COLOR]

-From [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Multitouch/TouchpadSupport](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Multitouch/TouchpadSupport)

I suppose if you're really hardcore you modify the Unity source to disable the gesture stack and re-build Unity:
[http://ineed.coffee/1068/os-x-like-multitouch-gestures-for-macbook-pro-running-ubuntu-12-10/](http://ineed.coffee/1068/os-x-like-multitouch-gestures-for-macbook-pro-running-ubuntu-12-10/)

Out of those two possibilities, though, I think the modification of XInput would be simpler. The multitouch wiki page details how 2 finger scrolling will stop 2 finger gestures to be reported. I would say if you enable it to catch 3-finger movements, it will stop them from being reported to Unity's gesture system.

---

### Post by tienneOz on 2014-07-31
I had this issue while running on Unity but since I came to Gnome the issue is over. I didn't find how to solve it with Unity.

---

