---
title: "updating from 8.04 to 8.10 is making me want to kill myself."
date: 2008-12-09
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by panrubius on 2008-12-09
Seriously, if I don't get some help with this soon I think it's the end for me.

Anyway, hello.

I was running Ubuntu 8.04 very successfully up until this morning on my Intel Mac mini core 2 duo with 1 GB of memory. When I sat down this morning I noticed that there was an update waiting for me, it was a distribution upgrade to 8.10, so I fired up the GUI update manager and clicked upgrade; like you do.

Everything went swimmingly until I restarted the machine.

The boot sequence seems to go well, I get the Ubuntu splash screen with the progress bar but then the screen turns black. That's where the boot sequence stops. It is utterly unresponsive.

The strange thing is that I can use SSH to access the machine from my other Mac. I appear to have complete access using the terminal from a remote machine. 

I'm fairly new to using Ubuntu so I'm sure I haven't included all of the necessary info needed to diagnose my problem. But I'm sat here waiting and Willing to provide whatever information is necessary, obviously!

Thanks for any help

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-12-09
Well, there are a plenty of reasons to kill oneself, but an update is defintely not a good one :)
I don't know if I can help, because I'm on PPC. First of all, just a question: do you get a console, when you press: ctrl+alt+F1 (or ctrl+alt+F2)

---

### Post by eldragon on 2008-12-09
if you can get to your new machine through ssh, you probably have a display driver problem...

i would backup xorg.conf and then replace whatever display driver youve got with vesa

and work from there :D

you could try removing the xorg.conf file altoguether and see if that works for you.

---

### Post by panrubius on 2008-12-09
> **tiresia said:**
> Well, there are a plenty of reasons to kill oneself, but an update is defintely not a good one :)
I don't know if I can help, because I'm on PPC. First of all, just a question: do you get a console, when you press: ctrl+alt+F1 (or ctrl+alt+F2)
nope, neither of those key combinations work

---

### Post by panrubius on 2008-12-09
I'm curious as to how I can have a display driver problem if it was working perfectly in 8.04. Do you mean that there is something wrong with 8.10's display drivers?

> i would backup xorg.conf and then replace whatever display driver youve got with vesa 
could you point me in the right direction to do this and maybe tell me why it might work?

Also, why would this work:

> you could try removing the xorg.conf file altoguether and see if that works for you.

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2008-12-09
Try selecting recovery mode at the boot menu. This should land you at a screen with several options. First try the one that reconfigures your display for you (can't remember what its called).

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-12-09
I'm sure you should be able to get a console, so you don't need SSH.
On a macbook you should use Ctrl+Alt+Fn+F1 (or Ctrl+Alt+Fn+F2)

Anyway to backup your xorg.conf file
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```
To edit it
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Maybe you can post it here before editing it

---

### Post by panrubius on 2008-12-09
Yes, I definitely can not drop into a console on the machine itself. I can however access the machine using SSH, so I have backed up my xorg.conf file in the manner you suggested.

The output of the Command:

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT]

Is:

[FONT="Courier New"]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#       Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
#       Driver          "kbd"
#       Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
#       Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
#       Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#       Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
#       Driver          "mouse"
#       Option          "CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection[/FONT]

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-12-09
At this point I can help you not so much, because I don't know your machiine very well. Someone will help you much better than I can do.
Anyway, you can try to reconfigure the X server running 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg'
Your machine has a common Intel gma 950. 
Do you know which kind of monitor do you have, I mean the VertRefresh and HorizSync values for your monitor? If not, you can also just google a bit.

---

### Post by panrubius on 2008-12-09
> **tiresia said:**
> At this point I can help you not so much, because I don't know your machiine very well. Someone will help you much better than I can do.
Anyway, you can try to reconfigure the X server running 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg'
Your machine has a common Intel gma 950. 
Do you know which kind of monitor do you have, I mean the VertRefresh and HorizSync values for your monitor? If not, you can also just google a bit.

 okay, thanks very much for your help anyway :-)

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2008-12-09
post /var/log/Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by nblender on 2008-12-11
I also had many problems upgrading my MacMini from 8.04 to 8.10.  Specifically when the upgrade rewrote my xorg.conf file.  HAL didn't work (as witnessed by Xorg.0.log) so I reverted to my previous xorg.conf and then that worked. Don't know what's wrong with HAL.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-12-11
many people are having problems with Intrepid and Intel Mac Minis and display. If you can ssh in, you can edit the xorg.conf, which is good, you just need to figure out how to configure it. Did you try the command that tiresia posted?

@nblender
If you have a working config, can you post it?

---

### Post by nblender on 2009-01-05
> **cyberdork33 said:**
> many people are having problems with Intrepid and Intel Mac Minis and display. If you can ssh in, you can edit the xorg.conf, which is good, you just need to figure out how to configure it. Did you try the command that tiresia posted?

@nblender
If you have a working config, can you post it?

Here are the changes I made from what the 8.10 upgrade supplied:

> 

17,24d16
< Section "ServerLayout"                                 
<         Identifier     "X.org Configured"               
<        Screen      0  "Default Screen" 0 0                    
<        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"           
<        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"  
<        "AutoAddDevices" "off"
< EndSection
< 
56a49,53
> 
> Section "ServerLayout"
>       Identifier      "Default Layout"
>       Screen          "Default Screen"
> EndSection


---

