---
title: "11.04 or 11.10 on ppc without problems?"
date: 2011-11-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by canhoto on 2011-11-01
Hi.

Is there some ppc user who could make 11.04 run without slowness/heaviness or 11.10 work without boot problems after installation or upgrade?

If yes, how did you do?

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2011-11-02
I have 11.04 running fine on a G5 with unity-2d compiled from the ppa

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-11-02
canhoto, I can help you to intall 11.04 and 11.10.  But, it would really help if you started reading other people's posts to find out what they are trying!  You can then join in with the problem solving.  Many hands make light work as they say.
 
You benefit because you get a greater understanding of ubuntu/linux from the wider reading.  Other posters benefit because you can reply with answers to their queires.  This post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1872892](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1872892) has been posted twice now and nobody has replied to it.  I believe you know how to answer part of it.  
 
Sorry if this is sounding a bit rude and a bit moaney, but other ppc people have got to start answering posts!

---

### Post by canhoto on 2011-11-03
> **rsavage said:**
> canhoto, I can help you to intall 11.04 and 11.10.  But, it would really help if you started reading other people's posts to find out what they are trying!  You can then join in with the problem solving.  Many hands make light work as they say.
 
You benefit because you get a greater understanding of ubuntu/linux from the wider reading.  Other posters benefit because you can reply with answers to their queires.  This post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1872892](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1872892) has been posted twice now and nobody has replied to it.  I believe you know how to answer part of it.  
 
Sorry if this is sounding a bit rude and a bit moaney, but other ppc people have got to start answering posts!

You are right. I usually don't have much time, and I spend it sefishly posing questions (which can by themselves help because they raise questions that tan be shared by others). I think I'm not a position of helping very mucha because I'm still a beginner. But you're right, maybe there are issues where even I can help. :wink:

But this was just a question, to see if that problems are generalized or there are people who could install this releases without problem. Anyway, I'll probably wait for 12.04 (hoping that it will exist for ppc) or try 11.04 or 11.10 again one of these days, but in another partition (I don't want to spoil my current, perfectly-working Xubuntu 10.10).

---

