---
title: "8.04 Mac Mini PPC no video after install"
date: 2009-02-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Ge64 on 2009-02-01
I'm trying to get ubuntu working on my older ppc mac mini... I used the alternate cd, and the installation is fine with just 'install', but after installing the mac only boots into yaboot and a few secons further until it says "Loading...". After that, my monitor switches to 'Cannot display this video mode. Set computer to 1280x1024 or lower'

The monitor is a 17" LCD connected to the mac's DVI port using a VGA adapter (so its vga). At first I thought it was because I had installed using a 20" widescreen at 1680x1050 but after repartitioning and reinstalling using only the vga monitor I think something else is wrong.

I tried installing with 'install video=ofonly' and the installation was a bit better in a way but after install the monitor now simply goes to sleep at the same point, indicating there is no signal.

---

### Post by Ge64 on 2009-02-04
Bumping this

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-02-04
Have you tried to give that argument at the first prompt of Yaboot? I mean, not during the installation, but when you restart the computer.
```
video=ofonly nosplash
``` 

Do you get a prompt on a console? If not, try Ctrl-Alt-F1
You should edit your file /etc/X11/xorg.conf according to your Monitor and choosing the right driver for you Grafic Card
Before doing that, backup it
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```
If you have still problems, post that file here

---

### Post by crapple on 2009-02-04
Can you give some more information such as the graphic card model?

I think you need to enter this at yaboot
```
video=1024x786
```

---

### Post by Ge64 on 2009-02-05
I've reinstalled now so that I get the original error from my monitor: "Change display mode to 1280x1024@60hz". 

I then tried to boot using video=1024x768, video=1280x1024, and video=1280x1024@60hz but none changed anything. At first nothing seemed to work but I realised i had to put "Linux " in yaboot for it to do anything.

I don't know how to get into any console, i tried ctrl-alt-f1 at various stages throughout the booting but nothing happens. Again, it boots to just after the well known and apparently harmless 'cannot allocate resource0' messages then the video stops.

I also tried video=ofonly nosplash, and now the above mentioned text messages are in a smaller font and instead of getting an error on my monitor about the resolution, I just get a black screen.

This is the machine: [http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/mac_mini/stats/mac_mini_g4_1.42.html](http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/mac_mini/stats/mac_mini_g4_1.42.html)
Graphics chip is a 32MB Radeon 9200 supporting up to 1920x1200.

---

### Post by roym4 on 2009-02-05
We've also had problems with 8.04 normal installs on Mac Mini with DVI displays. When we use a VGA monitor it works fine but switch to a digital and we get no video. Our solution has been to install from a Live CD. We put the following into the boot prompt when booting to the live CD:

live-nosplash-powerpc modprobe ide-core video=radeonfb:1920x1200-24@60

after the install and reboot the mini works fine with DVI monitors.

---

### Post by tijmentiming on 2009-03-02
I had this problem as well. I installed my macmini using the VGA cable. Then I edited /etc/yaboot.conf based on roym4's yaboot prompt line.

the append value where label=Linux is now:

append="quiet splash video=radeonfb:1920x1080-24@60"

Now the system boots correctly into the graphical environment using DVI.

One note: I updated to 8.10 before I tried this one.

---

