---
title: "11.04 live CD usb black screen"
date: 2011-07-13
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Duloc on 2011-07-13
I can't seem to boot from a live CD made on a USB stick or from a usb cd drive on my 15" 2011 MBP.  Ether shows up at boot time, and both get to the grub menu to install or try without installing.  Whenever I select try without install it just goes to a completely blank screen and nothing happens.  My screen resolution is 1680x1050 and not the standard, which I could see as an issue.  The CD drive spins down after about a minute, and the USB stick never has activity blinking.  

I have been able to install via VMware as a virtual machine.  

Anyone know why the screen would go black?

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-07-13
Have a read through: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132"). Some helpful information there.

---

### Post by Duloc on 2011-07-13
I never see the the purple screen with the keyboard logo, the screen just goes black/blank immediately after the grub screen.  Unless I missed how to set options from the live cd grub screen.

---

### Post by Duloc on 2011-07-13
I did try adding a 
nomodeset after the "quiet splash --" in the boot line, so it was "quiet splash -- nomodeset", still had a blank screen though...

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-07-13
> quiet splash -- nomodeset

Try:
```
quiet splash nomodeset
```

What kind of video card do you have?

Other options you can try are:
```
xforcevesa
i915.nomodeset=1 or
i915.nomodeset=0 (for intel video cards)
```

---

### Post by Duloc on 2011-07-14
The video card is both an AMD 6490M and an intel HD3000.  I tried all those options, still go the blank screen.  Is there a way to get it to boot to just a terminal, and show all the booting information?

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-07-14
I just realized that you have a Mac Book Pro. I'm probably not going to be of much help other than to point you to some oher sources of information:

- [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro8-1/Natty]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro8-1/Natty")
- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1758739]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1758739")

---

### Post by Duloc on 2011-07-16
thanks for the input.  Still haven't found a solution to the problem...  I do get to the grub screen, which seems to be normally the hard part...

---

