---
title: "[12.10] Ubuntu not booting in UEFI mode"
date: 2013-01-31
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by DurpnHard on 2013-01-31
Hey everybody, I feel like I am missing something simple here, maybe you can see what I'm messing up.

I have been trying to do a triple boot on my mac as in school I need windows, and I use mac and linux for pretty much everything else. I have installed rEFInd (if I need to switch boot managers so be it) and I only have OSX installed on my current hard drive. I have 4 partitions, 3 os partitions and 1 "space" partition for sharing between my os's. 

The main issue I have been having is that when I try to boot rEFInd only shows the legacy OS, no EFI boots at all. 

Any help is appreciated and I have tried quite a few things but all suggestions welcome!

Thanks

EDIT: I have a Macbook Pro 8,2 (Early 2011)

---

### Post by DurpnHard on 2013-02-02
Does anybody at least have any ideas on how to get Ubuntu to boot in (U)EFI mode? I get legacy every single time.

---

### Post by Garlandg on 2013-02-03
Are you currently using grub to boot into Windows?  (Does rEFInd load the grub menu when it boots the legacy OS, and does the grub menu contain an option to load your Windows partition?)  If not, this guide may help you, specifically the sections about how to boot Linux using rEFInd and a Linux kernel.

You'll want the earliest post:  [http://linuxmacbookproretina.blogspot.com/](http://linuxmacbookproretina.blogspot.com/)

The only issue that I can see with this may be if you are currently using grub to boot Windows, in which case installing grub-efi would probably be safer, and you would need to find out how to boot grub-efi from rEFInd.

If you haven't installed anything, just make a bootcamp partition normally, and you can use the relevant parts of my guide for installing Linux (Steps for Retina compatibility are not going to be necessary)

---

