---
title: "12.10 on MacBook Air2,1 endless reboot"
date: 2013-02-28
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by nillin on 2013-02-28
First, I am new to Linux. As a long-time Mac user, I grew tired of the costs associated with Apple products. So, I decided to go to Linux. I installed 12.10 on my MacBook Pro with a dual-boot option using rEFIt. I finally decided to do a full install on my old MacBook Air 2,1.

The install went fine; I wiped the computer and did an Ubuntu-only install. The wireless card didn't work once Ubuntu was up and running, so I plugged in an ethernet adapter and got the connection working. I ran "sudo get-apt update" and then "sudo get-apt upgrade" to see if that would fix the wireless card issue. During the "upgrade" process, the display started acting up. It would display things from one window partially overlaid on another. I closed everything except for the terminal and let the upgrade finish. Once it was finished, I rebooted the computer. Since then, it has only booted to a purple screen titled "GNU GRUB   version 2.00-7ubuntu11" with four main options: Ubuntu, Advanced options for Ubuntu, Memory test (memtest86+), and Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200). No matter what choice I make (the advanced options has a couple more options), it takes me to the gray startup screen and then back to this screen. At the bottom there are a couple more selections: "Use the UP and DOWN keys to select which entry is highlighted. Press enter to boot the selected OS, 'e' to edit the commands before booting or 'c' for a command-line."

I don't know what to do at this point. The USB drive won't recognize the external Mac Superdrive, so I can't re-install. Any ideas?

Thank you.

Ciao,

nil|lin

---

### Post by nillin on 2013-03-01
Latest attempt choosing the first "Ubuntu" option got me to the Unity desktop. However, it still doesn't recognize the USB drive, so I can't connect to the Superdrive to reinstall nor can I connect to the internet via ethernet. Any help would be appreciated; thanks.

Ciao,

nil|lin

---

### Post by dgapproved on 2013-05-12
i have had this problem with my macbook air as well
it is the same macboook air you have
if you are having trouble with the usb drive slot you can fix it by resetting the smc(system management controller)
you do this on your computer by:
1. shutdown
2.press control+alt+command+shift
3.while while holding down all of these keys press the power button for 3 seconds
4. let go
5. 4 seconds later start your computer

the usb slot will now work.
this may happen again, if so just repeat the process over
these symptoms occur a lot when installing Ubuntu or other Linux on macbookair2,1
it may also fix the display problem
good luck!

---

