---
title: "12.04 - 27 inch imac sound issues"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-04-26
ok.  here's my issue.  under 11.10  no matter what i tried i couldn't get my internal speakers to mute when my external speakers were plugged into the headphone jack.  Now under 12.04 the internal speakers DO mute but i get NO sound from the speakers plugged into the headphone jack.  The sound prefs do recognize the speakers in the headphone jack but when i test the sound i get nothing.  i've tried alsamixer and everything is unmuted and turned up.

any ideas???

---

### Post by dcunited on 2012-04-27
I am having the same issue.  I unplug my headphones and get sound through my speakers then plug in the headphones and no sound through my speakers (expected) and no sound through headphones (issue).  I have tried the 'options snd-hda-intel model=imac27' trick to no avail.

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-04-27
i have also tried the imac27 thing but still nothing. actually with adding imac27 to alsa-base.conf it unmutes the internal speaker even with speakers hooked into the headphone jack.  at least now the internals are muted when something is plugged in.  we are half way there.  please keep me posted if you get it fixed....

---

### Post by tross281 on 2012-04-27
I have the same issue, on a Dell Inspiron, so it's not just imacs.  My audio worked perfectly with 11.10

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-04-27
i found a so called fix for no sound on 12.04 but it didn't work for me.

add this to the end of alsa-base.conf

options snd-hda-intel model=eapd probe_mask=1 position_fix=1

and tell me if it worked.

---

### Post by areteichi on 2012-04-28
same problem here with Dell Inspiron E1405

---

### Post by wernerml on 2012-05-22
Bump!

---

### Post by dcunited on 2012-05-23
Same issue, I have tried several fixes found via Google but nothing has worked.

---

### Post by wernerml on 2012-05-23
FOUND THE SOLUTION!!!!!!    FINALLYYYYY!!!!!!!!!
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/140454/how-can-i-get-sound-on-headphones-without-switching-back-to-speakers-manually](http://askubuntu.com/questions/140454/how-can-i-get-sound-on-headphones-without-switching-back-to-speakers-manually)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pulseaudio always tries to switch to a newly available audio port when it becomes available. To stop this we can edit our _**default.pa**_. This file is located in **_/etc/pulse_** (defining settings for all users) **or in _~/.pulse_** (to override these settings for a single user). _**Just comment out this line**_ to stop pulseaudio from switching ports as follows:

# load-module module-switch-on-port-available

To take effect we need to **_restart pulseaudio server with pulseaudio -k_** (or restarting our session).
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:guitar::guitar::guitar::guitar::guitar::guitar::guitar::guitar::guitar:

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-05-24
wow.  finally it works!! thanks dude. only problem now is the sound is REALLY low.  all my mixer setting are maxed out but still very very low.  any fix for this???

---

### Post by wernerml on 2012-05-25
> **yinnus said:**
> wow.  finally it works!! thanks dude. only problem now is the sound is REALLY low.  all my mixer setting are maxed out but still very very low.  any fix for this???

I always use (in addition to ALSA default tool that came with xubuntu here..) the much more complete tool:

"PulseAudio Volume Control"

in there you can find other controls that are not listened in Alsa, but first you have to configurate it, becouse when you open it, there's no volume-controls...

in my system here, I let the first option selected: "HDA Intel (ALSA Mixer)", and then I click at the bottom in "preferences" and I mark All checkboxes, just like in Windows's Advanced Options in volume control...

let me know if you managed to do it... (i'm in windows right now so I didn't remember much to explain how I did it...)

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-05-25
i've check with alsa and pulse and all my setting are ok and all the levels are maxed out.  i can hear the music i am playing but it just isnt loud enough.

is this just an apple issue?

---

### Post by wernerml on 2012-05-25
now you got me... in here I made all controls appear and maxed all.. but maybe in there it's a driver issue... sorry, I don't know..
:(

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-05-26
thanks for your help dude..  i made a bug report on launchpad so hopefully someone will be able to fix my issue...

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-06-15
so i installed Fedora 17 last night and to my surprise the sound from the headphone jack worked perfectly without having to edit anything.  i know Fedora is a completely different distro but can we learn from what they did to make this work on Ubuntu??

---

### Post by tross281 on 2012-06-16
I had this problem with my dell machine and this solution fixed it for me

[http://pricklytech.wordpress.com/2012/05/26/ubuntu-12-04-dell-vostro-3750-no-sound-when-headphones-are-plugged-in]("http://pricklytech.wordpress.com/2012/05/26/ubuntu-12-04-dell-vostro-3750-no-sound-when-headphones-are-plugged-in")/

though I had to change the last command, replacing nano with gedit, hope it helps others :)

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-06-16
thanks for the suggestion.

still nothing though.  could you PLEASE tell me what the defaults are on that file for the areas i edited?  i backed up the file before editing but it disappeared on me.

thanks..

---

### Post by tross281 on 2012-06-16
would the backup not be in the cd /usr/share/pulseaudio/alsa-mixer/paths/ folder?

I'm afraid I don't know the defaults and I'm not at home to access my machine.  It's strange how a fix can work for 1 person and not others; the eternal frustration of computers

---

### Post by yinnus on 2012-06-16
i checked that folder and there is no backup file.  i have no idea what happened to it.  if you could tell me the default info in those 2 sections i changed that would be great as now my sound is messed up and i really dont want to reinstall the OS.

thanks for your time,,,,

---

