---
title: "8.10 Installation on PowerMac G5"
date: 2009-04-07
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by trogdor1138 on 2009-04-07
By nature of my work I recently acquired a dual-processor 2.5gHz PowerMac G5. I don't have near as much experience with Apple products as with PC's, and I have pretty much no experience with Linux, so I'm using this machine to learn. I have Leopard 10.5 installed on my first drive, and I would like to install Ubuntu on the second. I originally tried to boot the 8.04 Live CD, but was never successful. Despite which options I used, I always ended up getting file system errors. The Ubuntu wiki said this is often due to bad CD drives or bad RAM, but in the process of getting this beast to work I have run the Apple Service Diagnostics several times, and the RAM has always passed.

I can boot the 8.10 alternate install CD, and the initial load process goes smoothly. However, after selecting my keyboard layout, Ubuntu is unable to detect my CD-ROM, and I don't know the correct mount for the CD drive. If someone could help me progress from here, it would be much appreciated. I have tried listing "/mnt", but there are too many items to be listed on one screen, and although I have looked around and become aware of "| less", this doesn't seem to work in the installation environment. If it helps any, here are the specs:

2.5 gHz G5 Dual-Processor
5 GB DDR RAM
2x 160 GB SATA hard drives
SuperDrive??? (whatever Apple calls the DL DVD-RW drive)
ATI Radeon 9800 Pro

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-04-07
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964904](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964904)

---

### Post by trogdor1138 on 2009-04-07
Now I feel stupid. I had searched the forums, but somehow never found that post. Anyway, it worked; so far, so good. Thanks for the help and quick reply!

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-04-07
I had the same PowerMac until few months ago. Ubuntu Intrepid works on those machines really well. And Ubuntu Jaunty even better (format as ext4 to get better performances)
As for any PowerPC you can't use Adobe Flash and Sun Java - but Gnash did work for me on YouTube. 

The Installer of Ubuntu Hardy can have some problems when rebooting (because it does not detect the correct OpenFirmware path).

Let me know, if you have any problem.

---

