---
title: "11.04 on MBP 7,1:*heat control"
date: 2011-05-28
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by albiurs on 2011-05-28
Hi,
 
 I Installed Ubuntu 11.04 on my MacBook Pro 7,1 and configured it according to:
 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Natty](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Natty)
 
 Now I have the following difficulty in configuration:
 
 
[LIST]
[*]The surface of the MacBook is considerably warmer as if I'm running OS X. Is there a reason why the MacBook Pro gets hotter when running Ubuntu? Does it depend on less effective drivers? How can I be sure that my hardware will not get overheated?
[/LIST]
   Any suggestions?
 
 Thanks!

---

### Post by bdentremont on 2011-06-10
> **albiurs said:**
> Hi,
 
 I Installed Ubuntu 11.04 on my MacBook Pro 7,1 and configured it according to:
 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Natty](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Natty)
 
 Now I have the following difficulty in configuration:
 
 
[LIST]
[*]The surface of the MacBook is considerably warmer as if I'm running OS X. Is there a reason why the MacBook Pro gets hotter when running Ubuntu? Does it depend on less effective drivers? How can I be sure that my hardware will not get overheated?
[/LIST]
   Any suggestions?
 
 Thanks!

I have a Macbook 7.1 running 64-bit Maverick.  Without a software controller the fan runs a constant 2000RPM rather than increasing speed under heavy load as it does under OS X.  I recommend that you install the package "macfanctld" which can be found in the Mactel PPA.  Also, if you install "sensors-applet" you will find a new Gnome panel applet available which will allow you to monitor the fan speed.  Assuming the PPA and packages are available for Natty, this will do it:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:mactel-support && sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install macfanctld sensors-applet
```

I'd recommend that you read the page for your hardware with Maverick.  It's been invaluable for me and a lot of this stuff might apply to you.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Maverick]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro7-1/Maverick")

---

### Post by dubmartian on 2011-06-10
same problem here with natty and mbp 6,2. read somewhere around here it was the 2.6.38-8 kernel causing high temp. on top of the good advice above, upgrading to 2.6.38-9 brought my temps down. temps still normal with recent upgrade to 2.6.38-10.

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2011-06-19
How do you make Kernel Upgrade? Is there any official repo?

---

### Post by bdentremont on 2011-06-19
> **vickoxy said:**
> How do you make Kernel Upgrade? Is there any official repo?

Ubuntu kernels are distributed as packages, like any other software, and the package manager takes care of configuration.  The packages are named in the form "linux-image-x.x.x-xx-generic" where the x's are the version number.  The package "linux" depends on the latest official kernel, so your system stays up-to-date.

When you install a new kernel, it installs along side the old one.  If you have more than one kernel at boot time, grub2, the boot loader will present you with a list at each boot and let you choose.  Thus you can always safely boot to your old kernel if the new one doesn't work well.

The following command returns your current kernel version, which you can compare to the kernels available in Synaptic.

```
uname -r
```

If you find yourself looking for an even newer kernel than those, I'd look into adding the [kernel PPA]("https://launchpad.net/~kernel-ppa/+archive/ppa") to your repository list.

Addendum:
Note: I run Maverick and haven't messed with the 2.6.38-8 kernel.  Thus, I don't have an opinion on the kernel contribution to the overheating issue.

---

