---
title: "G5 PPC 15.10 ubuntu mate"
date: 2016-01-26
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by dan_williscroft on 2016-01-26
Hi, 


I have a G5 mac apple 2ghz 4gb of ram with nvidia graphics. Im installing from a cdrom. Once I hit enter to launch the install from yaboot the screen goes black and never changes. The dvd drive will start spinning at high speeds then after a few minutes idle. I think its something to do with the graphics card but cant be sure and need help as I am a massive newbie.

---

### Post by dan_williscroft on 2016-01-27
[FONT=Helvetica]Desktop on Nvidia graphics works but nouveau KMS is badly broken. Must use nvidiafb
to get MATE desktop.[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](1) Comment out "blacklist nvidiafb" in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer.conf[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](2) Turn off openfirmware framebuffer and nouveau - 
Add to a stanza in /etc/yaboot.conf : append=" video=offb:off modprobe.blacklist=nouveau"
(2a) Run "sudo ybin -v"[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](3) Add "nvidiafb" to /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
(3a) Run "sudo update-initramfs -u -k all"[/FONT]
[FONT=Helvetica](4) Reboot![/FONT]


Is this possible on a live boot? Im such a newbie help needed!!!

---

### Post by Benjamin_Brink on 2016-02-09
If other suggestions don't work, try installing "headless" ubuntu-server; headless means without screen and keyboard. 

Once you have a working system, you can install/upgrade to desktop version.  

If you have another PPC G5 with a screen that works: You can try taking the harddisk out of the system in question, and installing it in another PPC G5. Once ubuntu is installed, put the harddisk back into the system in question. The techniques for each step of this are well documented elsewhere ie. be sure to powerdown and avoid static electricity before removing/install harddisk.

---

