---
title: "16.04 on MacBook Pro early 2011 - Lost in an Alien Apple Landscape"
date: 2016-11-09
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by lah-ca on 2016-11-09
Hi,

I am doing charity work refurbing a MacBook Pro early 2011 for a family in dire need.  It came to me as a donation but without a hard drive, without a functional keyboard, and without its OEM Snow Leopard disks.  The BIOS is the original and is pre-Internet-Recovery, not that I want to do an Internet recovery.  The family cannot afford non-FOSS.

I have it working now with 16.04 X64.

Issues:


[LIST=1]
[*]I would *like* to upgrade the firmware but there does not seem to be a way of doing this without having OS X 10.6.whatever installed or without having the OEM disks.  However, I don't imagine upgrading is an absolute necessity as everything appears to be working just fine as is, although there can be battery issues without the firmware upgrade, I think.  It would also be nice to leave the option open for an Internet upgrade/reload at a later date.
[*]At boot the MacBooks spends 30 to 60 seconds with a white screen while the EFI BIOS slowly realizes, "Oh yes, there is an OS installed; maybe I should boot it up."  I need to run the mysterious "Bless" command to make this white screen go away, I think.  But again I do not have the OEM disks to boot to to run this command.  This is more of an annoyance than a problem, per se.
[/LIST]

My (possibly flawed) understanding is that Apple creates a unique relationship between a set of OEM disks and the physical hardware they ship with so that OEM disks are useless with any other computer, even an identical model.  I can borrow a set of OS X 9 something OEM disks, but I would be reluctant to do anything with them for fear of bricking the MacBook.  Do I look for a set of retail box Snow Leopard disks to borrow?  I do not want to install Mac OS.

I am an old PC-Novell/DOS/Windows/Linux guy lost in an alien Apple landscape here.  Any help/guidance would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-11-10
Thread moved to the "*Apple Hardware Users*" forum.

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2016-11-10
> **howefield said:**
> Thread moved to the "*Apple Hardware Users*" forum.

Thx.

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2016-11-10
Victory is mine.  Yes!

---

