---
title: "10.04 from the third partition of a FW800 drive."
date: 2011-02-18
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Nijuro on 2011-02-18
Hi forums.

I'm on a MacBook Pro (4,1) and I recently picked up a 1TB LaCie Rugged to back up OS X and Win7 but left a quarter of the disk's space for an Ubuntu installation (so sdb1 = 500GB Time Machine, sdb2 = 250GB Windows Backup, sdb3 = 250GB Ubuntu 10.04). It seems to have installed all right but I cannot boot this partition. I have rEFIt 0.14 and have installed the GRUB 1.99 RC into my /efi/ folder but I'm having trouble configuring the GRUB menu and get erros such as

>no such partition
>you need to load the kernel first

My menu entry for the partition looks like this

```
menuentry "Ubuntu Desktop 10.04" {
  set root=(hd1,5)
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root c723fbaa-cda7-4b01-88a0-6429d0a9eaef
  linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32 root=UUID=c723fbaa-cda7-4b01-88a0-6429d0a9eaef ro quiet splash
  initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32
}
```

but I've tried various set roots. The UUID is of the ext4 partition and not the Linux swap or the&#8230; I don't even know what to call it. (EDIT: I do now. I mean the primary partition. The UUID is of the extended partition within it. When I looked, I couldn't find a UUID for /dev/sdb3 or /dev/sdb6, just /dev/sdb5.)

Any help would be most appreciated.

EDIT: another error I've gotten lately:

>no such device: c723fbaa-cda7-4b01-88a0-6429d0a9eaef

whether the set root is hd1,3 or hd1,5 or hd2,3 or hd2,5

UPDATE: I tried booting my Windows partition from GRUB with the following code

```
menuentry "Windows" {
  insmod chain
  insmod ntfs
  set root=(hd0,3)
  chainloader +1
}
```

and when I replaced "set root" with the device's UUID, it gave me an "invalid EFI file path" error. But this wasn't just any error, it was an **hd3gpt3error**.

So my thoughts were 1) the GRUB notation should include the partition scheme (GPT) and 2) GRUB is counting my drives starting from 3 instead of 0! I read, I think, [here](http://grub.enbug.org/TestingOnMacbook) or somewhere else that the Mac firmware bumps GRUB's numbering up but I didn't think it would bump it up by three.

Anyway, I reset the set root tag to

```

set root=(hd3,gpt3)
```

and variations of those numbers; GRUB can't seem to find **** past my first bootable device.

---

