---
title: "10.10 x64 Macbook Pro 5,3 BCM4322 lower signal strength?"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by nukedeath on 2010-10-11
Hello!
Anyone else experiencing lower signal strength on Wireless?
I just did a complete reinstall to 10.10 and now it seems i get less signal strength from my wireless.

At my kitchen, i could surf the web without any problems just slower speed, but now its unbearable, wireless drops out sometimes even.
Could someone figure out if there is difference between the drivers on 10.04 and 10.10? :)

UPDATE I just tested it with my WPA2 network, its not even usable, 20-30% packet loss. something is quite wrong!
**UPDATE2: Reinstall of the driver seemed to fix my problems.**

---

### Post by shifteleven on 2010-10-14
What driver did you reinstall?  I'm having this issue too.

---

### Post by nukedeath on 2010-10-18
> **shifteleven said:**
> What driver did you reinstall?  I'm having this issue too.
The one on the Additinal Drivers list, Removed, restarted, installed, restarted. Everything seemed fine after that.

---

### Post by shifteleven on 2010-10-19
Awesome.  I found that it improved the situation, but doesn't totally fix it.

---

### Post by Espen11 on 2010-10-20
Same problem here. But i have an MBP 7.1, BCM4322 chip aswell.

Very high packet loss and over 500 ms RTT when I stand under the router pinging it. 

Is this related to 64bit only? Many doesn't experience this problem.

---

### Post by nukedeath on 2010-10-22
> **Espen11 said:**
> Same problem here. But i have an MBP 7.1, BCM4322 chip aswell.

Very high packet loss and over 500 ms RTT when I stand under the router pinging it. 

Is this related to 64bit only? Many doesn't experience this problem.
I am not really sure there, but remove, reboot, install, reboot seemed to fix my packet loss problem atleast :)

---

