---
title: "14.04 wifi issue on 2013 imac"
date: 2016-01-07
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Foamy_Keiko on 2016-01-07
I'm new to Linux. I love it and I enjoy learning. I've been able to follow a few different steps I read online to get the wifi partially working, initially the wifi didnt work at all, just the ethernet. I entered some commands, and my wifi works but will randomly disconnect now, leading me to believe that I dont have the proper driver installed. It's also worth noting I have the batter percentage icon displayed....and im using an imac, so i may have installed drivers for a macbook and not an imac. 

I ran lspci in Terminal and got this....i think this is what will help identify my hardware yes?

foamykeiko@foamykeiko-iMac:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Xeon E3-1200 v2/3rd Gen Core processor DRAM Controller (rev 09)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Xeon E3-1200 v2/3rd Gen Core processor PCI Express Root Port (rev 09)
00:14.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family USB xHCI Host Controller (rev 04)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family MEI Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1a.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #2 (rev 04)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 04)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev c4)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 3 (rev c4)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 4 (rev c4)
00:1c.4 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 5 (rev c4)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev a4)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Z77 Express Chipset LPC Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family 6-port SATA Controller [AHCI mode] (rev 04)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 7 Series/C210 Series Chipset Family SMBus Controller (rev 04)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GK104M [GeForce GTX 675MX Mac Edition] (rev a1)
01:00.1 Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation GK104 HDMI Audio Controller (rev a1)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM57766 Gigabit Ethernet PCIe (rev 01)
03:00.1 SD Host controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM57765/57785 SDXC/MMC Card Reader (rev 01)
04:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 02)
06:00.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation DSL3510 Thunderbolt Port [Cactus Ridge] (rev 03)
07:00.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation DSL3510 Thunderbolt Port [Cactus Ridge] (rev 03)
07:03.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation DSL3510 Thunderbolt Port [Cactus Ridge] (rev 03)
07:04.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation DSL3510 Thunderbolt Port [Cactus Ridge] (rev 03)
07:05.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation DSL3510 Thunderbolt Port [Cactus Ridge] (rev 03)
07:06.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation DSL3510 Thunderbolt Port [Cactus Ridge] (rev 03)
08:00.0 System peripheral: Intel Corporation DSL3510 Thunderbolt Port [Cactus Ridge] (rev 03)



I went into additional drivers and that shows :

This device is not working.
     Using Broadcom 802.11 Linux STA wireless driver source from bcmwl-kernel-source (proprieraty)
 *   Do not use the device

I have tried to select the broadcom, and when i do i lose wifi all together. I should further eloraberate by saying that no wifi networks will display when this driver is selected. I think that may have been a wrong driver that I installed by accident? As of right not the do not use the device is checked, and my wifi works but drops randomly. This is an isolated Unbuntu 14.04 issue as none of the other OS's on this computer reprocude this error.

I am new to Linux so if anyone has any help please try to give as detailed instructions as possible. Please and thank you. I'm getting the hang of working in terminal now so entering commands are becoming that of a second nature.

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2016-01-07
I searched google with "ubuntu 14.04 wifi setup" . . . and I found this thread . . . basically using the "additional drivers" method that you say doesn't work for you.  But, if you scroll down to the bottom of the post you see where they clicked or right-clicked on the airport applet . . . I think you have to manually check the "enable networking" && the "enable wifi" lines . . . did you do that?  Also, sometimes you have to restart the computer to get it "recognize" the new drivers . . . possibly even if you have installed the wrong drivers, if you use the "additional drivers" method it may select the correct drivers . . . on reboot.  Good luck.

e..

[http://itsfoss.com/fix-no-wireless-network-ubuntu/](http://itsfoss.com/fix-no-wireless-network-ubuntu/)

---

### Post by Foamy_Keiko on 2016-01-07
Im not sure how I overlooked the reboot. I did switch to the Broadcom driver and reboot and wireless is recognized now. Hopefully it doesnt drop and disconnect like the previous driver. Thanks for posting. :) Ill let everyone know tomarrow how I make out if my signal drops my out at all tonight

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2016-01-07
That's good news . . . you should be OK, if the additional drivers shows the option, it usually is the right one . . . .  : - )))

e....

---

### Post by Foamy_Keiko on 2016-01-08
Thanks a bunch for the help. The wifi is working fine now.

---

### Post by este.el.paz on 2016-01-08
> **Foamy_Keiko said:**
> Thanks a bunch for the help. The wifi is working fine now.

Cool.  You could mark your thread as "[solved]" . . . .

e...

---

