---
title: "8.10 Macbook - No Touchpad after Hibernate"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Stu09 on 2008-11-01
After resuming my Macbook 2,1 from Hibernation I was dismayed to find that my touchpad does not work at all. 
Browsing through the forum using the tab key isn't that easy.

EDIT: A simple restart of X doesn't fix it. I have to restart the computer.

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-02
Could you please report the output of
```

lsusb | grep 05ac

```
there might be something we do about this problem.

---

### Post by kestaz on 2008-11-02
It's know problem. But i don't know solve this. Maybe unload driver ?
After suspend i have touchpad but not *very* usable and i can't move it

kestaz@macbook:~$ lsusb | grep 05ac
Bus 005 Device 003: ID 05ac:8300 Apple, Inc. Built-in iSight (no firmware loaded)
Bus 004 Device 003: ID 05ac:8205 Apple, Inc. Bluetooth HCI MacBookPro
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 05ac:8240 Apple, Inc. IR Receiver [build-in]
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 05ac:021b Apple, Inc. Internal Keyboard/Trackpad

Thanks

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-02
Reloading the driver will most likely work, but it should of course not be needed. If you compile your own kernels, here is a patch I believe would solve the problem temporarily:
```

diff --git a/drivers/usb/core/quirks.c b/drivers/usb/core/quirks.c
index c070b34..e2abf14 100644
--- a/drivers/usb/core/quirks.c
+++ b/drivers/usb/core/quirks.c
@@ -49,6 +49,7 @@ static const struct usb_device_id usb_quirk_list[] = {
 
        /* appletouch */
        { USB_DEVICE(0x05ac, 0x021a), .driver_info = USB_QUIRK_RESET_RESUME },
+       { USB_DEVICE(0x05ac, 0x021b), .driver_info = USB_QUIRK_RESET_RESUME },
 
        /* Avision AV600U */
        { USB_DEVICE(0x0638, 0x0a13), .driver_info =

```

The above solution can be avoided completely by the right modification to the appletouch kernel module. The maintainer has been notified.

---

### Post by kestaz on 2008-11-03
Ok, i just understand this patch. Someone forgot to add apple touchpad to quirks list ;-)

Ok where i need to add to unload touchpad /etc/acpi-support ?

---

### Post by Stu09 on 2008-11-03
> **kosumi68 said:**
> Could you please report the output of
```

lsusb | grep 05ac

```
there might be something we do about this problem.

```

stuart@MacBook:~$ lsusb | grep 05ac
Bus 005 Device 003: ID 05ac:8205 Apple, Inc. Bluetooth HCI MacBookPro
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 05ac:8240 Apple, Inc. IR Receiver [build-in]
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 05ac:021a Apple, Inc. 
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 05ac:8300 Apple, Inc. Built-in iSight (no firmware loaded)

```

---

### Post by Stu09 on 2008-11-03
I think compiling kernels is a bit out of my league

---

### Post by kestaz on 2008-11-03
kosumi68,

seems like it's not problem solution .. because user Stu09 has Bus 002 Device 002: ID 05ac:021a Apple, Inc. model touchpad. it's 05ac:021a which already is in /drivers/usb/core/quirks.c

Or i'm not right ?

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-03
kestaz,

yeah, I was thinking the same thing when seeing that reports. On the good side: you probably wont need to bother about the kernel patch. On the bad side: no solution to this yet.

---

### Post by david_edmundson on 2008-11-03
As a temporary fix we can tell the suspend script to unload and reload the relevant module.

Under /etc/default/acpi-support change

Modules=""
to
Modules="appletouch"

---

### Post by Stu09 on 2008-11-04
One more update. The touchpad works fine after waking from suspend.
It is only hibernate that causes a problem.

---

### Post by kestaz on 2008-11-04
I don't think so. Actually first time after suspend touchpad works say correctly. But if you suspend more times .. two, three or more touchpad not works.. just check it

I suspending my computer many times, so it's big problem for me ... I will add appletouch to acpi-support

---

### Post by phorque on 2009-10-24
> **david_edmundson said:**
> As a temporary fix we can tell the suspend script to unload and reload the relevant module.

Under /etc/default/acpi-support change

Modules=""
to
Modules="appletouch"

you are a god

---

