---
title: "Can't boot OS9 from Triple boot system"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Chris Grk-O-Matic on 2010-07-12
1Ghz Titanium Powerbook with:
Ubuntu 9.10
Mac OS 9
Mac OS 10.3.9
 
 
I used to be able to boot in to any OS easily. Now I can't boot in to OS9 for some reason.
 
If I'm booting holding down the Option key, OS9 is shown but when I select it I get floppy with the blinking ? mark.
 
Also, in bootstrap I used to get my 3 OS's but OS9 has been replaced by CDROM as a boot choice.
 
Can someone offer some advise please?
 
 
 
Thank,
Chris

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-07-12
Did you delete partitions by mistake ?

[http://mac.linux.be/content/yaboot](http://mac.linux.be/content/yaboot)

---

### Post by Chris Grk-O-Matic on 2010-07-12
Nah. I never messed with the partitions since I got everything up and running some time ago.

Should I zap the PRAM or try sudo ybin?


Thanks - Chris

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-07-13
If you are sure that yaboot.conf is fine, you can issue a sudo ybin -v, yes. I would first check your yaboot.conf and compare it with the output of mac-fdisk /dev/your_drive

---

### Post by Chris Grk-O-Matic on 2010-07-13
I'm not really sure where to go from what you said. I got this out of the terminal if you can steer me in the right direction:


## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda9
device=/pci@f2000000/mac-io@17/ata-4@1f000/disk@0:
partition=10
root=/dev/hda10
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hda12

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"



Do you think Ubuntu altered the OS9 drivers? Perhaps I should take the advice from here and boot off the OS9 disk and update drivers:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/YabootConfigurationForMacintoshPowerPCsDualBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/YabootConfigurationForMacintoshPowerPCsDualBoot)

I should mention that this worked for me when I did my initial triple partition/OS install a while ago. I'm just a bit hesitant to do it now since I'm all established with everything else.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-07-14
That is a very good idea. I now remember something similar when I was dual booting OS9 and Debian on my old PowerMac 7600. Linux can somehow screw up the driver partitions. Try that first.

> On some machines, trying to boot Mac OS 9 by pressing 'm' at the yaboot prompt gives a blinking floppy disk icon. This is because the Ubuntu installer is not quite perfect and alters the Mac OS 9 drivers for the hard disk; the data on the partition is still safe. To fix this, start up from the Mac OS 9 install CD and open /Utilities/Drive Setup. Select the hard drive where your Mac OS 9 partition is, and select "Update Driver" from the "Functions" menu.

---

### Post by Chris Grk-O-Matic on 2010-07-14
Updated the OS9 drivers - worked!


Thanks,
Chris

---

