---
title: "Dual boot won't load either os"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by dmand on 2010-07-12
Okay. So I finally got Ubuntu installed on my powermac G5. I wrote a while ago in another thread about the video problems I had using 10.04. I ran 8.04 as a live cd and it worked fine, so I installed it, keeping OSX.

Now when I boot up I get to the bootstrap menu giving me the option of linux, osx, or from cd. The from cd works(that's what I'm running now) but if I choose linux or osx it just turns into a grey screen and stops, the fans eventually spin up a storm, but no response from the machine.

I've read some about yaboot.conf, but I'm mostly a beginner at this. Does anyone know what I can change so I can use my computer?

Here's my yaboot.conf in /etc/yaboot.conf on my main linux partition:
```

## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/sda2
device=/disk@0:
partition=4
root=/dev/sda4
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/sda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
    label=Linux
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img
    append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux.old
    label=old
    read-only
    initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
    append="quiet splash"
```

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-07-13
your device is probably wrong, this is a bug in the 8.04 installer for G5 machines. In your yaboot.conf file, the device is:
```
device=/disk@0:
```
This can never be the correct path to the open fimware device.

You need a program called ofpath to find the correct path to the device:
[http://mac.linux.be/content/ofpath-fails-detect-correct-openfirmware-path-some-powermac-g5](http://mac.linux.be/content/ofpath-fails-detect-correct-openfirmware-path-some-powermac-g5)

---

### Post by dmand on 2010-07-14
Thank you linuxopjemac!
Success!

Thanks for the help, I followed the instructions in that link and my computer is dual booting just fine now. I feel very satisfied now, like I just solved some big puzzle.

Just as a note for any other beginner like me who runs into this problem, the fixed ofpath.gz file is in this link [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=994882#2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=994882#2) , it took me a few minutes to find it.
Also, it took some trickiness with the --chroot switch on the yabootconfig and ybin script because /etc isn't the directory containing yaboot.conf on your main drive if you are running off a live cd. So the actual /etc on my linux partition of my drive was something like /media/disk/etc.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-07-15
Good work.

---

