---
title: "14.04 on 11,2 MBP - Where to find the best documentation for installation available"
date: 2015-06-20
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by 2devnull on 2015-06-20
Hi all, I am seeing various write-ups and all seem to be different. Not sure if there is one that is more sound that I should follow. Please advise. Thank you.

---

### Post by davidchute26 on 2015-06-23
This would be a good starting point

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro11-1/Trusty](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro11-1/Trusty)[URL="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro"]
[/URL]
The process is really quite simple. I can write you a quick guide if you like.

---

### Post by 2devnull on 2015-06-23
> **davidchute26 said:**
> This would be a good starting point

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro11-1/Trusty](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro11-1/Trusty)[URL="https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro"]
[/URL]
The process is really quite simple. I can write you a quick guide if you like.

Thank you for the information. I would appreciate it if you can provide the guide as I would like to review the latest info as this will be the first one I will be doing.

Thank you again.

---

### Post by davidchute26 on 2015-06-24
Ok so I will assume you will be duel booting OS X and Ubuntu. I would recommend this set-up for two reasons - firstly you should keep the apple firmware up to date, OS X will provide an easy way to handle this, at end of the day its still a MacBook designed for OS X and you want it to run efficiently and have a long existence. Secondly OS X can provide you with most Windows available software (Photoshop, Microsoft Remote Desktop) but your still in a Unix-like environment, sometimes its a must. I find its a happy medium between getting everything I want from Linux and still have access to most of the mainstream closed source software out there. 

Firstly you will need to do three things in OS X - create a Time Machine backup, partition some free space and install a boot manager. 

**It's extremely important to make a backup before continuing! Doesn't matter how good your geek skills are this has the potential to destroy all your previous hard work - we are all human and can make mistakes - so please make a current backup.** **If does go pete-tong** **we can restore to the previous configuration easily.**

Open Disk Utility and shrink the OS X partition to give you enough free space for your Ubuntu installation. If you use Time Machine you can switch off local snapshots temporarily to provide more space (reboot once disabled to free up the space). ```
sudo tmutil disablelocal
```
Next install the rEFInd boot manager, simply download it from [here]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/refind/files/0.8.7/refind-bin-0.8.7.zip/download"), CD into the directory and run - ```
sudo ./install.sh --alldrivers
``` I would advise at this point to mute the speaker (so you don&#8217;t get that annoying "DOOM" sound when you turn it on) and to reboot the machine to confirm rEFInd loads - this may require 2-3 reboots depending on your mileage.

You can create a Live USB using [Unetbootin]("http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/") which is available in the Ubuntu repo or the OS X installer on the website. Once created reboot holding down the option key "alt" and select the USB.

Once you&#8217;re at the Live USB desktop open Terminal and run -```
ubiquity -b
``` This will install Ubuntu with EFI stub loading which is by far the easiest way (imo) to get Ubuntu working with EFI on a MacBook - [more info]("https://github.com/aroman/freya-on-a-mac") ;)

Run through the normal install process - for partitioning go to Advanced - create a new Ext4 partition after OS X (you should see the "free space" you created earlier) and set the mount point to /. Click Apply or Finish ignoring the prompt to say you've not created a Swap partition, we will do this later, so just click Yes.

Once the installer completes remove the USB stick and hit Enter to reboot. At this point you will have a working duel boot configuration with rEFInd boot manager.  

*I will edit this post later to include creating a swapfile to auto mount and also some tips to improve the temperature, performance and rEFInd theming :p 

Let me know if you have any questions.
Hope you have a great day!

---

### Post by vitaliy7 on 2015-06-26
Great info, thanks
 [RIGHT][knowledge]("http://helprace.com/knowledgebase-software")
[/RIGHT]

---

