---
title: "10.04 boot from disc blackSOD imac g4"
date: 2011-06-22
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by chimerage on 2011-06-22
assistance here?  guide me to the right forum? new to macs

trying to install 10.04 on an ilamp g4: 1G, 512 mhz, 80 g HD.

when booting from cd, i can hear the disc spinning, get the ubuntu boot sound, and have black like nothing on the screen.  No rainbow sparkles, no flashes, just dead screen.  

booting normal is fine, no problems in OS X

the same disc installed fine on a a similar model that had an 800mhz processor, about one year older.  some forums say the graphics card can cause screen problems, but a total blackout before anything?  If so, how do i tweak it without being able to get to a linux prompt, etc.

help is nice.:)

---

### Post by avtolle on 2011-06-22
Since OSX boots, this may not be a resolution, but I had similar problems with a G4 cube "back in the day". What worked for me was to reset the PRAM by holding down the Option, "Open Apple", p and r keys upon start-up and keeping them depressed until the chimes rang for the second time. 

Other ideas: obtain the alternate install iso from the same site (sounds like you are booting from the "live cd") from where you downloaded the current iso, check the md5sum, burn to CD-R at a slow speed, then see if it boots with a black and white rudimentary yaboot display on screen.

---

### Post by chimerage on 2011-06-23
Thanks for the advice, and yes, it's from a live CD.

tried the PRAM bit, and it only rebooted in OS X.  Haven't tried the md5sum yet.  looking into it today.  but, as i said, the same disc loaded without problems on an older version of the same machine.  The only difference in hardware that i can find is that this one has the powerpc G4 (altivec 7550) with 1ghz, whereas the other (that worked) has a 7540 at 800mhz. Also, the cd drive that works is a GCA-4020A, while the one i am contending with now is GCC-4480B. 

what's more, i just put 8.04.1 on this one with no problems.  

i'm researching the cd/dvd drives also, to see if there's a real difference. Any ideas?

---

### Post by chimerage on 2011-06-23
After looking more, i see lots of struggles with the video card, GeForce4 MX, but they all at least allow getting  something, even a flicker from the screen.  

still got nothing.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2011-06-23
I've a question or two before going any farther (to avoid potential wild-a** guesses): when booting from the cd, you are holding the "c" key down, correct? Thereafter, your display goes totally black, with no "signs of life", the computer eventually booting into ubuntu (from hearing the sound), am I correct?

Yep, the cd sounds fine. So, are you wanting to just "try it out" on the recalcitrant computer, or are you interested in installing? If installation is the goal, then a cli-only install from the alternate install iso burned to cd may be worth considering.

---

