---
title: "10.04 video issues on an early-2005 PowerMac G5"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by daslightingguy on 2010-05-11
Trying to boot the live CD results in my monitor going into sleep mode, although the boot appears to continue as normal.  I've tried booting both normally and with the video=ofonly parameter, no difference.  Pressing Option+Fkey after it's done grinding away doesn't seem to drop me to a terminal either.

System:
Power Mac G5
Early 2005
Dual 2.70 GHz
(with LCS Heatsink)

Video: 256MB Nvidia Geforce 6200

Any ideas on what to try?

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-11
Just install with a netboot or alternate CD. Add the xorg.conf file later.

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-21
Any hints as to what the xorg.conf should look like for a powermac g5 with the nvidia card and the apple 17" display via ADC?

I was able to install from an alternate cd but I get no video once it boots up.

I tried a rescue boot into a shell in my local file system and xorg.conf doesn't exist.
Then I tried running dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and I got some perl errors about being unable to set the locale information.
:confused:

Any help is much appreciated.
I will NOT be going back to OSX.

Thanks,
josh

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-21
I know one, but it's not for the same screen I think:

[http://mac.linux.be/content/xorgconf-g5-ppc-tower](http://mac.linux.be/content/xorgconf-g5-ppc-tower)

If that does not work, let me know.

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-21
Thank you.
I'll give a try this evening and post back how it works out.

-Josh

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-23
Well,
I can't seem to get it working.

I Do have the GeForce FX 5200 card so that should help.
I was able to run fbset from the rescue shell and it returned,

```
Mode "1280x1024"
# D: 100.00 Mhz, H: 75.758 kHz, V: 71.201 Hz
DotClock 100.001
HTimings 1280 1296 1304 1320
VTimings 1024 1040 1048 1064
Flags	"-HSync" "-VSync"
EndMode
```

Here's something else that's odd.
If I boot up normally from the installed OS I hear the startup bongo noise when the login screen comes up but I get no video.
I can login with username and password and hear the login sounds. 

I can even switch to the terminals on the function key's I think but I still can't see anything.
But say I hit ctrl+option+F1, my caps lock key light no longer turns on, but as soon as I go back to F7 it works again.

However,
If I boot from a CD with rescue-powerpc64 and load a shell and type startx I can see a desktop but the caps lock key doesn't light up or anything and the mouse doesn't move.

Still trying...

-Josh

---

### Post by pindar on 2010-05-24
Has anyone had success with 10.04 on a PowerMac G5? I have one of the early models. The video issues in my case are NOT X11 and xorg.conf problems; I can't even get a console working. I tried installing a minimal CLI system without X11. I see a few messages flashing by (something about "windfarm" modules not being loaded), then the screen goes black. The system does initiate properly: I can (without seeing anything on the screen) log in with my username and my password and type "sudo poweroff," and the machine will shut down properly. I tried booting with "video=ofonly," but still no joy. From my days with gentoo, long long ago, I would say that some framebuffer setting in the kernel may be wrong, but that's just a far shot from someone who isn't very knowledgeable about these things. Anyway: I would appreciate if anybody could confirm that they have indeed installed 10.04 successfully on their G5 and which kernel etc. they have used (I tried the powerpc-64 kernel, maybe I should go with the 32-bit version?)

Thanks!

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-24
I think that's the exact same behavior I'm seeing.

I'm going to try an older version(9.10) and see how that goes.

-Josh

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-24
What are the specs of your monitor ?

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-24
> **linuxopjemac said:**
> What are the specs of your monitor ?

Other than the info I got from fbset that I posted up above all I have is what's listed in the vague tech specs from apple,
[http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=58823](http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=58823)

The only other thing I could think of is, if you install in Expert mode it gives you some options for the screen settings in the shell, such as VGA etc...
I think it defaulted to VGA, perhaps something else is needed?

Thanks,
Josh

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-25
well, the maximum resolution of your monitor is, according to your link, 1280x1024. Let's focus on that then.

A PowerMac G5 has different graphics cards. You have to really first find out which exact model G5 you have. It should have a model number on the case somewhere.

Have a look here:
[http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/powermac_g5/faq/powermac-g5-adc-ports-dvi-ports-resolutions-supported.html](http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/powermac_g5/faq/powermac-g5-adc-ports-dvi-ports-resolutions-supported.html)

The info you gave us in the first post is not correct I think.

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-25
> **linuxopjemac said:**
> well, the maximum resolution of your monitor is, according to your link, 1280x1024. Let's focus on that then.

A PowerMac G5 has different graphics cards. You have to really first find out which exact model G5 you have. It should have a model number on the case somewhere.

Have a look here:
[http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/powermac_g5/faq/powermac-g5-adc-ports-dvi-ports-resolutions-supported.html](http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/powermac_g5/faq/powermac-g5-adc-ports-dvi-ports-resolutions-supported.html)

The info you gave us in the first post is not correct I think.
The computer is a G5 1.8 DP(pci-x)
The video card is the Nvidia GeForce FX 5200 Ultra with ADC and DVI outputs.

Thanks,
Josh

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-25
Over my lunch break I just had a successful install of Xubuntu 9.04.
:)

I like the lightness of XCFE anyways.
I left it installing updates on it's way to 9.10.

I guess I'll see how it's doing when I get home from work.

-Josh

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-25
Xubuntu updated itself to 9.10 just fine.
:)

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-26
Would you be so kind to share your xorg.conf file ?

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-26
> **linuxopjemac said:**
> Would you be so kind to share your xorg.conf file ?
As soon as I'm back at the house and get a chance I'll post it here.

Thanks for all your help. :)

-Josh

---

### Post by jpbturbo on 2010-05-28
So I looked and there is not an xorg.conf in my /etc/X11 folder.
Where can it be now?

-Josh

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-05-29
Then there is none, apparently it can work without.

---

