---
title: "14.04 as native OS on MacBook pro."
date: 2016-03-02
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Nane_89 on 2016-03-02
Hello!

As the title says, I wonder if it's possible to run Ubuntu 14.04 as native OS on a MacBook pro? 

Before i commit to this setup i have certain requirements. 

1. I want to clone my OSX hardrive and store the backup. Effectively making it possible to revert to OSX as native OS at any time, should i choose to do so.

2. I want to unpack my backup of OSX to my external SSD making it possible to boot into OSX from that drive.

3. I want Ubuntu 14.04 to boot as default OS (on my internal mac hard drive without creating partitions). 

I have been using CloneZilla previously, which is a great way to store images of your hard drive and to revert back at time. Are there any similar alternatives to mac?

Thank you!

---

### Post by Bob_Bruce on 2016-03-11
Don't see why not, I've been using Ubuntu on my 2009 iMac for going on 2 months now and it works great. I did have to select the latest Nvidia driver and tweak the settings with the Nvidia app (to lower brightness mainly) but other than that it's been very stable and definitely faster than OS X El Cap. I first created a partition, booted from a USB stick created using unetbootin, then installed to the new partition after trying it out.

---

### Post by cbtengr on 2016-03-14
I have used SuperDuper for cloning and booting from an ext HD on an older Macbook. The free version should do what you want.
The paid version allows for updating the cloned copy.

[http://www.shirt-pocket.com/SuperDuper/SuperDuperDescription.html](http://www.shirt-pocket.com/SuperDuper/SuperDuperDescription.html)

---

### Post by Carpentr on 2016-03-16
Yes, it is possible. Though, I always leave a small partition with OSX installed in case of firmware updates from Apple. I have seen videos of people on YouTube booting from externals as you mentioned - that should solve the firmware and void warranty dilemma.

---

