---
title: "OSX 10.5.7 on MSI Wind U100 + Jaunty: use rEFIt or not?"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by quixote on 2009-07-14
I really want an OSX + Netbook Remix dual boot set up.  I thought it would be a simple matter of installing both OSes and using grub.  As you can see, I don't use Macs much :p .  Once I installed 9.04 Netbook Remix, my OSX disappeared.  I had six hours to get the computer (which belongs to someone else) ready to use with OSX before a trip, so out went NBRemix :( , and I set the OSX back up again.

Next week I may have a chance to put NBR back on, but this time I have to be **sure** I won't blow up the OSX install.  So I've been trying to give myself an education on what's involved.  The problem is, I'm not sure which advice to follow, or how.

1) I have to start from OSX, not a clean install.  I left 40GB free space in a second partition (using Disk Utilities) for the eventual NBR.

2) Should I install rEFIt from OSX, BEFORE installing NBR?

3) When I install NBR, do I still need to be careful, like I saw in one of the stickies on this forum, to go to Advanced Settings just before hitting the install button, and make sure the bootloader is headed for the Ubuntu partition?  I was puzzled about this point.  What I remember seeing in Advanced Settings is only whether I want package use to be reported back to ubuntu.com.  Is there really an option there to specify where grub goes? (I could have easily missed it as one of those I-don't-get-what-this-does things.)

4) And will I have to go around blessing partitions (and how many Hail Marys does it take??) once I'm done, and if so how?  I'm even less clear on that part of the process than all the others.

(In case anyone is wondering why I'm asking here instead of the MSIWind forums, well, their forums are fine, but not super, like ubuntuforums :D )

---

### Post by quixote on 2009-07-15
(Erm, . . . anybody?  cyberdork33  :biggrin: ? )

---

