---
title: "Ubuntu 8.04 + Macbook (5,1) Getting nvidia drivers to work..."
date: 2009-01-04
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by samuelll101 on 2009-01-04
Hi

I just preformed a new install of Ubuntu 8.04 on my new Macbook (5,1) e.g. the late 2008 MacBook Pro and I can't get my graphics card to work.

I have tried:
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-177
and
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-173

(says "Couldn't find package nvidia-glx-177")

and mucked around in Synaptic Package Manager but can't get it to work.

Any suggestions?

Thanks!

---

### Post by bryonak on 2009-01-04
What does System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers offer you?

Also I would strongly recommend 8.10 on the new Macs, since it has improvements for the new hardware and LTS (8.04) doesn't mean much for laptops anyway.
I'm not sure but it might be that the newer Nvidia drivers aren't backported to 8.04.

Additionaly, it helps to add the Mactel repository... just skim through the "Apple Intel Users FAQ" thread at the top of this forum.

---

### Post by samuelll101 on 2009-01-04
Hey


What does System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers offer you?
Just the wireless driver.


I hear what you are saying about 8.10 but I really need 8.04 for some work I am doing. So would like to have a proper go at seeing if anything will work before I have to swap.


I add these lines to /etc/apt/sources.list:
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu) hardy main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu) hardy main

But then couldn't find hal-applesmc or applesmc-dkms in the Synaptic package manager. Am I doing anything wrong?

Thanks so far!

---

### Post by bryonak on 2009-01-04
Did you reload the cached lists? Either in Synaptic (the Reload button) or the terminal:```
sudo aptitude update
```
I can't see you doing something wrong from what you posted...


You should do the following before we continue with the video drivers:
System -> Administration -> Software Sources
Check *everything* on the first page.
You can also see if it recognized the Mactel repos on the "Third-Party Software" page.
Then go to the "Updates" page and check the Unsupported updates (hardy-backports), if you want 8.10 drivers to be available in 8.04. Beware that they aren't really tested well and may lead to buggy behaviour, since they focus on 8.10.

I don't know if the new Nvidia drivers are in the backports for 8.04, or maybe they're even fully supported...
How about using **nvidia-glx-new**, which was the standard driver on 8.04 for new Nvidia cards. You can install it via synaptic/aptitude.


I can't understand why someone wants to keep 8.04 over 8.10 on a laptop (especially since the newer Ubuntu has some power saving improvements), but you have your reasons I guess ;)

---

### Post by samuelll101 on 2009-01-05
Yep check everything was up to date and have tried a lot included numerous restarts.

Tried the nvidia-glx-new and then a host of the others version. Including hardy-backports. Nothing

I add these lines to /etc/apt/sources.list:
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu) intrepid main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/mactel-support/ubuntu) intrepid main
Then I could find hal-applesmc and applesmc-dkms in the Synaptic package manager. Installed but nothing.


Looking more and more like I am going to have to move... :(

---

### Post by bryonak on 2009-01-05
One last shot before suggesting that you should install 8.10....

Could you paste the whole contents of this, as executed from a terminal or the Alt+F2 prompt:```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```


The main issue is that the 5th generation Macs are pretty new hardware (specification wise), so drivers for it couldn't have been coded when Ubuntu 8.04 came out in April.
Now if nobody has made the new drivers that are in 8.10 work with 8.04, or if we don't discover a configuration glitch (for example in the xorg.conf), I can only advise you to install 8.10 from scratch.

---

### Post by samuelll101 on 2009-01-05
OK cool

I have also tried:
Installed EnvyNG but it didn't detect my graphics card.

Found a beta driver on the nVidia website, but installed and then didn't work. [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_180.17.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_180.17.html)

My xorg.conf

```


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"mac"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


```


Will editing this file with:
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Intrepid#Reconfigure_xserver-xorg](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Intrepid#Reconfigure_xserver-xorg)
or
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook5-1/Intrepid](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook5-1/Intrepid)
have any effect?

Thanks again

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-01-05
many of the packages in the mactel-support repo are not available for Hardy as the changes were made for Intrepid packages.

Also, what is it in Hardy that you need to stick with it? The Macbook 5,1 line was not even released when Hardy came about, so you are really undertaking a painful task.

---

### Post by bryonak on 2009-01-05
> **samuelll101 said:**
> 
Installed EnvyNG but it didn't detect my graphics card.


Envy is bleeding edge and takes the unaltered drivers directly from the manufacturers. These sometimes lack the needed adaptation to a specific distro, especially if that distro's kernel has been customized.
Nvidia mainly cares about making their drivers compatible with the new kernel versions, whereas the 8.04 kernel is almost 10 months old now. I think the main issue is that your kernel can't load the driver module while at the same time the graphics adapter of your Macbook requires a new driver.

> 
Will editing this file with:
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Intrepid#Reconfigure_xserver-xorg](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Intrepid#Reconfigure_xserver-xorg)
or
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook5-1/Intrepid](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook5-1/Intrepid)
have any effect?


The command in the first link will set your xorg.conf to a default state, as it is now. You can see it at line 15 of your xorg.conf.

The Mactel page doesn't offer a quick solution, as far as I can tell by skimming through.


One thing to notice with your xorg.conf is that it doesn't specify a video driver. This should be done when you install them with Synaptic/aptitude, but obviously didn't work.
You might want to alter this manually, by hitting Alt+F2 and
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and making the "Configured Video Device" section look like this:
```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"DRIVER_NAME"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```
For the "DRIVER NAME" you can try entering "nvidia", though I'm rather sceptical about this working.
To see if it did, save it and then hit Ctrl+Alt+Backspace, which will restart your graphical system.
If all fails, you can always try the old and simple but stable and proven "nv" driver, which lacks 3D acceleration and doesn't officially support cards newer than GeForce 8xxx, but might just work.

That's about everything I can think of except installing 8.10 (or getting lucky and finding someone to adapt the drivers for the new hardware to an "old" version of Ubuntu... it is LTS, but that's meant for patch support and stability, not bleeding edge hardware)

---

### Post by samuelll101 on 2009-01-06
nope :( didn't work

Well thanks for all the help!!! Much appreciated.

I am going to try 8.10....

and the reason I wanted hardy because intrepid has problems with my Universities wireless network and the fact I am a team making some software and we wanted to develop on the same OS and same version of all programs and libraries (just trying to stay as safe a possible). I think intrepid should be okay though.

x

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-01-06
> **samuelll101 said:**
> nope :( didn't work

Well thanks for all the help!!! Much appreciated.

I am going to try 8.10....

and the reason I wanted hardy because intrepid has problems with my Universities wireless network and the fact I am a team making some software and we wanted to develop on the same OS and same version of all programs and libraries (just trying to stay as safe a possible). I think intrepid should be okay though.

x
You could just run a VM:
[www.virtualbox.org](www.virtualbox.org)

---

