---
title: "10.04 on MacBook Pro 6,2 stuck at splash"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by schauerlich on 2010-05-02
I just picked up a new MacBook Pro (15 inch Core i7), and I'm having some issues with 10.04. I got the 64-bit alternate .iso and installed Ubuntu fine (except for grub, which I had to install afterwards). Once I had grub taken care of, I tried to boot into Ubuntu. It gets stuck on the splash screen, and doesn't move after ~20 minutes. I've also downloaded both the 64- and 32-bit Desktop CD's, and can't boot off of them - it gets to the same point in the splash screen and stops, and the CD drive spins down. Has anyone else run into similar issues?

EDIT: just thought I should make a note, I can boot into recovery mode fine, so I don't think I borked the install. It just appears to be getting stuck somewhere in the normal boot process.

EDIT 2: It appears to be an issue with the NVidia drivers, I've included my solution in [post #3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9230120&postcount=3).

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-05-03
i dont have a mac, 
but myself, and some others had this problem..
for me.. it was as easy as hitting spacebar at the purple splash screen with the 2 white logos at the bottom.
 then i just entered the system through the ubuntu menu that came up,
(i did the "try without changes) for a few runs) lol
and away she went. 
then installed it a day or so later.. now my old box boots up and is ready in 15 seconds 'tops..
more like 10 probably. 

i still have a minor graphics card issue,
but even so..  it is running beautifully. 

 hope you get it going soon.
 someone wiser will pop in im sure. lol

good luck.

edit: oops, you can get into recovery mode... 
nevermind.. lol, mybad.
i couldnt even get there at first.
hmm...

---

### Post by schauerlich on 2010-05-03
Hey, just want to let everyone know that I resolved this. It appears to be a problem with the NVidia drivers. Booting with nomodeset showed a bunch of error messages similar to this generated by nouveau:
```
[ 13.536230][drm] nouveau 0000:01:00.0: 0xC64B: Init table command not found: 0x3A
[ 13.536230][drm] nouveau 0000:01:00.0: SOR: link training failed
BUG: scheduling while atomic: swapper/0/0x10010000
```

In case anyone has similar issues, this is what I did:

[list][*]In the grub menu, select Ubuntu (recovery mode)
[*]Select "low graphics mode" (or something similar). If it's still spamming error messages at you (which it did to me), it should be the 3rd option (i think)
[*]Select "log in in low graphics mode for one session"
[*]Go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers
[*]Install the restricted NVidia drivers
[*]Reboot[/list]

After this, it appears to work fine. Best of luck to anyone else who encounters this.

---

