---
title: "9.10 on G3/Blue and White Mac"
date: 2010-01-29
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Dark_Ronius on 2010-01-29
Hi all

After many attempts, I finally managed to get Xubuntu installed through a minimal cd. Despite being forced to fix xorg.conf using the terminal (as none of the gui was being displayed), I finally got to a point where the gui seemed to be working fine, although in 8-bit colour.

I have tried modifying the xorg.conf to a number of different versions suggested on this site and others (basically replacing it with the original Mac OS X file), and now I get an error every time I start Xubuntu that xserver (i think) failed to start, and I'm given the option to start in low graphics mode, recreate the graphics files or load a back-up (I can't remember the exact wording as I am typing this on the same computer at the moment).

On other subjects, sound does not seem to be working either. And on Firefox the Weave add on keeps coming back with errors, despite it being the same version as on my other computers.

If anyone can help with any of these problems I'd be most grateful; although what it bugging me most at the minute is the 8-bit graphics!!

All the best

Gary

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-01-29
First of all, you need at least 256 Mb RAM, for good graphics, otherwise you get a low graphic error. Secondly, if you want a working Xorg.conf file, with an ATI as device driver, follow [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1392023").

---

### Post by LtPitt on 2010-01-29
Hello there!

I'm glad you take a little time to spice up your sweet g3 :D

I solved this really easily for my powerbook g3 300mhz 128mb :)

Here's how:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8742495#post8742495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8742495#post8742495)


I also can gave a little information about my fast install if it feels "sluggish" for you :)

Have fun!

---

