---
title: "12.10 install on Macbook5,1"
date: 2013-02-28
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by wgpenney on 2013-02-28
Has an body had success on installing this? I can't seem to get into Unity, it keeps dumping me to command mode after install. If i startx from there it errors on "No screen found". I've tried to install nvidia-current-updates but afterwards it says that it fails to load module nvidia_current no found. I tried installing linux-headers-'uname -r'[FONT=Ubuntu Mono, Ubuntu Beta Mono A, Consolas, Bitstream Vera Sans Mono, Courier New, Courier, monospace] to no avail. This is on a late 2008 macbook with an Nvidia 9400M card.[/FONT]

---

### Post by AestheticArson on 2013-03-04
Hey wgpenny, here is a really good thread for the MacBook Pro 5,1 im not sure if this will work for the MacBook 5,1 but check it out [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2088983&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2088983&page=2)

---

### Post by AestheticArson on 2013-03-04
Also one quick setting to check while attempting an install is to press any key during the live CD boot when you see the keyboard icon.this will bring you to a menu. While in current menu press F6, which will display a drop down menu. Select "nomodeset" press enter and then select which live CD boot option you prefer.

---

### Post by wgpenney on 2013-03-04
Thanks for your response guys. I'm currently on 12.4 which I've also had some struggles with, mainly the graphic card. I had to use the nomodeset method on the Gurb menu to get to the installation. I'm happy with it right now but if need to upgrade I'll be much more knowledgeable when the time comes.

---

