---
title: "9.04 / Early 2008 Macbook Pro Temperature Issue"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Moptop650 on 2009-04-23
Hi guys. I've just installed 9.04 on my macbook pro, and everything works great! However, I've run across one very worrisome issue - it doesn't seem to control the fans, regardless of temperature.

I installed the lm-sensors and the sensors-applet, so I can keep an eye on the cpu temperature. I launched Phun to torture my CPU, and it heated up to 170 degrees F, and my GPU to 180 degrees F. At this point I was like CRAP and closed it, and set my fans to max until it cooled down. Under OsX or Windows 7, it will _NEVER_ keep the fans at minimum if it gets that hot. Any idea how I can fix it?

Thanks,
-Dave

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-04-23
Please check the documentation for your Mac:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MactelSupportTeam/CommunityHelpPages](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MactelSupportTeam/CommunityHelpPages)

You need the applesmc module

---

### Post by Moptop650 on 2009-04-23
Hey, thanks for the reply. I added applesmc to /etc/modules and rebooted, and ran my test again, but the same thing happened - the CPU got to 160 and the GPU to 180, and the fans didn't go any higher then 2000 rpm, the minimum.

---

### Post by Moptop650 on 2009-04-25
Bump

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-04-25
> **Moptop650 said:**
> Bump
just set your minimum higher... there are some threads around with scripts that can better manage the fan speed if that is what you are looking for.

---

### Post by Moptop650 on 2009-04-28
I don't think setting the minimum is feasible, I can't keep it on max for power reasons, but I would have to for safety for the laptop reasons, like if I left it unattended and something happened. 

Why isn't 9.04 capable of regulating the fans when 8.10 did it fine? I find that absolutely ridiculous.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-04-28
> **Moptop650 said:**
> Why isn't 9.04 capable of regulating the fans when 8.10 did it fine? I find that absolutely ridiculous.
If this is the case, then you need to file a bug report.

---

