---
title: "Ubuntu 9.04 colors on iMac G3 look horrible!"
date: 2009-10-20
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by victoral.com on 2009-10-20
Hey so I have an imac g3 ppc 350Mhz and installed with ubuntu 9.04. The computer runs great, but the colors look worse than Windows in 16 bit color. And I was wondering... could it be the xorg.conf file? Here's my file by the way:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    BusID        "PCI:6:3:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Also, When I installed 9.04 the live cd shutdown my computer every time I used the **live** option. so I used instead** live-nosplash-powerpc video=ofonly** do you think that might have an effect on my installation?

---

