---
title: "6.06 LTS upgrade to 8.04 LTS fails (on iMac G3)"
date: 2008-12-07
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by swimon on 2008-12-07
Hello, I am trying to upgrade my xubuntu 6.06 to 8.04 using the upgrade manager but I get the following errors:

When pressing the "check button" in update manager:
> **Could not download all repository indexes **
The repository might be no longer available or could not be contacted because of network problems. 
If available an older version of the failed index will be used. Otherwise the repository will be ignored. 
Check your network connection and the correct writing of the repository address in the preferences.

[http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/dapper-backports/main/debian-installer/binary-powerpc/Packages.gz:](http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports/dists/dapper-backports/main/debian-installer/binary-powerpc/Packages.gz:) 404 Not Found
 
When pressing "New distribution release '8.04.1 LTS' "upgrade"":
> **Getting upgrade prerequisites failed**
The system was unable to get the prerequisites for the upgrade. 
The upgrade will abort now and restore the original system state.

Please report this as a bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the files in /var/log/dist-upgrade/ in the bugreport.


How can I update to 8.04?

Grtz!! Thx.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2008-12-07
I had the same problem and wound up just installing 8.04. I believe I read latter the problem is with the repositories list. I don't remember the solution. Maybe you could search the forum for a thread that discusses this problem. Or maybe someone that remembers better will respond and give you a better answer. If you don't have too much to back up a clean install will be just about as fast.

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-12-08
yeah, but there doesn't seem to be a xubuntu 8.04 release?

or at least it's not mentioned in the stickies...

and i'm also worried the installation might fail, because I tried xubuntu 8.10 and xubuntu 7.10 and they both didn't function properly...

grtzz

---

### Post by c0d3n9n3 on 2010-10-06
any progress with this? I am sure this old hardware can be put to use, media server, music server, what ever.. something ?

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2010-10-07
I can recommend MintPPC:
[http://mac.linux.be/content/mintppc-9-released](http://mac.linux.be/content/mintppc-9-released)

---

