---
title: "8.10 on Macbook Pro Freezing Completely"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by alexmanners on 2008-11-01
I recently partitioned my drive and install ubuntu onto it using the guides on this site. It is the most recent Macbook Pro before the last update by apple (Penryn I believe it's called; 4,1) and it worked really well when I first installed it on my laptop. After I installed compiz fusion and applied all the restricted drivers, it continued to work perfectly; but all of a sudden a problem appeared. Whenever I use the laptop for an extended period of time, doesn't matter if its idle or in use, the entire system will lock up and nothing will respond: the mouse doesn't move, the keyboard is locked, hitting power button does nothing, etc. I have to hard reboot to get it to work, then the same problem will occur again after some use. I think the problem may be with Compiz fusion, but  I'm not sure, any help would be appreciated!

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-01
Random freezes are dreadful problems, because they can be really hard to find. It sounds like you have an idea already, which is good. The best advice I can give you is to uninstall compiz, and continue to use the machine. If the problem doesnt show up in three days, you might have the reason. Otherwise, one has to start over with another assumption...

If the freeze is kernel related, you might find something useful in /var/log/kern.log.0.

The problem could also be the window manager. If you have, say, sshd installed, and can reach the computer from another machine, you can test logging into it after it freezes.

There is also the possibility of a hardware problem, most notably memory. Running memtest from the boot menu could be useful.

From you description, it sounds like you did some manual work to install Intrepid. It could be a good idea to run the live CD for a while, to see if you experience the same problem.

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-02
Question: was the wl wireless driver among the restricted drivers you added?

Did you by any chance disconnect/unplug/move-away-from the wireless router when this problem happened?

---

### Post by alexmanners on 2008-11-02
I did enable the wireless driver in the restricted driver thing, and I don't believe unplugging or anything changes whether it dies or not because it happens on wireless and wired... but I can check again.

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-02
Did you find out if your system can be reached with ping or ssh when frozen? If it can, the problem resides above the kernel, and the wl driver can be ruled out. Also, if this is the case, there is one old report, claiming the ClickFinger options might cause strange effect. You may want to remove those options temporarily (or set them all to 1). Again, only if you can ping the computer after freeze.

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-03
Is mouseemu installed? If it is, please uninstall and see if it helps.

---

### Post by alexmanners on 2008-11-05
The problem appears to be attached to the wireless internet driver... When I disabled the restricted driver I had no problems with my laptop for the time that I used it. Then I tried to reactivate the driver and the laptop froze again... Any ideas?

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-05
```

dmesg | grep wl

```
to start off, but this driver is very much unknown territory. You might want to file a bugzilla against the linux package, the kernel team is likely to follow up on wireless problems in intrepid.

Another question: Any problems with temperature? For those that experience extreme heat, the computer might freeze as a safety measure: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969183](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969183)

---

### Post by alexmanners on 2008-11-05
> **kosumi68 said:**
> ```

dmesg | grep wl

```
to start off, but this driver is very much unknown territory. You might want to file a bugzilla against the linux package, the kernel team is likely to follow up on wireless problems in intrepid.

Another question: Any problems with temperature? For those that experience extreme heat, the computer might freeze as a safety measure: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969183](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969183)

I'll file that report... and I don't know about the temperature actually. From feeling it the computer gets pretty hot but I don't know how I could check it and I definitely don't know how to regulate it. Is there any way to fix the "maybe" over heating issue?

---

### Post by alexmanners on 2008-11-06
It is definitely the wireless driver that is causing the problem. I installed and monitored the fan speeds/temperature. I can use the laptop without failure or freezing and the temperature is fine. But when I enable the restricted driver the entire laptop freezes and becomes unusable; is there any way to avoid this problem and still use wireless cause I kind of need a wireless connection...

---

### Post by _mario_ on 2008-11-07
> **alexmanners said:**
> It is definitely the wireless driver that is causing the problem. ... But when I enable the restricted driver the entire laptop freezes and becomes unusable; is there any way to avoid this problem and still use wireless cause I kind of need a wireless connection...

i have a MacBookPro 4,1 and observed the same effect. unfortunately, there's no known solution yet. the proprietary driver simply crashes when connecting to some networks. thus, i currently still use ndiswrapper (worse link quality, but much more stable). installation instructions can be found [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro_Penryn").

ciao,
Mario

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-07
Some people report the problem being dependent on the type of connection: WPA2, WAP, WEP... I run an open network with the wl driver without problems.

---

### Post by pgrilo on 2008-11-07
> **kosumi68 said:**
> Some people report the problem being dependent on the type of connection: WPA2, WAP, WEP... I run an open network with the wl driver without problems.

The same happens on a black macbook 4,1.

Open wifi spots, no problems..

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-07
I believe this is a bug and since Broadcom has no bug tracker (that I know of). You can contact them here:
[http://www.broadcom.com/contact/feedback.php](http://www.broadcom.com/contact/feedback.php)

Be sure to mention that you are using their driver here:
[http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php](http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php)

---

### Post by phico on 2009-01-14
I confirm the issue.  Restricted wireless driver has a bug and is responsible of the complete freeze.
MacBook pro 4.1 on ubuntu 8.10

---

