---
title: "8.04 Video Issues on a Santa Rosa MacBook Pro"
date: 2008-05-21
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by paulreetz on 2008-05-21
I am trying to get 8.04 installed on my MBP.  I have followed the official wiki and can get all the steps to work except for sound and video (but I think I know what's wrong with the sound so that's another matter).  The problem with video is that nvidia-glx-new simply will not show up in the restricted drivers list.  I know it used to be there, right after the initial install, but at some point it went away and never returned.  I have tried re-downloading it via synaptic package manager, apt-get AND envy, none of these methods caused it to reappear in the restricted drivers list.

How do I get nvidia-glx-new to show up in the restricted drivers menu/how do I use the driver for the system?

If it helps:  I seem to remember trying to update the driver while I was in my lab, not realizing there was no internet at the time.  Obviously this shouldn't do anything but it was a the only thing I did affecting this driver and it was around the time the trouble started.

Thanks in advance for the help!

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-05-21
try [envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

---

### Post by paulreetz on 2008-05-21
> **cyberdork33 said:**
> try [envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

As I mentioned in the OP I've already tried envy.  When the envy driver installed it took slightly longer to reboot and stuck me in 800x600.  I googled around for a bit and only found "uninstall envy drivers" as a fix.  When I tried with envy there was a window at startup that asked me to select a driver, I tried many of these and nothing seemed to work.

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-05-21
> **paulreetz said:**
> As I mentioned in the OP I've already tried envy.  When the envy driver installed it took slightly longer to reboot and stuck me in 800x600.  I googled around for a bit and only found "uninstall envy drivers" as a fix.  When I tried with envy there was a window at startup that asked me to select a driver, I tried many of these and nothing seemed to work.
sorry i missed that.

---

### Post by paulreetz on 2008-05-23
anyone have any ideas?  the strange thing is that the restricted driver was there when I first installed the OS.

---

