---
title: "12.04 “Try Ubuntu without installing” results in graphical artifacts on MacBookPro 5,"
date: 2012-06-08
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-08
Hello, I am trying to bless my MacBookPro 5,3  (Unibody/Core2Duo/Nvidia 9400M+Nvidia 9600M GT) with Ubuntu 12.04  (already got refit running), but everytime i select Try Ubuntu without installing, it will lockup and **always** give me **the same coloured graphical artifacts** all over the screen. Whether i use a CD-ROM or a USB Stick, it does not change a thing.


  1) [http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/823/p6080962.jpg/](http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/823/p6080962.jpg/)
  2) [http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/266/p6080964.jpg/](http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/266/p6080964.jpg/)
  

Is there anything else that can be done or am i stuck for now? Thanks!

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-08
Have you tried to add:

```
nomodeset xforcevesa
```

... to the boot options in the initial screen (the one where you can select the language, etc. etc.)?

---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-08
Thanks, i think i once got a screen, where i can select languages by booting from the cd rom, but i dunno if i can get back there. Thing is it will just go into a loop of itself, when i turn it on and i dont wanna have to force out the CD again. 
Btw thanks for that. Gave me the shock.

The way i do it now is choose the usb stick from rEFIt and then i land directly, where i can choose from the 3 options. 

[http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/823/p6080962.jpg/](http://imageshack.us/photo/my-images/823/p6080962.jpg/)

How can i change boot options from there?

Thanks.

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-08
Maybe this could work: select *Try Ubuntu without installing* and hit the **E** key to edit the boot options.

Worth a try, anyway...

P.S.: I also found this interesting link:

[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Edit%20Mode.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Edit%20Mode.html)

... which might be useful for additional information on this.

---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-08
Ok i got it (sorry for being blind), but now it says error unknown command 
nomodeset/xforcevesa , when i put it in the lowest line. 

PS: Md5 is correct.

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-08
You should put those parameters in the line containing also "quiet splash" and so on.

Maybe try only with *nomodeset* the first time...?

(It's difficult to say something more precise, without more info.)

---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-08
How exactly? 

"quiet splash -- nomodeset"?



Im starting to get the feeling it is very hard to get some actual information on how to install ubuntu on a macbook 5,3 with dual graphic.

I dont know anymore which way is the best. 

For example just found out there is talk of a mac.iso, which exist, but i can only download the amd64.iso on the frontpage.

And then i read there are diffrent methods of booting Ubuntu on macs. 

One site says i gotta install windows first and then it takes that as an advantage to boot from and then x feature will work, but y feature wont. And when i go the other route ubuntu might trash my mac installation. 
And my head just starts to spin.

I already put it on pc, but this is madness.

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-08
Yes, exactly: you should add *nomodeset* and/or other boot options right after the "--" (of course, with a space in-between).

The Mac ISO, available from here:

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release)

... should be better suited for modern, 64-bit Intel Macs.

IIRC, you should also be able to bypass the Grub boot menu by holding down the **C** key when booting from the live CD: this, after hitting any key, should take you to the "real" CD boot screen (the one where you can select the language, etc. etc.), which might be simpler (by hitting **F6**, one can choose additional boot options directly from a menu).

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-08
BTW, here is an interesting page:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

... where all this is explained for the live CD's boot screen; especially this:

[IMG]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Boot-F6-Other.png[/IMG]

... might be useful (see also the various boot options worth trying, if there still are problems).

---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-08
Thanks, Acpi=off parameter works with the alternative iso.

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-09
So, did you manage to boot into the graphical desktop? What happened with the *nomodeset* option?

BTW, the picture above was only an example of the boot options one can choose with **F6** (I didn't mean that you should choose *acpi=off*, if not absolutely necessary)...

P.S.: Your MacBook Pro 5,3 might have problems with Ubuntu also because of the dual graphics cards; for example, yesterday I verified that my mid-2009 2.53 GHz MacBook Pro 5,4 boots the "+mac" desktop CD without any problems (and also with the full graphical bootsplash), without any additional boot parameters: but it has only one, integrated graphics card (the 9400M).

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-09
FYI, there are 2 versions also of the "+mac" (Intel 64-bit) CD:

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release/ubuntu-12.04-desktop-amd64+mac.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release/ubuntu-12.04-desktop-amd64+mac.iso)

(the desktop and graphical installer CD), and:

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release/ubuntu-12.04-alternate-amd64+mac.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/12.04/release/ubuntu-12.04-alternate-amd64+mac.iso)

(the text-based installer CD, which can also be used if one has problems with the other one).

---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-09
Yep, thanks to you i am on linux now. ):P

Indeed it was just setting "aspci=off" in the bootoptions, using the alternate mac iso. 

And yes it gave me the text-based installer. Did not even know what mount points were, 
but then i watched someone doing a linux installation with a gui and then i figured it out from there 
by goin back into mac os x and partitioning the drive accordingly. :p

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-09
Ah, good to know! :) :cool:

---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-09
Yep, altho after merilly setting it all up, i found out that the actual command i used above is not to be reccomend for laptops. For example it does not allow for the fans to turn. Quite dangerous in summer. 

I tried to reactive it afterwards by editing the grub.conf (i think that was it, but im not sure), but i failed (thanks again to superb instructions), leaving me only with a working clock, keyboard and touchpad freezing right after login.
:lolflag:

If instructions were more clear on how to exactly alter boot parameters, not just use this in that file without knowing exactly where it goes, then that would maybe enable newcomers to install it properly. 

Besides that another thing i have thought about is reformatting the drive to use fat 32 or whatever else is more compatible with linux, but for that i need to figure out my backup options.

---

### Post by EuroCity on 2012-06-10
Here is a good tutorial:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

To edit the boot options once the system is installed, do this:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

... and save; and then:

```
sudo update-grub
```

... which makes the changes effective at boot.

The relevant line, in the file above, is:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```

... where you can add additional parameters inside the quotes, such as *acpi=off* and others.

But is *acpi=off* really necessary? Doesn't the system boot, without adding this option?

---

### Post by jonas2012 on 2012-06-10
Thanks, i managed to edit GRUB at startup back to default and now there are no more freezes.
Also the temperature is back to more acceptable level now. Without fans it was 70C in idle.  :lolflag:
Now it is ~50C.

---

