---
title: "11.04 compatibility with MBP 6,2?"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Raditude on 2011-04-28
I just got an update notification to install 11.04. Before updating, I just want to verify and see if anyone has run into any problems before I give it a go.

I have a MacBook Pro 6,2, currently with 4 Gigs of Ram, but I'm planning on upgrading that to 8 Gigs. I have read of trouble with some MacBooks not booting Ubuntu with more than 6 Gigs.

I was wondering if 11.04 fixes anything from the previous versions... The trackpad,being the main thing.

---

### Post by chad.davis on 2011-04-28
I only used 10.10 briefly before going to Natty, which I've been using since alpha on a MBP6,2. Wifi and Nvidia drivers are now included and installed by default. I haven't got the backlight controls working yet, but haven't tested the mactel support ppa yet. I've also got 4GB of RAM, so I don't know about results with 8GB. I don't recall how the trackpad in 10.10 was. In what way is it broken in 10.10?

---

### Post by lael on 2011-04-28
I have a MacBookPro6,1 which is basically the same thing as you have.  I have 8GB of ram, I think the post that you were talking about was a complaint of someone running into issues while upgrading a MBP 5,3 from 4 to 8GB.

Good to hear that the wifi drivers are working for you in 11.04.  What Wireless card do you have?

This is what I have:
```
$ lspci -nn |grep 802
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4353] (rev 01)
```

I haven't updated yet, but **Don't forget to backup.**

---

### Post by Raditude on 2011-04-28
The Trackpad is too sensitive, and doesn't let you use two fingers to scroll, and with the buttons built into the trackpad, it is hard to point and click. You also can't right click with it.

---

### Post by pounsg on 2011-04-29
Hi,
I've got a macbook pro 6,2 with 8G of RAM and I don't have any problem with natty (except the backlight)

---

### Post by chad.davis on 2011-04-29
My MBP6,2 also the Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n card and natty has the broadcom-sta-common driver pre-installed and working fine. (Nice that proprietary drivers are installed by default). I haven't done any speed tests vs other drivers, but I have no issues.

Regarding the trackpad, two-finger scrolling in natty is fine. I don't use the button, I just tap-to-click. Right click is two-finger tap and the multitouch allows three-finger drag to move windows (at the expense of losing an explicit middle click). Of course, you can also create a dead zone along the bottom edge of the pad, if you want to be able to to "click with one finger and drag with another" like on Mac OS (haven't tested it myself, though).

---

