---
title: "Mac mini 2,1 dual boot Xubuntu 18.04.2 + Mac OSX 10.5.8 - works with slight issues"
date: 2020-10-30
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by elegie on 2020-10-30
I installed Xubuntu 18.04.2 (i386 architecture, 32-bit) on a Mac mini (model Macmini2,1) as a dual boot installation along with an existing installation of Mac OSX 10.5.8. (One of the reasons for installing Xubuntu was to have an up-to-date operating system while still keeping a version of Mac OSX around for certain purposes.) Using the information in [this Ask Ubuntu post]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/293028/how-can-i-install-ubuntu-encrypted-with-luks-with-dual-boot"), among other sources, I set up the Xubuntu installation to have root (/) on a partition encrypted with LUKS, along with an unencrypted partition for /boot. I did not create a logical volume for swap space; the installation has a swap file instead.

To install Xubuntu, I booted the Mac mini from a liveDVD. (Among other reasons, I do not know as to whether that model of Mac mini can boot from USB devices.) However, it appeared that there was an issue where the live-booted Xubuntu would become unresponsive after a while. In at least one case, this happened on the last screen displayed by the graphical installer (titled "Who are you?" and asking for information about the initial user account) before starting the actual installation. One thought that came to mind was that heat was accumulating inside the Mac and that the increased heat was affecting the operation of the system. Placing an external fan that would blow air through a paper tube and approximately accross the back panel of the Mac mini appeared to resolve this issue and allowed the installation to succeed.

For the boot loader/boot manager, I installed GRUB onto the specific partition (/dev/sda3) where /boot was. In particular, this can be done using a a command such as 'sudo grub-install --target=i386-pc --force /dev/sda3' (note the need for the '--force' option.) In ArchWiki for Arch Linux there is an [entry]("https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GRUB/Tips_and_tricks#Install_to_partition_or_partitionless_disk") about installing GRUB to a specific partition; the information about setting the immutable attribute on the /boot/grub/i386-pc/core.img file may be of interest. (It is probably necessary to temporarily remove the immutable attribute from that file in order to update GRUB.)

When the Mac mini starts up, it is possible to bring up Apple's built-in boot manager by holding down the Option key while the system is started. (If a firmware password is set, it will be necessary to enter the password before being able to access the boot manager.) From this boot manager, there is a choice of the "Macintosh HD" volume and the "Windows" volume, in addition to any bootable CD or DVD that is inserted. After installing Xubuntu, choosing to boot from the "Windows" volume in the boot manager led to a black screen with the error 'Missing operating system'. What I did was to boot the Mac mini using a copy of rEFIt that had been burned onto a CD. From what I remember, in rEFIt, there was an option to boot a "Legacy OS" (or something like that) and by using that option, I was able to have the system successfully load GRUB. In GRUB, if no option is chosen within a certain number of seconds, then Xubuntu boots. For some reason, since booting Xubuntu the first time using rEFIt, it appears that it is now possible to boot GRUB (and then Xubuntu) simply by bringing up Apple's built-in boot manager and choosing to boot from the "Windows" volume. I do not know why this is the case. Perhaps someone else knows. Being able to boot Xubuntu via the Apple boot manager is convenient.

After installing Xubuntu, I let the system restart and boot into Mac OS X. The installation of Xubuntu and the rebooting into Mac OS X was done without the Mac mini having Internet connectivity. I subsequently booted the Mac mini into Xubuntu and then established an Internet connection in order to download updates (of which there were many available.)

**Xubuntu splash screen issue**

I noticed an issue with the splash screen that Xubuntu displays when prompting for the password to unlock the LUKS-encrypted volume. This screen has a light blue background with the Xubuntu name and logo in the center. The Mac mini is connected to a flat screen display that has a native resolution of 1920x1080. The splash screen seems to be slightly vertically squashed, such that there is a noticeable black bar at the bottom. I did not notice any black bars at the top or the sides. The prompting for the password and the booting of Xubuntu seems to work as normal. After booting, Xubuntu displays a screen where the user can choose a user account for logging in, and this screen is shown at the display's native resolution.

It appears that there is at least one situation where the Xubuntu splash screen with the LUKS password prompt is displayed differently. When the Xubuntu splash screen and password prompt are displayed, it is possible to restart the Mac mini by pressing Control-Option-Del (the Option key on the Mac keyboard works like an Alt key.) From there, it is possible to bring up GRUB by holding down the Option key while the Mac starts up, entering any firmware password, and then choosing to boot from the "Windows" volume in the built-in boot manager. In this circumstance, the timeout in GRUB (after which the default option is automatically selected if the user has not done anything) is 30 seconds instead of 10 seconds. In addition, when Xubuntu subsequently boots, the splash screen with the LUKS password prompt fills the entire 1920x1080 resolution of the display.

The situation where the Xubuntu splash screen has a black bar at the bottom does not appear to affect Xubuntu's functionality. Even so, I have a sense of wanting to know why that issue with the splash screen arises.

**Power-off/shutdown issue**

Another issue that I have noticed is as follows, from what I remember: When the Mac mini has been booted into Mac OSX and the system is shut down from within Mac OSX, the Mac mini turns off as expected. Subsequently, if the Mac mini's external power supply is disconnected from the power source and then reconnected (such as if the power supply is plugged into a power strip with a switch that is turned off and then on), the Mac mini remains turned off unless the power button on the back of the Mac mini is pressed. In Xubuntu, there is a Shut Down button that can be reached by going to the menu in the upper-left corner of the screen (the menu has what is probably a Xubuntu logo), displaying the menu, and then clicking the icon that looks like a round button with a circle and a line. Clicking this icon brings up a modal window with the message "Log out [username]" and buttons to Restart or Shut Down, among other things. Clicking the Shut Down button causes Xubuntu to shut down and the Mac mini to turn off, as expected. However, if the Mac mini's external power supply is subsequently disconnected from the power source and then reconnected, the Mac mini will likely turn on by itself when the power source is reconnected.

Despite the issues mentioned above, I have been able to make use of Xubuntu on the Mac mini.

---

