---
title: "9.10 crashes X when xorg.conf used"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by katakaio on 2009-11-05
Hi all, this is my first foray into PPC installs. I'm plenty familiar with Ubuntu and Xubuntu, but I've finally been stumped by the adorable iMac. I'll lay it out as best I can:

Xubuntu was successfully installed on my iMac G3 (400 MHz, 512MB RAM, ATI Rage 128 PRO), but the color depth looked low. I read up on the [forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169092") and the [wiki]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues#Ubuntu%209.10%20Karmic%20Koala") for ideas, made a sparse xorg.conf file (selecting the r128 driver and 24-bit color depth) and restarted X.

Unfortunately, it crashes to the terminal immediately. What's worse, the terminal flickers, and the text input seems to work only when the screen is "flicked" on. I have to stop gdm if I want to use the terminal. I ran **sudo X -configure**, but that xorg.conf had the same effect.

Does anyone know why Xubuntu 9.10 freaks out whenever I try to use an xorg.conf file? Is there are better way to edit the graphics settings? Thanks!

---

### Post by nagelward on 2009-11-14
I am looking for a solution to this as well.  Haven't actually got as far as creating a xorg.conf file, but there sure isn't any clear way to edit the screen depth.

---

### Post by nagelward on 2009-11-14
I am looking for a solution to this as well.  Haven't actually got as far as creating a xorg.conf file, but there sure isn't any clear way to edit the screen depth.

---

### Post by nagelward on 2009-11-14
What a noob.  Accidentally posted twice and can't figure out how to delete the second post.

---

### Post by n3IVI0 on 2009-12-17
Bump. I have the same problem...

---

### Post by rjcalifornia on 2009-12-17
Hi! hope this helps: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1265921](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1265921)

It is a guide that will help you configure your xorg.conf

cheers!

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2009-12-18
[http://mac.linux.be](http://mac.linux.be)

-> PowerPC wiki -> cross distribution issues

you will find a lot of info about xorg.conf files for various G3 imacs

---

### Post by Knuckles the Echidna on 2009-12-20
I have the exact same problem. Every suggestion I have tried has broken X. Has anyone solved this problem yet?

---

### Post by katakaio on 2009-12-26
> **RandyVanBuren said:**
> Hi! hope this helps: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1265921](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1265921)

It is a guide that will help you configure your xorg.conf

cheers!

Thanks for the tip, but unfortunately the steps outlined in that guide don't work in 9.10. I've been able to find no shortage of information about configuring xorg.conf for previous PPC versions of [X][K]Ubuntu, but the fact is that something in Karmic is very different when it comes to xorg.conf. I've yet to find someone who can actually explain to me how xorg.conf is used by Ubuntu - some people don't even have one, while others have a fully fleshed out file.

I'm going to keep performing updates and hope that something magically fixes it, but I'm doubtful. If anyone has a successful Karmic PPC install, do share!

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-12-26
Don't know if this will help, but in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, use fbdev as the driver, not r128 or ati. When I did this, my issues with flicker, etc., on a G4 Cube, 15" Apple Studio monitor were resolved. I know this is different hardware, but wanted to make the suggestion. I've (hopefully) attached my xorg.conf file for inspection, with the warning that you will need to use your values for horizsync and vertrefresh, not the ones I used.

---

### Post by netspawn on 2010-01-15
very good !!!!

---

