---
title: "6.06.1 not showing gnome on iMac G3"
date: 2009-03-10
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Dark_Sabre on 2009-03-10
I got an iMac G3 recently (OLD one) and I decided to try a few flavours of linux on it. After lots of trial and error, I ended up with an old build of ubuntu (6.06.1(?)) and installed it. Everything went fine, and it booted up, but it only showed bash, I don't seem to have a GUI of any kind. Anyone know whats wrong?

EDIT:Trying "apt-get install ubuntu-desktop" and it seems to be doing something

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-03-10
What kind of Ubuntu did you install? Is it the server edition?
Can you please tell more about your hardware? How much RAM?
May be you can try newer Ubuntu (hardy or intrepid)

---

### Post by Dark_Sabre on 2009-03-10
it was the alternate install cd (not server), as I'd heard the live cd doesn't go down too well on ppc.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-03-10
> **Dark_Sabre said:**
> I'd heard the live cd doesn't go down too well on ppc.
That's not true, the Ubuntu Hardy LiveCD (8.04) works very well for PPC.
It is also a good tool, if you need to restore a broken System, to back up data on HD that you can't access, ...

Well, maybe it is not suitable for your Hardware, if you don't have enough RAM, and if you want just to perform an installation.

Anyway, you should know, that you will have some problems with your Video. After the installation, at yaboot prompt type ```
Linux video=ofonly nosplash
``` 
After that you must edit your xorg.conf file.

If you have not so much ram (> 512 MB), I would suggest you to install Xubuntu Intrepid. You can download it here 
[http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/](http://torrent.ubuntu.com:6969/)
As always, burn the iso image at very low speed, with the Apple Disk Utiliy, if you have still a MacOS

---

### Post by Dark_Sabre on 2009-03-12
Thanks, am installing Xubuntu now. Will I have to type "Linux video=ofonly nosplash" every time I start up?

---

### Post by tiresia on 2009-03-12
> **Dark_Sabre said:**
> Thanks, am installing Xubuntu now. Will I have to type "Linux video=ofonly nosplash" every time I start up?
No, you don't. You can add it to yaboot.conf
But first of all you have to check if you really need it after the installing. Tell us if it is so, and I can tell you how to do that.

---

### Post by Dark_Sabre on 2009-03-12
Xubuntu is loading but it's in low graphics mode. I used the xorg.conf here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4808544](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4808544) but I think it may be missing something.

EDIT:Nvm, fixed it with the default xorg.conf and modifying that. Thanks for your help! :)

---

