---
title: "8.10 Won't load on iMac (black/grey aluminum)"
date: 2008-11-27
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by dswhite85 on 2008-11-27
I just downloaded Ubuntu 8.10, burned it to a CD using Disk Utility, and booted from the CD by holding C. I got the menu to choose to install Ubuntu, Check the CD for defects, run the live CD, etc. but  when I choose to run the live CD, after loading for what seems like a few minutes, the screen goes black after the loading bar is complete, and remains that way for well over half an hour. I tried 4 times unsuccessfully to boot up the live cd. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by zelemenos on 2008-11-28
> **dswhite85 said:**
> I just downloaded Ubuntu 8.10, burned it to a CD using Disk Utility, and booted from the CD by holding C. I got the menu to choose to install Ubuntu, Check the CD for defects, run the live CD, etc. but  when I choose to run the live CD, after loading for what seems like a few minutes, the screen goes black after the loading bar is complete, and remains that way for well over half an hour. I tried 4 times unsuccessfully to boot up the live cd. Any thoughts?

Hello,

Exactly the same experience here on an iMac G5. Eventually, I achieved a working 8.10 by upgrading my working 8.04 by means of the Update Manager.

DavidG
Paphos, Cyprus

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-30
It is most helpful if you identify exactly what version mac you have. You can find the method to do this in the "Before you post" link in my signature if you are working on an Intel Mac.

---

