---
title: "Wired Connection not working, 'Unmanaged' Macbook (2010)"
date: 2017-03-23
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-23
I've installed Unbuntu on a Macbook (2010) and its been working fine for about one year until the latest upgrade (today March 2017)
The Wired Ethernet says its 'Unmanaged' (under Settings / Network) and I can connect to the internet via Wired/Ethernet.
Wireless works fine but the connection is not good, hence wired.
How can I get the Wired Ethernet connecting to the internet again.
Is there a driver for this? Is currently showing a Broadcom 802.11 Linux STA wireless drive... I'm not sure if this drives Ethernet connections as well as wireless connections.
Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-03-23
> The Wired Ethernet says its 'Unmanaged' (under Settings / Network) and ***I can connect to the internet via Wired/Ethernet***.Yet the title of your thread is 'Wired Connection not working.'

We are probably not correctly understanding your question. Can you please clarify?

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-03-24
Thread moved to the "*Apple Hardware Users*" forum.

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-25
Apologies for not being clear - I have attached a screen shot.

The Ethernet (Wired Connectivity) is not connecting to the internet with the latest installation of Unbuntu.

Under 'Network Settings' the 'Wired' connections are stated as 'Unmanaged' and I cannot connect to the internet via Ethernet.

The Wireless connection works fine but I need to use Ethernet as the Wireless signal is poor quality.

So I need to get the Ethernet connection working.

I hope this clarifies the problem - See attached screenshot.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274302[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-03-25
From the terminal, please run and then post:```
lspci -nnk | grep 0200 -A2
cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf 
lsmod | grep -e b4 -e wl
```

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-26
Thank you! Please see following:
------------------------------------------
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ lspci -nnk | grep 0200 -A2
00:0a.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: NVIDIA Corporation MCP79 Ethernet [10de:0ab0] (rev b1)
   Subsystem: NVIDIA Corporation Apple iMac 9,1 [10de:cb79]
   Kernel driver in use: forcedeth
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ lsmod | grep -e b4 -e wl
------------------------------------------

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-03-26
You have a device that has claimed a driver. Let's see what's going wrong from the message log:```
dmesg | grep deth
```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-03-26
@ chili555 Hey .

I used to also run the nvidia/fordedeth chip set . 
> 
Kernel driver in use: forcedeth

In that configuration I had to reset the module parameters:
```

echo "options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf

```
To enabled both networking and regular ACPI functions.

Maybe
[INDENT][INDENT]same applies here ?
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-26
Thank you! See following.
------------------------------------------
```
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ dmesg | grep deth
[    3.072483] forcedeth: Reverse Engineered nForce ethernet driver. Version 0.64.
[    3.145262] forcedeth 0000:00:0a.0: ifname eth0, PHY OUI 0x732 @ 1, addr d4:9a:20:e5:84:06
[    3.145264] forcedeth 0000:00:0a.0: highdma csum pwrctl gbit lnktim msi desc-v3
[    3.148653] forcedeth 0000:00:0a.0 enp0s10: renamed from eth0
[    7.711034] Modules linked in: joydev nls_iso8859_1 applesmc(+) input_polldev snd_hda_codec_cirrus(+) snd_hda_codec_generic coretemp wl(POE) kvm_intel kvm irqbypass cfg80211 shpchp uvcvideo videobuf2_vmalloc videobuf2_memops snd_hda_intel videobuf2_v4l2 btusb btrtl videobuf2_core snd_hda_codec btbcm btintel videodev input_leds snd_hda_core media snd_hwdep bluetooth snd_pcm snd_seq_midi snd_seq_midi_event snd_rawmidi bcm5974 snd_seq snd_seq_device snd_timer snd soundcore sbs sbshc mac_hid i2c_nforce2 apple_bl parport_pc ppdev lp parport ip_tables x_tables autofs4 hid_apple hid_generic usbhid hid nouveau mxm_wmi wmi video i2c_algo_bit ttm drm_kms_helper syscopyarea sysfillrect sysimgblt fb_sys_fops drm ahci libahci forcedeth fjes
```
------------------------------------------

Thanks Bashing-Om... I'm not sure how to use your suggestions. Regards.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-03-26
phoerestl Hey;

If ya in a hurry and do not want to await chili555's confirmation :
Then execute in terminal; copy paste:
```

echo "options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf

``` 
which will write those options to the target file '/etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf' . Then restart networking and/or reboot the system to see the effect .

[INDENT][INDENT]ain't nothing but a thing
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-03-26
> **Bashing-om said:**
> phoerestl Hey;

If ya in a hurry and do not want to await chili555's confirmation :
Then execute in terminal; copy paste:
```

echo "options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf

``` 
which will write those options to the target file '/etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf' . Then restart networking and/or reboot the system to see the effect .

[INDENT][INDENT]ain't nothing but a thing
[/INDENT][/INDENT]Confirmed. Please try it and tell us if you can now connect.

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-27
I ran in terminal and restarted. I turned off Wifi and tried the Ethernet but it didn't work.

See attached screen shots.

Both wired (ethernet) connections still say 'Unmanaged'. I also have a ethernet that plugs into a USB adapter but didn't work as well.

Really appreciate your assistance.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274315[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]274316[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-03-27
May we please also see:```
cat -s /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.state
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```Thanks.

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-27
See following result:
```
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat -s /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.state
[main]
NetworkingEnabled=true
WirelessEnabled=true
WWANEnabled=true
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274326[/ATTACH]

Attached are the drivers I am using. I'm pretty sure these have worked fine in the past.
Thank you.

I have run the commands individually. Is this what you require?
```
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat -s /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.state
[main]
NetworkingEnabled=true
WirelessEnabled=true
WWANEnabled=true
ag@ag-MacBook:~$
```

```
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ 
```

```

ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile,ofono
dns=dnsmasq

[ifupdown]
managed=true
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ 
```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-03-27
phoerest; Humm ..

do not think so : /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
> 
managed=true

Are you using network-manager to manage networking ?
```

dpkg -l network-manager

```
If Network-manager is to manage the networking then you will need to change to " managed=false" in the /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf file .

[INDENT][INDENT]there can be only one (way)
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-27
Thank you.

I'm not sure what you mean. These are the network apps installed - see screen shot.

Should I run your code above?

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274328[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-03-27
phoerest' Humm...

I do not understand why there should be 2 network-manager folders .
Post back:
```

apt-cache policy network-manager
sudo find / -name network-manager

```
To make sure of what we are working with, before we edit the /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf file.

[INDENT][INDENT]safety is no accident
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-27
See following. Thank you.

> ag@ag-MacBook:~$ apt-cache policy network-manager
network-manager:
  Installed: 1.2.6-0ubuntu1
  Candidate: 1.2.6-0ubuntu1
  Version table:
 *** 1.2.6-0ubuntu1 500
        500 [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) yakkety-updates/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
     1.2.4-0ubuntu1 500
        500 [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) yakkety/main amd64 Packages
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ sudo find / -name network-manager


---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-03-27
phoerest; Uh HuH;

Confirms you are on the 16.10 release and the network-manager version is correct.
What shows for the "sudo find / -name network-manager" command ? See if there is more than one at play here .

also did the edit take to /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf ?
Post:
```

cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

```

[INDENT][INDENT]getting there
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-29
I missed that there are posts on the next page (didn't see pagination) - sorry for delay. See following:
> ag@ag-MacBook:~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile,ofono
dns=dnsmasq

[ifupdown]
managed=true
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ 


> ag@ag-MacBook:~$ sudo find / -name network-manager
[sudo] password for ag: 
find: &#8216;/run/user/1000/gvfs&#8217;: Permission denied
/usr/share/doc/network-manager
/snap/network-manager
/snap/network-manager/115/usr/share/doc/network-manager
/var/snap/network-manager
/etc/init.d/network-manager
/etc/dnsmasq.d/network-manager
/root/snap/network-manager
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ 


---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-03-29
phoerest; Uh Huh .

snap install explains the 2 network-managers installed. They should co-exist .
However, I have no experience with snap - maybe best to await for the esteemed chili555's advisement.
In any event I do not think you want to manage networking yourself .
I would see what results in changing  true to "false" in the /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf .
Such then that network-manager controls networking directly .
Restart networking to see the effect ( or reboot ) .

[INDENT][INDENT]maybe, maybe
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-03-29
> I would see what results in changing true to "false" in the /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf .
Such then that network-manager controls networking directly .
Restart networking to see the effect ( or reboot ) .
Correct. Please do and post back the results.

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-29
Thank you... how exactly do I do that? (apologies for my ignorance). What exactly do I need to enter in to Terminal?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-03-29
phoerest; Well........

Let's say that you are running ubuntu, such that "gedit" is the GUI editor.
1st is to make a backup of any file you are going to edit . bad things can happen - nice to have a means to recover .
do in terminal:
```

sudo cp /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf  /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf-29mar2017 

```
edit the file:
```

sudo -H gedit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf 

```
The file editor opens with NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf loaded .
Find the line " managed=true" and change the term true to " managed=false ".
save the file and exit the editor .

Reboot the system and advise results .

[INDENT][INDENT]easy as falling out of bed wide awake
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-03-29
Ok I've run that in terminal and have reloaded to confirm that "managed=false"

I restarted and turned off wifi and still not working. 

It doesn't seem to register Ethernet connections... which network manager should I be looking at? The network manger under settings?

Should I remove one of the networking programs?

It still says Unmanaged under System Settings - see attached.

Many thanks.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274354[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-04-01
Too hard basket?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-04-02
phoerest; Welp'

Yeah -- tough nut to crack - presently - as we have yet to identify which of the 2 wired interfaces we are working with . And I am not at all knowledgeable about the snap install - and I have limited experience with network-manager ( GUI ) .

In for a penny is in for a pound, we will get to the bottom of this one way or another .

Let's take another poke at it and see what we can learn about the interface.
1st, however, are you connecting the computer to the 'net via a router ?
and next let's confirm some hardware and addressing -
What shows:
```

sudo lshw -C network
ip link ls
ls /sys/class/net
ip route show

```
see what we can 'ping' and how far we can go .

[INDENT][INDENT]what we have here is 
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]a failure to communicate
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-04-02
Many thanks. See following.
```
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ sudo lshw -C network
[sudo] password for ag: 
Sorry, try again.
[sudo] password for ag: 
  *-network DISABLED        
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: MCP79 Ethernet
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: a
       bus info: pci@0000:00:0a.0
       logical name: enp0s10
       version: b1
       serial: d4:9a:20:e5:84:06
       capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list ethernet physical mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=forcedeth driverversion=0.64 latency=0 link=no maxlatency=20 mingnt=1 multicast=yes port=MII
       resources: irq:17 memory:93386000-93386fff ioport:21e0(size=8) memory:93389000-933890ff memory:93389300-9338930f
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n
       vendor: Broadcom Limited
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlp3s0
       version: 01
       serial: 34:15:9e:8a:1f:25
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=6.30.223.248 (r487574) ip=192.168.2.15 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11
       resources: irq:20 memory:93100000-93103fff
ag@ag-MacBook:~$ 
```

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-04-02
phoerest;

Broadcom - proprietary ;
see:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)
and install the driver for broadcom also .

[INDENT][INDENT]What can it be now
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by phoerest on 2017-04-03
I'm not exactly sure which file to download... can you point me to the correct package?

Also, once downloaded how do I install or places files?

Should I un-install one of the network apps?

See attached - as you can see there is already an active broadcom driver in additional drivers.

Also, doesn't it say that the Ethernet Network Card is NVIDIA - see following excerpt.

  *-network DISABLED        
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: MCP79 Ethernet
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation

Thank you.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274410[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-04-03
phoerestkl Sorry;

I do not know WIFI nor how to deal with the broadcom driver . I do know that the broadcom Wireless driver also affects the wired connection . That being the reason I advise getting the broadcom driver installed . And yes possible - I do not know - that the broadcom driver offered in "Additional Drivers " is correct . We will have to await chili555's advisement here . He is the guru !

I can appreciate your concern and frustration as I do recall my experiences with the forcedeth driver . But, in my use case WIFI was not a factor .

[INDENT][INDENT]a know it all; I am not
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-04-03
> **Bashing-om said:**
> phoerest;

Broadcom - proprietary ;
see:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)
and install the driver for broadcom also .

[INDENT][INDENT]What can it be now
[/INDENT][/INDENT]I greatly prefer this for Broadcom (he says modestly): [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110)

---

### Post by guynux on 2017-11-10
@phoerest
I have the same ethernet controller using the 'forcedether' driver with 'enp0s10' device.
As I suspected that the speed was wrong automatically ('unplugged cable'), I managed it with ethtool :
> sudo ethtool -s enp0s10 speed 100 duplex full autoneg on
It worked fine and I just created a systemd service to launch the sentence at every boot
Hope it works for you
Apologize for my poor english :)
IMac 10.1 Ubuntu 17.10 double boot with rEFind

---

