---
title: "9.04 bluetooth keyboard doesn't connect"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by joebobjoe on 2009-05-12
Hello Ubuntu community. 

I just installed Ubuntu 9.04 on my white iMac. I'm dual-booting with OS X 10.4. The Apple bluetooth keyboard I'm trying to connect is the old-style (not Aluminum). The keyboard is paired with OS X.

However, I cannot connect to it in Ubuntu.

In Set-Up Device under Bluetooth, the keyboard is found - however when it attempts to connect, it fails.

I've uninstalled bluez-utils - no luck.

I've tried following the instructions at this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224673]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224673") however some of the instructions do not work. E.G., ```
sudo hidd --connect BD_ADDR

```

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by stream303 on 2009-05-12
About the only thing I remember when using the Apple bluetooth keyboard was that I could not use encryption.

So I never did my banking with it. :)

I got so tired of it I caved and got a usb keyboard - but hope you can find the problem!

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-05-13
I have had trouble with my white wireless apple keyboard for a few releases now since they totally replaced the bluetooth stack. There are a few threads here about getting them working though. One thing I do remember is that in order to get it to work in Linux, you had to remove it in OSX.

Also, this might help you out a bit:
[http://idebian.wordpress.com/2008/07/06/manage-hid-bluetooth-devices-in-linux/](http://idebian.wordpress.com/2008/07/06/manage-hid-bluetooth-devices-in-linux/)

---

### Post by joebobjoe on 2009-05-14
> **cyberdork33 said:**
> I have had trouble with my white wireless apple keyboard for a few releases now since they totally replaced the bluetooth stack. There are a few threads here about getting them working though. One thing I do remember is that in order to get it to work in Linux, you had to remove it in OSX.

Also, this might help you out a bit:
[http://idebian.wordpress.com/2008/07/06/manage-hid-bluetooth-devices-in-linux/](http://idebian.wordpress.com/2008/07/06/manage-hid-bluetooth-devices-in-linux/)

Thanks, this solved my problem!

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-07-12
I described my problem on several forums. So, after restart, apple bluetooth keyboard does not connect with ubuntu 9.04 (dell mini9)-although programm blueman says that the connection is established and optimal. But then i have to push few times start button on keyboard to make it work.

Anyone has solution/confirm that with their ubuntu 9.04 they do not have this problem?

---

### Post by devjj on 2009-08-09
> **vickoxy said:**
> I described my problem on several forums. So, after restart, apple bluetooth keyboard does not connect with ubuntu 9.04 (dell mini9)-although programm blueman says that the connection is established and optimal. But then i have to push few times start button on keyboard to make it work.

Anyone has solution/confirm that with their ubuntu 9.04 they do not have this problem?

I was able to get the Apple BT Keyboard working with Ubuntu 9.04 pretty easily.  All I did was to change my /etc/default/bluetooth to look like this:

```
# start bluetooth on boot?
# compatibility note: If this variable is not found bluetooth will
# start
BLUETOOTH_ENABLED=1

# This setting will switch HID devices (e.g mouse/keyboad) to HCI mode, that is
# you will have bluetooth functionality from your dongle instead of only HID.
# Note that not every bluetooth dongle is capable of switching back to HID
# mode, see http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=355497
HID2HCI_ENABLED=0
HID2HCI_UNDO=0

# Apple device support
HIDD_ENABLED=1
```

You can restart Bluetooth manually by running

```
sudo invoke-rc.d bluetooth restart
```

or reboot.  That's all it took for me.

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-08-10
> **devjj said:**
> I was able to get the Apple BT Keyboard working with Ubuntu 9.04 pretty easily.  All I did was to change my /etc/default/bluetooth to look like this:

```
# start bluetooth on boot?
# compatibility note: If this variable is not found bluetooth will
# start
BLUETOOTH_ENABLED=1

# This setting will switch HID devices (e.g mouse/keyboad) to HCI mode, that is
# you will have bluetooth functionality from your dongle instead of only HID.
# Note that not every bluetooth dongle is capable of switching back to HID
# mode, see http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=355497
HID2HCI_ENABLED=0
HID2HCI_UNDO=0

# Apple device support
HIDD_ENABLED=1
```

You can restart Bluetooth manually by running

```
sudo invoke-rc.d bluetooth restart
```

or reboot.  That's all it took for me.

Thanks for answer, but by me is all still the same-Apple BT is working, but it will not type after restart/reboot/startup-it connect itself, but i have to disconnect it, then it connects itself automatically. So, i have to do twice connecting.

Does your keyboard start tyoing automatically after startup?

This was my original *bluetooth* (before i added your lines;

> # Defaults for bluez

# start bluetooth on boot?
# compatibility note: If this variable is not found bluetooth will
# start
BLUETOOTH_ENABLED=1

# This setting will switch HID devices (e.g mouse/keyboad) to HCI mode, that is
# you will have bluetooth functionality from your dongle instead of only HID.
# Note that not every bluetooth dongle is capable of switching back to HID
# mode, see [http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=355497](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=355497)
HID2HCI_ENABLED=1
HID2HCI_UNDO=1

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-08-10
I installed bluez-compat to connect keyboard with hidd --connect, but still the same. After reboot the keyboard is connected (it is shown properly in bluetooth settings, the green keyboard led light was for few seconds on when i try to type-but nothing). So, again, had to disconnect the keyboard in bluetooth settings, and then press any key on keyboard-connects just normal...

---

