---
title: "10.04 live CD on Powermac G5"
date: 2012-02-29
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by mastermtp on 2012-02-29
Hi, im trying to boot up 10.04 from the live CD on a powermac G5. I haven't used Ubuntu on this computer before, nor do I want to install it. Just trying it. I see Yaboot and the white screen, but then the screen just goes black. A couple minutes later I hear bongo sounds, and then a couple minutes after that the CD ejects itself. :confused:

---

### Post by dpny on 2012-03-02
Which G5. and which video card?

---

### Post by mastermtp on 2012-03-02
Model Name:	Power Mac G5
  Model Identifier:	PowerMac7,2
  Processor Name:	PowerPC 970  (2.2)
  Processor Speed:	1.6 GHz
  Number Of CPUs:	1
  L2 Cache (per CPU):	512 KB
  Memory:	2.25 GB
  Bus Speed:	800 MHz
  Boot ROM Version:	5.1.5f2
  Serial Number (system):	XB3380RTNV9
  Hardware UUID:	00000000-0000-1000-8000-000A958F62B0

GeForce FX 5200:

  Chipset Model:	GeForce FX 5200
  Type:	Display
  Bus:	AGP
  Slot:	SLOT-1
  VRAM (Total):	64 MB
  Vendor:	NVIDIA (0x10de)
  Device ID:	0x0321
  Revision ID:	0x00a2
  ROM Revision:	2060
  Displays:
Apple Studio Display:
  Resolution:	1280 x 1024
  Depth:	32-Bit Color
  Core Image:	Hardware Accelerated
  Main Display:	Yes
  Mirror:	Off
  Online:	Yes
  Quartz Extreme:	Supported
Display Connector:
  Status:	No Display Connected

Need anything else?

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-03-02
Hi there, Welcome to the forums!

That G5 isn't  on the supported hardware list, but that doesn't really mean it won't work - my eMac and other G4 aren't either, but no problems!

It could be the nvidea card as most of the old macs had ATI. You could try reburning the CD / Using a USB to see if it's the download/burn/drive causing an error, but I fear it could be a problem with the live CD - you could try another version or distro; I'd recommend lubuntu to get the most out of the system - my 1.4Ghz G4 with 32MB graphics can't handle 3d unity - or if you did want to install, use the alternate CD... but you can't try it on that one.

Just incase you are unsure Lubuntu (and Xubuntu) is the base system of Ubuntu with a different, lighterwieght desktop experience on top - perfect for older machines whilst still using ubuntu.

Hope it helps!

---

### Post by dpny on 2012-03-03
Ubuntu works on a G5 with the 5200. You won't be able to put the machine to sleep with an nVidia card, however.

---

### Post by cainram on 2012-03-05
Hey! I had the same issue with my G5. My monitor was an old NEC CRT (really sweet, expensive monitor... but older). I got a message on my monitor that the refresh rate was out of range so I hauled the G5 (great for a boat anchor, by the way) upstairs and plugged it into my flat panel monitor. Worked like a charm. When you hear those bongos it means that the login screen has opened up and is waiting for you to log in. You are successfully booting the live media, you just can't see anything because your monitor doesn't support the default refresh rate. Try another monitor or search around for a way to boot with a different refresh rate or screen resolution. That's my take on the situation, anyway.

---

### Post by str8bs on 2012-06-30
I realize this is an old post, but the issue still exists in 12.04. Actually not just Ubuntu, but any distro I have tried.

On my PowerMac G5 with Nvidia FX5200, the work around is to disable the (non-existent/phantom) TV output. No xorg.conf needed.

```
boot: live video=TV-1:d
or
boot: Linux video=TV-1:d
```Depending on your monitor, you may also need to get more explicit. IE;

```
boot live video=DVI-I-1:d video=DVI-I-2:1280x1024-24@75 video=TV-1:d
```

I attempted a "step by step" of how I got there in  [_this linked thread._](http://www.mintppc.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=15&t=810&start=10)

---

