---
title: "11.04 PPC install w/ ATY,R420 (x800 xt) AGP problems"
date: 2011-08-15
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by emanremu on 2011-08-15
I would first like stating a preamble:

     I commend all those programmers and hackers, crackers (Ubuntu Community) whom have so diligently and consistently dev'd for the Power PC community. Others and I seriously appreciate this dedication. 
 I've been a Mac user and owner since I was a kid and have always experienced superior and long lasting computers. As such, I want to hang on to my 'baby' -- My G5. As long as this machine continues to function, I want to make the most of this architecture POWER4 design. I love my machine and do not want to waste the money on &#8216;upgrading.&#8217;
I am a Linux newcomer and have only researched for a couple of days. I have a cheap 9600 dual dvi agp ordered from ebay on the way, but ultimately I would enjoy using my far superior x800xt card and am willing to do what I can to make that happen. 




I&#8217;ve attempted to install all live and alt CD&#8217;s from Drapper, up to Hardy, excluding other 8-9 versions. Of course, I know the command lines to use generic video drivers &#8216;video=ofonly&#8217; &#8216;live video=vesa&#8217; &#8216;livenofb&#8217;  etc..

 I would generally have garbled colors and yaboot would not function on early versions. (not loading linux, even while holding down option)

Later, I attempted to install alternate versions of 10.1 that I am assume would have worked if I could have fixed the windfarm issues and altered my &#8216;xorg.conf&#8217;. Each attempt lead to either a wind farm issue, or after the initial ubuntu screen, my screen would go blank.

After 2nd stage boot in yaboot I attempted modify my &#8216;xorg.conf&#8217; to enter into the console via a single user mode using, &#8216;Linux single nosplash&#8217;  (which did not let me use sudo or even work at all in some cases) 

I also used &#8217;Linux single debug nosplash break =premount&#8217; that worked, but I had no idea how to access sudo from there


I gave up and decided to install the minimal installations from hardy to natty; hoping they would only include the shell and console so I could sudo my way to success. The minimal CD's installed the entire OS before I could tweak it. Unfortunately, all versions except 11.04 installed a whole OS with desktop. 

To install the desktop, and x11 in the 11.04 kernel/console I know how to run:

  &#8216;sudo  apt-get update && sudo apt-get install xorg ubuntu-desktop&#8217;

After this I suppose i need to config x11 to make this baby fire?

11.04 hangs with a cursor endlessly after I install this command and reboot and so does 11.04 and 11.1 beta when I install live. 

I have repartitioned  free space from my largest drive and installed the &#8216;bare bones&#8217; 11.04 console, to edit my &#8216;x.org.conf&#8217; with 'sudo nano /etc/x11/xorg.conf'

Before I do this, I have a question: how exactly to edit my xorg conf file, and does Natty 11.04 fit my setup? (good or bad)

Perhaps relative system specs:

Model Name:	Power Mac G5
  Model Identifier:	PowerMac7,2
  Processor Name:	PowerPC 970  (2.2)
  Processor Speed:	1.8 GHz
  Number Of CPUs:	1
  L2 Cache (per CPU):	512 KB
  Memory:	5 GB
  Bus Speed:	900 MHz
  Boot ROM Version:	5.1.5f1
  Serial Number (system):	YM3333SCNVR
  Hardware UUID:	00000000-0000-1000-8000-000A958CF758

ATI Radeon X800 XT:

  Chipset Model:	ATY,R420
  Type:	Display
  Bus:	AGP
  Slot:	SLOT-1
  VRAM (Total):	256 MB
  Vendor:	ATI (0x1002)
  Device ID:	0x4a48
  Revision ID:	0x0000
  ROM Revision:	113-A35801-108
  Displays:
LCD TV:
  Resolution:	1920 x 1080 @ 60 Hz
  Depth:	32-Bit Color
  Core Image:	Hardware Accelerated
  Main Display:	Yes
  Mirror:	Off
  Online:	Yes
  Quartz Extreme:	Supported
  Television:	Yes
Display Connector:
  Status:	No Display Connected



pci1412,3631:

  Type:	Audio
  Driver Installed:	Yes
  Bus:	PCI
  Slot:	SLOT-3
  Vendor ID:	0x1412
  Device ID:	0x1724
  Subsystem Vendor ID:	0x1412
  Subsystem ID:	0x3631
  Revision ID:	0x0001




Serial-ATA Bus:

ST3160023AS:

  Capacity:	149.05 GB
  Model:	ST3160023AS
  Revision:	3.05
  Serial Number:	3JS0TD23
  Removable Media:	No
  Detachable Drive:	No
  BSD Name:	disk1
  Protocol:	ata
  Unit Number:	0
  Socket Type:	Serial-ATA
  Bay Name:	"A (upper)"
  Mac OS 9 Drivers:	Yes
  Partition Map Type:	APM (Apple Partition Map)
  S.M.A.R.T. status:	Verified
  Volumes:
Evil Lego:
  Capacity:	149.05 GB
  Available:	16.45 GB
  Writable:	Yes
  File System:	Journaled HFS+
  BSD Name:	disk1s9
  Mount Point:	/Volumes/Evil Lego

WDC WD1001FALS-00J7B0:

  Capacity:	931.51 GB
  Model:	WDC WD1001FALS-00J7B0
  Revision:	05.00K05
  Serial Number:	WD-WMATV0876841
  Removable Media:	No
  Detachable Drive:	No
  BSD Name:	disk0
  Protocol:	ata
  Unit Number:	0
  Socket Type:	Serial-ATA
  Bay Name:	"B (lower)"
  Mac OS 9 Drivers:	No
  Partition Map Type:	APM (Apple Partition Map)
  S.M.A.R.T. status:	Verified
  Volumes:
Pumpkin Patch:
  Capacity:	865.79 GB
  Available:	365.07 GB
  Writable:	Yes
  File System:	Journaled HFS+
  BSD Name:	disk0s4
  Mount Point:	/



I would appreciate any help at all!
:-({|=

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-08-15
Have a look at my lubuntu thread.  The link is on the last page of the powerpc sticky.  There are instructions/links on how to setup an xorg.conf file.  Your computer will be fast enough to run any version of ubuntu I should think.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-08-15
Your problem is the x800xt video card. There is no support for that beast in the open source ati driver. I have tried everything I could with someone in my MintPPC forum to get it working, to no avail.

[http://www.mintppc.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=69&hilit=x800](http://www.mintppc.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=69&hilit=x800)

EDIT: what I never tried with that guy is the fbdev driver, this is something to explore...

---

### Post by emanremu on 2011-08-15
Many thanks to the both of you for the assistance. I will work on the driver configuration tomorrow or the next day and inform you of the results. Again, I really appreciate the help here.

---

### Post by emanremu on 2011-08-16
I configured the xorg file with 'fbdev' and restarted into the desktop. the colours were horrible, pixilated  mouse and with very low bit depth in it's entirety -- maybe 4 bit color scheme. at the moment, i'm at a loss on how to fix the issue.

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-08-16
I would stick another supported video card in it...

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-08-16
fbdev does not give good results.  Also, unity will give strange colours unless you compile the latest version (see last few pages of powerpc sticky thread).

The radeon driver is supposed to support the x800xt.  Just because one person couldn't get it to work is not conclusive proof that it doesn't work at all, imho.  Have you tried with the radeon driver in the xorg.conf?  Have you tried any of the suggestions/links from the thread I advised earlier?

---

### Post by emanremu on 2011-08-17
I did try the radeon driver but I only have a blank screen with a normal cursor-- same as the live cd install results. I have not tried your unity fix, but I will check into your previously mentioned sticky later when i have the time. Unity looked like psychedelic puke.  To bee accurate, an Atari exploded onto my computer screen haha..

From what I have read scouring the net, people have yet to get this specific mac G5 only card to work. I will keep trying.

---

### Post by emanremu on 2011-08-22
I ripped the X800 out (gently) and replaced it with an ATI 9600, which works fine. However, I am now wondering is whether or not the Nvidia 6800 Ultra DDL will work on my current version (Maverick 10.10) once it arrives in the mail? Yet another option is a 9800 pro by ATI.  Does anyone know what would be my best option? I know the 6800 is the fastest, but will it be supported by my drivers?  I'D APPRECIATE ANY FEEDBACK FROM YOU PPC pros! :KS

---

### Post by linuxopjemac on 2011-08-23
Good idea that you swapped that card. I told you, it will not work. If rsavage has a way to solve the issues with the x800xt card, he may provide a solution.

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-08-23
Of course I haven't got a solution because I don't own that card.  I was merely pointing out that your statement "*Your problem is the x800xt video card. There is no support for that beast in the open source ati driver*" was very strong and maybe not correct since it is actually listed as being supported.  It presumably works for somebody?  I know nothing about the card, were there non-apple versions of the x800xt?

If I was looking at solutions then I would read the radeon manual.  On my hit list would be to turn off kms (radeon.modeset=0).  Then I would try between EXA and XAA.  I would also set the gart size to half the video memory (or 256, 128, 64, etc).  There are lots of other random options to try like  "Int10". It's a time consuming process, but just think of the achievement if you do get it to work!

EDIT: If you still can't get it to work then you should probably file a bug and see if you get a response from somebody who knows what they are talking about [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?quicksearch=x800+r420](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/buglist.cgi?quicksearch=x800+r420) .

---

### Post by rsavage on 2011-08-23
> **emanremu said:**
> I ripped the X800 out (gently) and replaced it with an ATI 9600, which works fine. However, I am now wondering is whether or not the Nvidia 6800 Ultra DDL will work on my current version (Maverick 10.10) once it arrives in the mail? Yet another option is a 9800 pro by ATI.  Does anyone know what would be my best option? I know the 6800 is the fastest, but will it be supported by my drivers?  I'D APPRECIATE ANY FEEDBACK FROM YOU PPC pros! :KS

Don't know if this helps [http://free3d.org/](http://free3d.org/)

---

### Post by oswaldkelso on 2011-08-24
> **emanremu said:**
> I ripped the X800 out (gently) and replaced it with an ATI 9600, which works fine. However, I am now wondering is whether or not the Nvidia 6800 Ultra DDL will work on my current version (Maverick 10.10) once it arrives in the mail? Yet another option is a 9800 pro by ATI.  Does anyone know what would be my best option? I know the 6800 is the fastest, but will it be supported by my drivers?  I'D APPRECIATE ANY FEEDBACK FROM YOU PPC pros! :KS

The ATI 9800 pro works fine on my PPC boxes. My card is not used atm as I use a ACD with the slaveware (Apple Display Connector) and my 9800 pro card is a tweaked pc version so has dvi and vga

---

### Post by dpny on 2011-08-28
I tried for several weeks to get the X800XT to work, using Debian, Ubuntu and Mint. I filed a bug report and had some back and forth on the Debian bugs mailing list. As far as I have been able to find, the X800 does not work under PPC Linux.

Be aware that, if you use an nVidia card, you won't be able to put the machine to sleep.

---

### Post by emanremu on 2011-09-02
> **dpny said:**
> I tried for several weeks to get the X800XT to work, using Debian, Ubuntu and Mint. I filed a bug report and had some back and forth on the Debian bugs mailing list. As far as I have been able to find, the X800 does not work under PPC Linux.

Be aware that, if you use an nVidia card, you won't be able to put the machine to sleep.



Yeah, I think this ATI issue is due to it being a unique card only for mac. The specs on the native x800xt's have a higher clock than the mac version-- go figure. Thanks for the reminder. I installed an Nvidia 6800 ultra card and the system works great! I plan to use ubuntu mainly for audio processing and distributed computing.

---

### Post by dpny on 2011-09-03
> **emanremu said:**
> Yeah, I think this ATI issue is due to it being a unique card only for mac. The specs on the native x800xt's have a higher clock than the mac version-- go figure. Thanks for the reminder. I installed an Nvidia 6800 ultra card and the system works great! I plan to use ubuntu mainly for audio processing and distributed computing.

Have fun with it. I'd go and find a 9800 or 9600, but I don't know if it's worth it to spend money on a seven year old machine which still runs 10.5.8 just fine.

---

