---
title: "9.10 installed - osx won't boot"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by snies on 2009-10-30
Hello all,

started the Ubuntu 9.10 Live CD on a Mac Book Pro 13" late 2009.
Once booted i used the "install" - icon on the Desktop to install
Ubuntu to sdb (an 8GB sdhc card in the sd-card slot).

I selected manual partion table and explicitly chose the installation
on a newly created ext3 partion on sdb1 without swap.

During the installation i used a terminal to check that it was
installing on sdb1 (the sd card - not the harddrive sda !!!).
Everything went fine. BUT AT THE VERY END IT SAID IT WAS
INSTALLING GRUB AT HD(0,0) !!!! WHY ?

Well now i can't boot into my OSX nor into the sd card.
I booted into the Install Disk for OSX and tried repair disk,
it sees my osx partion and says "all is fine", but i still can't
boot into my OSX. I am pretty sure Ubuntu's attempt to install
grub ****** up this secret little efi partion osx keeps at the
start of the disk, anybody knows how to fix that?

Also it might be the boot flags are just messed up, I don't know.

When i hold down the alt-key i can only choose the cd (either 
ubunutu live cd or OSX install cd) but hard drive won't appear.

OSX disk seems to be ok, looked at it with Terminal App from
OSX install cd and can see everythink. I think it's just something
like the right "blessing" or fixing the hidden efi partion. Please help!

diskutil list provides:

/dev/disk0 
#:                             TYPE  NAME   SIZE          IDENTIFIER
0:   GUID_partition_scheme           *160.0 GB   disk0
1:                                EFI             209.7 MB   disk0s1
2:                     Apple_HFS  OSX     159.7 GB   disk0s2

I would be very happy about some help.

Thanks,
Stephan

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2009-10-30
You can easily reinstall GRUB onto the SD card by specifying (hd1) as the root. As for fixing OSX try this: [http://www.insanelymac.com/forum/index.php?showtopic=57650#2](http://www.insanelymac.com/forum/index.php?showtopic=57650#2) or this: [http://www.insanelymac.com/forum/index.php?showtopic=57650#6](http://www.insanelymac.com/forum/index.php?showtopic=57650#6)

> I booted the system with the installation DVD and ran a terminal. From here I typed (case sensitive):

diskutil unmount disk0s2
cd /volumes/OSX86inst/usr/standalone/i386
dd if=boot1h of=/dev/rdisk0s2 bs=512 count=1
/volumes/ToolsDVD/startupfiletool -v /dev/rdisk0s2 boot
bless -device /dev/disk0s2 -setBoot -verbose
diskutil mount disk0s2
bless -mount /volumes/OSX86/ -setBoot -verbose
reboot

>     * Get to terminal (in Utilies at the top of the first screen)

   1. boot up the osx86 install dvd
   2. select tools in the top menu bar
   3. select terminal

    * Find out which hard disk to install mbr to, if you only have one its rdisk0
    * restore mbr with following command

   1. fdisk -u /dev/rdisk0
   2. hit ender
   3. respod with the answer yes to if you want to install new mbr

    * Please keep in mind that depending on how many hard drives you have it might not be rdisk0

Google: reinstall apple boot loader

---

### Post by snies on 2009-10-30
SOLVED

- booting into OSX Install DVD
- NOT INSTALL !!
- start Terminal App


as single user root in Terminal App:

fdisk -u /dev/rdisk0       #update the MBR without changing FSTable
fdisk -e /dev/rdisk0      # interakive fdisk mode
  flag 2    #in my case /dev/disk0s1 is EFI and /dev/disk0s2 is OSX
  write
  exit
reboot


#########
REMARKS:
/dev/rdisk0 seems to work also diskutil list lists /dev/disk0
(i tried both to be sure)

the dd command to restore the EFI partion doesn't work
as described above as there is no boot1h in /usr/standalone/i386
only boot.efi and something else i forgot in Snow Leopard OSX 10.6.1
but apparently wasn't needed in my case

Thanks for the help jfernyhough !

Cheers,
Stephan

---

