---
title: "xorg.conf for iMac G3 slot loading (400mhz)"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by jodhas on 2009-05-06
Hello.

I finally got to install the Xubuntu on the old iMac G3.
However, the color depth is only 16 and the maximum resolution is 800x600.  

I browsed around the web and this forum for a few days but I have yet to find a xorg.conf that will work with my iMac G3 (slot loading, 400mhz).  


I am just about to throw this junk against the wall but am pleading for some help.  

If you have this system or have knowledge of how my xorg.conf should look like please help!!!

---

### Post by stream303 on 2009-05-07
> **jodhas said:**
> I am just about to throw this junk against the wall but am pleading for some help.

Welcome to the club! :)  We've all been there - but please - keep it fun!  

Ok looks like you have either one of these two, the fruit or the se:

[http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/imac/index-imac.html](http://www.everymac.com/systems/apple/imac/index-imac.html)

Tell us which version of Ubuntu you have installed, and can you post your existing xorg.conf file here?

---

### Post by JUGGALOXDARKANGELX3 on 2009-07-16
i had the same problem with my apple imac G3 PPC 350MHZ(slot loading), UBUNTU 9.04 (JAUNTY JACKALOPE)  until i found this from another source,if you know how to modify the XORG.CONF file in the terminal this will help with the ugly pictures in firefox browser as well as your desktop environment,photo viewer too! this one really works,ive search many forums trying to get the right xorg fle and have only been running the new OS for a couple of days and since this is open source you can make changes to it too of course i havent as it works good enough,ok ,well enough of me talking here it is,enjoy! : *note:remember to backup the original xorg.conf file,then reboot after you overwrite to for changes to take effect.
if you dont feel like typing all of this copy the entire code then with the xorg.conf file opened in terminal press backspace/or delete until nothing is in it,then paste.                                                       

                                         Goodluck! :D



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "macintosh"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "fr"
    Option        "XkbVariant"    "latin9"
    Option        "XkbOptions"    "lv3:rwin_switch"
endSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    #Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
    Option        "CCEusecTimeout"        "100000"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
    HorizSync    43-62
    VertRefresh    74-118    
#    ModeLine "1024x768"     78.75   1024 1044 1140 1328    768  781  784  820 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine "800x600"      62.40    800  821  901 1040    600  609  612  644 +hsync +vsync
    Modeline "640x480"      49.90    640  657  721  832    480  481  484  514 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Subsection "Display"
    Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubsection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Disable "dri"
EndSection

---

