---
title: ".dmg to .deb"
date: 2010-08-02
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Jeepman on 2010-08-02
Ok I know from working for Apple that the new OS is a Unix OS and Ubuntu is Unix like, so what is the issue of getting apple programs to work on Ubuntu, and how come companies do see that there is a large market in Linux too not just in apple?

---

### Post by jerenept on 2010-08-02
That is not possible. However, most open-source programs available for Mac have Linux equivalents.

MacOS is based on FreeBSD Unix/ Darwin kernel, and Linux has its roots in MINIX. i do not think they are binary-compatible.

EDIT" they both follow a standard called "POSIX" so, source code for MacOS should compile without too much issue on linux.

Many popular Linux applications are available for MacOS, like OpenOffice, GIMP, and a lot of the command line tools, with [http://darwinports.com]("http://darwinports.com")

---

### Post by conundrumx on 2010-08-02
To give a more...elaborate answer.

A dmg file is a  (typically compressed) **d**isk i**m**a**g**e.  You mount the image, and then drag the contents (an application, which is just a folder containing libs and executables in addition to various other things) to your local disk, or run an installer of some kind.  A .deb is similar in many ways to an OSX installer, but not in any way to a dmg.

I've never tried running an executable for one on another, but it's very unlikely anything but the most basic, CLI based program would work.  OSX uses a completely different windowing and display system than Linux (though X does work just fine on OSX), and they have very different kernels and system processes.

While both OSes are POSIX compliant and based (in the general sense) on UNIX, they have taken very different paths over the years.  OSX is much more closely related to BSD than Linux.

---

### Post by Jeepman on 2010-08-02
so there is no way to get a .dmg to something like a .iso so it can run on linux or something

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2010-08-02
If memory serves, you can directly mount a .dmg file in Linux and extract the contents.  I can't remember exactly how I did it, though there is a tool in the repositories (dmg2img) that will convert it to a hfsplus image which linux could then mount as a loop device.

But the point is it won't do you any good; a .dmg is just a container; if the files inside are mac-specific they aren't going to run in Linux.

---

### Post by conundrumx on 2010-08-03
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> But the point is it won't do you any good; a .dmg is just a container; if the files inside are mac-specific they aren't going to run in Linux.

This precisely.

As I said before, the environments are completely and almost fundamentally different, especially for GUI applications.

---

