---
title: "iBook HDD heat"
date: 2010-02-05
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by ant2ne on 2010-02-05
Now that I got [WPA working on my iBook]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8779349&postcount=90") I'm looking at upgrading RAM and possibly the HDD. I'm not really happy with the heat generated by the HDD. I'm interested in what others may have done for this problem. Is there room in there to mount a fan? Can someone could recommend a cooler running Hard drive? (I'd go with a SSD if I could afford it.)

---

### Post by llamabr on 2010-02-05
I'd be surprised if it's actually your disk that's getting hot.  Much more likely to be memory.  Is it on the right hand side, under your wrist?  Does it also get hot in osx?

The disk is a huge pain in your *** to have to change.  i wouldn't bother.  I used to run ubuntu on my ibook, and it would get so hot I got worried.  I put debian lenny on it, and for whatever reason, that solved the problem (and a bunch of other problems, too)

---

### Post by llamabr on 2010-02-05
Great.  Thanks, ubuntu forum, for protecting me from myself. *****

---

### Post by ant2ne on 2010-02-06
> **llamabr said:**
> I'd be surprised if it's actually your disk that's getting hot.  Much more likely to be memory.  Is it on the right hand side, under your wrist?  Does it also get hot in osx?

The disk is a huge pain in your *** to have to change.  i wouldn't bother.  I used to run ubuntu on my ibook, and it would get so hot I got worried.  I put debian lenny on it, and for whatever reason, that solved the problem (and a bunch of other problems, too)I've completely tore these down before. I've replaced the HDD before. I admit it was a pita, but not the hardest thing I've done. 8-o.  I'm certain it is the HDD. It is bottom left corner, on the underside.

---

