---
title: "how to enable two fingers scroll and right click"
date: 2008-11-03
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by xiaoqiangwj on 2008-11-03
hey guys, I tried to enable two fingers scroll and right click on my macbook pro 3,1. I tried all the solutions on the forum, but it still doesn't work. Please help!

here's my xorg.conf
THANKS!

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@rothera)  Mon Oct 13 14:53:48 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer X193W"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600M GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by parkerhiggins on 2008-11-04
In Intrepid, as far as I understand, xorg.conf configuration is being phased out and no longer works.  The fix is in a file called appletouch, the configuration of which can be found here: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MacBook/SantaRosa#Touchpad%20(appletouch](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MacBook/SantaRosa#Touchpad%20(appletouch))

Note that you should probably do a full restart after setting that up, because it didn't work for me until I had done that.  (I.e., logging out and restarting X was insufficient.)

---

### Post by kosumi68 on 2008-11-04
> **parkerhiggins said:**
> 
Note that you should probably do a full restart after setting that up, because it didn't work for me until I had done that.  (I.e., logging out and restarting X was insufficient.)

It is hal that needs restarting:
```

sudo /etc/init.d/hal restart

```
but rebooting is of course fine, too.

---

### Post by parkerhiggins on 2008-11-04
> **kosumi68 said:**
> It is hal that needs restarting:

Ah yes.  It was after restarting hal and logging out that it still didn't work, for just me.  Entirely possible I did something wrong.  It definitely worked after a reboot though.

---

### Post by kirillosipov on 2008-11-04
Have you looked at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook")?

Hope this helps,
Kirill

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-04
> **kirillosipov said:**
> Have you looked at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook)?

Hope this helps,
Kirill
Although for the MacBook3,1 you should go to 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook_Santa_Rosa](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBook_Santa_Rosa)

---

### Post by xiaoqiangwj on 2008-11-04
Yes, it works after reboot. Thanks!

---

### Post by xiaoqiangwj on 2008-11-05
Hey Guys, I still have the right click problem. I added the fdi file in the policy folder, but the right click still doesn't work. However, the two finger scroll works fine. Any ideas?

---

### Post by xpuserpjc on 2010-12-25
Hi folks,

I just installed Ubuntu 10.04 on a MacBook1,1 (old Pro) using Boot Camp, rEFIt, etc. and Ctrl-click did not do right-click duties. A search brought me here...

Anyway, after some trial and error, I found that two fingers on the track pad and a mouse button click did the job and it can be done with one hand.

It works tonight and I did not have to do any special config.

Take care,

Paul

---

