---
title: "No screens found.."
date: 2008-09-15
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Bikerbob on 2008-09-15
Hey people, me back again.

Ok, I am a step further along the process.

I have kubuntu 804 installed on a 9600 G3400 with 276mb ram.

During the install I would have bet the farm I told it to install the Desktop packages, but it did not.

So I used apt-get to install the kubuntu, if I check it checks out ok.


When I try and startx - I get the message no screens found with a valid configuration. and it errors out and drops me back to the command line.


I am using an ATI Mach64 GT card it will do 1024 x 768 in 24bit on a 19" ColorSync monitor.

I have tried using the xorg.config failsafe.. did not help, it said I did not have a vesa driver..so I apt-get vesa, did not work.

when I try and do the xorg configuration over again it asks 8 questions on keyboards and I dont get asked about video drivers or screen resolution and then black screen and i need to re-boot. It also askes for the bus the card is on.. HOLY CRAP! and the the lspci response I get does not match the input format the config wants.

HELP!

James

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-09-15
Post please your /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by Bikerbob on 2008-09-15
what is the bootx kernel line to get it to boot to cli or runlevel.. 

Everytime I boot now I am getting a black screen with just a underscore cursor in the top left corner.

James

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-09-15
Maybe you are not on the first console. Just try ctrl+alt+F1

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2008-09-15
Does the caps lock light come on when hit the caps lock key?  If so the
system is not locked up and should be able to one of the console to fix things up.

see if you and get to a console with ctl+alt F2

After that you can backtrack using dpkg to remove kde destop and force reinstall of the gnome desktop.

---

### Post by Bikerbob on 2008-09-15
LOL ipon.. why would I want to do the kde for gnome thing.. you think this has something to do with me not being able to get it working?

On the otherhand I would just use the xubuntu desktop its the lightest of the bunch is it not?

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-09-15
> **Bikerbob said:**
> LOL ipon.. why would I want to do the kde for gnome thing.. you think this has something to do with me not being able to get it working?

On the otherhand I would just use the xubuntu desktop its the lightest of the bunch is it not?

I have Debian with Xfce on my PowerMac 8500 and it works quite good. So, yes, Xubuntu should run just good. I believe, that you must find the right configuration for your xorg.conf file. You can have a look also in MacOS9, to figure out which resolution and refresh rate your card support.

---

### Post by Bikerbob on 2008-09-15
Here are my current files and log of Xorg.

I notice that Xorg wants to load the ATI driver.

I have read a link for a frame buffer driver id as atyfb  not sure if these are one in the same.

Hope someone can help me with this.

I used the cli 3 to get to runlevel 3 and so can boot into the system.

in os9 I am running 1024 x 758 70mhz 16 bit colour.

James

---

### Post by Bikerbob on 2008-09-15
Noticed that if I check the no video driver option in BOOTX the DMESG shows it using the correct Video card and settings..

How does this check box translate for the linux install? I still need a correct setting to run X I assume.

---

### Post by Bikerbob on 2008-09-16
no suggestions anymore?

James

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-09-16
You can have a look on my xorg.conf file. It was generated by the Debian Installer for my PowerMac 8500. It should work also for yours 9600. 
I didn't change almost anything, because I didn't have time - I will try to make X as light as possible. Maybe changing also the refresh rate could give a better look.

Of course back up your files, before making any change!

---

### Post by Bikerbob on 2008-09-18
"using unsuported 1024 x 768 ATY, mach64 at 81800000, depth=15, pitch=2048"

I get this in demesg when I use the no video driver option of bootx

James

Here is the Xorg.log from the attempt to use your 8500 Xorg.conf

---

### Post by jbmcc on 2009-04-30
Dell Latitude C800, 1400X1050 LCD Ubuntu 9.04
Previously installed 8.10, and used the usual fix (see posts) to get the screen to full resolution.  After I upgraded to 9.04 got a similar screen (looked like wrong scan rate), but not able to fix with my old xorg.conf file.  Made a partition and reinstalled 9.04 from CD.  Result = 800 X 640 max resulution 
(after pressing <Fn>-<F7>)
Combined several suggestions and files from posts here and finally found a combination that matched.  File is attached.  
(xorg.conf.C800.txt)
Computer runs better w/9.04 (than 8.10 or 8.04) and even Shuts Down w/o needing to press the power switch!  (Suspend and Hibernate still don't seem to work, so far).  Have not had a chance to try the PCMCIA/Cardbus slot.  Text on screen seems 'cleaner'.
Good Luck! (and thanks for the posts)  
Jim

---

