---
title: "8.10 on PPC imac G3 -&gt; doesnt boot after succesful installation"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-23
Hellow,

I used an alternate install disk of Xubuntu 8.10 to install it on my iMac G3.

Everything went well, except the network configuration (but i figured i would fix this later). 
And maybe the system clock setting, i didn't know if my imac used "UTC" or not, so i just clicked "yes, my system clock is UTC"

So i'm not sure what went wrong, the installation finished succesfully but it wont boot.

What can I do? (i'm pretty inexperienced with linux, so any help at all is welcome)

Thx!!

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-26
could someone please help me maybe?

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-11-26
You should tell us a bit more. What does it happen, when you start the imac? Do you get any prompt?

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-28
yes!

I get the first stage boot screen (press l for linux or press c for cdrom(even when theres no cd inside))

Then I get the yaboot screen. 

And after that I get a white screen with black letters. I think this is the Apple Open Firmware. And after that it shuts down.
Here's what it shows on the last screen:

"Done
Copying OF device tree ...
Building dt strings ...
Building dt structure ...
Device tree strings 0x02665000 -> 0x025665b4b
Device structure 0x02666000 -> 0x0266c000
Calling quiesce ...
Returning from prom_intit"

And then it shuts itself down.

Hope you can help me! Grtz

---

### Post by concorde106 on 2008-11-28
THAT is what linux does *every time* it loads. Trust me. EVERY time. You get used to all the "failed to find (insert object here)"
As for why it reboots, sorry man. I have absolutely no idea what's wrong...

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-11-28
At yaboot: prompt, type 'Linux video=ofonly nosplash'

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-11-28
Tiresia's right.  You may want to hit TAB when you see the second-stage yaboot boot: prompt just to give you some time, as it will timeout eventually and move on without you, and then type that command Tiresia gave.

That's the first hurdle.  The second one is that you'll need to manually edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file specifically for the G3 iMac.  If you can get to a virtual terminal, (ctrl-alt-f2), even though the screen is still black (hopefully not shut down), you can use *sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf* to edit the file.  Here is a great faq that has some of the very specific data you'll need:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues#Blank%20screen%20on%20iMac%20G3](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues#Blank%20screen%20on%20iMac%20G3)

Hopefully it won't go beyond having to do just this.

So you don't hit your head against the wall, how much memory is in that machine, and do you know if the hard drive is a replacement that is larger than what originally came with it?  These are two other common issues with G3 iMacs that may arise.

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-28
okay thanks alot, i'll try those things when i get home.

i think it still has the original drive, around 20-30gb. 

and it has about 640Mb of RAM, but i'm not very sure about that either.

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-28
okay I used the command "linux video=ofonly nosplash" and after that I could succesfully load xubuntu. 

But then it gave the following error:
[I]
"ubtunu is running in low-graphics mode

The following error was encountered. You may need 
to update your configuration to solve this.

[EE] Unable to find a valid framebuffer device
[EE] R128(0) Failed to open framebuffer device, consult
warnings and/or errors above for possible reasons.
[EE] Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration."[/I]

Should I know try to do what stream303 described in his post?

Thx

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-28
Hellow, there's another issue also

I can't seem to open any window or program or terminal, al windows seem to close automaticly or not at all. 

After that i tried to open the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, using the terminal that opens when you press CTRL-ALT-F1

but that file looks very different than I remember from xubuntu 6.06.
there seems to be a lot less information, and i cant find any parameters that can be edited...

need help again plz :)

Grtz

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-29
anyone know how I can see the "full" xorg.conf ? 

thx

---

### Post by shekhark on 2008-11-29
I've also just installed on an iMac G3 which breaks at startup. While I get the ubuntu splash screen, gdm fails to load and I don't get a login screen. I had Breezy working fine on this machine before. I thought it might have to do with my display settings. But oddly enough, I do not see anything in /etc/X11/xorg.conf -- it appears blank. I've never used powerpc ubuntu before, am I missing something here?

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-29
I don't know, but i'm trying to installing xubuntu here, so there might be some differences.

So  it might be better to start a seperate topic, to avoid confusions.

Grtz

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-11-29
> **swimon said:**
> anyone know how I can see the "full" xorg.conf ?

With Intrepid, there is nothing in xorg.conf as the latest X servers want to automate everything and get users away from manually editing this file.  Unfortunately, we *have* to much of the time, so it makes it a bit more difficult when you don't even have a template from which one can follow.

One thing you can do to get at least a template of xorg.conf, even though it doesn't work out of the box, is to run

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

In modern releases, **this does not work to correct our problems**, as this command has been deprecated, but it should give you a "full" xorg.conf file now, or at least some guides to go by when you substitute known good values to make up for the ones that are wrong.

Now try following the suggestions in the faq for the G3's:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues#Blank%20screen%20on%20iMac%20G3](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCKnownIssues#Blank%20screen%20on%20iMac%20G3)

If you can get to a virtual terminal with ctrl-alt-f2, there you can perform

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` and then logout/login to see if any changes have taken affect.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-11-29
> **shekhark said:**
> I've also just installed on an iMac G3 which breaks at startup. While I get the ubuntu splash screen, gdm fails to load and I don't get a login screen. I had Breezy working fine on this machine before. I thought it might have to do with my display settings. But oddly enough, I do not see anything in /etc/X11/xorg.conf -- it appears blank. I've never used powerpc ubuntu before, am I missing something here?

One of the biggest tips before upgrading is to copy or print your existing /etc/X11/xorg.conf, and /etc/yaboot.conf for reference in case you need it later on.  You may not want to use it verbatim, but copy over just what you need for Intrepid.

The splash screens on Ubuntu are just so problematic, even if you get the ugly one, I always recommend avoiding it altogether by starting with the usual at the second-stage yaboot boot: prompt by hitting TAB to interrupt the countdown

```
Linux video=ofonly nosplash
```

Now at least you should be able to get to a virtual terminal to do your edits to /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Also take heart in the fact that low-memory, ati rage128, G3 imacs, Intrepid (or any new Linux distro's X server), and being a newcomer to Linux is one of the hardest hurdles to overcome.

It can be done - just don't be tempted to throw it through the window if it doesn't come up right away. :)

---

### Post by lemonbar on 2008-11-29
> **swimon said:**
> Hellow, there's another issue also

I can't seem to open any window or program or terminal, al windows seem to close automaticly or not at all. 

After that i tried to open the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, using the terminal that opens when you press CTRL-ALT-F1

but that file looks very different than I remember from xubuntu 6.06.
there seems to be a lot less information, and i cant find any parameters that can be edited...

need help again plz :)

Grtz

If it helps any, I'm having the same problem - if you get your xorg to work, please post it, because so far I've had no luck getting out of low graphics mode, and I can't get anything to happen in there.  I haven't been working on it lately though - holidays and such.

If I get mine to work, I'll post it.

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-30
okay i'll try editing the xorg.conf that way when i get home, i'm not too confident though, because "lemonbar" has the same problem and doesnt seem able to fix it... 

Would it maybe help too download and install xubuntu 8.04 and then upgrade to 8.10? 

Or maybe use an even lower version? Because at first, I installed xubuntu 6.04, and that worked fine in full graphic mode, the only thing was i couldnt get my wifi set up, so I upgraded to this version.


Grtz

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-11-30
well, that doesnt seem to be working...

i tried reconfiguring the xorg.conf

is it worth the shot to try to install xubuntu 8.04 ?

grtz

---

### Post by lemonbar on 2008-12-01
Don't be discouraged just because I don't know what I'm doing:)  I'm really new to the Linux on powerpc thing, and there seems to be a steep learning curve or maybe there's one silly thing I'm overlooking.  I'm working on it tonight after several days dealing with, oh, life and all, and I'll post my xorg if it works. I'll probably throw a parade and set off fireworks as well. 

By the way, I've tried Ubuntu 8.04 in hopes that the xorg problem would be easier to address, but had the same problems.  I know there are people who have gotten this to work (right?) but I can't quite figure it out.  

Anyway, good luck.

---

### Post by swimon on 2008-12-01
i'm new to the whole linux thing :D not just the linux ppc thing :)

But when I installed xubuntu 6.06, my graphics where normal, so maybe we can try to use a working xorg file from 6.06 and use it in 8.10?

Grtz.

---

### Post by toinou04 on 2008-12-06
Hi,

I have the same problem. So I have posted a bug report : [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/301754]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/301754")

Please, can you complete this report to help the developer to correct quickly this Bug? Can you attach the output of `lspci -vvnn`, and attach your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file from after reproducing this issue. If you've made any customizations to your /etc/X11/xorg.conf please attach that as well.

Thank.

---

