---
title: "11.10 on MacBookPro7,1 NVidia missing from &quot;Additional drivers&quot; - bug or feature?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by webfiend on 2011-10-14
Previous installations of Ubuntu (10.10, 11.04) on my MBP have always prompted me to install the NVidia proprietary driver. This time around (11.10), I did not receive that prompt. I also do not see NVidia as an available option when I load the *Additional Drivers* application.

I assumed it was a deliberate decision to focus on the open source nouveau driver. However, searching around for clues on a screen brightness issue led me to bug [#819647]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/810647"). Now I'm wondering if I should have been seeing the NVidia option after all.

Would anybody mind sorting through my confusion? I want to make sure I'm using the right drivers, in case other issues I'm seeing are the result of an improper setup. I usually just step through the Wiki pages during installation, but there isn't one for Oneiric on the MacBookPro7,1 yet. :)

---

### Post by viglio on 2011-10-15
Same problem!

---

### Post by webfiend on 2011-10-16
I just installed nvidia-current from the command line. 

[FONT="Courier New"]$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-current[/FONT]

Now it shows up as enabled when I load *Additional Drivers*.

Rebooted, and my machine is still alive. So if you absolutely have to have Nvidia - still haven't figured out whether I need to in my situation - you can install it directly without waiting for it to show up in *Additional Drivers*.

Just remember: there's probably a good reason why that driver isn't showing up in the available list by default. Possibly it hasn't been tested enough under the 3.x Linux kernel, or something else.

---

### Post by bperdu on 2011-10-17
When I hit the brightness buttons they do display the applet window, and show the brightness cursor going up or down, but the screen brightness itself remains 100%.

I have the nvidia driver in the Additional Drivers, and I looked in the Nvidia X server settings without success.

How would one go about solving the brightness problem?

Ben

---

### Post by bperdu on 2011-10-17
Webfiend, you mentioned you were looking for clues about a brightness problem, could it be the same as mine?

Did you find a solution?

---

### Post by Sileem on 2011-10-17
> **bperdu said:**
> When I hit the brightness buttons they do display the applet window, and show the brightness cursor going up or down, but the screen brightness itself remains 100%.

I have the nvidia driver in the Additional Drivers, and I looked in the Nvidia X server settings without success.

How would one go about solving the brightness problem?

Ben

Add this to your Device section of xorg.conf
Option          "RegistryDwords" "EnableBrightnessControl=1"

---

### Post by webfiend on 2011-10-17
> **bperdu said:**
> Webfiend, you mentioned you were looking for clues about a brightness problem, could it be the same as mine?

Did you find a solution?

I did have the same problem using the NVidia driver. Brightness controls responded, but the screen brightness didn't actually change. There is no [FONT="Courier New"]/etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT] file, because Xorg now looks in a set of configuration files under [FONT="Courier New"]/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d[/FONT] by default. However, Xorg will still use settings you add to [FONT="Courier New"]/etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT]. So that's what I did. Here is my complete [FONT="Courier New"]/etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT] file:

```
Section "Device"
    Identifier "Default Device"
    Driver     "nvidia"
    Option     "RegistryDwords" "EnableBrightnessControl=1"
EndSection
```

Rebooted, and the brightness keys work as expected. Even better: I didn't break anything else.

I was experiencing a different problem using the nouveau driver. The screen would start out with full brightness and initially not respond when I tried to lower the brightness. If I tapped F2 to increase the brightness, it would suddenly dim to a very low setting. After that the brightness keys worked, but only to step several shades between very dim and completely black.

But I'm on the nvidia driver now, so I don't really care anymore :D

---

### Post by bperdu on 2011-10-17
Sileem, Webfiend, It really does the trick, and the very responsive and soft changes in brightness are very nice indeed.

Thanks for the help.

I had in fact upgraded from a 11.04 that was a fresh install, so I did have the nvidia driver but no /etc/X11/xorg.conf, which I guess would have come from an older install Sileem?

---

### Post by webfiend on 2011-10-18
> **bperdu said:**
> I had in fact upgraded from a 11.04 that was a fresh install, so I did have the nvidia driver but no /etc/X11/xorg.conf, which I guess would have come from an older install Sileem?

I am glad it worked for you! Your upgrade may have updated the nvidia driver, but whatever is happening with *Additional Drivers* may have caused nvidia to be ignored.

---

