---
title: "iMac G5 1.6 Ghz Install"
date: 2008-08-07
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by Hollycrusade on 2008-08-07
A few days ago my godfather told me to try Ubuntu so it's what i did.
I burned a Live CD of 8.0.4.1 LTS Hardy Heron and i was amazed how good looking was Ubuntu so i just pressed Install...selected Portuguese has main language and finished install.
After reeboting i couldn't wait to start using it but when i saw the Bootup screen saying Ubuntu with all colors messed up...=/(it was like a black background and the ''Ubuntu'' was in messed green pixels and other colors.
I continued did my Log In and i got to the Desktop.
I opened Firefox moved a little the Firefox Windows and it was ALL glitchy when i move it and that woudn't happen on my mac and that glitchs always got Worst when I would open another window even if i would grab a folder and drag it over FireFox and i tought it was a problem and the available updates would fix it so i updated...after installing the updates i reeboted still the same messed boot up screen and the same window moving glitch.
I want the Ubuntu to work on my Mac PPC so hard!!!!

Here are my specs:

iMac G5 1.6 Ghz 
Nvidia 5200 FX Ultra 64mb
1GB RAM + 256MB (extra) of RAM
PPC 1.6 Ghz processor
 
P.S. I don't know if this matters but this iMac G5 supports 64-Bits and of course the 64-bits needs a better Graphic Card...my guess is that Ubuntu detected that it actually supported 64 bits and installed Ubuntu in 64-bits...This is just my guess has i see sucefull G4 storys why not my G5?

Please somebody HELP!

Edit:Also a friend of mine that works for M$ told me that the problem should be the graphic card driver but there's no update for nVidia PPC users, and for what i've heard there's no need to update from nVidia but the kernel (i readed that from here [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ#3D%20video%20drivers,%20Beryl,%20Compiz](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PowerPCFAQ#3D%20video%20drivers,%20Beryl,%20Compiz)).

HELP!

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-08-07
> **Hollycrusade said:**
> P.S. I don't know if this matters but this iMac G5 supports 64-Bits and of course the 64-bits needs a better Graphic Card...my guess is that Ubuntu detected that it actually supported 64 bits and installed Ubuntu in 64-bits...
I think you are confused. There is no 64bit Ubuntu for PowerPC, and if there was, it would be a separate download and disc. Also, I don't know what that would have to do with your graphics card.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-08-07
PowerPC G5 is a 64Bit-Computer and every Linux Distro usually install a 64Bit Kernel with a 32Bit Userland. Debian and Ubuntu do the same as well. I think it is what the installer did in this case.
But my impression is that the problem of Hollycrusade has more to do with the configuration of the X-server. Can you please post us what you get from
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Hollycrusade on 2008-08-07
> **tiresia said:**
> PowerPC G5 is a 64Bit-Computer and every Linux Distro usually install a 64Bit Kernel with a 32Bit Userland. Debian and Ubuntu do the same as well. I think it is what the installer did in this case.
But my impression is that the problem of Hollycrusade has more to do with the configuration of the X-server. Can you please post us what you get from
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.config
```


Ok, i typed that in Terminal and i got this:

masterchief@Ubuntu:~$ cat /etc/xorg.config
cat: /etc/xorg.config: Ficheiro ou directoria inexistente
masterchief@Ubuntu:~$

That output is in Portuguese it means that File or directory not found.

---

### Post by tiresia on 2008-08-07
Ok I made a mistake, you made another one 

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

You need the file xorg.conf, that is in /etc/**X11**

---

### Post by Hollycrusade on 2008-08-07
> **tiresia said:**
> Ok I made a mistake, you made another one 

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

You need the file xorg.conf, that is in /etc/**X11**
I did the command in terminal and:

masterchief@Ubuntu:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"pt"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"mac"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	BusID		"PCI:240:16:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
masterchief@Ubuntu:~$ 


This is what i got.Hope i get this fixed.

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-08-08
Don't worry about the bad looking Ubuntu splash screen - they normally have never looked good on ppc.

Instead, you may wish to use the "nosplash" parameter in your /etc/yaboot.conf file so that you can see the boot messages roll by instead.  A quick search for nosplash should turn up some info on how to add it your your yaboot.conf's append= line, and also how to use ybin to make the system aware of the change.  For now, just consider it a cosmetic problem.

The "glitchy" window drags I solved by using a wireframe, or "don't animate background while dragging" option in gnome.  I forgot exactly where that is in the gconf-editor, but that cleared up that little problem for me as well.

Don't sweat the 64 bit thing.  Ubuntu will detect your G5 and use the 64-bit kernel automatically without any intervention on your part during install.

With the nvidia card, about the only tweak you can make to it is to use "Option FPDither true" in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.  This will provide much nicer image especially in small details on the iMac's lcd screen.

---

### Post by Hollycrusade on 2008-08-08
Ok i can live with the boot screen but it would be helpfull where's that gconf-editor and what to do with it and in the xorg.conf file i can't find the parameter ''Option FPDither'' i even did a Control+F for find and nothing =/

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-08-08
The FPDither option, and where to put it in your Hardy xorg.conf was in a bit more detail here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=793139](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=793139)

You'll need to edit it as root.  Start from a terminal and issue:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

make and save the changes.  On the next login you may see a nice difference, especially with small fonts and photographic details.

For the wireframe reduced resources when dragging, check here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707946](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707946)

Be sure NOT to run gconf-editor in a terminal as root, (ie sudo gconf-editor), otherwise you will change things just for root, and not yourself.  Just start gconf-editor normally.

---

### Post by Hollycrusade on 2008-08-08
Thank you a lot. Now my Ubuntu is looking better and no more lagg when dragging but there's a way of activating effects?
Has i see in my xorg.conf file i don't have the DRIVER line and it should be there -_- how can i add it?
Mine is an nVidia fx 5200 64mb

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-08-09
Sorry, but no 3D fancy affects for us ppc nvidia users.

Hardy's /etc/X11/xorg.conf is pretty bare, so all you have to do is manually insert the line:

```
Option     "FPDither" "true"
```

in the **"Device"** section with an editor as described above using gedit text editor.  If you see any BusID lines, leave them alone as-is.

---

### Post by Hollycrusade on 2008-09-02
So there's no way of 3d? Didn't the Noveau project already released a public beta of a 3d render or there's other 3d render? Or some way of fix the 3d probelm?

Thx in advance.

---

### Post by Hollycrusade on 2008-09-10
Bump.

---

