---
title: "8.04 over a previous install- macbook pro 3,1"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by autumnrayne on 2008-04-30
I had previously installed ubuntu to mess around with, and managed to bork the sound pretty badly and was advised to just reinstall and start fresh.  Since the new version just came out i decided to just wipe the partition and download the installation CD.  I had followed the guide from the macbook pro wiki page the previous time and did the same thing with the new CD.  (dev/sda3 formatted as ext3 and dev/sda4 formatted as swap both at the beginning and with  / mount point)

The installation completes and when i reboot i get a "no bootable device found, please insert boot disk and press any key to continue" (something to that effect, i don't remember exactly.) inserting the CD doesn't seem to do anything.

I'm at a loss, and am pretty new to the linux thing so im not even sure where to turn for answers.  Would the best thing to do be reinstall 7.10 and do the upgrade from the upgrade utility?  I had started to do this, but the wifi signal dropped and i needed to be doing things on the OSX side of things for work.

---

### Post by sunbird on 2008-04-30
Hi. It's always a good idea to do a forum search before posting. But seeing as it's your first post, no big deal. :) This is a known issue with 8.04. Please read [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=767677") and post any followups there.

---

### Post by autumnrayne on 2008-04-30
thanks,  i thought i had searched- but apparently i missed the answer among all the other things.

---

