---
title: "installing hardy on a g3 imac"
date: 2008-06-22
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by howlingmadhowie on 2008-06-22
well, it worked, but it was a difficult birth.

installing hardy directly didn't work. everything went wrong, but updating to hardy from a fresh dapper install worked perfectly :)

following problems:
[LIST=1]
[*]dist-upgrade didn't work at first
[*]dist-upgrade didn't work later as well
[*]new kernel wasn't set to boot
[/LIST]

the solutions were to
* install update-manager-core
* add the following repository to /etc/apt/sources
deb [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) dapper-backports main/debian-installer
* apt-get remove ubuntu-desktop
* start the install and wait a long time. if you're like me, it won't have any problems, but it won't update yaboot.conf to use the new kernel, so:
* change yaboot.conf to use the new kernel:
```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2
device=/pci@f2000000/mac-io@17/ata-4@1f000/disk@0:
partition=3
root=/dev/hda3
timeout=50
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot

default=current

image=/boot/vmlinux
        label=Linux
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img
        append="quiet splash"

## this is the old kernel image and can be booted by entering
## old
## at the boot prompt
image=/boot/vmlinux.old
        label=old
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img.old
        append="quiet splash"

image=/boot/vmlinux-2.6.24-19-powerpc
        label=current
        read-only
        initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-powerpc

```

hope this helps someone :)

howie

---

### Post by ocean223 on 2008-06-22
Too late for me dude.  I tried to install Hardy on a G3 8oomhz 640 mb ram machine. I followed many guides and community support things.
va problems, no obscure Flash installat6ions,and no other miosc. crap that wastes my time.
It finally installed, but getting it to run all the toys was not worth the time.

I have re-installed tiger on this machine and all is going well.

In a nutshell, DO NOT BOTHER WITH AN UBUNTU INSTALL ON A PPC.What would be the point anyway?:lolflag:

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-06-22
> **ocean223 said:**
> It finally installed, but getting it to run all the toys was not worth the time.

I have re-installed tiger on this machine and all is going well.

In a nutshell, DO NOT BOTHER WITH AN UBUNTU INSTALL ON A PPC.What would be the point anyway?

Sounds like you've chosen a wise path by running Tiger.  I do the same on an external firewire drive when the need arises.

Installing Linux can be frustrating at times, but for some, there's more to life than flash and 3D.  To avoid frustration, sticking to osx is a good bet if those toys are needed. :)

Unfortunately, Apple didn't have Linux in mind when they created their hardware.  The good part is that we aren't locked in should you want to run something different.

Even though you eventually went back to OSX, it doesn't sound like the community itself wasted your time.

In the end, Ubuntu PPC didn't meet your needs and you chose a wise alternative.  Should you ever want to try again, the forum members will be glad to help.

---

### Post by ocean223 on 2008-06-22
The community is wonderful. I have Ubuntu running on an Intel Mac, an Intel laptop ,and an ancient AMD box. I'm running Hardy under VMware fusion on the I mac.  It all works well. 

All I'm saying is that Ubuntu on the Ibook G3 is too much trouble. Maybe that's why Conninical stopped support after 6.06.

I thought that Ubuntu would make the best of my ibook. This is simply not the case. Under Tiger it runs cool as a baby's butt.

Under Ubuntu I could almost fry an egg on the bottom.

Hey, I still like Ubuntu, just not on a G3 PPc Ibook.

It's all good:)

---

### Post by ocean223 on 2008-06-22
The community is wonderful. I have Ubuntu running on an Intel Mac, an Intel laptop ,and an ancient AMD box. I'm running Hardy under VMware fusion on the I mac.  It all works well. 

All I'm saying is that Ubuntu on the Ibook G3 is too much trouble. Maybe that's why Conninical stopped support after 6.06.

I thought that Ubuntu would make the best of my ibook. This is simply not the case. Under Tiger it runs cool as a baby's butt.

Under Ubuntu I could almost fry an egg on the bottom.

Hey, I still like Ubuntu, just not on a G3 PPc Ibook.

It's all good:)

---

### Post by chenqinbo5 on 2008-06-22
do drop by to [www.shop-foco.com](www.shop-foco.com) <http://www.shop-foco.com>  look through the articles there. With information on anything from getting the  cheapest shoes, you'll find something that helps you save a lot of money.
-- 
the cheapeast shoes
[www.shop-foco.com](www.shop-foco.com)
<msn:shop-foco@hotmail.com>
E-mail:shopfoco@gmail.com
Thank you for your E-mail and your order

---

### Post by stream303 on 2008-06-23
The G3/G4 ibooks/powerbooks seem to have overheat problems not just with Ubuntu but with Linux in general - for years now too.  I wish there was better manufacturer hardware docs to control the temp as nicely as in OSX.

In the case of overheating, I'd definitely agree that running osx is probably the better choice. And now that Firefox 3 requires 10.4, I'd say that anyone running older versions get 10.4 Tiger if they can.

I tamed it a little bit by removing the dashboard and disabling the file tracker, but that's another thread. :)

I do apologize - I can get a bit defensive at times.

---

