---
title: "9.04 and Mac Pro installation won't start"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by captainserial on 2009-04-24
Hi everyone,

I am trying to install the new Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope on my Mac Pro and am running into an issue with, I think, the boot loader on the installation CD.

When I boot from the CD (in either disk drive), I see the boot menu and can choose my language, but when I choose to start the install or boot the Live OS, the computer locks up. Nothing changes, I can still see the boot loader screen with my boot choice selected, but my Mac Pro no longer responds. I have to shut the computer off to get out of this lockup, and no amount of waiting results in an error message or actual boot.

I know there may be alternative kernels and boot options on the CD I could use to resolve this, but I am at a loss as to what to try there. I tried just one option, the safe graphics mode, but had the exact same issue.

This is an original Mac Pro, if that helps. Any ideas anyone has for me would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by jamessnell on 2009-04-24
I've seen some posts of people claiming that they generally are unsuccessful when downloading an ISO from a mirror. Those people suggested getting the [trorrented version]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/"). 

Do you think there's any chance your disc is just from a screwy download?

---

### Post by captainserial on 2009-04-24
The MD5 sum matches what is on the [mirror]("http://ubuntu.osuosl.org/releases/jaunty/") I downloaded it from, and what is recorded as the official checksum [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes"). I'm going to try the AMD64 version, then try re-burning the i386 ISO at a slower speed if that doesn't work.

---

### Post by jamessnell on 2009-04-24
> **captainserial said:**
> The MD5 sum matches what is on the [mirror]("http://ubuntu.osuosl.org/releases/jaunty/") I downloaded it from, and what is recorded as the official checksum [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes"). I'm going to try the AMD64 version, then try re-burning the i386 ISO at a slower speed if that doesn't work.

Ohh yeah, I'd definitely encourage you to go AMD64 - It's what I use on my Mac Pro. :)

32bit should work though..

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2009-04-24
Might try the alternate installer cd too...

---

