---
title: "10.04 on i Mac 27&quot; i7: Color depth issue."
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Apple Hardware Users
---

### Post by jisaac on 2010-05-01
I have a color depth issue, it seems I'm using a 16bit color depth and I have very annoying banding problems.

In xorg.conf my DefaultDepth is set to 24... It looks like an other ATI issue on Linux :(

Any idea?

PS: I've attached my /var/log/Xorg.0.log

PS: I had the same problem when I updated the ATI proprietary driver to Catalyst 10.4 on Ubuntu 9.10.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-05-01
I agree that it is an ATI problem in linux.  I have an old 9200SE card which will not run very well since 9.10 when the new xorg version appeared which did not support older cards very well.

It was OK without compiz running, but if I want compiz in any form I can not have a resolution above 1024x768, ridiculous on a screen which should be above that, nor at 24 bit colour.  16 bit colour works and is fine in my case, though I occasionally need to use compiz-switch to turn off desktop effects, or else I see a small amount of vertical banding in my video player screens, eg totem or vlc.  It does not always happen, however, but I don't know why it is intermittent.

---

### Post by cazacugmihai on 2010-05-01
Hi,

I have the same problems on my iMac 27"(i7) with Ubuntu 10.04:
- ugly gradients;
- slow videos in full screen mode.

Do you know any fixes?
Thanks.

---

### Post by cazacugmihai on 2010-05-03
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/574266](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/574266)

---

### Post by strongface on 2010-05-16
Hi there,

I'm having the same issue as the above people.

Have installed Ubuntu 9.10 and 10.04 on my iMac 27" core i7 and when I've installed the ATI driver from the amd website I'm left with very low color depth, (looks like the old 256 color option on windows 95!)

Any help on this would be much appreciated,

Thanks

---

