---
title: "10.04 LTS Upgrade from 9.10"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Pennsylvania Team - US
---

### Post by OldGoat58 on 2010-05-13
Hey Team,

I'm curious to find out if others experienced problems upgrading from 9.10 Karmic to 10.04 LTS Lucid.  I did an upgrade through the update manager as suggested on UbuntuLinux.org and most everything seemed to work ok, but I was having problems with Evolution spontaneously closing, amid other little things like Java issues.  

From everything I read on Ubuntu Forums it seemed as though I had gotten some corrupt data during the upgrade and decided a fresh install from CD would be a good idea.  So I did that.  It fixed the Evolution problem for a while but it gave me new problems.  I had heat issues from my CPU and it was spiked most of the time, my sound was here this boot gone the next, and then the final straw was the looping back to login instead of shutting down or restarting.

I've since gone back to Karmic and everything is as it was and I am back to enjoying the learning process of Linux based OS.  I'm thinking of getting brave and trying the Lucid upgrade again this weekend and would like some general feedback how your upgrade went.

Thanks!
Mike
Fairless Hills, PA 

HP Pavilion dv9810US
AMD 64 x2 Turion Processors
3072mb DDR2 533 SODIMM 200 Pin
Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala 32bit i386

](*,)

---

### Post by Sentinel83 on 2010-05-13
Hey Mike,

My experiences have been hit or miss, although this last online upgrade seemed to work ok.  I think upgrading with a fresh install does seem to help reduce the number of issues.

I know that the 64-bit version of Ubuntu has a few general issues, but is there a reason you are running the 32-bit version if you are running 64-bit hardware?  You may get better performance with your hardware running that version since it looks like you have 64 bit processors in your hardware description.  Same installation process applies but you will need to download the 64-bit version from the Ubuntu website.

I do know they are working on some sound issues (pulseaudio?) for this release so hopefully in a short time they should be resolved.

---

### Post by plurworldinc on 2010-05-17
I am havig very mixed feelings about my upgrade. When I upgraded my netbook, everything seemed to go fine. I was even able to add in KDE for I could use the Kubuntu Netbook Edition for I could give it a try> For the most part the netbook upgraded wonderfully.

   Now for my laptop on the other hand most of my problems came from user error. I have been running Ubuntu Ultimate Edition 2.5 ( Karmic) and I was very excited when the upgrade dropping into my Update Manager. I wanted to upgrade but after reading the Ultimate Edition Forum I quickly learn that an upgrade would not work. I was a little thrown back by that because it's all Ubuntu to me< but I waited. 

   After my now fresh install everything almost worked. I am having issues with my wireless, but on the the hand my video card is working 100 times better and I can now play random video games again use my Skype again with video chat. For the most part it was a good turn over.:popcorn:

---

### Post by OldGoat58 on 2010-05-17
> **plurworldinc said:**
> I am havig very mixed feelings about my upgrade. When I upgraded my netbook, everything seemed to go fine. I was even able to add in KDE for I could use the Kubuntu Netbook Edition for I could give it a try> For the most part the netbook upgraded wonderfully.

   Now for my laptop on the other hand most of my problems came from user error. I have been running Ubuntu Ultimate Edition 2.5 ( Karmic) and I was very excited when the upgrade dropping into my Update Manager. I wanted to upgrade but after reading the Ultimate Edition Forum I quickly learn that an upgrade would not work. I was a little thrown back by that because it's all Ubuntu to me< but I waited. 

   After my now fresh install everything almost worked. I am having issues with my wireless, but on the the hand my video card is working 100 times better and I can now play random video games again use my Skype again with video chat. For the most part it was a good turn over.:popcorn:

Thanks for the information.  I decided to try it again this weekend.  I did the upgrade more times than I'd like to admit but low and behold it worked.  I have a fairly stable PC running the 32 bit 10.04 LTS.  The only hiccup I have left to figure out is the spontaneous closing of Evolution.  The last time I posted about it on the Ubuntu main forums board I got accused of hijacking a thread so I'll either figure it out or go back to Thunderbird.

Mike
Fairless Hills, PA

):P

---

### Post by OldGoat58 on 2010-05-17
> **Sentinel83 said:**
> Hey Mike,

My experiences have been hit or miss, although this last online upgrade seemed to work ok.  I think upgrading with a fresh install does seem to help reduce the number of issues.

I know that the 64-bit version of Ubuntu has a few general issues, but is there a reason you are running the 32-bit version if you are running 64-bit hardware?  You may get better performance with your hardware running that version since it looks like you have 64 bit processors in your hardware description.  Same installation process applies but you will need to download the 64-bit version from the Ubuntu website.

I do know they are working on some sound issues (pulseaudio?) for this release so hopefully in a short time they should be resolved.

I would kill to be able to run the 64 bit system.  That was what I started with back in November last year with Karmic only to find out most of my problems came from not having plugins for the things I used the most.  There is an IBM contractor working where I work that is trying to get me to switch to Fedora because it loads 32 and 64 bit libraries at install and switches automatically between the 2 as needed.  What I really need is a good tech coach to help me learn what I'm doing.  Now that I have successfully updated to 10.04 LTS maybe I'll play around with the 64 bit.  I have the ISO downloaded on my external.  ;)

Mike
Fairless Hills, PA

:guitar:

---

### Post by jedijf on 2010-05-18
Find a LUG or users group!

PACS   [www.pacsnet.org]("http://www.pacsnet.org")

PLUG   [http://www.phillylinux.org/](http://www.phillylinux.org/)

LUG/IP  [http://www.lugip.org/](http://www.lugip.org/)

Have fun.

---

