---
title: "8.04 won't install"
date: 2008-05-27
forum: Pennsylvania Team - US
---

### Post by presentchaos on 2008-05-27
I am trying to install this for the first time while within Vista, which I have no complaints or problems with. 
 I have a 19 GB partition I want to put Ubuntu on and whether I try to install from the CD via the wubi.com or from a folder on another partition, the install fails. 
 As you may know, first the program checks the install files and calculates the checksums, then it creates and image, according to the install GUI.After the image is created on the partition I intend to install the OS,a box pops up that says "Could not access the CD,please make sure other applications are not using it and try again." 
 I want to give this Ubuntu a try but if the sucker won't install via the Windows installer I'm not going to risk screwing up my system.

---

### Post by wdl71 on 2008-05-29
Having similar  (or maybe not) problem.  Ubuntu will not install for me either.  You can try booting with the Live CD version if you have it.  If you like it you should have the option of installing from within the booted Live CD.  One word of warning.  Linux installs Grub boot manager on your system.  If you do not like it, the only way to remove it is to boot from the Vista DVD , go thru setting the language, keyboard, etc., click next, then select repair my computer.  From there go to the command prompt and type "Bootrec.exe /FixMbr" [w/o quotes obviously] and reboot.  The new version of Easy BCD should be able to handle multi-booting with Linux but not sure if this covers all versions.  Just remember that you need the Vista DVD to do this.  However, many Linux people seem to love Grub-the choice would be yours.  I would strongly recommend not installing until you know that your system is Ubuntu compatable so you try before install approach is right on.  I don't know if you will get many other responses (hopefully someone more experienced than another alien to Ubuntu like myself could jump in) since the messages that seem to get most of the replies are for social gatherings.  Maybe you could host a party and while they are there ask them to help with the computer?  

**QUICK EDIT**  I just noticed in another forum that people with Vista have had problems booting to Ubuntu because of a setting in the Bios with their SATA drives.  Some had to set the SATA drive configuration from AHCI to RAID.  The speculation from what I gathered is that AHCI requires a licence from Intel and ?? but RAID does not.

---

### Post by Amiamasochist on 2008-07-04
Well  then you're not the only one! My Ubuntu/Wubi CD does exactly the same thing over and over again. Having seemingly downloaded 733.0 Mb of 733.1 Mb it comes back with that same stupid message that it can't access a CD that seemingly has been 99.99% downloaded seconds ago!

What, if any, is the solution?

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2008-09-01
I have two dual boot systems.
XP/Hardy on a desktop and Vista/Hardy on a laptop.
They both run great.
Been using linux for a bit over a year now and have no need for Windows anymore.

On my new laptop I opted for a dual boot not using WUBI because I read you lose a little performance that way. Doing a straight dual boot is only a little more complicated. You have to study it till you know what it will do. Then I followed directions and the live CD flawlessly installed Hardy in 15 minutes. The updates took longer to bring it up to date. 
I chose a 20GB partition for Hardy the rest is for Vista and storage.

---

### Post by OneIdle on 2008-09-02
Your best bet is to Download the Live CD and try it out, if you like Ubuntu and everything seems to work i.e Sound,Graphics ( Compiz ),Networking. then look into dual booting.

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2008-09-06
> **OneIdle said:**
> Your best bet is to Download the Live CD and try it out, if you like Ubuntu and everything seems to work i.e Sound,Graphics ( Compiz ),Networking. then look into dual booting.

This is the fastest way to get a Live CD, do it yourself.
I did it for FF and GG. Ran into a problem with Hardy Heron. After Downloading and burning a CD as ISO, I couldn't verify the Live CD to be error free. It worked for demo purposes but because it wasn't verified I had Ubuntu mail a Live CD to me, it took 4 weeks. 

Then I used their Live CD for the dual boot installs and all was good except for 'wireless' problems with my laptop that ran fine till an update a couple weeks ago that knocked out all wireless networks. 
My wired Desktop runs Hardy problem free as a dual boot with XP.

---

