---
title: "x86 vs 64"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Pennsylvania Team - US
---

### Post by rlm-nix on 2007-10-23
Well, I'm running the x86 install of 7.10 on my laptop.  However, my laptop has an AMD Turion 64 in it.

I really never thought about it, but does anyone know of any advantage where I should get and install the 64bit install?

Thanks

---

### Post by elizabeth on 2007-10-24
Since 64-bit Ubuntu is built to utilize optimizations in the 64-bit architecture you should notice it running faster.

However, I wouldn't call it entirely mature for the user desktop market. Proprietary software such as CrossOver Office and the official Flash version (last I checked) don't have a 64-bit version. So you end up running a chrooted 32-bit environment for some things or finding work-arounds, which can get annoying to manage.

---

### Post by rlm-nix on 2007-10-24
Thanks, I think I'll stick with x86 for now.

---

### Post by jdfreshwater on 2007-10-25
I'm running AMD64 version on my laptop and desktop.  With Gusty the Flash install has been fixed by apt-get installing nswrapper with flash to get it working automagically.  As far as running 32 bit applications, you can also do that.  I am running a Lightscribe program on AMD64 that has only been released for 32 bit systems.  I have also run wine and other things on a 64 bit system.  It may take a little more setup, but it still works.  I have very few problems with the 64 bit system.

---

### Post by lamalex on 2007-10-30
I've had issues with wireless on x86_64 Ubuntu. It works well under normal x86. Hopefully it will develop more as time goes on and 64bit processors and OSes become the norm. I'd like to use my 64bit processor to its potential.

---

### Post by dark_harmonics on 2008-02-11
I have gutsy 64 running perfectly on my 3rd gen macbook pro. The only 64 bit related problems i've had is the mentioned flash issue (which has a work around).

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2008-02-16
I'm running 64-bit Ubuntu on my desktop, server, and laptop (which also has a Turion 64).  No problems whatsoever, nada.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2008-03-31
64-bit is absurdly faster. If you ever go back to a 32bit system you will notice slowdowns that never were apparent before. (Creating a media library with Amarok for one)

---

