---
title: "12.04 update no unity"
date: 2012-04-21
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by ronaldbrijo on 2012-04-21
Hi,

Just did some updates in 12.04 beta.. ran fine... no errors, but at restart I get an error to run in low graphics mode for one session.. tried to, but only get a terminal with a login.. should I reinstall the graphic driver (ati card)?

Thank you

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-04-21
Have you tried booting into an older kernel?

Was there any information as to why you were being offered low graphics mode? Or why you were put into Linux command line mode?

In my mind this situation would indicate something going wrong with your video card or with a video configuration setting that was incompatible with your monitor.

At what point did you get this offer to run in low graphics mode?

a) Between the Grub menu and the LighDM login screen?

b) Between loging in and Compiz loading?

c) Between logging in, Compiz loading and then the desktop and Unity appearing?

At some point after the Grub menu the OS has to determine the correct settings for your monitor. If it cannot do that then we get an offer to run in low graphics mode. This is my understanding. In your case you are not even getting low graphics mode.

Regards.

---

### Post by ronaldbrijo on 2012-04-21
I get the error between Grub and Login...

I have tried an older Kernel, but then get a blank screen.

Yeah I am not getting any gui...

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-04-22
The only time I have seen a low graphics problem on any release it was due to proprietary video driver not being installed properly. I would reinstall the driver.

---

### Post by ronaldbrijo on 2012-04-22
Ran the installer.... but still no joy!!

---

