---
title: "10.10 -&gt; 12.04 dependencies must be resolved manually"
date: 2011-12-19
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by Ibidem on 2011-12-19
First, I know this upgrade path is officially unsupported; however, the issue I've encountered will most likely affect a 10.04 ->12.04 upgrade.
I'm doing the following after chrooting from Debian (needed for an internet connection), running Linux 3.0 on Squeeze.
I edited /etc/apt/sources.list, using s/maverick/precise/g
apt-get update
aptitude
install all upgradeable packages (+ over Upgradeable packages)
(This method may be the issue)
Sort out conflicts.

Here aptitude chokes, complaining about being unable to configure util-linux.
Here's the workaround/solution:
util-linux pre-depends on several packages with much higher versions.
0. cd  /var/cache/apt/archives
1. dpkg -i libc6*deb libc-bin*deb multiarch-support*deb
2. dpkg -i libtinfo5*deb libblkid*deb
3. dpkg -i util-linux*deb
4. Restart aptitude & continue.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-12-20
Have done Lucid/Precise dist-upgrade recently by changing sources.list and sources.list.d 
 and the transition went smootly, no need  tweaks at all.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2011-12-20
Ibidem, the development release often goes through various transitions where upgrades may not complete all the way because of broken dependencies. Perhaps that's what happened here. That's why the snapshot feature of a VM is really nice for testing upgrades.

Off topic, but I don't really use aptitude any more. I generally use apt-get (update-manager has a multiarch hiccup right now for me I haven't tracked down) or even Software Center (for new apps). I use Synaptic when apt-get can't easily do what I want.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2011-12-21
Running "unstable" development releases I'm always ready to "install" into a formatted partition in case of breakage or a new Alpha x or Beta x.

Only time I try an "upgrade" is early in the cycle and there's no "unstable" .iso available yet, so I do a fresh install and change sources.list.

Looking over Launchpad there are many tales of woe of people trying upgrades.

Now I have sampled doing an upgrade, rarely, and it "always" results in significantly more disk space than a fresh install.

Choices.  There are launchpad bugs from install, and my impression far more from failed upgrades.  No statistics tho.

Jerry

---

### Post by Ibidem on 2011-12-23
No dependencies were missing--it was just that aptitude picked the wrong order to install, which took some manual fixing.

---

