---
title: "12.04 and Nvidia video cards"
date: 2012-04-08
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by mushypeas on 2012-04-08
I have an Nvidia video card and cannot run 11.10 under unity 3d; it just defaults to unity 2d. I have tried various fixes on the net but it just screws up my ubuntu install and I have to re-install

My question is whether 12.04 will work with Nvidia cards?

---

### Post by Elfy on 2012-04-08
Which card?

---

### Post by mushypeas on 2012-04-08
GeForce GT 425M

---

### Post by kaldor on 2012-04-08
Have you installed the proprietary driver yet? With your card, I believe that's essential.

In the dash search for "Additional Drivers" and enable one of the NVIDIA options in the list.

---

### Post by mushypeas on 2012-04-08
I did but it didn't work and my latest attempt at using some fix I found via google is that it won't boot. So I am making do with Windows for a few weeks (I have a dual boot pC) and was going to try dual booting again with 12.04 rather than reinstall 11.10 for a couple of weeks and then upgrade 

When I install 12.04 I guess I just need to select propietary drivers and see what happens

---

### Post by kaldor on 2012-04-08
Curious; is it an Optimus laptop? As in, switches between Intel and NVIDIA GPU?

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2012-04-08
Hello All

Xeon PC with Nvidia GT520 card 1920 by 1080 monitor, runs in full res and Unity 2d only from drivers that come with the live CD. I have to install the proprietary drivers using Jockey to get Unity 3d and/or Gnome Shell. XFCE works fine with compositing under the drivers that came with the live CD

Asus Pundit AH2 PC with nvidia geforce 6150, worse in that will only run in low res (800 by 600) from Live cd.

When things stabilise, I'd be interested in tracking any improvements in nouveau drivers. Backports?

---

### Post by mushypeas on 2012-04-08
> **kaldor said:**
> Curious; is it an Optimus laptop? As in, switches between Intel and NVIDIA GPU?

I bought it from PC Specialist so not sure if it is Optimus but it does flit between intel and NVIDIA

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-04-08
is there a bios setting where you can set it to always use the nvidia card ? if so try setting it that way before you try to install the nvidia driver .

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-04-08
sudo synaptic
here, purge ALL the installed graphic drivers (& ubuntu-desktop)

you might need the latest nvidia-current & xserver-xorg, 

so install the xorg-edgers ppa, update & install these packages : nvidia-current, nvidia-settings, then desactivate the ppa (via synaptic) and update again

[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

then remove xorg.conf : sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

sudo reboot
sudo jockey-gtk (to check activation of nvidia-current)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-04-08
about using gt425m on Precise:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee)

---

### Post by mushypeas on 2012-04-08
thanks

As I have been a windows user I'm not too familiar with all the command line prompts using sudo etc; but will have a go when 12.04 comes out

The bumblebee app seems like it might be the most user friendly way

---

