---
title: "12.04 several issues after first update"
date: 2012-04-14
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by noodles19 on 2012-04-14
Okay I am running a MSI mind u160. So after my first update after upgrading to 12.04 my maximum minimum close border is missing, I now have a new grub menu which now separates my backtrack partion and ubuntu but it now has a previous linux menu. So I now have 3 options to click to go into my main partion of ubuntu and my option for backtrack. The shortcut for terminal no longer works even though I go in and change it. I found that this command will fix the min max close ```
xfvm4 --replace &
``` but it looks like crap and I'm not even sure what this command does. So what I am begging the community to help me out with is 

1. fix min max and close border so it works on startup
2. edit the grub menu to remove some of the extra junk
3. fix ctrl +alt+ T

Keep in mind I would really like to know why this happened and if you give commands, what does it do and why. Please let me know any info print outs you would need. The grub menu changed to a debian splash with the earth at the bottom.

:confused:

---

### Post by dzon65 on 2012-04-15
> **noodles19 said:**
> Okay I am running a MSI mind u160. So after my first update after upgrading to 12.04 my maximum minimum close border is missing, I now have a new grub menu which now separates my backtrack partion and ubuntu but it now has a previous linux menu. So I now have 3 options to click to go into my main partion of ubuntu and my option for backtrack. The shortcut for terminal no longer works even though I go in and change it. I found that this command will fix the min max close ```
xfvm4 --replace &
``` but it looks like crap and I'm not even sure what this command does. So what I am begging the community to help me out with is 

1. fix min max and close border so it works on startup
2. edit the grub menu to remove some of the extra junk
3. fix ctrl +alt+ T

Keep in mind I would really like to know why this happened and if you give commands, what does it do and why. Please let me know any info print outs you would need. The grub menu changed to a debian splash with the earth at the bottom.

:confused:

You should try to upgrade from a lucy minimal. Total mess.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-04-15
Hi!, **noodles19,**
Are you using XFCE ?
Check out:[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1819708](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1819708)> [B]Re: Metacity in Xfce4
[/B]Lets clear  some confusion. Compiz, Metacity and XFWM4 are separate windows  managers. Most windows managers come with their own inbuilt windows  decorator (that draws the themes around the windows), however, Compiz  can be modified to work with different windows decorator.

Compiz can use either emerald or "gtk-windows-decorator" (I think this  has a different name in 11.04: "compiz-decorator"). The  "gtk-windows-decorator" can use Metacity themes, however, setting the  proper theme under xfce can be a problem.

First make sure you have "gtk-windows-decorator" installed. Then try to run it from the terminal with:
     Code:
     gtk-windows-decorator --replace 
You can also try that for the CCSM settings under Windows Decorator, you can enter the command gtk-windows-decorator --replace.For > 2.  edit the grub menu to remove some of the extra junkInstall Grub Customizer, it also allows you to change the order and default settings, change the background, fonts and colour, & much else.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134&highlight=grub+customizer](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134&highlight=grub+customizer)

Chao!, **bogan**

---

### Post by noodles19 on 2012-04-15
Thank you Bogan all problems are fixed. I am not using xfce btw.... 

So here is how everything was fixed. 

Problem 1 fixing the window decoration to have the min max close buttons. Install CompizConfig Setting Manager, then go to town clicking everything to have everything back to normal. BAM back to my sexy Ubuntu with Gnome shell.

Problem 2 de-cluttering my grub menu. I followed Bogan's link to the Grub Customizer. Which was EXACTLY what I was looking for. Thank you once again for pointing me in the right direction.

Problem 3 making the shortcut for terminal work. Hop into CompizConfig and setup the shortcut for Terminal.

Now I just need to get these damn windows to fit in the bounds of my lil netbook screen and my computer is golden
\\:D/\\:D/\\:D/

---

