---
title: "12.04 compatibility"
date: 2012-02-19
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by 123456789123456789123456 on 2012-02-19
I was trying to figure this out.  I have a 64 bit processor system, that I have been running 11.10 32 bit of ubuntu on.  I know that starting with 12.10 any processor that is not pae compatable will not be able to run the dist.  My question is will the 12.04 and future 12.10 32 bit versions be able to run on the 64 bit processor system, or will I have to somehow get the 64 bit version of Ubuntu and install it.  And if so, would doing an upgrade installation with the 12.04 64bit live cd work?
Or is there an easier way to convert 32 bit ubuntu system into 64 bit ubuntu system?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-02-19
Any particular reason you are wanting to use the 32bit and not the 64bit? 64bit is problem free (always has been for me and most others) and takes full advantage of you hardware. Better.

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2012-02-19
> **123456789123456789123456 said:**
> I was trying to figure this out.  I have a 64 bit processor system, that I have been running 11.10 32 bit of ubuntu on.  I know that starting with 12.10 any processor that is not pae compatable will not be able to run the dist.  My question is will the 12.04 and future 12.10 32 bit versions be able to run on the 64 bit processor system, or will I have to somehow get the 64 bit version of Ubuntu and install it.  And if so, would doing an upgrade installation with the 12.04 64bit live cd work?
Or is there an easier way to convert 32 bit ubuntu system into 64 bit ubuntu system?

First of all let me say I am testing Lubuntu Precise with three options all running pretty well.

amd64 bit kernel

non-pae 32 bit kernel
 
Pae 32 bit kernel

run this command in terminal

```
sudo lshw -C processor
```That will give information on your processor.

Post the result if you wish.  You could load a live precise 12.04 CD and see if you can run it of course we are not even in Beta testing just yet, but all three of my installs are fairly stable.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-19
One thing to keep in mind, is that as of Precise release the default image you download will be 64-bit, if you want or need a 32-bit version, you specifically have to select it.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-02-20
Please see this link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1883239]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1883239")

I first installed Ubuntu back in 2007. I installed the 32bit version as I only have 1GB of RAM I did not need a PAE kernel. I selected 32bit Ubuntu because of the recommendation. That non-pae Ubuntu ran fine on my 64bit dual CPU.

I believe that it was suggested to drop non-pae 32bit kernel support from 12.04 but this has not happened. It may happen in 12.10. I cannot find the references to support what I am saying. That requires research.

It is also my understanding that when installing 32bit Ubuntu on a system that has more than 4GB of RAM this is detected and the 32bit pae kernel is installed. I think this happens by downloading the pae kernel and not by having two kernels in the iso file. I may be wrong but it leads me to think that the standard 32bit Ubuntu iso is non-pae until the need for pae is detected, then the correct kernel is installed through downloading.

What will happen eventually is that the 32bit version of Ubuntu will be a pae kernel from the start.

What evidence do you have that a 32bit PAE kernel version of Ubuntu will not run on a non-32bit CPU? What evidence do you have that in future a 32bit PAE Ubuntu will not run on a 64bit CPU?

Please state your evidence.

Get the facts - not the FUD

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2011-November/034399.html]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2011-November/034399.html")

I was a proposal.

Regards.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-02-20
What are you wanting to preserve when you upgrade ? When you upgrade a 64 bit version of the system will be installed , your data is "processor bitsize agnostic" so there should be no problems there but any 32 bit applications you have that do not have a 64bit version may disappear , you can reinstall them since 32 bit programs will run on a 64 bit processor , they do already right ? What I am not sure of never having tried a 32 to 64 bit upgrade is if the 32 bit apps and their libs etc will be preserved . Have a fresh back up of atleast your data just incase things go wrong .

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-02-20
> **cariboo907 said:**
> One thing to keep in mind, is that as of Precise release the default image you download will be 64-bit, if you want or need a 32-bit version, you specifically have to select it.

That was proposed, but I don't think that's happening this release.

---

### Post by 123456789123456789123456 on 2012-02-20
To answer one of the questions, The reason I installed the 32 bit version is that it was and has been for several years recomended.  I also have no information rather a 64 bit processor will not run the 32 bit system or not, I can't find one bit of information on this on the web.  I know how to check and see if pae is supported by the processor, but I understand that 64 bit processors don't need pae so they typically don't have support for it.  If this is true, it would seem that when Ubuntu goes to pae only kernals in 12.10, it may not work on the 64 bit machine.
I don't want to get stuck and end up having the machine not work come 12.10 or possibly 12.04.  That is the entire reason I was asking about the 64 bit kernal.
Am I safe, or would I need to do an upgrade install with the 64 bit dvd of 12.04 to get the 64 bit kernal, or is there a way to tell Ubuntu to replace the current kernal with the 64 bit version.  Also would be nice If anyone has a suggestion to tell which kernal, 32bit or 64bit is currently being used on the system.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-02-20
You shouldn't try upgrading from 32-bit to 64-bit and that will never happen automatically! You can however do a clean install of Ubuntu 64-bit if you like and restore a backup of your data (probably just your /home directory).

Intel and AMD 64-bit machines definitely can run 32-bit operating systems as amd64 is just an extension to Intel's 32-bit instructions. Generally speaking, your 64-bit system will support PAE if you try running a 32-bit operating system on it. Ubuntu will support its 32-bit version for years in the future as there are still netbooks sold today that can't run 64-bit Ubuntu.

One easy way to tell whether you're running 32-bit or 64-bit Ubuntu is to open System Settings and click Details (this was called System Info in 11.10).

---

### Post by 123456789123456789123456 on 2012-02-21
> **jbicha said:**
> You shouldn't try upgrading from 32-bit to 64-bit and that will never happen automatically! You can however do a clean install of Ubuntu 64-bit if you like and restore a backup of your data (probably just your /home directory).

Intel and AMD 64-bit machines definitely can run 32-bit operating systems as amd64 is just an extension to Intel's 32-bit instructions. Generally speaking, your 64-bit system will support PAE if you try running a 32-bit operating system on it. Ubuntu will support its 32-bit version for years in the future as there are still netbooks sold today that can't run 64-bit Ubuntu.

One easy way to tell whether you're running 32-bit or 64-bit Ubuntu is to open System Settings and click Details (this was called System Info in 11.10).

Thanks, that is exactly what I wanted to know.  I will run the command I found, and make sure that the processor is pae complient.  Will mark this thread as solved.

---

