---
title: "Off Topic - Trouble installing Epson C900 driver"
date: 2012-02-15
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-15
Hi, I know its a bit off topic but I'm having trouble installing the drivers for an Epson C900 on 64-bit Pretty Penguin.  Anyone any advice?

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2012-02-15
This is not related to Precise Pangolin. 

The first hit on Google is this: 
[How to Install an Epson AcuLaser C900 for Linux ix86 and x86_64 with CUPS]("http://alc900-cups.sourceforge.net/")
Have you tried it?

Which attempts have you done so far and what are the exact errors?

Effenberg

---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-15
I know its not related, but the people here are very good at solving problems. 

I have tried that link, but its using rpm files.  I tried alien to convert to deb but I'm using 64bit and says wrong arch.  I really need someone on PP 12.04 32bit to convert the rpm files to deb and then i can do a force arch install.  I could do it myself by downloading PP 32bit and LiveCD boot but I'm on mobile broadband and have a very low monthly quota :(  

Anyone able to help?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-15
Have you tired the cups interface to install you printer? Point your browser to:

[https://localhost:631](https://localhost:631)

after you followed the instructions on the page that effenberg0x0 linked to?

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2012-02-15
The cake recipe [here]("http://alc900-cups.sourceforge.net/#download_and_installation") shows it as a [tar.gz file]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/alc900-cups/files/alc900-cups/1.0/"), explains the command to untar it and how to run the sh script that results from it. It even shows you how to create .deb.packages from it.

> [FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2]> ./install.sh --pkg-build --pkg-release=1gutsy1    [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2][I]# in the installer's directory
[/I][/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2][/SIZE][/FONT]Have you tried it?

Effenberg

---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-16
> **effenberg0x0 said:**
> The cake recipe [here]("http://alc900-cups.sourceforge.net/#download_and_installation") shows it as a [tar.gz file]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/alc900-cups/files/alc900-cups/1.0/"), explains the command to untar it and how to run the sh script that results from it. It even shows you how to create .deb.packages from it.

Have you tried it?

Effenberg

Yes, Im on a 64-bit system and it uses alien to create the debs "on the fly" it wont work for me.  I need some way of creating the debs in a 32-bit environment.

---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-16
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Have you tired the cups interface to install you printer? Point your browser to:

[https://localhost:631](https://localhost:631)

after you followed the instructions on the page that effenberg0x0 linked to?

Apparently it uses a subsystem called pipsplus.  I can install the printer via CUPS but it still wont work due to a special handshake generated by the pipsplus subsystem.[COLOR=#2323dc][FONT=Arial][SIZE=2][]("http://www.mabase.ch/c900/pipsplus-0.1b-1.i386.rpm")[/SIZE][/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-16
Removed an off topic post.

---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-16
Thanks that was very helpful

---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-17
Is there anyone with running 32bit PP who would be willing to convert the rpm files to deb for me?

Or any suggestions on how I could do it myself on 64bit system?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-17
You'd be much better off using the tar.gz file that is linked to on the page. Using the scriptlet that effenberg0x0 gave you.

You can just double click the file once it's downloaded, and file-roller will  automagically start, then all you have to do is chose where to extract it. Then cd into the directory and run the script mentioned above.

---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-17
I am quite capable of reading instruction and Googling and I have tried the install script.  As I said it uses alien to install the rpm packages on the fly, but cant due to me using a 64bit system!

The install script DOES NOT work !!

The problem is 32bit RPM packages on a 64bit system.

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2012-02-17
I'm also on x86_64 and, as far as I can tell, it shouldn't be a problem. 
I'll have a look at this. But, quoting Mr. Iva Davies: No promises.

Regards,
Effenberg

[]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iva_Davies")

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-17
I have a couple of 32-bit test installs running in virtual-box, I converted the rpms to debs with no problem, but I think you still may have a problem installing the debs, as they don't seem to be compatible with multiarch.

---

### Post by clivejo on 2012-02-17
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I have a couple of 32-bit test installs running in virtual-box, I converted the rpms to debs with no problem, but I think you still may have a problem installing the debs, as they don't seem to be compatible with multiarch.

Of course it worked, your using a 32bit system, I'm not!

My question is how do I convert them to debs on a 64bit system!  Am I not explaining myself here, or something?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-17
> **clivejo said:**
> Of course it worked, your using a 32bit system, I'm not!

My question is how do I convert them to debs on a 64bit system!  Am I not explaining myself here, or something?

You can't. Like I said, even if you do like I did, and install a 32-bit system in v-box, the debs won't be multiarch compatible.

You may want to contact the author of the packages to see if he is willing to update them so that they work with multiarch.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-02-17
I think we'll leave this one here.

Closed.

---

