---
title: "12.04 Boot from CD - Keyboard not working"
date: 2012-04-04
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by heald490 on 2012-04-04
Hi,
   I had 11.10 running successfully with no issues on my computer (ASUS P8P67 Deluxe MB, Intel i7/2600k, EVGA GTX580, 8gb ram) everything worked as it was supposed to.  I have it setup to dual boot with Windows 7

  I decided to try upgrading to 12.04.  I did that last night and everything seemed to go as planned until I rebooted, once I got to the login screen, the mouse was extremely unresponsive for about 45 seconds, then finally began to work.  Once it started working I tried to enter my password, but the keyboard did not work (it had power, but there was no response to any keypress -- including caps lock).  Also, nothing I clicked on with the mouse had any effect.

   So, I figured something went wrong with the update and I downloaded the cd image.  The same thing occurs when I boot off the CD.  Also if I try to install from the CD, when I get to the point of selecting a language, again the keyboard does not work, and mouse clicks do not have any effect.

   My keyboard and mouse are both USB, keyboard is a Microsoft Natural Ergo 4000 if that matters.

   Any help would be appreciated.. I don't know where to begin or what to do.

Thanks!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-04-04
12.04 is in beta and should only be used for testing purposes.

Could be this bug [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-meta/+bug/951594](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-meta/+bug/951594) if you care to report it.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-04-04
Guess you learned the hard way that there really is no way to "try" an upgrade by installing it.  That's because there is no way to undo the update or to rollback to the previous version.

In future, if you want to try an update, the safe approach is to download the image, make a CD or USB from that, boot using that -- and see how well it works.  That will leave your current install intact.

---

### Post by heald490 on 2012-04-04
Well, maybe I should have been more clear, but I was also "trying" 11.10, it was a new install.  I don't care that I lost anything since I was evaluating, there was really nothing to lose.

I realize 12.04 is in beta, I was hoping someone would have some helpful things that I could try.  The bug that oldos2er linked to really doesn't sound like what I am experiencing.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-04-06
> **heald490 said:**
> I realize 12.04 is in beta, I was hoping someone would have some helpful things that I could try.  The bug that oldos2er linked to really doesn't sound like what I am experiencing.

Then, if you want help for a version that is in Beta, at least post to the CORRECT forum ... in this case, the Precise Development forum.  This forum is for Released versions of Ubuntu.

---

