---
title: "12.04 bogged down?"
date: 2012-03-25
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by Baldrick_NZ on 2012-03-25
Hi all,

I used to be able to install 12.04 on to a working USB 16g USB stick, with 2 partitions. Back at Alpha 1, it was quick to load and (for a USB stick) quite snappy at launching apps, etc...

This has, over time, slowed down dramatically, to the point where (on the eve of Beta 2), it doesn't finish loading beyond the login window. 

I've kept it up to date, and even tried wiping the main partition and installing the latest daily build, yet still it goes no further. I understand that it's only Beta and shouldn't be used as a main OS yet, but the way it is (via USB) is unusable, and I think I'd want to look for an alternative rather than wait for April to find out there is no change.

So, I'm just curious, has Ubuntu become that much more bogged down that if I want to continue with Ubuntu on a stick, I might need to look to a Unity-free version? Which would be a real pity, because then others won't be able to try the main version via USB on their puters. Nor will I be able to carry a duplicate of my puter with me on a stick.

Any constructive thoughts would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by BertN45 on 2012-03-25
Maybe your USB stick is dying, because of the frequent use. They normally support 10,000 to 100,000 write cycles, dependent on price and quality. 

I am using Ubuntu 12.04 now for some time on all my PCs and I have no complaints about responsiveness.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-03-25
Well, on a relatively new USB, chugs along.  Sort of.

For that matter, I've been running Unity for the last year as a tester looking for bugs.  There's lots.

On occasion I boot Lucid Lyunx or Meerkat to do some repair work.  Zoom!  Bang! Snap!  Zip, work done in NO Time!!

Jerry

---

### Post by BertN45 on 2012-03-25
Well I use it to make sure that what I like to use works. So I use it as normal, but that might be weird for most people. If I see something strange, I file a bug report. 

The quality is much better then for 11.10 and 11.04. I just have a up time of 2 days and 10 minutes now. I think we are back at the level of 10.04 with respect to robustness.

---

### Post by jasonsmith01 on 2012-03-26
I've been running 12.04 for about 3 weeks now and it is awesome. I'm also running it as my primary system even though I'm not supposed too :-#. Knock on wood its been great! It has it's share of reported bugs but have never noticed a slow down. I have been rebooting frequently though due to my horsing around so that may be keeping it fresh.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2012-03-26
I've been using it as my main system for the best part of a month now. The way I see it, the more it gets used, the more opportunity for bugs to be discovered and reported.

I see nothing wrong with this as long as people don't have unrealistic expectations - i.e. they should expect crashes and glitches to happen. And do have a spare install of a stable version so that you can get important work done on time if 12.04 goes belly up.

---

### Post by Baldrick_NZ on 2012-03-26
So I backed up the home partition of my main puter, then re-formatted and re-partitioned the whole USB stick. Re-installed the latest build, then restored my home drive on the other partition.

Seems to work sweet again. Must have been something hidden in the home folder conflicting with the new build.

Happy now. Thanks for the replies.

---

