---
title: "12.04 Beta 2 Customize notify-osd?"
date: 2012-04-10
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by JSamson on 2012-04-10
Hi all,

I've got Ubuntu 12.04 beta 2 installed on my laptop, everything seems to be running OK but I have a question about notify-osd.

Is there an easy way to customize notify-OSD (or completely replace it with something that you can customize)? I've seen quite a few articles about it, but they're all from 2010-2011 and don't seem to work with the 12.04 beta. 

I'm basically wanting to:

[LIST]
[*]Change the timeout (much lower than 10s, this is the most important change)
[*]Close on-click
[*]Stacking instead of queuing messages
[/LIST]
Any help would be much appreciated,

Thanks in advance.


**EDIT:** Using dpkg I installed the patched notify-osd (Oneiric) from here: [https://launchpad.net/~leolik/+archive/leolik/+packages]("https://launchpad.net/%7Eleolik/+archive/leolik/+packages") and it seems to work fine on 12.04. Is there a reason these configuration options aren't included in the main package?

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2012-04-10
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)**.*


404

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-04-11
> **JSamson said:**
> 
 Is there a reason these configuration options aren't included in the main package?
Simple - they have & continue to choose not to though would accept changes of a certain type if presented which has not occurred. ( as had the plans to vary time based on content
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/723980](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/723980)

---

### Post by JSamson on 2012-04-11
> **mc4man said:**
> Simple - they have & continue to choose not to though would accept changes of a certain type if presented which has not occurred. ( as had the plans to vary time based on content
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/723980](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/723980)

That's a shame, a few people dictating what everyone should/shouldn't be able to customize is always bad, who needs a notification (that you can't close) for 10 seconds? Oh well, at least there's a fork/patch which adds more sane configuration options.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-04-11
I know you are bothered by the default notification settings, but you can click through the notification bubble, no need to move it.

---

