---
title: "12.04 Final ISO size"
date: 2012-04-20
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2012-04-20
I know current and previous development versions of 12.04 ISO have been too big for regular CD.

Is it going to be brought back down to size before going Final?
Or is the new larger format requiring a DVD+/-R media or USB the new size format?

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2012-04-20
> **foxmulder881 said:**
> I know current and previous development versions of 12.04 ISO have been too big for regular CD.

Is it going to be brought back down to size before going Final?


The daily builds of 12.04 have been CD sized for a while now. I can't see any over-sized images on [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/) .

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2012-04-21
> **PaulW2U said:**
> The daily builds of 12.04 have been CD sized for a while now. I can't see any over-sized images on [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/) .

For a while they were. Thanks for that, they've obviously brought the size back to normal.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-04-21
Daily build listed at 701M lately.  I don't know if that will fit.  Not particularly a problem with me since Xubuntu & Lubuntu both fit CD's, then download the oversized ubuntu and boot the .iso to install, fast and easy (once you've worked out Grub-2 syntax).  For that matter flash drives are getting pretty cheap if your pc will boot from one.

For general distribution I'm sure Precise will be squeezed on to a CD.  I'm pretty sure also as Ubuntu is made more and more like a touchy-feely eye candy tablet it will require a (just one?) DVD soon.  For that matter flash drives are getting pretty cheap, 

Having fun, Jerry

---

### Post by ventrical on 2012-04-21
As I reported before, the pre-release fit perfect on a 700mbCD and performed a successful install.

fazoooooooomm!

---

