---
title: "12.04 not unmounting cleanly on power-off or re-boot"
date: 2012-04-24
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by VMC on 2012-04-24
I just noticed this happening recently. It best to check this from another mounted Linux OS or use a livecd. See if you have the same issue. 'm unsure when this started happening.

```
$ sudo fsck /dev/sda8

fsck from util-linux 2.19.1
e2fsck 1.41.14 (22-Dec-2010)
/dev/sda8: **recovering journal**
/dev/sda8: clean, 142983/936560 files, 798829/3743137 blocks

```

---

### Post by TerryNewton on 2012-04-24
> **VMC said:**
> I just noticed this happening recently. It best to check this from another mounted Linux OS or use a livecd. See if you have the same issue. 'm unsure when this started happening.

```
$ sudo fsck /dev/sda8

fsck from util-linux 2.19.1
e2fsck 1.41.14 (22-Dec-2010)
/dev/sda8: **recovering journal**
/dev/sda8: clean, 142983/936560 files, 798829/3743137 blocks

```

Probably bug # 963106 "NetworkManager causes orphaned inodes"
It's been going on for awhile, at first I thought it was just a VirtualBox thing but after copying my virtual test system to a USB flash drive found that it's an actual issue - currently being worked on. So long as EXT3/4 is used and one waits a bit before shutting down or rebooting to let cached writes clear (not sure about the last bit, precaution) it "shouldn't" cause major issues.. but kinda jarring.

I can't stand unclean shutdown plus there was a few times I rebooted too fast and found some of my desktop icons rearranged, so on my 12.04 test systems I made a temporary workaround... in the file /etc/init.d/umountroot I added...

```

  /sbin/killall5 -15
  sleep 2

```

...before the line "MOUNT_FORCE_OPT=" to make sure at that point all non-kernel tasks have been asked to exit. Disclaimer... works for me but there may be undesirable side effects I don't know about (and if anyone sees an issue with doing that please say so).

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2012-04-24
I noticed this on a brand new install, rebooting just hung and I had to use the power button to shut down.
Then I booted into  another pp install and saw this thread so I ran:
```
jmac@OOcat:~$ sudo fsck /dev/sdb1
fsck from util-linux 2.20.1
e2fsck 1.42 (29-Nov-2011)
p-root: recovering journal
Setting free inodes count to 1126104 (was 1127519)
Setting free blocks count to 4404455 (was 4447166)
p-root: clean, 155016/1281120 files, 716255/5120710 blocks

```I'm going to shut this system down and boot back into the fresh install and see what is up.

later...

edit:  Yes, I'm seeing the same thing from running fsck on the older pp partition, but reboot did not hang.
ran fsck on my third instance of pp that I rebooted out of last evening and it was clean.
Very Interesting I had seen the network hang on reboot/shutdown before but didn't know it was causing unclean umount.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-04-24
Hi

I take it your unmount symlinks for system V are all right ? Just another thing to check.

Kind regards

---

### Post by VMC on 2012-04-24
> **TerryNewton said:**
> Probably bug # 963106 "NetworkManager causes orphaned inodes"
...

```

  /sbin/killall5 -15
  sleep 2

```

...before the line "MOUNT_FORCE_OPT=" to make sure at that point all non-kernel tasks have been asked to exit. Disclaimer... works for me but there may be undesirable side effects I don't know about (and if anyone sees an issue with doing that please say so).

Terry, Thanks! That worked. Maybe one of the logs can help ID the problem. I'll check out the bug report you listed.

Edit: Also from that bug report, there is another fix to try from [**post#5**]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/963106/comments/5"). But there also appears to be a fix forthcoming soon.

---

### Post by TerryNewton on 2012-04-24
> **VMC said:**
> Terry, Thanks! That worked.

Cool.

> there is another fix to try from [**post#5**]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/963106/comments/5").

Didn't quite understand what that fix did, but likely faster as mine sleeps... I went for a more general and simpler solution to the issue of tasks left running, regardless from which package. It's just a band-aid to pull out for situations like this, the proper thing is for all services to stop all tasks themselves when told to do so earlier in the shut-down procedure.

Edit: confused fix #5 with #14... but still don't understand :-)

---

