---
title: "32 vs 64-bit?"
date: 2012-04-09
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by marcmeier on 2012-04-09
Hi, All

I'm running a Lenovo Thinkpad R400.  It has a "Intel® Core™2 Duo CPU P8600 @ 2.40GHz × 2" processor.  From reading on the web, it seems that 12.04 can be mixed blessings in both speed and power, depending on your processor.

Question is: would 32 or 64-bit be best for my processor, or should I avoid 12.04 entirely?

Cheers

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-04-10
> **marcmeier said:**
> Hi, All

I'm running a Lenovo Thinkpad R400.  It has a "Intel® Core™2 Duo CPU P8600 @ 2.40GHz × 2" processor.  From reading on the web, it seems that 12.04 can be mixed blessings in both speed and power, depending on your processor.

Question is: would 32 or 64-bit be best for my processor, or should I avoid 12.04 entirely?

Cheers

I used to have a T400 with AMD/ATI Radeon 3400 and Intel core Duo cpu. I only ever used it with 64bit versions starting with 10.10 IIRC through 11.10. It worked well on all those releases but never tried 12.04 on it. I have a T520 now which has run 11.10 and 12.04 64bit. No problems after I disabled the Nvidia/Intel Optimus junk (even Windows is a lot better off/more stable with Optimus disabled in the bios).

---

### Post by 1clue on 2012-04-10
I can't say about 12.04 but FWIW I think the days of choosing 32-bit when you have a properly functioning 64-bit system are over for quite awhile now.

If you want to hedge your bets for a desktop system, try multilib so you can run 32-bit software on your 64-bit OS.

Frankly though I would try a pure 64-bit system until you find you just can't do it with 32-bit.  I'm betting you won't.

---

### Post by meborc on 2012-04-10
Starting with 12.04 the default download from ubuntu.com will be the 64-bit version. This means even Canonical agrees that 64 is mature enough to be default. Very large majority of newer cpus are 64 bit compatible anyway.

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2012-04-10
I also have a Core 2 Duo. Go with 64-bit.

---

### Post by mcellius on 2012-04-10
My laptop is a Intel® Core™2 Duo CPU T5800 @ 2.00GHz × 2 with 4GB of RAM, and it handles 64-bit Ubuntu 12.04 very well.  When I first installed Ubuntu on it almost a year ago (with 11.04) I tried 32-bit first (mostly because I followed the recommendation), but when I then switched I found the 64-bit to be a bit faster: not much, but noticeably.

Phoronix did some comparison tests a couple months ago ([http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1204_3264&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_1204_3264&num=1)) and generally found 64-bit to be a bit faster.  Their recommendation?  "The performance advantage of 64-bit over 32-bit Ubuntu is clear.  If you are still running the 32-bit version on 64-bit capable hardware you should  really consider switching with the 'Precise Pangolin' now that the 64-bit  Flash is on par with the 32-bit version, OpenJDK works well on 64-bit, etc."

So go ahead, use the 64-bit version without fear.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-04-10
> **meborc said:**
> Starting with 12.04 the default download from ubuntu.com will be the 64-bit version. This means even Canonical agrees that 64 is mature enough to be default. Very large majority of newer cpus are 64 bit compatible anyway.

I've not seen an official announcement or decision for this. I believe 32-bit will still be the default download as there were a whole bunch of single-core Atom-powered netbooks that were not 64-bit compatible. I'm sure some of those are still being sold as new.

---

### Post by synaptix on 2012-04-10
If you have 64bit CPU, go with 64bit.

---

### Post by synaptix on 2012-04-10
> **jbicha said:**
> I've not seen an official announcement or decision for this. I believe 32-bit will still be the default download as there were a whole bunch of single-core Atom-powered netbooks that were not 64-bit compatible. I'm sure some of those are still being sold as new.

[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/11/expected-changes-in-ubuntu-1204-precise.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/11/expected-changes-in-ubuntu-1204-precise.html)

> Ubuntu will** promote 64-bit images** starting with Precise. This  means that when you go to Ubuntu.com and click to download Ubuntu, the  64-bit image will be selected by default.

---

