---
title: "12.04 beta2 / Unity 3D / Super key usage"
date: 2012-04-03
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by mgtsol on 2012-04-03
I'm still trying to get used to the Unity interface and am training myself to use the hot keys a bit more. It's all working as expected but I have annoyance with regards to maximising/minimising application windows. When I press Super + Left/Right/Up/Down Unity does what it's supposed to but then immediately afterwards it displays the Keyboard Shortcuts overlay over the top. I then have to press Super a couple more times to get rid of the overlay.

When pressing the Super key on its own, the overlay appears after a second or so and that's normal. But the above happens even if I instantly press Super + Left so I don't think editing the "response time" for the Super key will help.

Anyone know how I can change this? Apologies if the wrong subforum

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2012-04-03
I don't know about changing stuff, but if you hold the Super key for a few seconds, it will show a list of what the various combinations do.

Tim

---

### Post by mgtsol on 2012-04-03
Yes that's the exact overlay I'm referring to! It's useful, so I don't want to get rid of it or anything. It behaves as it's supposed to when I hold the Super key down for a few seconds, but when I hold down Super + Up/Down it shows up immediately after the window's been maximised/minimised, even if I was only holding the Super + Up/Down key for a few miliseconds

At the moment I'm looking into how to change things so that the overlay appears when pressing Super + [some other key] rather than just Super. I'm hoping that'll stop it launching when I use Super + Up/Down. I'm just not sure how to edit these key bindings to test this out

Any ideas gratefully received

---

### Post by meborc on 2012-04-03
this - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1949370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1949370)

the bug report shows it fixed, it will come with Unity version 5.10

---

### Post by mgtsol on 2012-04-03
Great! Thanks

---

### Post by Trapper on 2012-04-03
What happens when you have a keyboard that doesn't have the Super key? We still have a house full of old IBM M2' keyboards and I doubt they'll be dying off any time soon.

---

