---
title: "12.04 LTS alpha and Gnome Shell --Application icons missing"
date: 2012-01-06
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-01-06
Hi there,

I am trying out the Gnome Shell desktop environment (installed it from repos). It seems to work fine, except that "applications" menu (activated using "hot spot" top left corner is empty/blank--not populated with icons for me to select apps. Also left side dock is not visible; right side window selector pops up now and then, but is not customizable.

I have overcome this limitation by using synapse.

Anyone know why this has happened to me. Any way to resolve this? Is this a feature or is settings altered. 
BTW, Unity works fine.

Thanks,
SwB

---

### Post by Harry33 on 2012-01-06
> **shuttleworthwannabe said:**
> Hi there,

I am trying out the Gnome Shell desktop environment (installed it from repos). It seems to work fine, except that "applications" menu (activated using "hot spot" top left corner is empty/blank--not populated with icons for me to select apps. Also left side dock is not visible; right side window selector pops up now and then, but is not customizable.

I have overcome this limitation by using synapse.

Anyone know why this has happened to me. Any way to resolve this? Is this a feature or is settings altered. 
BTW, Unity works fine.

Thanks,
SwB

Hmm, no such issues here, with several different setups.

---

### Post by Jim_in_Omaha on 2012-01-07
Same here with a fresh install on a Lenovo T500. 1/7/2012 build.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-01-07
I moved to Fedora 16--so much better Gnome Shell experience. (BTW: there is a utility called Fedora Utils--that does all the hard work of installing drivers, apps, codecs, flash, etc and more). I installed and got going in no time.

Will come back to 12,04 LTS when it is a bit more mature.

---

### Post by Jim_in_Omaha on 2012-01-07
I'm just going to reverse back to 11.10

I had tried out Mint12, and like the MGSE menu. But I don't like many of the other things they did to it. So I found that it is easier to use Ubuntu 11.10, put on Gnome3, and load the extensions in for the MGSE menu and misc stuff. When I tried it Mint12, odd as it is, I had to load all the stuff I normally like in Ubuntu to make it the way I like it.

Oh well... 12.04 when offical should be pretty good. It really boots fast on my T500

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-01-09
> **Jim_in_Omaha said:**
> I'm just going to reverse back to 11.10

I had tried out Mint12, and like the MGSE menu. But I don't like many of the other things they did to it. So I found that it is easier to use Ubuntu 11.10, put on Gnome3, and load the extensions in for the MGSE menu and misc stuff. When I tried it Mint12, odd as it is, I had to load all the stuff I normally like in Ubuntu to make it the way I like it.

Oh well... 12.04 when offical should be pretty good. It really boots fast on my T500

Yes, I also went back to 11.10 and installed Gnome Shell in there--perfect! Why did I not think of this before?
Fedora is really great, but I miss my ppa's, and loads of support on the web.

12.04 LTS should be even better, let us just wait.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-01-09
I too have noticed the lack of application menu and launcher bar in gnome-shell and gnome classic (and gnome classic no effects) Unity works as expected. Xfce4 functions correctly as well.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-01-11
There was a reason why I wanted to use 12.04 LTS--kernel 3.2 upgrade; it is so much smoother and friendly to my notebook CPU and thermal settings. So I am back in 12.04 LTS, and must report here that after yesterday's (2012-01-10) daily update, all the Gnome Shell Application icons are back!

It is looking very promising and feel like a happy camper for now.

---

### Post by Jim_in_Omaha on 2012-01-11
I will have to try it out now. I heard or read somewhere that the new kernal is happier on laptops for power usage.

Does the software center no longer crash?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-01-11
There was an issue where gnome-applications.menu was being installed instead of applications.menu in /etc/xdg/menus/

That has been taken care of, if not one could do a fresh install with current image or [create a symlink]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11582237#post11582237")

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-01-11
> **Jim_in_Omaha said:**
> Does the software center no longer crash?

Well, it has its moments, but I am still old fashined and use Synaptic and Terminal.

One thing I do not understand is why the USC does not allow me to set my proxy settings in there when in synaptic it is possible. also it would be good to set proxy settings at system level (with authentication) so that terminal can also access the internet behind proxy.

I am behind a university proxy.
Else looks very promising.
I want to carry this daily build to at least a RC...let me see how farI can last.

---

### Post by Jim_in_Omaha on 2012-01-13
I did a fresh install on my mighty Lenovo T500 yesterday of the daily build. So far it works except for the Libreoffice problem that may actually be fixed on the current build. 

Gnome shell installed from the software center. And I set up the Webupd8 PPA and installed the MGSE (Mint Gnome Shell Extensions). So far it works.

I have not found which one it is, but one of the other extensions is causing Gnome Shell to bomb. 

Right now I just have:
Menu Extension
Bottom Panel Extension
Window List Extension
Weather indicator Extension (From Webupd8 PPA)

These are all working.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-01-14
Jim--LibOffice has been fixed today--so try updating again (sudo apt-get install -f) should fixthe broken packages; then upgrade.

Hey, MGSE is not for me; I prefer the vanilla Gnome Shell--I like the interface and also the root authentication windows--nice transparency and all uniform size and shape. I also like the keyboard shortcuts and hot corner.

Anyway enjoy 12.04 LTS alpha--I am.

---

### Post by Jim_in_Omaha on 2012-01-14
SWW, the bottom panel extension is the main extension I am using to get a task bar type of thing going. While I do have the menu extension turned on, I hardly use it. I like Gnome Shells' native functions just fine too. 

I was able to fix Libre with the latest packages.

When Gnome Shell was beta, I tried it out and thought it was terrible. Then when it was in the software center I loaded it one day. Never looked back. 

I am in school (old man in school syndrome) and I sure do get some looks from the other students because of the Linux on the T500. They like it and most say they would switch to Linux but are hooked at the hip to Windows because of their jobs and I think gaming has a real factor in it.

For what it's worth, 12.04 comes out of standby on my Lenovo T500 in an unbelievable little amount of time. Like a few seconds and then connects to the wifi in about two seconds after that. 11.10 was fast too, but this is slightly faster I think....

---

