---
title: "12.04 64 freezes screen browser"
date: 2012-03-14
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by iconoclast88 on 2012-03-14
I've uninstalled flash, tried different browsers (firefox, chromium, chrome) and still after a couple minutes of browsing i am frozen. My mouse still moves, but i cant click on anything in the OS.

I can switch to a command line (ctrl_alt+F5) to mainly reboot.
This started happening after i upgraded to 12.04.

Ive reverted back to windows until I can figure out a fix as 12.04 is currently unusable.

Josh

---

### Post by RememberWhenItRained on 2012-03-14
> **iconoclast88 said:**
> I've uninstalled flash, tried different browsers (firefox, chromium, chrome) and still after a couple minutes of browsing i am frozen. My mouse still moves, but i cant click on anything in the OS.

I can switch to a command line (ctrl_alt+F5) to mainly reboot.
This started happening after i upgraded to 12.04.

Ive reverted back to windows until I can figure out a fix as 12.04 is currently unusable.

Josh

it happens to me as well (not always browser, but randomly. 10 crashes in about two weeks.) Try the GNOME shell, it seems to be much more stable ATM.

---

### Post by midhunse on 2012-04-10
its really embarassing on the new 12.04-unity
always freezes on chrome & firefox.
shutdown options ,time & date etc etc are nowhere in the gnome, so tried the unity 2d and so far no problems.):P

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-04-10
If you want to revert back, as you put it, to Windows, well that is your choice.

But this I do not agree with:

> as 12.04 is currently unusable

I have been using 12.04 as a daily work machine since before it was an alpha 1 release. I have found it highly stable and eminently usable.

I do not have the problems that either of you are having. Perhaps you are forgetting that it is still in beta testing.

Other parts of the Linux community are also developing their projects. Ubuntu has to fit in with them. Why assume that the problem is with Ubuntu and why with Unity in particular?

At the moment I have a problem with Libreoffice. If I open 2 large Writer documents the 2 windows grey out twice before I can work in the documents. But I do not blame Ubuntu.

Regards

---

### Post by midhunse on 2012-04-19
no problem in unity 2d.
but chrome freezes still in unity(3d).

---

