---
title: "12.04 upgrade  boot screen"
date: 2012-03-02
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by ancleessen4 on 2012-03-02
I have upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04 and no major problems so far :D
However, the boot screen still shows 11.10.
The login screen is correct at 12.04.

Any clues how to fix this would be appreciated.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-02
What do you mean "boot screen?"

Which screen is that? Grub? Are you dual booting with Windows? Ah, the purple screen with the 4 dots. Yes?

Try re-installing Plymouth.

Regards.

---

### Post by elliotn on 2012-03-03
he means the splash screen

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-03-03
> **ancleessen4 said:**
> I have upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04 and no major problems so far :D
However, the boot screen still shows 11.10.
The login screen is correct at 12.04.

Any clues how to fix this would be appreciated.

inside lightdm.conf, change unity-greeter by lightdm-gtk-greeter, as this 11.10 logo is pushed by unity-greeter

---

### Post by ancleessen4 on 2012-03-03
Yes I do mean the splash screen.

@dino99 
I tried your suggestion but still the ubuntu 11.10 splash.
Also, the boot sequence would not complete - stuck on checking battery?
I had to drop to a terminal screen and edit the lightdm.conf back to unity-greeter...

Still stuck on this one.:confused:

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-03-03
checking battery is due to a borked xorg.conf (in fact its the graphic driver to blame), so remove xorg.conf
if its not enough, then purge the graphic driver(s) then reinstall the one you need
the logo should be gone after a reboot

---

### Post by ancleessen4 on 2012-03-04
Ok-I think this is solved.

First off I followed this to get the correct splash screen resolution;
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/6033/enabling-nvidia-driver-messes-up-splash-screen](http://askubuntu.com/questions/6033/enabling-nvidia-driver-messes-up-splash-screen)

Then I re-installed;
plymouth-theme-ubuntu-logo
plymouth-theme-ubuntu-text

Now I have an Ubuntu 12.04 :D splash screen with the correct resolution.

---

