---
title: "12.04 Problem/Questions"
date: 2012-03-19
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by Toronto11 on 2012-03-19
Good afternoon,

I recently updated my 10.04 release and then had a problem with the graphics card so I updated a little more and now have 12.04 which I'm fine with except that when I get to the login screen I can login as a guest and a secondary accout I have, but not as the main, administrator account.  I tried to make it so no login was necessary and my password is accepted, but on the main login screen, after I put in my password I go right back to the main login screen.

And where is the terminal to enter commands?

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-03-19
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

---

### Post by Toronto11 on 2012-03-19
The article says I shouldn't have done this, but I didn't even mean to.

At this point I'd be happy with backing up a couple new files from my main account, but if I can't do that that's okay too.

Should I just try and install the 11.10 version?

---

### Post by critin on 2012-03-19
> so I updated a little more and now have 12.04 I wonder how that happened?  It isn't in the other repositories yet as far as I know.  IMO, I'd fresh install 11.10 to avoid issues with packages.  

Get to terminal same as other versions, ctrt alt T, or click the top icon on the side bar--Dash (it's round)  and type  terminal in the search bar.

There may be a way to delete all things 'Precise' from the terminal, but I don't know if it would be clean enough.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-19
I think that this problem would have happened whatever version of Ubuntu you were using.

What exactly did you do 

> to make it so no login was necessary and my password is accepted,It could be that you did something to remove your (administrator) password and now you can only log in by the other account.

So, what did you do. Then may be someone can advise you on how to correct it.

In 12.04 we go to System Settings>User Accounts. We put in our password to unlock the utility and then we get access to the login options of the main user (administrator). We can move a slider to set Automatic Login from  off to on.

This should not remove your password but it will mean that you do not need to login.  I have just tested this out on a default 12.04 Beta 1 install. It works perfectly. I can now boot into this Ubuntu 12.04 install and I will get to the desktop without seeing the login screen.

Did you change your account type from Administrator to Standard?

Did you use the change password option and set your password as blank.

Did you run some terminal command?

Others have done things like this on other versions of Ubuntu and got the same result as you have. So, the solution must be the same.

Regards.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-03-19
Did you upgrade LTS to LTS or each version?

I haven't seen anyone post about doing the LTS to LTS upgrade as of yet. You may have found something buggy. ;)

---

### Post by Toronto11 on 2012-03-19
Thanks for the replies.

I was having video card issues after an update and couldn't think of anything else to do so I entered this in the terminal:

sudo do-release-upgrade -d  and that's how I ended up with 12.04 LTS

As for getting to the terminal in 12.04 I can pull up the terminal, but it won't accept any password I try and I've tried them all.  Would my guest account have a different root password?

My password unlocks the user accounts and I can change my password and it seems to be accepted on the login screen, but I just go back to the login screen in an endless loop.

To make matters more complicated I can't even boot from a disc to install 11.10 b/c my screen goes blank after the purple Ubuntu screen with the five dots.

Any help or suggestions would be appreciated.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-03-20
F6 and choose "nomodeset" should get you through that screen to install again. You could try and reset your password from the Live-CD.

---

### Post by bluenova on 2012-03-21
Check the file permissions in your Home folder, especially '.dmrc'

---

