---
title: "12.04 Aplha2 - should I see HUD?"
date: 2012-02-06
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by candtalan on 2012-02-06
I reinstalled 12.04 as a fresh alpha2 and then updated, and also, for good measure, I put in the hud ppa which people seemed to be using for alpha1. However, there is no indication of HUD, not even in compiz config settings manager.
Should I be actually seeing HUD yet? Maybe my hardware (not indicating 2D, only 3D) is subject of a bug I am unaware of?

tia

---

### Post by castrojo on 2012-02-06
Nope, the HUD hasn't landed in 12.04 yet.

---

### Post by xedi on 2012-02-08
I don't get it, if it is not there yet, why ask that we test it? [http://www.theorangenotebook.com/2012/01/testing-hud-heads-up-display.html](http://www.theorangenotebook.com/2012/01/testing-hud-heads-up-display.html)

I am new to the whole testing and Alpha/Beta Versions so I am probably missing something.

---

### Post by castrojo on 2012-02-08
We keep it in a PPA so that it can be tested without affecting the quality of 12.04. 

So it'll go into a PPA first, get the major problems sorted, then land in 12.04, then testing resumes there.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-02-08
You do not see HUD until you press the Alt key twice apparently. I say apparently because I installed it by the ppa to test it and removed it after a few hours because I became very frustrated trying to get it to appear.

I am now waiting for the heads Up Display to be installed as part of the upgrade to bring 12.04 development branch up the 12.04 distribution release. Then I will try to use it again.

I read the other week the Mark Shuttleworth is now using Precise on his laptop. I wonder if he is testing HUD? If not then he should personally test out these things before announcing them to the world.

Regards.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-08
Mark always runs the latest release, aside from being extremely rich, he's just like the rest of us when it comes to new technology.

---

