---
title: "12.04 works from USB stick but not after it's installed"
date: 2012-03-20
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by Peter Bull on 2012-03-20
Hi,

this is my first post, so please excuse me if I've posted this in the wrong forum, and use the wrong terminology.

I'm trying to install Ubuntu 12.04 on a Dell Latitude ST slate and have encountered a small problem:

In short, the computer seems to work when running off the USB stick, and seems to be stuck in some kind of a loop when booted from the hard drive.
   
*Hardware Dell Latitude ST:*
  Intel Atom Z670
Intel SM35 Chipset 
Intel GMA 600 Graphics
Atheros Wireless WLAN BT 1535C Half MiniCard
  
  *Software:*
  Dual boot Windows 7 and the Ubuntu 12.04 daily-live image of 20th March

*Running Ubuntu from USB stick:*
At first there were some errors concerning missing Bluetooth firmware similar to the ones listed below. The first desktop screen that shows up with the choice to "Try Ubuntu" or "Install Ubuntu" was divided in two horizontally. It was, however, possible choose to &#8220;Try Ubuntu&#8221; by point-and-click either using a finger or the stylus. Once Ubuntu was up and running from the USB stick, the screen looked as it should. The touch screen worked fine, but Bluetooh and WLAN did not work, but that's not important at the moment. Some internal errors showed up, but that might be because it was running from the USB stick.
 
 *Running Ubuntu when installed on the hard drive:*
When booting, after completing installation, Ubuntu seems to go black screen followed by a drum sound. If booting in recovery mode and resuming normal boot a half screen mode is entered. The upper half screen shows the X desktop and the lower half screen shows console text. It is possible to access the desktop icons on the X desktop-half of the screen either using a finger or the stylus. The console text-half of the screen does not seem to be active.

If Ctrl-Alt-F1 is pressed the computer enters a loop looking like this:

Bluetooth: Error in firmware loading err = -32, len = 384, size = 4096
Bluetooth: Loading patch failed
Bluetooth: Error in firmware loading err = -32, len = 448, size = 4096
Bluetooth: Loading patch failed
Bluetooth: Error in firmware loading err = -32, len = 512, size = 4096
Bluetooth: Loading patch failed

It will cycle through these errors until powered off. Otherwise, if Ctrl-Alt-F7 is pressed Ubuntu reenters the same half screen mode described above.
  
  If booting in recovery mode and dropping to root shell mode typing &#8220;sudo lightdm restart&#8221; in the command line results in the following error:
  
  Failed to get D-Bus connection
  ** WARNING ** Failed to open log file /var/log/lightdm/x-1.log: Read-only file system
  Fatal server error:
  Could not create lock file in /tmp/.tX1-lock
  
  All this is rather annoying, especially since it seems to work fine when running off the USB stick
  
  Any suggestion on how to get by this is greatly appreciated.
  
  /Peter

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-03-20
Well the drum sound means it has successfully booted up to the login screen.

The read-only filesystem error message you get in recovery mode is to be expected - when first entering recovery mode take the option just above the drop to root shell one called "remount filesystem" which will remount it as read/write and then present you the option to drop to root shell again.

What happens if you do a normal boot to the black screen with drums, then Ctrl-Alt-F1 (to access a tty) to login then do your *sudo service lightdm restart* ?

I'm not at all familiar with the hardware you're using or indeed slates in general so all I can suggest is maybe trying some of the graphics related kernel boot options from the GRUB screen - like nomodeset.

In fact it would be worthwhile looking what options are set there on the live USB version that works and then comparing it to the options set on your installed version. Might luck out and see an obvious difference :)

Info on setting boot options from GRUB temporarily and permanently here (just in case you need them):
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

Good luck.

---

### Post by Peter Bull on 2012-03-20
Thanks for the quick reply. 

Pressing Ctrl-Alt-F1 after the normal boot and drum results in the same loop as I mentioned in my first post. I'm not able to stop the loop to get to the prompt.  Setting *nomodeset* in Grub gave the same result. 

I'll have a look in the Grub configuration file on the live USB to see if I can find something obvious enough for me to notice.

/Peter

---

### Post by chestnut67 on 2012-04-19
not that anybody would need to care, but this is to let you know that I am experiencing exactly the same problem on a Nokia Booklet 3G. When booting from live USB I get a normal desktop ( and with the right resolution, contrary to previous 10.* releases, whene I needed to mess up with the Poulsbo drivers). 
But if I choose to install ubuntu and boot from the booklet disk, then I get black screen and/or half screen. 
The fact that the USB boot works OK suggests that this is probably a low hanging fruit, but my Linux competence is now exhausted....

---

### Post by Peter Bull on 2012-04-20
I've banged my head bloody on this, but only getting a severe headache. For some reason X detects the correct hardware when booting a Ubuntu Live image from a USB stick. The same X doesn't seem to be capable of detecting the correct hardware when Ubuntu is installed.

I tried generating xorg.conf using "X -configure" when running from the USB stick and use that config file when running the installed version. That didn't do much good either.

The low hanging fruit seems out of my reach, I'm afraid.

/Peter

---

### Post by VMC on 2012-04-20
Try adding **nomodeset** option to the end of the linux line as described [here]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/38780/how-to-set-nomodeset-for-installation").

---

### Post by Peter Bull on 2012-04-24
Thanks for the suggestion. I tried it, but it didn't make any difference I'm afraid.

/Peter

---

### Post by Peter Bull on 2012-04-25
Finally I got it to work. 

As it turned out the procedure described by []("http://[URL=%22http://www.mogilowski.net/lang/en-us/2012/02/15/install-ubuntu-on-dell-latitude-st-tablet/%22")[Sebastian Mogilowski]("http://www.mogilowski.net/lang/en-us/2012/02/15/install-ubuntu-on-dell-latitude-st-tablet/") worked on my Dell slate as well. Which, obviously, it should. The problem was that the bluetooth error message described in my first post made it impossible to input anything in terminal mode. Entering failsafe mode and getting the wireless card to work according to the above link removed that error message. With the error message gone it was possible to load the correct graphics card driver. 

Now I just have to figure out why the "psb_gfx" module isn't loaded at boot.

/Peter

---

