---
title: "12.04 No Sound"
date: 2011-12-17
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by buhala on 2011-12-17
Hello! I am a pretty new ubuntu user and here is what I did to install my Ubuntu
Minimal CD(8.04)->sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop->Update to 10.04->Update to 12.04
The problem is, I don get a song, and for some reason it tells me that I have an HDMI audio and no microphone, but this is not true at all!
Please help me, I really need sound!

---

### Post by flipper T on 2011-12-17
2 poimts:

1. there is a thread for 12.04 issues, i´m sure this will be moved

2. why, as a ¨pretty new ubuntu user¨ have you chosen to install a alpha release of an os ? what exactly were you expecting? 

my advice, feel free to ignore, is to install 11.10 now, then come that glorious day in april, upgrade to 12.04

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-12-17
Yes :-) thread moved.

If you are using 12.04 it is expected that you are the one helping people (by reporting bugs), not the other way around. As posted above, 11.10 is a better choice if you are new.

---

### Post by buhala on 2011-12-18
I tried installing 8.04 but I couldnt upgrade to 11.10 easily, so I upgraded to 12.04
Please help me do some check for devices,because it finds random ones :(

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2011-12-18
Hello buhala. Welcome to Ubuntu Linux and the Ubuntuforums! :)

Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron) is no longer supported. 
Its support ended on June 12, 2011.

You should install Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, Ubuntu 11.04, or Ubuntu 11.10.


Ubuntu 10.04 is supported until April 2013
Ubuntu 11.04 is supported until October 2012
Ubuntu 11.10 is supported until April 2013

Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise Pangolin) is not yet released, and it is not recommended to be used on production machines.


Good luck!

---

### Post by buhala on 2011-12-18
I am usling 12.04, can anyone really help me with my problem (No sound)?
Please?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-12-18
If you have an HDMI connector on your system, you may see that the HDMI sound connection is used by default. If you click the speaker icon in the top panel, and select Sound Settings->Hardware Input, do you have a choice of selecting something else?

---

### Post by buhala on 2011-12-18
Here are the choices in hardware (input is a different tab)
Here is what I can select
Digital Sound  nr 4, nr3 and so on(HDMI)
Digital Surround nr4,nr3 and so on(HDMI)
Off

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-12-18
> **buhala said:**
> Here are the choices in hardware (input is a different tab)
Here is what I can select
Digital Sound  nr 4, nr3 and so on(HDMI)
Digital Surround nr4,nr3 and so on(HDMI)
Off

You're right, that's what I get for answering posts first thing in the morning, before finishing my first cup of coffee. :)

Can you paste the output of:

```
lspci
```

in your next post.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-12-18
> **buhala said:**
> I am usling 12.04, can anyone really help me with my problem (No sound)?
Please?

you first needs to know if your sound chipset/card is well detected  by the system: check it via System Settings Sound menu. Then install and run alsamixer for custom settings. 
Maybe you need to specify which hardware to use via:  /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-12-18
> **dino99 said:**
> you first needs to know if your sound chipset/card is well detected  by the system: check it via System Settings Sound menu. Then install and run alsamixer for custom settings. 
Maybe you need to specify which hardware to use via:  /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)

Isn't alsamixer installed by default? I have it on my system.

---

### Post by kelargo on 2011-12-26
I think I just encountered this problem today.

New note book, HP Pavilion DV-6 series with AMD chipset.
alsamixer shows ATI R6xx HDMI chip.

initially installed Lucid (was Win7) then upgraded to 12.04. Doing this solved the wireless network not working problem. :-)

But now the sound is missing.

Looks like the default sound playback is S/PDIF instead of the notebook's internal speakers. :-(

What's the proper way to set the second device as default in 12.04? 

There's no applet way to config this.. 

```

$ cat /proc/asound/cards
 0 [Generic        ]: HDA-Intel - HD-Audio Generic
                      HD-Audio Generic at 0xf0344000 irq 42
 1 [Generic_1      ]: HDA-Intel - HD-Audio Generic
                      HD-Audio Generic at 0xf0340000 irq 16

```

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-12-26
Maybe I can throw in some advice, as I've been discussing alsa/pulseaudio for some time now. If you open a bug report and get the attention of an alsa/pulseaudio developer, this is what they will ask you first of all. You can use these same instructions to fix no sound, wrong card detected, wrong sound output mapping, etc. 

1) Make sure you have snd-hda-codec pointing to  /lib/modules/<kernel version>3.2.0-6-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda
```

$ sudo modinfo snd-hda-codec
filename:       /lib/modules/3.2.0-6-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda/snd-hda-codec.ko
license:        GPL
description:    HDA codec core
srcversion:     A5FF2C826EDE73E58A75D47
depends:        snd-pcm,snd,snd-hwdep
intree:         Y
vermagic:       3.2.0-6-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 

```2) Make sure your /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf, /etc/pulse/default.pa, /etc/asound.conf are unmodified. If you have $HOME/.asound* or $HOME/.pulse*, rename them to something else or mode them to a backup folder.

3) Report if you have kernel parameters added to your grub kernel command line. You can check your kernel command line using the following command:
```

$ cat /proc/cmdline
BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-6-generic root=UUID=e5064d7d-59ef-4cb5-8e26-c9682ca3d034 ro

```4) Read **[this]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/UpgradingAlsa/DKMS")** and get the latest upstream code via dkms, for your Ubuntu release, from **[here]("https://code.launchpad.net/%7Eubuntu-audio-dev/+archive/alsa-daily/+packages")**

5) Install the dkms file with dpgk and reboot. Example:
```

$ sudo dpkg -i dkms-hda_-_<some_version>~os_release.deb
$ sudo reboot now

```6) When rebooting, press Del or F2 (or whatever key is the default to enter the BIOS settings in your system) and go into the BIOS. If you have settings for sound (enable/disable OnBoard Chipset features/sound, enable/disable sound channels, etc), activate sound properly.

7) Boot and run alsamixer. Press F6 to select the sound card, F5 to show all channels, and verify that none of them is too low or muted.

8) Check that your speakers are connected to the proper jack (in the case of a desktop). If this is a laptop, also check for sound using headphones.

9) See that you have proper sound devices in the following files:
$ cat /proc/asound/pcm
$ cat /proc/asound/devices
$ cat /proc/asound/cards

10) Run aplay -L and try to output sound from your hw and plughw devices. Example:
```

$ aplay -L
null
    Discard all samples (playback) or generate zero samples (capture)
pulse
    Playback/recording through the PulseAudio sound server
default
front:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    Front speakers
surround40:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    4.0 Surround output to Front and Rear speakers
surround41:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    4.1 Surround output to Front, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround50:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    5.0 Surround output to Front, Center and Rear speakers
surround51:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    5.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround71:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    7.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Side, Rear and Woofer speakers
hdmi:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Digital
    HDMI Audio Output
dmix:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    Direct sample mixing device
dmix:CARD=SB,DEV=3
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Digital
    Direct sample mixing device
dsnoop:CARD=SB,DEV=0
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    Direct sample snooping device
dsnoop:CARD=SB,DEV=3
    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Digital
    Direct sample snooping device
[B]hw:CARD=SB,DEV=0
[/B]    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
[B]hw:CARD=SB,DEV=3
[/B]    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Digital
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
[B]plughw:CARD=SB,DEV=0
[/B]    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Analog
    Hardware device with all software conversions
[B]plughw:CARD=SB,DEV=3
[/B]    HDA ATI SB, ALC892 Digital
    Hardware device with all software conversions
hdmi:CARD=NVidia,DEV=0
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    HDMI Audio Output
hdmi:CARD=NVidia,DEV=1
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    HDMI Audio Output
hdmi:CARD=NVidia,DEV=2
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    HDMI Audio Output
hdmi:CARD=NVidia,DEV=3
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    HDMI Audio Output
dmix:CARD=NVidia,DEV=3
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample mixing device
dmix:CARD=NVidia,DEV=7
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample mixing device
dmix:CARD=NVidia,DEV=8
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample mixing device
dmix:CARD=NVidia,DEV=9
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample mixing device
dsnoop:CARD=NVidia,DEV=3
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample snooping device
dsnoop:CARD=NVidia,DEV=7
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample snooping device
dsnoop:CARD=NVidia,DEV=8
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample snooping device
dsnoop:CARD=NVidia,DEV=9
    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct sample snooping device
[B]hw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=3
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
[B]hw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=7
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
[B]hw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=8
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
[B]hw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=9
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
[B]plughw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=3
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Hardware device with all software conversions
[B]plughw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=7
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Hardware device with all software conversions
[B]plughw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=8
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Hardware device with all software conversions
[B]plughw:CARD=NVidia,DEV=9
[/B]    HDA NVidia, HDMI 0
    Hardware device with all software conversions

```Using the example above, you would test the hw/plughw devices using:
```

aplay -D hw:SB,0 /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Front_Center.wav
aplay -D hw:SB,3 /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Front_Center.wav
aplay -D plughw:SB,0 /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Front_Center.wav
aplay -D plughw:SB,3 /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Front_Center.wav
etc

```- If you manage to get sound from proper outputs for each of your device(s), it means you have to read on pulseaudio on how to create a config to use these sources/sinks properly. Go to pulseaudio website.
- If still you have no sound, you have to check if your chipset module needs some parameter. Search for its name and eventual parameters in here:
[http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt](http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt)
Example. My card is ALC892:
```

$ cat /proc/asound/pcm
00-00: **ALC892** Analog : ALC892 Analog : playback 1 : capture 1
00-02: ALC892 Analog : ALC892 Analog : capture 1
00-03: ALC892 Digital : ALC892 Digital : playback 1
01-03: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
01-07: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
01-08: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
01-09: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1

```Looking at [the HD-Audio-Models.txt]("http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt") I see that I need no special parameters for ALC892. But if I needed any, I would add it to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf, restart and go back to step **7**.
```

sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
options snd-hda-intel some-option-here=some-value

```

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-12-27
Not the exact issue, but I have had some problems with the audio in recent builds of 12.04. My post on this issue is [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11505819&postcount=10").

The audio slider and alsamixer seem borked.

---

### Post by kelargo on 2011-12-27
thanks effenberg0x0.

Im not able disable any sound card. this machine is a notebook.  both soundcards are built in. and nothing in bios permits changing anything. there maybe a newer bios.. I'll look, but I'm not counting on it. 

why isnt there a way to specify the desired sound car within the running ubuntu environment? 

like I said this is a notebook.  it has the built in analog sound system and a dvi video port, which I suspect has the spdif... 

also, this notebook is used by more than one person.. a non-admin user needs to be able select sound devices. 


> $ cat /proc/asound/pcm
00-03: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
01-00: STAC92xx Analog : STAC92xx Analog : playback 1 : capture 1



Sound worked when this was running lucid.   

thanks

---

### Post by kelargo on 2011-12-27
ok,  I create a /etc/asound.conf file.. to specify the default sound card.  it shows up in alsamixer.  still no sound.  rebooted. and encountered a crash. opened bug 909224

more info -
even though alsamixer shows the analog sound card as default.. 
going into gnome settings -> "username" -> system settings -> sound
then looking at hardware / input / output  ... all are stuck on "hdmi".. 

1. it doesnt recognize the second sound card and two.. cant change anything. 

joy.

---

### Post by andy16666 on 2012-01-02
I'm having the same issue with different sound cards. Only the HDMI output is showing up in Sound Settings. 

```

$ cat /proc/asound/pcm 
00-00: AD198x Analog : AD198x Analog : playback 1 : capture 2
00-01: AD198x Digital : AD198x Digital : playback 1
01-03: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
01-07: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
01-08: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1
01-09: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1

```

I've filed a bug report here: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/902944](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/902944)

I have this issue on two separate machines.

---

### Post by james0658 on 2012-04-13
> **buhala said:**
> Hello! I am a pretty new ubuntu user and here is what I did to install my Ubuntu
Minimal CD(8.04)->sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop->Update to 10.04->Update to 12.04
The problem is, I don get a song, and for some reason it tells me that I have an HDMI audio and no microphone, but this is not true at all!
Please help me, I really need sound!

There seems to be mass confusion over this HDMI audio.  I found it out myself by going into the "PulseAudio" settings.  Apparently they haven't included HDMI audio selections in the settings menu under the audio icon.  All it has is computer speaker selection.  Which is stupid and confusing to newbies.  Well if you go into your dash home, type in Pulse Audio.  Drag the icon down to the unity bar so you don't have to keep looking for it, since you need to change this every time you switch from HDMI to computer speakers.  Now once the Pulse Audio window has opened up you should see a tab called configuration.  Click on that, now go to the drop down tab and select the input of your liking.  That's it hoped it helped.

---

### Post by jozeph78 on 2012-04-18
I also have no sound, but only from the speakers. I do get audio through the headphones. Is there a way to regenerate the alsa-base.conf file? I did much about it with it in attempts to get all four speakers working, which never did quite work out (Beats Audio, dv6). 

Here's everything I can think to post to help diagnose my problem. Hopefully someone can help. 

```

$ cat /proc/asound/cards
0 [PCH            ]: HDA-Intel - HDA Intel PCH
                     HDA Intel PCH at 0xc7500000 irq 54

$ cat /proc/asound/pcm
00-00: STAC92xx Analog : STAC92xx Analog : playback 1 : capture 2
00-01: STAC92xx Digital : STAC92xx Digital : playback 1
00-03: HDMI 0 : HDMI 0 : playback 1

$ sudo modinfo snd-hda-codec
filename:       /lib/modules/3.2.0-23-generic/kernel/sound/pci/hda/snd-hda-codec.ko
license:        GPL
description:    HDA codec core
srcversion:     15BD5C9BE030430B38DA725
depends:        snd-pcm,snd,snd-hwdep
intree:         Y
vermagic:       3.2.0-23-generic SMP mod_unload modversions

$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
# autoloader aliases
install sound-slot-0 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-0
install sound-slot-1 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-1
install sound-slot-2 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-2
install sound-slot-3 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-3
install sound-slot-4 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-4
install sound-slot-5 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-5
install sound-slot-6 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-6
install sound-slot-7 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-7

# Cause optional modules to be loaded above generic modules
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-ioctl32 ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }
#
# Workaround at bug #499695 (reverted in Ubuntu see LP #319505)
install snd-pcm /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-pcm $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-pcm-oss ; : ; }
install snd-mixer /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-mixer $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-mixer-oss ; : ; }
install snd-seq /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-seq $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-oss ; : ; }
#
install snd-rawmidi /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-rawmidi $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; : ; }
# Cause optional modules to be loaded above sound card driver modules
install snd-emu10k1 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-emu10k1 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-emu10k1-synth ; }
install snd-via82xx /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-via82xx $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }

# Load saa7134-alsa instead of saa7134 (which gets dragged in by it anyway)
install saa7134 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install saa7134 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist saa7134-alsa ; : ; }
# Prevent abnormal drivers from grabbing index 0
options bt87x index=-2
options cx88_alsa index=-2
options saa7134-alsa index=-2
options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
options snd-intel8x0m index=-2
options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
options snd-usb-caiaq index=-2
options snd-usb-ua101 index=-2
options snd-usb-us122l index=-2
options snd-usb-usx2y index=-2
# Ubuntu #62691, enable MPU for snd-cmipci
options snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330 fm_port=0x388
# Keep snd-pcsp from being loaded as first soundcard
options snd-pcsp index=-2
# Keep snd-usb-audio from beeing loaded as first soundcard
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
#options snd-hda-intel model=ref enable_msi=1
#options snd-hda-intel model=hp-dv6 enable_msi=1
$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
# autoloader aliases
install sound-slot-0 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-0
install sound-slot-1 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-1
install sound-slot-2 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-2
install sound-slot-3 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-3
install sound-slot-4 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-4
install sound-slot-5 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-5
install sound-slot-6 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-6
install sound-slot-7 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-7

# Cause optional modules to be loaded above generic modules
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-ioctl32 ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }
#
# Workaround at bug #499695 (reverted in Ubuntu see LP #319505)
install snd-pcm /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-pcm $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-pcm-oss ; : ; }
install snd-mixer /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-mixer $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-mixer-oss ; : ; }
install snd-seq /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-seq $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-oss ; : ; }
#
install snd-rawmidi /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-rawmidi $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; : ; }
# Cause optional modules to be loaded above sound card driver modules
install snd-emu10k1 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-emu10k1 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-emu10k1-synth ; }
install snd-via82xx /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-via82xx $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }

# Load saa7134-alsa instead of saa7134 (which gets dragged in by it anyway)
install saa7134 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install saa7134 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist saa7134-alsa ; : ; }
# Prevent abnormal drivers from grabbing index 0
options bt87x index=-2
options cx88_alsa index=-2
options saa7134-alsa index=-2
options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
options snd-intel8x0m index=-2
options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
options snd-usb-caiaq index=-2
options snd-usb-ua101 index=-2
options snd-usb-us122l index=-2
options snd-usb-usx2y index=-2
# Ubuntu #62691, enable MPU for snd-cmipci
options snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330 fm_port=0x388
# Keep snd-pcsp from being loaded as first soundcard
options snd-pcsp index=-2
# Keep snd-usb-audio from beeing loaded as first soundcard
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
#options snd-hda-intel model=ref enable_msi=1
#options snd-hda-intel model=hp-dv6 enable_msi=1
$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
# autoloader aliases
install sound-slot-0 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-0
install sound-slot-1 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-1
install sound-slot-2 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-2
install sound-slot-3 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-3
install sound-slot-4 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-4
install sound-slot-5 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-5
install sound-slot-6 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-6
install sound-slot-7 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-7

# Cause optional modules to be loaded above generic modules
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-ioctl32 ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }
#
# Workaround at bug #499695 (reverted in Ubuntu see LP #319505)
install snd-pcm /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-pcm $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-pcm-oss ; : ; }
install snd-mixer /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-mixer $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-mixer-oss ; : ; }
install snd-seq /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-seq $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-oss ; : ; }
#
install snd-rawmidi /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-rawmidi $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; : ; }
# Cause optional modules to be loaded above sound card driver modules
install snd-emu10k1 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-emu10k1 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-emu10k1-synth ; }
install snd-via82xx /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-via82xx $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }

# Load saa7134-alsa instead of saa7134 (which gets dragged in by it anyway)
install saa7134 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install saa7134 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist saa7134-alsa ; : ; }
# Prevent abnormal drivers from grabbing index 0
options bt87x index=-2
options cx88_alsa index=-2
options saa7134-alsa index=-2
options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
options snd-intel8x0m index=-2
options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
options snd-usb-caiaq index=-2
options snd-usb-ua101 index=-2
options snd-usb-us122l index=-2
options snd-usb-usx2y index=-2
# Ubuntu #62691, enable MPU for snd-cmipci
options snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330 fm_port=0x388
# Keep snd-pcsp from being loaded as first soundcard
options snd-pcsp index=-2
# Keep snd-usb-audio from beeing loaded as first soundcard
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
#options snd-hda-intel model=ref enable_msi=1
#options snd-hda-intel model=hp-dv6 enable_msi=1
$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
# autoloader aliases
install sound-slot-0 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-0
install sound-slot-1 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-1
install sound-slot-2 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-2
install sound-slot-3 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-3
install sound-slot-4 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-4
install sound-slot-5 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-5
install sound-slot-6 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-6
install sound-slot-7 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-7

# Cause optional modules to be loaded above generic modules
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-ioctl32 ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }
#
# Workaround at bug #499695 (reverted in Ubuntu see LP #319505)
install snd-pcm /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-pcm $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-pcm-oss ; : ; }
install snd-mixer /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-mixer $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-mixer-oss ; : ; }
install snd-seq /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-seq $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-oss ; : ; }
#
install snd-rawmidi /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-rawmidi $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; : ; }
# Cause optional modules to be loaded above sound card driver modules
install snd-emu10k1 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-emu10k1 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-emu10k1-synth ; }
install snd-via82xx /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-via82xx $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }

# Load saa7134-alsa instead of saa7134 (which gets dragged in by it anyway)
install saa7134 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install saa7134 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist saa7134-alsa ; : ; }
# Prevent abnormal drivers from grabbing index 0
options bt87x index=-2
options cx88_alsa index=-2
options saa7134-alsa index=-2
options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
options snd-intel8x0m index=-2
options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
options snd-usb-caiaq index=-2
options snd-usb-ua101 index=-2
options snd-usb-us122l index=-2
options snd-usb-usx2y index=-2
# Ubuntu #62691, enable MPU for snd-cmipci
options snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330 fm_port=0x388
# Keep snd-pcsp from being loaded as first soundcard
options snd-pcsp index=-2
# Keep snd-usb-audio from beeing loaded as first soundcard
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
#options snd-hda-intel model=ref enable_msi=1
#options snd-hda-intel model=hp-dv6 enable_msi=1


```

```

 $ aplay -L
default
    Playback/recording through the PulseAudio sound server
sysdefault:CARD=PCH
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    Default Audio Device
front:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    Front speakers
surround40:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    4.0 Surround output to Front and Rear speakers
surround41:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    4.1 Surround output to Front, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround50:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    5.0 Surround output to Front, Center and Rear speakers
surround51:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    5.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround71:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    7.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Side, Rear and Woofer speakers
iec958:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Digital
    IEC958 (S/PDIF) Digital Audio Output
hdmi:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, HDMI 0
    HDMI Audio Output
dmix:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    Direct sample mixing device
dmix:CARD=PCH,DEV=1
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Digital
    Direct sample mixing device
dmix:CARD=PCH,DEV=3
    HDA Intel PCH, HDMI 0
    Direct sample mixing device
dsnoop:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    Direct sample snooping device
dsnoop:CARD=PCH,DEV=1
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Digital
    Direct sample snooping device
dsnoop:CARD=PCH,DEV=3
    HDA Intel PCH, HDMI 0
    Direct sample snooping device
hw:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
hw:CARD=PCH,DEV=1
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Digital
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
hw:CARD=PCH,DEV=3
    HDA Intel PCH, HDMI 0
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
plughw:CARD=PCH,DEV=0
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Analog
    Hardware device with all software conversions
plughw:CARD=PCH,DEV=1
    HDA Intel PCH, STAC92xx Digital
    Hardware device with all software conversions
plughw:CARD=PCH,DEV=3
    HDA Intel PCH, HDMI 0
    Hardware device with all software conversions

```

---

### Post by jozeph78 on 2012-04-19
Whelp, it started working after a partial upgrade. Guess this is no longer an issue for me.

---

