---
title: "12.04 Grub does not show menu, EFI boot"
date: 2012-03-16
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by GizahNL on 2012-03-16
I installed Ubuntu 12.04 on my desktop computer.
 On it is a GPT formatted disk with Windows 7 allready installed.
The disk layout contains 1 EFI partition, 2 windows partitions (hidden and normal) and 3 linux partitions (root, home and swap)
 After installation (had to use alternative cd as regular does not show GPT disk) and reboot ubuntu boots without trouble.
 However, there is no Grub boot menu displayed at startup.
Looking into the grub.cfg file it shows that there is no entry created for windows efi.
After manually creating this entry and running update-grub still no does not show a menu.
Deinstalled and reinstalled grub, still no menu


Anybody has a work-around to get the menu to show ? I'd like to have a grub menu instead of having to go the refit way or having to press F11 during bootup to select different OS's

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-03-16
Welcome to the forums. (Also moved to 12.04 +1 sub-forum)

There was (is?) a bug in grub that erases the efi partition and reformats it to FAT16. Do you have a backup of the Windows efi files or did it not reformat?
All this info is before 12.04, so keep us updated if you find what works.

UEFI bugs:
Deletes Windows efi partition
Installer should not format an existing EFI System Partition 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-efi/+bug/769669](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-efi/+bug/769669)
EFI SYSTEM PARTITION should be atleast 100 MiB size and formatted as FAT32, not FAT16
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-efi/+bug/811485](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-efi/+bug/811485)

Even though it is Arch, it has some good info on grub2.
Grub2 efi info ArchLinux - Arch but grub2 is grub2 with maybe minor differences by distribution
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GRUB2#Bootloader_Installation_for_UEFI_systems](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GRUB2#Bootloader_Installation_for_UEFI_systems)

dual boot efi windows and efi linux 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1890048](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1890048)
Has chainload window efi grub entry:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFIBooting)

from your efi partition post this:
find /boot/efi -name "*efi"

---

### Post by pellyhawk on 2012-03-17
My issue is very similar with Windows xp and ubuntu10.04 and no GRUB menu is displayed at startup.

---

### Post by GizahNL on 2012-03-17
Hey! :) 

I did not fall victim to the fat16 bug, apparently it is already fixed in the beta cd.

The strange thing is that ubuntu boots perfectly, it just does not show a grub menu displaying choices 

Efibootmgr also shows the ubuntu efi option installed and set up as default (and also used as last boot method).

I even copied the kernel to force grub to have 2 linux choices which also does not show the menu.

My guess is that the problem is somewhere in the default configuration (maybe because during installation my windows OS was not correctly identified (no options where created automatically from OS prober). Since it does boot the correct kernel (and according to my knowledge this does require some parsing of the config file).

Any hints into which direction the problem lies ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-03-17
Post boot info script. Only the git version has been updated to include efi partitions.

The git/testing version has some fixes:
```
wget -O bootinfoscript 'http://bootinfoscript.git.sourceforge.net/git/gitweb.cgi?p=bootinfoscript/bootinfoscript;a=blob_plain;f=bootinfoscript;hb=HEAD'
chmod a+x bootinfoscript
sudo bash bootinfoscript

```

If you need instructions on using boot script this is the current version with some instructions:

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum members meierfra & Gert Hulselmans
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Paste contents of results.txt in a New Reply, then highlight entire file and click on # in edit panel(code tags) to make it easier to read.
Or You can generate the tags first by pressing the # icon in the New Reply Edit toolbar and then paste the contents between the generated [ code] paste here [ /code] tags.
V60 has improved formating and requires code tags to make it legible. New Version is a zip file that you have to extract to get .sh to run.
Install these before running script:
sudo apt-get install gawk
sudo apt-get install xz-utils

I also do not know if Yanni's Boot-Repair works with efi systems. It can run the git version of boot script.
Boot Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or post the link to a run of boot info script so we can see your exact configuration.

---

### Post by GizahNL on 2012-03-17
I found the issue, playing around with some settings in the /etc/default/grub file I found that commenting out both lines containing "HIDDEN" that were default on now does show the menu.

Apparently the HIDDEN lines configure grub to listen for a shift press which unfortunately does not work (at least on my system).

I would advice to moving this away as default since true linux beginners could find this behavior annoying if they intended to set up a dual boot ;)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-03-17
Could you add to this bug, it only has 3 reports and until it gets to 5 they do not make it a priority. You do have to create an account to Lanuchpad as you cannot use your Ubuntu Forums login.

grub-update fails to detect windows bootloader on a uefi system
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/807801](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/807801)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-17
We need a Windows 7/8 dual boot tutorial, do we not?

I only use Ubuntu but I see many posts about Windows 7 and installing Ubuntu. I unable to assist even to post a link. If I had to install Ubuntu on a Windows 7 machine I would not know where to start but I would know to expect trouble.

Regards.

---

### Post by GizahNL on 2012-03-29
IMHO we do not need a tutorial, Ubuntu is marketed at users with NULL experience in Linux (as well as experienced users of course). 
If I was installing Gentoo I'd appreciate a tutorial or I'd write one myself ;)

But for Ubuntu I'd expect everything to work automagicly. Now granted, EFI/UEFI in combination with windows is not that common _yet_ I would expect that within the lifetime of this release it will become more common and it would be nice to work straight out of the box ;)

I could look into patching the OS prober scripts, should not be a very big pain, but someone with more experience could probably write it up in 30 minutes (whereas my programming skills would have it take me 3 hrs 1 liter of coffee 3 curses being shouted and then a big cheer ;) )

---

