---
title: "12.04 How to bring up a running app not on the Launcher?"
date: 2012-01-28
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-01-28
Hi,

Hopefully someone else has come across this and solved it :)

Installed the 12.04 alpha, then installed Truecrypt (downloaded from truecrypt.org and ran installer script). That went fine and Truecrypt can be found and run using the Dash search.

Problem is - having mounted a container and dismissed the Truecrypt GUI there seems to be no way to bring it back in order to dismount the container. Previously on 10.04 when the GUI was dismissed with a container mounted it would go to an icon in the notification area - easily accessed to dismount etc.

So the question is - how to bring the GUI of an app up if it is not present in the notification area or the Launcher? Searching for it in Dash and trying to open it just gives a "Truecrypt is already running." popup - not very helpful :D

Any ideas?

Thanks
crypto

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-01-28
Moved to Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin).

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-01-28
Add 'truecrypt' to the unity panel's systray whitelist either thru dconf-editor or gsettings, then do a log out'in to realize

If you don't know how to then just ask, wouldn't want you breaking your install thru potentially 'dangerous' config tools ala the infamous ccsm

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-01-28
Thanks mc4man - that did the trick :D

For anyone in the same predicament i.e. with a container mounted and seemingly no way to dismount it this command:

```
truecrypt -d
```

will dismount all containers.

Saves risking an unclean dismount when logging out the first time having made the change to the systray-whitelist.

After that it behaves as expected (although a bit ugly as the tray icon gets a white border for some reason).

Thanks again :)

---

