---
title: "12.04 network not working (routing problem?)"
date: 2012-02-05
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by melser.anton on 2012-02-05
Hi,
I am trying to install precise into a Hyper-V vm. 10.04 is working fine, as are all other OSes I have ever tried to install into this host.
Install goes fine. Boot goes fine. DHCP goes fine!!!!! So I get an address - I have both legacy and normal nics configured with dhcp - they both get valid IPs. The dhcp is NOT from the VM host - it is from the network. I have the gateway correctly configured, as is resolv.conf. iptables is configured for Policy accept for input, output and forward, and no rules are configured.  But it is impossible to get out of the machine... Pinging the DNS or gateways fails - I get Destination Host Unreachable messages! I can't understand it... It is the same for x86 and x64, and was present in the alpha version and still in the daily builds of today.
Sorry, without network I can't copy and paste so I just uploaded a screenshot of route and ifconfig.
Any ideas?
Thanks!

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-02-05
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)**.*

---

### Post by melser.anton on 2012-02-05
Alright, this is a bit dumb... It is obviously an issue with Hyper-V hosts. Both the Legacy and new (synthetic) adapters are able to get IPs from the DHCP server but only the new, synthetic (with the integrated integration components from MS) NICs are able to be used for leaving. So you need to install with a Legacy adapter (the installer doesn't recognise the synthetic cards) or with no network, and then change/add a synthetic NIC. Hey, it is beta software!
Cheers
Anton

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-02-05
how is your /etc/resolv.conf ?

note: as nm have some trouble, im now using wicd.

---

### Post by melser.anton on 2012-02-05
> **dino99 said:**
> how is your /etc/resolv.conf ?

note: as nm have some trouble, im now using wicd.

Umm. Not sure about those - are you talking about wizards there? This is all command-line configuration on ubuntu-server. Or do these tools do the config (resolv.conf, interfaces, etc.) generation? If so, from what I could tell the config files were all being correctly generated - the problem seems to be at the driver level. In any case, simply replacing all the legacy type NICs with the new type of NICs provided with Hyper-V and everything works perfectly.
I am definitely not an expert though...
Thanks.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-02-05
and ping fail too ?

---

### Post by melser.anton on 2012-02-05
> **dino99 said:**
> and ping fail too ?

ACK. It was very strange. Everything seemed to be working fine but packets wouldn't leave from the interface. Ping internally worked but I couldn't ping either the dhcp or DNS - and it obviously could reach the dhcp at some point because the dhcp gave it the IP address! Changing the type of NIC made everything work perfectly. I tested on both x86 and x64 and replacing the NICs works for both.

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2012-02-05
Networking works fine here in PP Alpha 2 VMs (desktop/server/x86/x86_64) running on local/remote VMs in VirtualBox/VMWare with any virtual NIC provided by those software. As long as the DHCPd is set to accept their virtual MAC Addresses and provides them with IPs that are accepted in the LAN machines firewalls, I have seen no problem. 

If this specific virtualization solution solution has punctual problems with one or more of its virtual NIC drivers, it would be great to report the problem to Microsoft support, as it is out of Ubuntu scope.

But if, for some reason, the DHCP Lease provided by Ubuntu isc-dhcp-server supplies specific virtual NICs with wrong networking parameters, then its a isc-dhcp-server problem. But I really doubt this would be the cause of the issue. As long as the DHCP request is standard, DHCPd doesn't care (or know) if the NIC is real or virtual.

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by Neustradamus on 2012-02-16
Same for me after the first update of Ubuntu 12.04 alpha 2 server i386 server.

local network works but not external.

ping -c 3 example.net does not work.

---

### Post by bladimirsq on 2012-03-07
Same here.... 

i have a problem with networking 

dhcp assignation works property 
i get a right IP Addr, Subnet Maks, default gateway addr (i can know those are ok becouse is the same as other computers on my network), DNS1 and DNS2 are ok, by my internet provider.

i can ping with computers on my network, but can't ping to default gateway, off course DNS neither, so web pages and public addr on the internet i can't also...

my network adapter is a NVIDIA Nforce.

any solutions or idea what to do?

Thanks 
Bladimir

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-03-07
I have the same adapter, it is actually a bridge device, and not a real network adapter. If I leave things up to Network-manager, I end up with dns problem. My work around is to set up a static ip address in Network-manager. See the screen-shot.

**Note**: The DNS addresses are for my ISP.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2012-03-07
Let me throw a few thoughts at you...

I have been using this computer daily for 4-5 years (I would approximate) and never had network problems until the Linux 3.2 / 3.3 kernels hit the scene.

Since then, I have been unable to use network-manager - no network connection - Conky goes zombie, waiting for a connection - desktop hard locks on shutdown - and so forth, and so on.

The "fix" was to remove network-manager and install Wicd.  End of problems.

The thing is, we're supposed to be testing Ubuntu default packages, so every once-in-a-while I would remove Wicd and reinstall network-manager... and always with the same result - no network connection, et cetera.  Thus, back to Wicd.

Today was no exception, except...

I finally decided to install a second nic (Netgear FA-310TX) - removed Wicd - reinstalled network-manager - and life is good again, so far.  ;)

The connection has survived several reconfigs and restarts, in the past few hours, so I'm slowly growing confident that the problem was been some sort of hardware incompatibility with the built-in nic on this mobo, or Linux 3.2 / 3.3 (see sig for rig details).

Also, while I was researching "the situation" for the umpteenth time today, and mentally preparing myself to swap network managers, yet again (not an easy task), I ran across this:

SOURCE: [http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/)

> Anyone who&#8217;s been using 12.04 over the past month or so may have noticed some pretty significant changes in the way we do DNS resolving in Ubuntu.

This is the result of the implementation of: [foundations-p-dns-resolving]("https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/foundations-p-dns-resolving")

Here is a description of the two big changes that happened:

**Switch to resolvconf for /etc/resolv.conf management...**

**Using dnsmasq as local resolver by default on desktop installations..**.

It seems that the devs have been fooling around with Mother Nature.  LoL!  :D

Anyway, it appears that I was either suffering from a hardware incapability issue, and/or support for my onboard chipset was not chosen for inclusion in the latest Linux kernels.

This may, or may not, be applicable to your situation.  Just saying...

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2012-03-07
> **cariboo907 said:**
> **Note**: The DNS addresses are **[COLOR="DarkRed"]for my ISP[/COLOR]**.
Ever use "namebench"?

LINKAGE: [http://code.google.com/p/namebench/](http://code.google.com/p/namebench/)

You may be pleasantly surprised by the results...  ;)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-03-07
Thanks VinDSL, it turns out that the fastest DNS server is still my ISP, but it's on a different subnet.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2012-03-08
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I have the same adapter, it is actually a bridge device, and not a real network adapter.[...]
The above comment got me thinking...

I looked up the data for this top-of-the-line (circa 2005) mobo, on various online archives and reviews, and discovered that the integrated network (LAN) controller is indeed a southbridge device.

The Netgear FA-310TX 10/100 PCI nic, that I resurrected from my closet, is the real deal.  It uses the venerable (and well-supported) DEC Tulip-based PCI ethernet chipset!

Subsequent to my last post, I have disabled the bridged LAN device on my mobo (in BIOS), renamed eth1 (the Netgear nic) to eth0 (formerly the onboard LAN), and my networking is now working like a champ!

I'm also expecting to see a slight increase in overall performance too, judging by the reviews, since I've removed a substantial load from the southbridge.  Time will tell.

Anyway, thanks for spurring me to action...  :)

---

