---
title: "12.04 - gnome shell configuration"
date: 2012-02-03
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-03
I'm going to be working on a little project involving the gnome-shell.css file for those who have gnome-shell installed.

I've read somewhere that everything in 12.04 upward was moving some type of java "thingys" (hey, I know squat about java - except it's supposed to perk some people up in the morning ;) ) for configuring things dealing with themes, the desktop, etc..  I'd like to know if this includes gnome-shell, even though I know Ubuntu doesn't use it.  

In short, how large of audience is there out there that uses gnome shell?

thanks!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by cortman on 2012-02-03
I use Gnome shell, like it quite a bit, and plan to keep on using it.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-02-03
Thread moved to "*Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)*"

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2012-02-03
i only use gnome-shell :-)

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-02-03
gnone-shell is the DE I use .

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2012-02-03
> **ronacc said:**
> gnone-shell is the DE I use .

Me too - :)

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2012-02-03
gnome-shell -  fits my workflow better.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-02-03
While certainly unscientific  
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1717430&highlight=survey+desktop](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1717430&highlight=survey+desktop).
I don't hate Unity but shell suits me much better.  I see the shell extensions as a real plus.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-02-03
Dave--me again--perhaps we should direct people to your [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1912749") where the issues with customizing the Shell using the css file was discussed. As Kurt said, there are number of people here (Ubuntu Users) who prefer Gnome-Shell--easily you should get hundreds. Also note, if your app is generic, then it can be used across other distro like Fedora which has a huge Gnome-Shell base.

Thanks Again,
SwB

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2012-02-04
> **anewguy said:**
> I'm going to be working on a little project involving the gnome-shell.css file for those who have gnome-shell installed.

I've read somewhere that everything in 12.04 upward was moving some type of java "thingys" (hey, I know squat about java - except it's supposed to perk some people up in the morning ;) ) for configuring things dealing with themes, the desktop, etc..  I'd like to know if this includes gnome-shell, even though I know Ubuntu doesn't use it.  

In short, how large of audience is there out there that uses gnome shell?

thanks!

Dave ;)

perhaps a link or two :-) :-)

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2012-02-04
+1 Gnome Shell

Now if someone would come up with a Unity Tweak Tool - The best of both worlds would change my mind.

---

### Post by buckeyered80 on 2012-02-04
I am using Unity with the Zukitwo Gnome shell theme; I actually prefer Unity over Gnome 3 for now.

---

### Post by buckeyered80 on 2012-02-12
Actually, I had never given Gnome-Shell a chance. I just started messing with it today and I am starting to like it.

---

### Post by paul_in_london on 2012-02-12
> **bmbaker said:**
> i only use gnome-shell :-)

+1 (and sometimes gnome classic).

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-02-12
Don't forget to visit gnome shell extensions using firefox to add new extensions to your spanking new GS desktop experience!

---

### Post by Chazall1 on 2012-02-12
+ 1 Gnome-shell

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-17
As shuttleworthwannabe, I have another thread open on developing an editor of some sort for the gnome-shell.css file - please see:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1912749]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1912749")

I'm using that thread to show the SLOW progress I've been making, and looking for any help as to what the heck is allowed in that file, what it means, and what things are mutually exclusive, etc., as I know absolutely NOTHING about the contents of the file.

I've got panel color selection working, but not the portion for the transparency (you can toggle it, select the opacity, etc., but I don't know how to convert the number return - up 65000+ to the .x fractional representation that setting it requires).  There is a toggle for backgournd image or color, but none of the code in place to do anything with it yet.

It's just a beginning, and it's going slower than I thought it would due to my extreme rust with C and fighting to learn more GTK to provide the windows.

Currently, I'm looking for a few things at that thread:

- any details about the css file
- getting the fractional representation of the "alpha" huge value returned for the transparency
- how to get setting background/foreground colors of a GTK label to actually work in GTK 3
- examples of things you have modified -> I can't guarantee they would be in the program for a long, long time, but I can try.

I have thought about having this update the css file real-time, but I think I am leaning to letting it create a new css file that you will need to copy to the appropriate folder for your Linux.  This means a chance for you to get a backup made of the "good" css file before the copy - thereby having a recovery mechanism that I don't want to put in the program at this time.

This is generating the css file.  I would hope it, and the app (C with GTK3) should work in other flavors of Linux.

Which also gets me back to the topic of THIS thread:

- I've read on the net somewhere that with changes to Gnome the configuration is changing to a different mechanism from the CSS file.  If someone can tell me if that is true, then it makes a difference if I continue with the current path.

Thanks!
Dave ;)

---

### Post by Quackers on 2012-02-17
Only DE I use is GS. It's been that way for a year or so. I like it........a lot :-)

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-18
Again, does anyone know if the gnome-shell.css file is going away and being replaced with the java file(s) as some of the other things are in Gnome 3?

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2012-02-19
> **anewguy said:**
> Again, does anyone know if the gnome-shell.css file is going away and being replaced with the java file(s) as some of the other things are in Gnome 3?

you might be better off contaction the gnome-shell mailing list!

[email]gnome-shell-list-request@gnome.org[/email]
Feb 7 (12 days ago)

to gnome-shell-li. 
Send gnome-shell-list mailing list submissions to
       [email]gnome-shell-list@gnome.org[/email]

To subscribe or unsubscribe via the World Wide Web, visit
       [http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/gnome-shell-list](http://mail.gnome.org/mailman/listinfo/gnome-shell-list)
or, via email, send a message with subject or body 'help' to
       [email]gnome-shell-list-request@gnome.org[/email]

You can reach the person managing the list at
       [email]gnome-shell-list-owner@gnome.org[/email]

When replying, please edit your Subject line so it is more specific
than "Re: Contents of gnome-shell-list digest..."

---

### Post by alexmurray on 2012-02-19
wtf? There is no Java in GS - there is JavaScript - which is completely different - so the appearance (themeing etc) is defined in CSS and the behaviour is defined in the JavaScript files (plus also some low level stuff written in C).

---

### Post by anewguy on 2012-02-19
> **alexmurray said:**
> wtf? There is no Java in GS - there is JavaScript - which is completely different - so the appearance (themeing etc) is defined in CSS and the behaviour is defined in the JavaScript files (plus also some low level stuff written in C).

Hey - I have NO idea - that's why I've been ASKING.  I'm just trying to write a program for the gnome-shell.css file, and didn't want to waste my time if it's all different coming up.  I read something on the net about Java - if it's JavaScript so be it.  Not knowing anything about either, I wanted to be sure I wasn't just spinning my wheels.

bmbaker:  I'll look into getting on the list(s).  Please understand the only reason I even chose this title is because someone posted in one of my threads on the net about the configuration in 12.04 being different for Gnome Shell - so I thought the title explained enough that whoever might know would respond.

There also seems to be a lack of documentation of what is allowed in the gnome-shell.css file, what values are exclusive of another, etc..

Please everyone understand, I don't know ANYTHING about Java, Javascript, css and therefore the gnome-shell.css file, for the matter Gnome Shell itself.  I just volunteered to try to write a program for some people who said there was a need.

---

