---
title: "12.04 freezes when laptop lid closes"
date: 2012-02-28
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by Baldrick_NZ on 2012-02-28
Hi all,

Does anyone else have the problem when they close their laptop lid then re-open it, the screen has frozen but the mouse still moves freely?

I have it set so that when the lid is closed, nothing is supposed to happen.

I'm not sure how to report it as a bug manually, as I usually report ones automatically. Also, I wanted to know if others have the same issue before I report it. 

Finally, does anyone have a work around or fix for this?


Thanks in advance,
Baldrick

---

### Post by LightReccon on 2012-03-04
Hey.

I&#476;e got that exact same problem. I'm running Ubuntu 12.04 on my Asus Zenbook and closing the lid causes freeze and sometimes it just freezes when I browse with firefox or chrome.

---

### Post by ved2254 on 2012-03-04
same thing happen to me on Ubuntu 11.10. might be related. my setting is suspend on closing lid. but it fails to restart session. my screen flashes white then goes from black to white slowly and doesn't respond.

---

### Post by laborg on 2012-03-04
Having the same issue (Thinkpad T500). Against which package should we file the bug?

---

### Post by screaminj3sus on 2012-03-04
> **Baldrick_NZ said:**
> Hi all,

Does anyone else have the problem when they close their laptop lid then re-open it, the screen has frozen but the mouse still moves freely?

I have it set so that when the lid is closed, nothing is supposed to happen.

I'm not sure how to report it as a bug manually, as I usually report ones automatically. Also, I wanted to know if others have the same issue before I report it. 

Finally, does anyone have a work around or fix for this?


Thanks in advance,
Baldrick

I actually had this happen today. I've only had it happen once so far though, I wasn't able to reproduce it. When it happened I was able to hit cntrl + alt + f1 to get into a terminal and reboot. After rebooting I tried closing the lid a few times and it was fine :/ I have mine set to suspend on lid close though, I'm not sure if it happened before suspending or after. The screen was black, with a little terminal output stuck on the top right, and I could move the mouse around.

Asus u52f.

---

### Post by Bill Gates Foundation on 2012-03-06
Having freeze issues with 12.04 when pluggin in/out battery........

damn it critical

---

### Post by technologiclee on 2012-03-23
Toshiba Satellite C655D-S5210
Part NO. PSC0YU-007008

Ubuntu 12.04 beta 1 fresh install. Updates applied. A few of the batches of updates would not load and I selected the 'partial upgrade' option.

When the laptop lid is closed and then reopened the screen is black with the back-light on. The system does not respond to the keyboard or touch-pad. Ctrl+Alt+Del has no effect. If powered off with the power button and restarted, system reboots normally.

I have not found the 12.04 Bug report. Here are a few similar for 11.10

Hard hang on resume from suspend
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/888762]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/888762")


Whenever laptop closes and reopens, the screen will remain black and will not prompt me to log in
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/951519]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/951519")


Suspend fails approx 1/4 of the time.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/957759]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/957759")

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-03-24
Yesterday's CD Daily Build new install, 20120323, shut lid seemed to go to sleep, raised lid, resumed!  First time I've seen that successfully with ubuntu on Acer Aspire 5253 notebook....

Jerry

---

### Post by Lazy123 on 2012-04-09
Same problem here with Lenovo X220.

I have reported it to ***[here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/977135")*** and people who have seen this bug should go and mark themselves as affected users.

Also there seems to be other threads regarding this exactly the same problem. for example:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11830543](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11830543)

---

### Post by Lazy123 on 2012-04-09
Have you tried using older kernels for example 3.0.0-17? For me the suspending works with it.

---

### Post by velcom on 2012-04-25
i have the same problem on a lenovo g550

my ubuntu 12.04 is set to do nothing as a close lid action, sometimes when i open the lid i only get the background image and the mouse, computer is responsive to caps lock or numlock and running well (music is still playing if i let it that way) but nothing on the screen but the background and the mouse cursor

---

