---
title: "12.04 a2"
date: 2012-02-05
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by mustangkr500 on 2012-02-05
Hello, I am running Ubuntu 12.04 LTS Alpha 2 on my "test" hard drive on a multiboot system. Well all I have to say is that it is looking good guys! Well I wish that customization was as simple as it used to be, I love to have that free feeling on my system. That is why I still choose to run Ubuntu 10.04 LTS as my main boot. I truly love ubuntu been using it since, well let's say it's been years, and I finally decided to make a forum account. Anyways 12.04 seems to be faster than Ubuntu 11.10, and it's not even in beta let alone full release. Keep up the good work guys! Post your opinions on 10.04 to 12.04 so far, though it still has a long way to go, what do you think?

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-02-05
Yes, I'm still running Lucid Lynx as my main boot on my:
1. Compaq tower. Run grub update, install and Lucid Lynx has the boot hard drive as /dev/sda and the secondary hard drive as /dev/sdb.

Any ubuntu since Natty Narwhal has the bood hard drive as /dev/sdb and the secondary hard drive as /dev/sda.  That's fouled up grub boot record mightily having to do re-installs to straighten out the mess.

Development has no interest in my launchpad bug.

2. Acer Aspire 5253 notebook has the main boot as Lucid Lynx.  Running grub update and install on Oneiric Ocelot and Precise Pangolin destroys boot record and won't boot anything at all.  No legible boot message(s).

Sometimes Boot-Repair CD will straighten things out, sometimes not, and I have to install something like Lucid Lynx to a spair partition to be able to boot.  

That's a triple boot system, Windoze...7, Lucid Lynx, and Precise Pangolin.

Nohing back from my launchpad bug.

3.  Oh, if I try booting a USB hard drive on the 5253, precise pangolin thinks the USB hard drive is /dev/sda and the main hard drive is /dev/sdb.  That's another unbootable mess, because Grub insists on looking for install qw4tyuioplkjhgfdsazxcvbnm on whichever /dev I don't know what, and refuses to look at the other /dev to see if qw4tyuioplkjhgfdsazxcvbnm is on it instead.

I've been on shaky unstable ubuntu's since Dapper Drake and Precise Pangolin and Oneiric Ocelot are a real mess.  They've even loused up on this Acer Aspire1 netbook triple booted Windoze....7, Meerkat, Oneiric. and booted at the moment from USB Precise Pangolin with the USB correctly /dev/sdb.

3.  I'm getting a little faster at recovery.....

Jerry

---

