---
title: "/etc/resolv.conf keeps resetting"
date: 2012-01-25
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by sonicb00m on 2012-01-25
The contents of /etc/resolv.conf keep changing dynamically. It happens every time on reboot and any time a new connection is made with the network manager.

I want it to say :
nameserver 192.168.0.1

but it keeps resetting to

nameserver 127.0.0.1

And my internet dns stops working. How do i fix it permanently?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2012-01-25
Check and see what it says in /etc/resolvconf/run/interface/NetworkManager

I am looking at this in Debian testing so I think it should be correct.

/etc/resolv.conf is linked eventually it looks like to that file.

This install does use Xfce but was originally Gnome and still used Network Manager.  It is interesting that a recent install of Wheezy that was installed with Xfce from the start Network Manager is not used (Wicd is used) and the /etc/resolve.conf is not linked to anything, works like I (and you it appears) am used to.  This also seems to be the case in Sid running Lxde.

On the other hand I have a Sid install with Xfce and Gnome on it using NetworkManger where I am warned not to edit /etc/resolve.conf as it is going to be over ridden and the /etc/resolvconf does not include the /run sub directory.

Not sure what you have.  Looks like it may be something possibly in transition.

---

### Post by zika on 2012-01-25
> **sonicb00m said:**
> The contents of /etc/resolv.conf keep changing dynamically. It happens every time on reboot and any time a new connection is made with the network manager.

I want it to say :
nameserver 192.168.0.1

but it keeps resetting to

nameserver 127.0.0.1

And my internet dns stops working. How do i fix it permanently?If You use NetworkManager You have to change its settings since it &#8222;owns&#8220; /etc/resolv.conf while it is active... You could repudiate him but...

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2012-01-25
Edit it in the IPv4 tab of your connection settings (open from the NM indicator in the top right &#8594; "Edit Connections...").

---

### Post by sonicb00m on 2012-01-26
I tried setting the DNS setting in the network manager and using DHCP address only in the method setting but still no go.

/etc/resolvconf/run/interface/NetworkManager

does not exist.

I don't understand the regression, never had this before in any other Ubuntu installation.

I guess I can try setting a static IP for now but the file is also resetting to 127.0.0.1 when my VPN connects.

---

### Post by zika on 2012-01-26
You could always use /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf to circumvent Your problem.

```
prepend domain-name-servers 4.... ... ....2;
```

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2012-01-26
I can only reproduce this behavior when I have a local. domain
/usr/lib/avahi/avahi-daemon-check-dns.sh will check for it and set DNS to localhost.

So when running this:
```
host -t soa local.
```Do you get this? Or something else?
```
Host local. not found: 3(NXDOMAIN)
```Also, I don't need the package resolvconf, so I generally remove it:
```
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 192.168.1.3
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 208.67.222.222

``````
sudo apt-get install resolvconf
```...
```
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
``````
sudo apt-get remove resolvconf
``````
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 192.168.1.3
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 208.67.222.222
```

---

### Post by zika on 2012-01-26
Another (maybe brute) way to keep Your /etc/resolv.conf from being changed is```
sudo chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf
```...

---

### Post by teh603 on 2012-01-26
I've noticed the same thing for a while now; you have to use Network Manager to update your ipV4 or ipV6 settings, because it makes a fresh resolv.conf every single boot. Never bothered me once I figured out how to do it in the frontend, though.

---

### Post by zika on 2012-01-26
> **teh603 said:**
> I've noticed the same thing for a while now; you have to use Network Manager to update your ipV4 or ipV6 settings, because it makes a fresh resolv.conf every single boot. Never bothered me once I figured out how to do it in the frontend, though.NetworkManager can be (very nicely) configured from CLI also.

---

### Post by teh603 on 2012-01-26
> **zika said:**
> NetworkManager can be (very nicely) configured from CLI also.Sure, but if we're going to fix Bug #1, then we're going to have to start making the frontend more full- featured and use it in our guides whenever practical.

Admittedly there's some times when its easier to copypasta a line of code- installing Medibuntu, for instance- but for all the other times we need to be thinking about people who will sooner or later be immigrating from MacOS and Windows.

---

### Post by zika on 2012-01-27
Funny, just while we are talking about this on my machine (which did not have resolvconf installed) resolvconf was pushed by upgrade so I (as OP) do have text in resolv.conf saying: ```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
```So, one ```
echo manual | sudo tee -a /etc/init/resolvconf.override
sudo service resolvconf stop
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
``` is going to be done...*[I] ;)*
[/I]

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-01-27
ubuntu-meta (1.258) precise; urgency=low

  * Refreshed dependencies

  * Added resolvconf to minimal

---

### Post by zika on 2012-01-27
> **dino99 said:**
> ubuntu-meta (1.258) precise; urgency=low

  * Refreshed dependencies

  * Added resolvconf to minimalThank You! I'll have to explore [COLOR=Black]amenities resolvconf brings... [/COLOR]

---

### Post by sonicb00m on 2012-01-27
The resolvconf package wasn't installed on mine initially and I also had the following text

```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

```

I installed it and uninstalled then did the brute force trick and that has stopped the file being recreated each time.

---

### Post by zika on 2012-02-27
Resolvconf is (now) part of ubuntu-minimal dependencies... So, it can not be uninstalled without some surgery. But, it can be tamed so that resolv.conf is protected from being overwritten. Ensure that resolvconf service does not start automatically```
echo 'manual' | sudo tee /etc/init/resolvconf[COLOR=Black].[/COLOR][COLOR=Black]override[/COLOR]
```[COLOR=Black]Then (simpy) remove symbolic link /etc/resolv.conf>/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf and put in (newly made) /etc/resolv.conf whatever You wish. It is (now) safe and it will not be changed without Your permission...
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-03-20
> **zika said:**
> ```
echo 'manual' | sudo tee /etc/init/resolvconf.override
```

This does not work for me.  First, there is no /etc/init/resolvconf.override by default, so I created one with the word "manual" included.  I then created the resolv.conf I wanted and restarted my network.  My changes were deleted and the default resolv.conf was once again created by NM.

I'm going to change the immutable bit now as zika proposes.  Simply making the file read-only with 444 permissions doesn't stop NM from overwriting it.

Kubuntu 12.04 beta with updates through today.

This is the stupidest "innovation" I've seen in years.  I don't know what made the devs think this is a good method for handling name resolution.  It certainly doesn't work for people who like me who have been using Linux for years.  I know how I want my system configured; I don't need some program deciding it knows better.

The [SOLVED] tag should be removed from this thread.  The problem is not solved except via the arcane method of changing the immutable bit.  The other solutions like editing dhclient.conf are equally unappealing.  I've searched across the Internet for a simple method to disable resolvconf and force Ubuntu to leave /etc/resolv.conf alone.  I've yet to find such a solution.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-03-20
If you use DHCP, resolv.conf is created at boot. It has been that way for many years.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-03-20
This problem refers to situations where you specify the IP and DNS information statically; resolv.conf still gets rewritten.  Choosing the "address only" option for DHCP in NetworkManager also overwrites resolv.conf and ignores the information you enter in that situation.

This behavior is inconsistent with all versions of Ubuntu before 12.04 as far as I know.

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2012-03-21
Hi guys, 

I don't know if everyone on this thread has already read this or an equivalent doc:
[http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

There are exceptions to this specification. In my case, I like to rely primarily on international DNSs, like Google, OpenDNS, and not on locals I receive via DHCP when on the move with the laptop. It's also a matter of security. Local DNSs can be tampered with to redirect to local cloned-servers (i.e. fake banking page, etc) and theoretically more vulnerable to an arp poisoning attack in a small LAN. So I have added these international nameservers to /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head file (so they always go to the top of /etc/resolv.conf. 

You can check name resolution server / speed of resolution with:
```
dig SomeDomainIHaventEverAccessed
```See the nameserver and speed in msec. Run it again:
```
dig ExactSameDomainAsThePreviousCommand
```Should resolv locally and in less than 1ms.

I think what we're missing here, much like all of other controversial features, is a clear and easy GUI control to setup DNS options in g-c-c that allow users to enable/disable the use of dnsmasq.

Regards,
Effenberg

EDIT: Another "aggressive" workaround is to not have the NIC/WLAN Card managed by NetworkManager, or simply do not use NetworkManager. I do not use it on desktops, for example (static leases are set to the PC MAC on external DHCP server. A complete/default implementation of dnsmasq runs also on an external server in the lan).

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-03-21
Network manager, can be used to set static ip addresses, as well as your favourite DNS server addresses. I've been using it for that since Lucid.

---

### Post by zika on 2012-03-21
I'm using now resolvconf, dnsmasq and all of them happily.
But, if You want to disable resolvconf to overwrite resolv.conf there is a simple way:
1. create /etc/init/resolvconf.override (as given above in one of my posts) with single line &#8222;manual&#8220;
2. remove symbolic link /etc/resolv.conf (/etc/resolv.conf -> /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf) and create proper file containing all that You need
There is also a way to circumvent all this with resolvconf active and link in place by adding line with &#8222;dns-nameservers&#8220; in /etc/network/interfaces...

---

### Post by zika on 2012-03-21
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Network manager, can be used to set static ip addresses, as well as your favourite DNS server addresses. I've been using it for that since Lucid.NM is not to &#8222;blame&#8220; here for changing /etc/resolv.conf at all. It is resolvconf that does this due to symbolic link I've mentioned in my previous post...

---

### Post by oldmilwaukee on 2012-03-26
I should NOT have my resolv.conf overwritten on reboot. 
Certainly not on Ubuntu's Server edition. 
Certainly not with a useless empty file.
Perhaps it should check if the interface is configured statically.

Thanks for the 

  update-rc.d  resolvconf disable
  echo 'manual' | sudo tee /etc/init/resolvconf.override
  rm /etc/resolv.conf
  echo "namserver x.x.x.x." > /etc/resolv.conf

But really this is a lot adventuring for an admin when its already configured statically. ON A SERVER.

Please fix, chatter +i /etc/resolv.conf is all over the internet becasue of this.

and my kickstart script is long enough already. really.

EDIT: The machine did not have the correct version of ubuntu installed, it was some headless, but not server version. Anyone know what version that would be?

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2012-03-26
> **oldmilwaukee said:**
> I should NOT have my resolv.conf overwritten on reboot. 
Certainly not on Ubuntu's Server edition. 
Certainly not with a useless empty file.
Perhaps it should check if the interface is configured statically.

Thanks for the 

  update-rc.d  resolvconf disable
  echo 'manual' | sudo tee /etc/init/resolvconf.override
  rm /etc/resolv.conf
  echo "namserver x.x.x.x." > /etc/resolv.conf

But really this is a lot adventuring for an admin when its already configured statically. ON A SERVER.

Please fix, chatter +i /etc/resolv.conf is all over the internet becasue of this *ahem* dumbassery

and my kickstart script is long enough already. really.

Hi, I haven't tested server yet and if this new name resolution is really also in the server ISO, I strongly agree with you. In all implementations I know, servers have fixed address, no isc-dhcp-client, and generally use the IP of a LAN-based DNS server at resolv.conf. The LAN DNS server really won't use this setup too: It will use a properly set bind or even a fully implemented dnsmasq.d. Or a network appliance will statcally route DNS queries to a company HQ DNSs or to a hired safe DNS. 

The same applies to workstations in a LAN. IPs are many times set manually. When DHCP is used, machines get static leases from the dhcp-server via MAC address anyway. I'm not familiar with dynamic IPs in corporate LANs. resolv.conf usually will point to the LAN DNS, no need to cache anything locally. 

The current implementation seems to consider only mobile users (changing from lan to lan, wlan to wlan) and receiving different DNSs from each dhcpd.

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2012-03-26
I've run into this, or something similar, several times now. Both my laptop and desktop machines have on occasion failed to find a DNS server. I've reported a bug at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/964288](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/964288) Of course, it may not be network manager that's at fault; that was my best guess at the time.

---

### Post by oldmilwaukee on 2012-03-27
My bad.

I checked /etc/motd and the machine with the DHCP blues is claiming to be 
Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS 
Welcome to Ubuntu!

I don't know how a headless server got the non server version of ubuntu installed. but it did.
There are no gdm packages or anything, Im not sure which non server version you can install headless, but thats what this machine has.


the other servers do not have an /etc/init.d/resolvconf and /etc/motd shows the proper welcome to server message.
 
Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Welcome to the Ubuntu Server!     


-My bad guys.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-04-11
Kubuntu 12.04b2

I tried a different approach today to solve this problem which seems to work with one limitation.  If you look at /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf, you'll see the entry "dns=dnsmasq".  I deleted this line, renamed the link for resolv.conf in /etc, then placed my handwritten resolv.conf in /etc.  I then restarted my network using plasma-widget-networkmanagement which appears in the KDE System Tray.  My resolv.conf was untouched!  Clearly this is a much better solution to the problem than using "chattr -i" on /etc/resolv.conf.  

Just commenting out the "dns=dnsmasq" line with an initial hash mark ("#") did not work.  Apparently you must actually remove that line from NetworkManagement.conf.

Unfortunately I still can't get NetworkManager not to start dnsmasq, even though I'm now no longer using it.  Any ideas about that?

---

### Post by zika on 2012-04-11
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> renamed the link for resolv.conf in /etc, then placed my handwritten resolv.conf in /etc. ... My resolv.conf was untouched!  Clearly this is a much better solution to the problem than using "chattr -i" on /etc/resolv.conf.  
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11722053&postcount=16](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11722053&postcount=16) ;)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-04-11
I told you before that that method didn't work for me.  Maybe it's a difference between how NetworkManager runs in Ubuntu vs Kubuntu.  I don't know why, but this method works and is clearly better than chattr.

---

### Post by zika on 2012-04-12
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> I told you before that that method didn't work for me.  Maybe it's a difference between how NetworkManager runs in Ubuntu vs Kubuntu.  I don't know why, but this method works and is clearly better than chattr.I must be reading something wrong.
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> renamed the link for resolv.conf in /etc,  then placed my handwritten resolv.conf in /etc.  I then restarted my  network using plasma-widget-networkmanagement which appears in the KDE  System Tray.  My resolv.conf was untouched! 
> **zika said:**
> Ensure that resolvconf service does not start  automatically```
echo 'manual' | sudo tee /etc/init/resolvconf[COLOR=Black].[/COLOR][COLOR=Black]override[/COLOR]
```[COLOR=Black]Then  (simpy) remove symbolic link  /etc/resolv.conf>/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf and put in (newly made)  /etc/resolv.conf whatever You wish. It is (now) safe and it will not be  changed without Your permission...
[/COLOR]
Never mind... ;)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-04-12
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> This problem refers to situations where you specify the IP and DNS information statically; resolv.conf still gets rewritten.  Choosing the "address only" option for DHCP in NetworkManager also overwrites resolv.conf and ignores the information you enter in that situation.

This behavior is inconsistent with all versions of Ubuntu before 12.04 as far as I know.

So what is the Launchpad bug for this issue?

---

### Post by zika on 2012-04-12
> **dcstar said:**
> So what is the Launchpad bug for this issue?Assuming that this behaviour **is** a bug... ;)

Update&#8321;: I forgot to mention: if You're using' dnsmasq You could configure it (/etc/dnsmasq.conf) not to use /etc/resolv.conf at all. It either could use different file or not use any file at all (give servers in /etc/dnsmasq.conf...)...
Update&#8322;: I've skimmed some of response time by turning off seek for any file and turning off poll for files and by putting servers in /etc/dnsmasq.conf ... Nice...
(All this is with static address...)

---

