---
title: "12.04 and NFS"
date: 2012-04-07
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by bootedguy on 2012-04-07
Searching the Ubuntu software center for NFS does not bring it up.  I had to install Synaptic and then NFS client. Is this the way it is suppose to be? I can can't imagine why the developers would want to hide NFS on a Linux distro.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-04-07
The NFS client has been part of the nfs-common package for quite some time now.  The server is called nfs-kernel-server.  That's still true in 12.04.

I hardly ever install anything except by using apt-get so I was unaware of the issue you mention.  Using the "Muon" Software Center client in KDE does indeed return neither of these entries after a search for "nfs".  All I get is a Java-based FTP client. However searching the "Muon" Package Manager for "nfs" does show all the available options.  The Package Manager is the equivalent of Synaptic.

I've never understood the purpose of having two package managers.  I'm sure it would confuse the hell out of novice users, too.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-04-07
@bootedguy, I can confirm this with a completely fresh install of 12.04 from today's daily. Yet Software Centre in 11.10 does show the nfs packages.

**EDIT**: I've just noticed that you posted this thread in Desktop Environments. I've moved it to the Precise testing forum since this sounds like a 12.04 issue and should be discussed by the pre-release testers.

*Thread moved to **Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)**.*

---

