---
title: "12.04 install CD optimisation?"
date: 2012-03-10
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-03-10
Does anyone know if the 12.04 install CD is file optimised?

What I mean is that when booting are all the files that are read as part of this process are actually written on the CD in the order that they will be read from to boot a system - thus reducing the time to boot because the head of the CD drive is not flying all over the disk picking up files from various locations speread across the surface.

I just did an install of 12.04 beta1 and it took a bit longer to load than I would have expected, I imagine an install CD optimised in this way would load up a lot quicker and give everybody who used it a far more favourable impression of Ubuntu than would otherwise be the case.

---

### Post by mcellius on 2012-03-10
A CD reader doesn't use a head, does it?  A laser is used to read data from the CD; compared to the spin-rate of the CD, repositioning the laser takes an inconsequential amount of time.  Right?

I'm not claiming to be an expert on this, but I suspect it's a non-issue.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-03-10
It is Beta. It is for testing. The 12.04 distribution release install process will be what creates the good or bad impression.

I have noticed that for a while now files are being copied into RAM while the user is filling in their details. This is a big improvement over an earlier install process where the install halted while the user was selecting keyboard, location, username, password etc., and did not really get going until all that stuff was finished with.

The thing takes time to install. It has to detect the hardware and select modules to suit the particular hardware on the particular machine that it is being installed on.

The install would go a lot quicker if install disks were optimized for certain brands and types of computer. But that would bring a hopelessly complicated download choice. And increase the workload of the mainly volunteer Ubuntu development community.

There is such a great variation in computer hardware that I think it is a marvel that so many of us can download Ubuntu and install it without any (or not too many) problems, in the first place.

How much would you be prepared to pay for a faster install process? That is right. We get Ubuntu without charge.

Regards.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-03-11
> **mcellius said:**
> A CD reader doesn't use a head, does it?  A laser is used to read data from the CD; compared to the spin-rate of the CD, repositioning the laser takes an inconsequential amount of time.  **Right?**


No, 100% wrong. Like all mechanical drives a physical head moves across the surface to read/write data. The time taken to position the head is the major factor in disk latency in real world use of this type of media. Anything that reduces this part of the process generally (significantly) improves disk I/O performance.

This question is posed to those that actually know something about the final packaging of the 12.04 install CDs - they should understand the question and the concept behind it.

The "solution" could be as simple as recording the file access logs during CD boot and then sorting the files on the CD in that order so they are then basically read sequentially with minimum head movement. People with the latest hardware may not consider this an issue, but as most of us **should** know Ubuntu is promoted to be used by people outside of the wealthy parts of this planet who may not be using the latest and greatest hardware and performance issues like this have a more adverse impact on them.

---

