---
title: "12.04 beta 2 installation problem"
date: 2012-04-02
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by priority on 2012-04-02
hi

i am having problem while installing ubuntu 12.04 beta 2.. i wanted to clear install it and i deleted partitions and created new one. but at the end after choosing my country, keyboard. location etc. i write my user name, computer name. and password. when i click to ` Continue ` it freezes.. 

pls help me it s very annoying that my laptop doesnt have any optical drive and usb installation is only way to install OS.  now i am able to connect to you via ubuntu from my usb key. i couldnt able to install it to my laptop harddisk yet...  also any other operating system. because i deleted the partitions..

---

### Post by priority on 2012-04-02
nobody there __

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-04-02
Why not go with something stable like 11.10, then at the end of this month you can upgrade to 12o4 when it becomes stable.

Also if the Live CD will not work for you, try the Alternated Install CD.

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=alternate+install+cd&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=alternate+install+cd&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9)

---

### Post by priority on 2012-04-02
thank you for reply.  i was curious about 12.04  and i clean installed after deleting all partitions :S then i could able to create another start up disk and now installed ubuntu 11.04.. i think 12.04 iso image had error or couldnt create correct start up disk.. 

btw i hate that unity :S i couldnt do anything easily... why dont they listen us and give us classic gnome look ???? i couldnt bear new version for 10 minutes !!

classic look is simple, easy and best ..

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-04-02
They did give you gnome classic. In 12o4 and 11.10 you can install it with the command:

sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback

---

### Post by priority on 2012-04-02
but i want gnome 2 classic.. not gnome 3. or ubuntu classic.. :/ like 11.04 and before..

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-04-02
> **priority said:**
> but i want gnome 2 classic.. not gnome 3. or ubuntu classic.. :/ like 11.04 and before..
there is a fork of gnome2 called mate

---

### Post by electromage on 2012-04-02
I'm having the same problem. Installing on a Lenovo X120e (Fusion E-350, 8GB RAM, 128GB SSD).

From the desktop disk I've tried installing by choosing "Try Ubuntu..." and then running the install, or by selecting "Install Ubuntu". Each time I locks up when I hit "Continue" after entering my user info.

From the alternate disk it says it can't continue at the step "install and configure packages", right after asking if I want it to install security updates automatically.

Anyone found a solution yet?

---

### Post by priority on 2012-04-02
> **electromage said:**
> I'm having the same problem. Installing on a Lenovo X120e (Fusion E-350, 8GB RAM, 128GB SSD).

From the desktop disk I've tried installing by choosing "Try Ubuntu..." and then running the install, or by selecting "Install Ubuntu". Each time I locks up when I hit "Continue" after entering my user info.

From the alternate disk it says it can't continue at the step "install and configure packages", right after asking if I want it to install security updates automatically.

Anyone found a solution yet?

i dont know if it is related but i have also Lenovo ThinkPad Edge 13.

no solution yet..

---

### Post by priority on 2012-04-02
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> there is a fork of gnome2 called mate

how does that fork work ? will it give to me exactly the same gnome 2 classic in the same order ? or fake trasformation ?

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-04-03
> **priority said:**
> nobody there __

I've installed on 5 pc's (I keep my old ones) and didn't hit your trouble.  Other troubles but not that one.

Four of the installs ran, on one pc Beta 2 craps out (crash and burn, really) during "copying files" so I installed a precise Alpha and updated to get to the current level.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/TechnicalOverview/Alpha2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/TechnicalOverview/Alpha2)

Jerry

---

### Post by ventrical on 2012-04-03
I got a seamless install here from the beta 2 USB dvd iso using "Install Ubuntu" I didn't have to fandangle around this time.

---

### Post by priority on 2012-04-09
Hey ppl nobody knows the solution of the problem ?? I tried at least 10 times to install 12.04 b2 but always stucking on place " Who are you ? " while typing my user info ..

I m trying to install it via USB .. No optical drive

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-04-09
> **priority said:**
> Hey ppl nobody knows the solution of the problem ?? I tried at least 10 times to install 12.04 b2 but always stucking on place " Who are you ? " while typing my user info ..

I m trying to install it via USB .. No optical drive

Try the alternate iso, it's text based, but it does work. As far as the Gnome 2 is concerned, it isn't being developed any more.

---

### Post by mcellius on 2012-04-09
I have found that the 12.04 beta 2 doesn't install on my system, either, when I choose "Install Ubuntu".  However, if I choose "Try Ubuntu," and then choose the "Install" icon once the desktop appears, it does just fine.

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-04-09
> **mcellius said:**
> I have found that the 12.04 beta 2 doesn't install on my system, either, when I choose "Install Ubuntu".  However, if I choose "Try Ubuntu," and then choose the "Install" icon once the desktop appears, it does just fine.

Ive had it happen on earlier versions.  Or you can click on install and it goes to live desktop session anyhow.  Like cairboo907 said, the [alternate-install-CD]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/precise/") is the way to go.  Just more robust than the live CD I think.

---

### Post by BigCityCat on 2012-04-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Try the alternate iso, it's text based, but it does work. As far as the Gnome 2 is concerned, it isn't being developed any more.

This is the answer. I had the same problem. Alt install works fine.

---

