---
title: "12.04 cant change order of launcher icons"
date: 2012-03-06
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by Bill Gates Foundation on 2012-03-06
:popcorn:
ok,  i use to be able to slide icons up and down, but now they are locked.....


adding icon launchers automatically go to the bottom.....


I would like to adjust the order again,....right click and sliding them up and down does not work anymore

:popcorn::popcorn::popcorn:

---

### Post by overdrank on 2012-03-06
Moved to Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin). 
A little less popcorn :)

---

### Post by Jay Car on 2012-03-06
> **Bill Gates Foundation said:**
> ok,  i use to be able to slide icons up and down, but now they are locked.....

adding icon launchers automatically go to the bottom.....

I would like to adjust the order again,....right click and sliding them up and down does not work anymore

If you press Alt while selecting the icon that you want to move, it unlocks. Then you can move it where you want.

---

### Post by Bill Gates Foundation on 2012-03-06
> unity --reset-iconsdoes not work...i cant adjust icons up or down....

holding alt does not work.....i never had to do that before......I can get the whole stack of icons to slide up and down, but i cant change the order of the icons..

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-03-06
> **Bill Gates Foundation said:**
> ...


I would like to adjust the order again,....**right click** and sliding them up and down does not work anymore


Left click, hold till the icon moves (about 750ms

---

### Post by rburkartjo on 2012-03-07
fine on my end. usually do what mc does, also works the way jay suggested.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-03-07
I just drag them off the launcher and then back on where I want them. Works fine. 12.04 Unity 3d

---

### Post by Bill Gates Foundation on 2012-03-07
nope...nothing works.....


i did do a reinstalll....


i got the problem to **reappear** when _nouveau firmware_ was removed in synaptic......:P

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-03-08
> **Bill Gates Foundation said:**
> nope...nothing works.....


i did do a reinstalll....


i got the problem to **reappear** when _nouveau firmware_ was removed in synaptic......:P

So what driver do you use? Vesa?

---

### Post by meborc on 2012-03-08
are we talking about Unity 3D or 2D here?

---

### Post by Bill Gates Foundation on 2012-03-08
im pretty good on xp but Linux is new to me as of 11.04


i dont know what vesa is, and i don't know if i am 3-9 or 2d



i just installed fresh 12.04, the icons could be dragged up ib down un till that  _nouveau firmware_  was uninstalled.....

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-03-09
If you install the closed source Nvidia driver, nouveau-firmware gets automagically removed.

to find out what driver you are using, open a terminal, and type the following command:

```
sudo lshw -C display
```

Then highlight the output and paste it using the middle mouse button, in your next post.

The output of the command I gave you should look something like this:

```
sudo lshw -C display
[sudo] password for cariboo: 
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GT218 [GeForce 210]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: **driver=nvidia** latency=0
       resources: irq:19 memory:df000000-dfffffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:dc000000-ddffffff ioport:ef80(size=128) memory:def80000-deffffff
```

I have bolded where to look for the driver.

---

