---
title: "12.04 Upgrade - Only Guest User access"
date: 2012-02-14
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by spivee69 on 2012-02-14
I just upgraded to Ubuntu 12.04 and now I only seem to have access to the guest user.  On the login page, the login window just says Guest Session.  Clicking login takes me to a guest user window.   My old home folders are still in place when I check through terminal.  If I try to switch user accounts, it just takes me back to the original login window.  I can su to the user okay and when I try to make changes to the system, it asks for authentication using my old user account name.  

If I go to user accounts, it shows My Account and Other Accounts.  Doesn't seem to list any individual users. It knows my old username because it won't allow me to create a new user by that name.  I added a new user, but when I try to switch users to the new account, on login, the screen goes all garbled and there is nothing I can do but restart the system.


I'm not sure where even to begin to start.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-02-14
Moved to 12.04 testing forum.  Please read the stickies.

---

### Post by spivee69 on 2012-02-14
Thanks.  I figured there was probably a forum for the 12.04 upgrade process specifically, but must have missed it.  

Update: after a reboot, I was able to use the new user account just fine, still not sure why my old account is unusable.  May just need to migrate everything over and delete the old account, but would like to know how to fix it as some of my other systems have multiple accounts, not just one.

---

### Post by spivee69 on 2012-02-15
Solution was simple.  It seems that only users with a UID of 1000 or greater (though it may be greater than 500, depends on which post I read) will show up as a valid login.  I usermod'd my ID from it's original 500 (which did not display) to 1001 and my old ID shows up on the login page.

To be fair, I had planned on upgrading to 11.10, but when the upgrade dialogue was displayed I didn't realize it was showing 12.04.  I do like the new interface, even if it will take some getting used to.  Looks like they're trying to imitate quite a few things from OSX though.

Major complaint right now, not counting stability issues (which are expected in this early release) would be trying to find installed programs.  Using the [windows key] to open the search is nice, but if you don't know exactly what you're looking for, you have to browse through every program you have looking at each one to find what you want.  There are no category breakdowns that I see as of yet, so instead of just looking through those apps that fall into a category like 'Office' or 'Sound and Video', I have to look through everything.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-02-15
How did you get a userid of 500? What OS did you upgrade from?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-02-15
If you open the Dash and click on the applications icon to open the applications lens (second icon from the left at the very bottom) you will then get an option to Filter Results (at the top right). This will allow you to select categories of applications such as Office, Internet, Games, System, etc.

You can do the same with the third icon from the left. That opens the file lens and again you can search for file/documents according to certain categories and refine the search according date criteria.

Hold the super (windows) key down and you get an overlay of keyboard shortcuts.

Regards.

---

