---
title: "12.04 upgrading problem"
date: 2012-03-21
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by PCochrane on 2012-03-21
I've been using Ubuntu 12.04 since Alpha1 and I've liked what I've seen, I used to use windows 7, however recently I haven't been able to upgrade my system/kernel (not sure which to use). 
When using Update Manager I get this:

An unresolvable problem occurred while initialising the package information.

Please report this bug for the 'update-manager' package and try to include the following error message:

'E:Encountered a section with no Package: header, E:Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_precise_main_i18n_Translation-en, E:The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.'

and when using code 'sudo apt-get update' I get this:

W: An error occurred during the signature verification. The repository is not updated and the previous index files will be used. GPG error: [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) precise Release: The following signatures were invalid: BADSIG 40976EAF437D05B5 Ubuntu Archive Automatic Signing Key <ftpmaster@ubuntu.com>

W: Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise/Release](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise/Release)  

W: Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or old ones used instead.
E: Encountered a section with no Package: header
E: Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_precise_main_i18n_Translation-en
E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.


can someone help me please?

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2012-03-21
As you know, 12,04 is still in Beta and has not been released as stable yet.  It is scheduled for release next month.  Did you report the bug to Launchpad?  Since you have been using the OS since the Alpha release you are aware that bugs are constantly discovered and patches are sometimes released daily.  Have you kept up with all of the updates?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-03-21
Thread moved to Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin).

---

### Post by Gregory Lee on 2012-03-21
My guess is that, somehow, your system has become corrupted.  If it were me, I'd start over with a fresh install from a recent LIVE CD.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-03-21
"Nuke 'em from orbit" should not be everyone's first reaction to something that goes wrong.

In this case I would report the issue through launchpad and then wait 24 hours to attempt to update again to see if the problem has been resolved.  It is less likely a problem with the current installation than an issue with what is available for updates -- this happens quite often in pre-release.

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-03-22
I agree with QIII - 'nuke from orbit' is not the right response here.

It's not uncommon with alpha/beta for apt-get update / upgrade to throw errors from time to time. Usually leaving it a few hours and trying again it will resolve itself.

Unless the OP specifically wants to test Update Manager I'd recommend disabling all update notifications and checks there and solely using apt-get once a day or so while using a beta. It's just one less thing to go wrong and should hopefully avoid running into issues caused by an inconsistent repository.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-03-22
Maybe we should ask when the last time was an update worked ;)

Hours?

Days?

Weeks?

Never?

---

### Post by PCochrane on 2012-03-22
The last time it update was last week I think and it worked fine. Software Center also doesn't work so I'm guessing they are connected. I will upload it to LaunchPad now

---

### Post by baSHfox on 2012-04-05
All the wrongz!!1!  They hurtz. Don't submit error reports like a windows person when you could just magikz it bye bye with forum searching!   I submit to you, the solution--as contained in a slightly sexier posting.    [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1946302&highlight=MergeList](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1946302&highlight=MergeList)  (wildmanne's works fastest and with ease)

---

