---
title: "12.04 &amp; Radeon 6850- no 3d acc. with radeon driver, fglrx manual install fails"
date: 2012-04-01
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by Ekeout on 2012-04-01
Hi.

I installed the above mentioned OS recently, and while the live CD environment looked ok, the first boot into the installed system produced the terminally flickering screen. 

I trawled the forums and found that adding "nomodeset" to the startup args stopped the flickers. (Which makes the kernel not responsible for changing the graphics mode anymore, as I understand it, which may be wrong. This may supposedly hinder 3d performance for more complex things).

Now, the "Radeon" or "ATI" driver is in use by default, however MyUnity says the desktop is running in 2d mode, globs gives rather low benchmark scores and glxgears gives around 800fps. The "Radeon" or "ATI" driver is supposed to do basic 3d accel. as far as I understand it.  I tried purging any traces of fglxr (there were none) and reinstalling it to no effect.

So I tried installing the fglrx the manual way : [http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/03/how-to-install-ati-amd-catalyst-122.html](http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/03/how-to-install-ati-amd-catalyst-122.html) (as there's a bug that makes jockey crash).

Well, it installs 'with errors', namely:
Uninstalling any previously installed drivers.
Unloading radeon module...
Unloading drm module...
ERROR: Module drm is in use by ttm,drm_kms_helper
[Message] Kernel Module : Trying to install a precompiled kernel module.
[Message] Kernel Module : Precompiled kernel module version mismatched.
[Message] Kernel Module : Found kernel module build environment, generating kernel module now.
AMD kernel module generator version 2.1
doing Makefile based build for kernel 2.6.x and higher
rm -rf *.c *.h *.o *.ko *.a .??* *.symvers
make -C /lib/modules/3.2.0-21-generic-pae/build SUBDIRS=/lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x modules
make[1]: Går till katalogen "/usr/src/linux-headers-3.2.0-21-generic-pae"
  CC [M]  /lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x/firegl_public.o
/lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x/firegl_public.c: I funktion "KCL_fpu_begin":
/lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x/firegl_public.c:5804:28: fel: "TS_USEDFPU" är odeklarerad (första förekoms$
/lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x/firegl_public.c:5804:28: anm: varje odeklarerad identifierare rapporteras $
make[2]: *** [/lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x/firegl_public.o] Fel 1
make[1]: *** [_module_/lib/modules/fglrx/build_mod/2.6.x] Fel 2
make[1]: Lämnar katalogen "/usr/src/linux-headers-3.2.0-21-generic-pae"
make: *** [kmod_build] Fel 2
build failed with return value 2
[Error] Kernel Module : Failed to compile kernel module - please consult readme.
[Reboot] Kernel Module : update-initramfs


Can anyone advice how to get 3d acceleration (with either driver)?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-04-01
Moved to Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin).

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2012-04-01
Do you also have an integrated GPU? (Such as Intel Sandy Bridge line...i3, i5, i7?)

FYI, I have mine partially working (with i3 processor and AMD 6630 discrete GPU.

I loaded fglrx from the repositories, ran "sudo aticonfig --initial", and catalyst runs fine. (Never successful before), and switching between Intel integrated graphics and ATI grapics is as simple as:

Switch to integrated gpu, run
sudo aticonfig --px-igpu
and restart X.

To Switch to discrete gpu:
sudo aticonfig --px-dgpu
and restart X.

But there is still one problem. Unity3D works fine on the AMD GPU, but using the i3 integrated GPU, only Unity2D works.

---

### Post by Gregory Lee on 2012-04-01
The fglrx driver seemed to be working well enough with my HD 6550D gpu, up to 3 days ago.  I installed it originally by clicking on the Hardware icon, then an update to Catalyst 12.3/12.4 came about a week ago through the regular system update/upgrade process.  Unfortunately, from last Friday I can't run any Ubuntu shells, and I think that it may be due to a problem with fglrx.  Right now, I'm hanging on as best I can with no shell.

Good luck to us.

---

### Post by Ekeout on 2012-04-02
Hi again.

Aeronutt: By 'from repositories' I assume you mean via Restricted Drivers (jockey)? I can't because it invariably crashes when the attempt is made. ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/903036](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/903036) )

The mobo has a Radeon HD3000 build in graphics adapter although it isn't in use.

Anyway, I found a thread about the "TS_USEDFPU" is undeclared error on a..think it was Arch forum. Edit. Nopp- slackware: [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/cant-compile-fglrx-kernel-module-for-kernel-3-2-13-in-current-936784/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/cant-compile-fglrx-kernel-module-for-kernel-3-2-13-in-current-936784/)
There was some patch developed but I failed to translate it to Debian / apply it properly. It was however mentioned that this bug only applied to 32bit systems. In the end, I reinstalled with the 64bit version of Pangolin and fglrx installs manually without a hickup now, and globs shows much higher benchmark values and MyUnity does not complain about the desktop being 2d anymore = ) Not perhaps an ideal solution, but, well, the patch didn't seem like it either.

Edit. I am still curious as to why the open "Radeon" driver wouldn't do any accelaration.

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2012-04-02
> **Ekeout said:**
> Hi again.

Aeronutt: By 'from repositories' I assume you mean via Restricted Drivers (jockey)? I can't because it invariably crashes when the attempt is made. ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/903036](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/903036) )

The mobo has a Radeon HD3000 build in graphics adapter although it isn't in use.

Anyway, I found a thread about the "TS_USEDFPU" is undeclared error on a..think it was Arch forum. Edit. Nopp- slackware: [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/cant-compile-fglrx-kernel-module-for-kernel-3-2-13-in-current-936784/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/cant-compile-fglrx-kernel-module-for-kernel-3-2-13-in-current-936784/)
There was some patch developed but I failed to translate it to Debian / apply it properly. It was however mentioned that this bug only applied to 32bit systems. In the end, I reinstalled with the 64bit version of Pangolin and fglrx installs manually without a hickup now, and globs shows much higher benchmark values and MyUnity does not complain about the desktop being 2d anymore = ) Not perhaps an ideal solution, but, well, the patch didn't seem like it either.

Edit. I am still curious as to why the open "Radeon" driver wouldn't do any accelaration.

"From repositories" specifically I meant I loaded fglrx using synaptics, w/o adding any ppa's. Make sense? I could check which version of catalyst I have.

---

### Post by neu5eeCh on 2012-04-02
Don't know whether this is related to your problem, but I haven't been able to load Unity 3D for a week now, ever since Beta 1 was updated to 2. There's a bug going round and others are affected - seems to be a compiz issue of some sort. In my case, I'm running a generic Intel everything that handled 3D just fine until the last compiz update. Another user here updated their compiz or glib with "proposed" (he writes vaguely) and got 3D working again, but that sort Judo is still above my linux pay grade.

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2012-04-02
Cool....gives hope that final LTS release will solve this!

---

### Post by Ekeout on 2012-04-03
Yes Aeronutt, I got it now, you managed to install the fglrx drivers using Synaptic; this is something I didn't think of so thanks.

I should mention explicitly that running the fglrx drivers precludes the need for using the 'nomodeset' startup arg. So somehow the open source (and default) drivers did not work well with my 6850 - on a number of different derivatives of Ubuntu as well as a few older versions than 12.04 (they all had the terminal flicker-on-startup syndrome). 

Never had any such issues with my 3870.

---

### Post by Pixel_it on 2012-04-03
A small clarification:
MyUnity not detect the graphics acceleration, but simply what version you are using Unity (Unity or Unity2d)

---

### Post by Ekeout on 2012-04-03
If you know of a more definitive way of checking that besides the visual queues ([http://askubuntu.com/questions/62001/am-i-using-unity-or-unity-2d](http://askubuntu.com/questions/62001/am-i-using-unity-or-unity-2d) ) then pray tell. 

Now however (with fglrx installed ok) I think it's Unity 3d because I can't resize the dash and the waste bin changes colour to match the wallpaper color / is translucent.

Also, since you ask that, have there been cases where MyUnity has complained about the desktop being 2d when in fact it wasn't?

---

