---
title: "12.04 LTS beta Daily Image--install crashes at time of partition selection"
date: 2012-03-13
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-03-13
I have tried with Beta 1 official release and also last nights (12-03-2012) image. I am using USB to install. Also tried this afternoons image--same story.

I have 40GB unformatted partition and 5GB swap on my dual boot Windows laptop--but when I go through the installation process, the installer crashes and bypasses the partition screen to 'location'.

Anyone help?

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-03-13
> **shuttleworthwannabe said:**
> I have tried with Beta 1 official release and also last nights (12-03-2012) image. I am using USB to install. Also tried this afternoons image--same story.

I have 40GB unformatted partition and 5GB swap on my dual boot Windows laptop--but when I go through the installation process, the installer crashes and bypasses the partition screen to 'location'.

Anyone help?

I would select try ubunt and get the desktop and use gparted to format the partition. The try installing. Sheesh 5 gig swap is huge.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2012-03-13
Great thanks--worked fine.
Solved.

---

### Post by TuxVinyards on 2012-03-14
Saw a forum post the other day for feed back on the beta installer ....

This thread, similar for me.  Same beta1 from 12-03-2012.

Single drive, two ext4 partitions and a swap.  Booting from ISO on hard drive with grub2 loopback config:

Booted off hd0,1   Intention to install on hd0,2    GUI loads,  'install' runs, selects language. On dialogue 'do you want to unmount hd0,1'  yes is not an option, answering no causes crash IF the 'third party' option is ticked.

---

