---
title: "12.04 Wallpaper contest launched."
date: 2012-01-23
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by philinux on 2012-01-23
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/ubuntu-12-04-wallpaper-contest-launched/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG%21+Ubuntu%21%29](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/01/ubuntu-12-04-wallpaper-contest-launched/?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG%21+Ubuntu%21%29)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-01-23
Wallpaper??

We're in New England (brrr).  When we're in Australia I get pictures of my wife on the beaches in a bathing suit.  They're my weallpaper...

Jerry

---

### Post by jorpoveda on 2012-01-23
I think that the wallpaper should go along with the wallpaper used in GNOME version, obviously, with an Ubuntu theme. I am currently using the GNOME 3 default wallpaper, I do not like the default violet one that comes along with the distro.

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2012-01-24
Hello All

I think we need an edgy urban image or two, something a bit Banksy. Its all a bit pastel/pastoral isn't it?

We went to see the film The Artist at a local cinema over the weekend, a monochrome film. Some monochrome print images have toner applied which can be brownish or purpleish.

With these thoughts, I shall go forth and snap...

Actually, this is the kind of thing...

[http://www.flickr.com/photos/65391991@N02/6369086295/in/pool-1860176@N24](http://www.flickr.com/photos/65391991@N02/6369086295/in/pool-1860176@N24)

and this lovely one

[http://www.flickr.com/photos/lubasi/6751408363/in/pool-1860176@N24](http://www.flickr.com/photos/lubasi/6751408363/in/pool-1860176@N24)

except I'd be writing short stories about the people in the bar and not getting any work done.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2012-01-24
Wallpaper is a very personal thing , if you care about it at all . With only 4 reply's we have 4 different tastes already . I like space themed wallpaper , Jerry goes for glamor shots of his wife , Keith for socially significant pics and Jorpoveda prefers the traditional approach , honoring the parent distro ( Gnome ) . How could any finite set of wallpapers please everyone . Perhaps a more pertinent question is  should anyone so dense that they can't figure out how to install a wallpaper they like really be using Linux ?

---

### Post by immerohnegott on 2012-01-24
Of course wallpaper is a personal thing, ronacc.

 The whole point of this exercise isn't so much to find the best wallpapers available, but instead to show off the Ubuntu community, and all the different walks of life that are a part of it.

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2012-01-24
> **keithpeter said:**
> Its all a bit pastel/pastoral isn't it?

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Documentation/Backgrounds](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Artwork/Documentation/Backgrounds)

> Show restraint in your use of color tone and contrast. The wallpaper sets the scene for other elements, it is not the main act.

Couldn't agree more with that. :)

---

### Post by ubiquitin.jf on 2012-01-24
A nice wooden wallpaper would be a great addition to the included ones. Y'know, like the Wunderlist and Gmail backgrounds.

---

### Post by jorpoveda on 2012-01-24
> **ronacc said:**
> Wallpaper is a very personal thing , if you care about it at all . With only 4 reply's we have 4 different tastes already . I like space themed wallpaper , Jerry goes for glamor shots of his wife , Keith for socially significant pics and Jorpoveda prefers the traditional approach , honoring the parent distro ( Gnome ) . How could any finite set of wallpapers please everyone . Perhaps a more pertinent question is  should anyone so dense that they can't figure out how to install a wallpaper they like really be using Linux ?

I agree with you ronacc, especially what you said about installing a wallpaper, and also I do like the idea of a space themed wallpaper, even though it will resemble the style Apple uses for their default wallpapers.

I think the Canonical and The Ubuntu Foundarion should work on a truly original design, and give as options on the wallpaper menu the several suggestions we are posting in here. Maybe the Top Ten.

Maybe and option to get a continually changing wallpaper of pics inside a folder. Debate and diverse opinions is always good in pro of progress.

---

### Post by Simian Man on 2012-01-24
The default wallpapers have always looked shockingly bad to me.  Like someone threw up after eating too many grape popsicles.  It'd be nice if the contest winner would be the default instead of just an extra.  Because it's bound to be better than what they choose for the default.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2012-01-24
I don't care a great deal about wallpaper ........... but, and this is a huge BUT ........... it would be awesome if the "splash"/"plymouth" screen and the "login"/"lightdm" screens changed somewhat appropriately along with the desktop wallpaper.

I really hadn't thought much about this until recently so I won't even try introducing the idea at Ayatana this late in Precise, but I think it's something that could be considered in QQ and forward.

In some ways I thought they had it almost perfect in Karmic. As I recall the "splash" and the "login" screen were basically black, therefore generic, so they'd fit in with any wallpaper.

I help about 40 seniors maintain Ubuntu (mostly LTS) and they like things almost indistinguishable from "old-style" Windows :)

That is BLUE, BLUE, BLUE ........... and everything is blue ........... kind of like this (without my DE clutter):

[ATTACH]211391[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]211392[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]211393[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]211394[/ATTACH]

Now, those are not MY preferences, but it would be beautiful to have the "splash" and "login" change along with the wallpaper :D

BTW I intro-ed that at the senior center this weekend and they were pretty much OK with it after nearly beating me to death when I first showed them Unity :redface:

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-01-24
There was talk a couple of releases back of having a wallpaper that changes as the day goes on, it was based on the current background, I don't know what happened to the idea.

---

### Post by jorpoveda on 2012-01-25
> **cariboo907 said:**
> There was talk a couple of releases back of having a wallpaper that changes as the day goes on, it was based on the current background, I don't know what happened to the idea.

Well in Oneiric Ocelot there is one that is like that, I do not recall its name right now, but it is pretty awesome...

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-01-25
The GNOME 3.4 default background changes during the day. It is included in the gnome-themes-standard package, not gnome-backgrounds as one might expect.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-01-26
When I put wallpaper on my screen it's always a nasty, sticky mess to get it back off.

---

### Post by robgraves on 2012-01-26
Regardless of whatever wallpapers come with each release, I have a massive collection of wallpapers of my own that i typically go through, its one of the first things i change after doing an install, and it continually changes with my mood.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2012-01-26
I took the plunge and entered 5 of my best photos from 10 years of messing about with cameras.
 
No one will be more surprised than I if one of them is selected.
 
***The Hedge***
 
:KS

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-01-26
> **Hedgehog1 said:**
> I took the plunge and entered 5 of my best photos from 10 years of messing about with cameras.
 
No one will be more surprised than I if one of them is selected.
 
***The Hedge***
 
:KS

Good luck.

---

### Post by jorpoveda on 2012-01-26
> **jbicha said:**
> The GNOME 3.4 default background changes during the day. It is included in the gnome-themes-standard package, not gnome-backgrounds as one might expect.

I am going to check this out because I like the GNOME default wallpapers a lot. Thanks for the info on the packages to download.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-01-26
> **jorpoveda said:**
> I am going to check this out because I like the GNOME default wallpapers a lot. Thanks for the info on the packages to download.

If you have gnome-shell on Precise installed, you more than likely already have the package installed.

---

