---
title: "12.04 and Keyring?"
date: 2012-04-06
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by kuvanito on 2012-04-06
this has been discussed numerous time but in this thread i just want to insist on 12.04 and no other previous ver of ubuntu.
for some reason leaving the password blank on 12.04 does not work,it will remain there until you enter the password or it will not work
especially for empathy
security IS NOT an issue for me,i hate the keyring thingy,deleting the files in folder home/.gnome2/keyrings will no longer works,evrytime i restart and open empathy it asks me for the dam keyring password which i will enter my default login password and willwork but still i hate it.
I choosed autmatic login for a reason,the hell with passwords.....
now,this is for my own use,I don't want to read comments in reply of why do i want to do that? or any other nosense.
I simply want to get rid of keyrings and nosense passwords,once I choose automatic login I don't want to see a password box again.
anvance users with a lot of experince,please,can you shed some light on? Thank You Very Much.....;)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-04-06
Have you set the password to blank in the keyring? Press Alt-F2 and type:

```
seahorse
```

Once Passwords and Keys opens right-click Passwords and select:

```
Change password
``` 

Linux was designed from the very beginning as a multi-user, multi-tasking system, unlike Windows or OSX. I don't think that Linus imagined when he created his hobby operating system back in the very early 90's that we would come to this, where people would rather make things easy and have an easily taken over system. A strong password also protects your system from being easily taken over, while surfing the internet.

---

### Post by kuvanito on 2012-04-06
this is a fresh install with the latest daily build,it will not let me leave it blank.Don't know why?????Thank You...

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-04-07
Well there is a way to set your password to be empty from the command line but I do not recommend it. And I've no idea how the gnome-keyring would deal with that.

---

