---
title: "12.04 problem"
date: 2012-04-11
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by istvan.micle on 2012-04-11
Hi,

I just upgraded my 10.04 to 12.04. When I work for a while than the windows turn to like scrambled TV pictore or black, and can't do anything with it, but restart. Any ideeas what's causing it.
Thanks

---

### Post by istvan.micle on 2012-04-11
It seems, that it freezes, like if it's low on memory too.

---

### Post by PhantomTurtle on 2012-04-11
Can you post a couple of screenshots(like the scrambled windows and a screenshot of memory usage in the system monitor)? It might just be because upgraded, the upgrade may have caused some kind of problem.

---

### Post by istvan.micle on 2012-04-11
The broblem is i try a restart and now i receive message: "The system is running in low graphics mode; your screen, graphics card and input device settings could not be detected correctly. You will need to configure these yourself."
Then I get a command prompt login. There I don't know what to do

try to start "unity --reset" then get the error: WARNING: no display variable set, setting it to 0
(process:2152): Gconf-warning **: Client failed to connect to the D-BUS daemon: //bin/dbus-launch terminated abnormally with the following error: Autolaunch error: X11 initialization failed.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-04-11
Thread moved to the "*Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)*" forum.

---

### Post by istvan.micle on 2012-04-11
Uploaded a screenshot how it begun

---

### Post by ld114 on 2012-04-11
Not forgetting that 12.04 is still a beta release (though it is very stable) there might just be an issue with the graphics on your pc. Try logging in using Ubuntu 2d (on the login screen, click the Ubuntu Logo in the login box and select Ubuntu 2d) and see if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-04-11
It would also make our job a little easier, if you included what graphics adapter and driver your system is using. If you where to open a terminal and type:

```
lshw -C display
```

then paste the output of the above command in your next post, it would help a lot.

the output should look similar to this:

```
lshw -C display
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GT218 [GeForce 210]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:19 memory:df000000-dfffffff memory:c0000000-cfffffff memory:dc000000-ddffffff ioport:ef80(size=128) memory:def80000-deffffff
WARNING: output may be incomplete or inaccurate, you should run this program as super-user
```

---

### Post by istvan.micle on 2012-04-12
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: C51 [GeForce Go 6100]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 5
       bus info: pci@0000:00:05.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0
       resources: irq:18 memory:be000000-beffffff memory:a0000000-afffffff memory:bd000000-bdffffff memory:bf6e0000-bf6fffff
WARNING: output may be incomplete or inaccurate, you should run this program as super-user.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-04-12
2 things:
- let the kernel driving X, no need of xorg.conf : sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
- check that the grahic driver is activated : sudo jocket-gtk

this card might use nvidia-96 driver

---

