---
title: "12.04 does not lock screen when resuming from suspend after recent upgrade"
date: 2012-02-07
forum: Ubuntu +1 (Precise Pangolin)(Closed)
---

### Post by mseiwald on 2012-02-07
For a few days now my 12.04 installation does not lock the screen after resuming from suspend to RAM anymore. I find this rather insecure and am not sure if this has actually been changed by the Ubuntu developers or my settings are just screwed up.

The lock switch in the 'Screen' util in system settings is set to On. And also *gsettings get org.gnome.desktop.lockdown disable-lock-screen* returns *false*.

---

### Post by Bowmore on 2012-02-07
This is a correct behaviour now if you have autologin configured.
> 
gnome-settings-daemon (3.2.2-0ubuntu13) precise; urgency=low

  * debian/patches/51_always_lock_screen_on_suspend.patch: updated to
    lock the screen on suspend and hibernate, but only if the user hasn't
    configured autologin.

 -- Marc Deslauriers <marc.deslauriers@ubuntu.com>  Sat, 28 Jan 2012 16:15:17 -0500

---

### Post by mseiwald on 2012-02-07
Ok, I have configured autologin in lightdm because my root partition ist encrypted with dmcrypt/LUKS, so the login password does not add additional security, but still I want my laptop locked when suspended. Is there a way to achieve this?

---

### Post by sauferkel on 2012-02-15
Same here, would be really nice to have one password protecting the laptop :)

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-02-15
Please explain more clearly why a normal user would set their computer to autologin (to avoid entering their password on startup) but would want to enter their password after leaving their computer idle for a few minutes or after suspending the computer.

I believe Marc's change is correct.

---

### Post by cucisan on 2012-02-27
i have the very same problem.. which is really annoying. and i don't use
autologin, though i use luks/cryptsetup. i dont use lock screen after XX minutes cause thats annoying, but i'm used to locked screen on resume

---

### Post by nrundy on 2012-02-27
The current code does not activate Screen Lock if autologin is enabled. However this is bound to create problems, just as activating Screen Lock is bound to create problems for users that do NOT have autologin enabled.

The only SENSIBLE solution is to just have a setting: "Should the screen LOCK after Suspend?" 

I don't understand why there's this guesswork, "Well if user has this set then they won't want this."

Many users do NOT want screen lock to occur when resuming from Suspend or after the screen saver activates. Other users do want this.

1.) some users encrypt the whole drive and so configure auto-login. And they want Screen Lock after Suspend. What's the point of NOT using auto-login when you encrypt everything?

2.) other users (like me) encrypt the whole drive (and use auto-login) but do NOT want screen lock to occur after suspend (because I only suspend in "safe" environments when I'm stepping away for maybe ten minutes or so.

Bottom Line: a setting should let users select what they want.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-02-27
I have to ask why bother encrypting your drive, if you have auto-login enabled, doesn't that defeat the purpose of encryption. 

I thought the main reason to encrypt the drive was so that other couldn't access the system when you aren't logged in. By having auto-login enabled, any unauthorized user can start the system and have access to all the files.

The argument of having the screen locked when the system comes out of sleep or hibernate just doesn't hold water, since all a user has to do is reboot the system, and they are in.

This also allows someone access to your info, if your system is stolen, this just doesn't make sense to me. You can't deny access to the system 24 hours a day, unless you put it in a locked safe when you aren't using it, so disable auto-login if you value your privacy.

---

### Post by hette on 2012-02-29
With luks, you need to enter a password to decrypt your harddrive during boot. So it makes perfectly sense to enable autologin, because you already have entered a password to decrypt your drive.
After wakup fronm suspend, the drive remains decrypted, so you need to lock the screen to prevent other users from accessing your data.

---

### Post by jbicha on 2012-02-29
But you're not a normal user and using luks requires someone to go well out of their way to set that up.

Visualize the number of people that know about luks, then the number that want to use it, then the number that figure out it requires the alternate CD & go through all the extra effort involved to actually set up luks, then the number that have a single-user computer, and finally those who are "security-conscious" (or paranoid) enough to want luks but not security-conscious enough to enter a password to login once the computer has booted but are security-conscious enough to want the computer to automatically lock when suspending.

On the other hand, it does not make sense for a computer to be set to login without a password but then it requires a password to unlock if you wake it from suspend. And that affects a lot more people.

---

### Post by tekstr1der on 2012-02-29
How about a UI option ON/OFF for locking on suspend?

> **hette said:**
> With luks, you need to enter a password to decrypt your harddrive during boot. So it makes perfectly sense to enable autologin, because you already have entered a password to decrypt your drive.
After wakup fronm suspend, the drive remains decrypted, so you need to lock the screen to prevent other users from accessing your data.

This is a clear and succinct explanation for the problem created by this change and rationale for the use case stated in the OP.

@jbicha: I think you are obfuscating the issue to make your point. It's neither difficult, nor confusing to set up luks/dm-crypt. I can't imagine using a laptop without my data encrypted. By alienating its user-base with an attitude that security-concious users are somehow not "normal", Ubuntu will suffer attrition rather than garner attraction.

For several release cycles I evangelized Ubuntu and invested tons of personal time in dev cycles and Launchpad. With the new design mentality of adversity to options both upstream in Gnome, and moreover by Canonical, I've lost all enthusiasm for the product. That makes me feel sad.

---

### Post by nrundy on 2012-02-29
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I have to ask why bother encrypting your drive, if you have auto-login enabled, doesn't that defeat the purpose of encryption. I thought the main reason to encrypt the drive was so that other  couldn't access the system when you aren't logged in. By having  auto-login enabled, any unauthorized user can start the system and have  access to all the files. 

absolutely not. I think I wasn't clear in how I wrote my post :)

Whole drive is encrypted (full disk encryption) = it won't boot without a password. Once I type in the password and it proceeds to boot, what's the point of the OS stopping at the login screen and asking for another password--nothing is gained by it.

It's a single user computer.


> **cariboo907 said:**
> 
The argument of having the screen locked when the system comes out of sleep or hibernate just doesn't hold water, since all a user has to do is reboot the system, and they are in. 

I did not know this. Thank you for pointing out my ignorance! I stand corrected on my earlier (ignorant) post. 

I never use "screen lock" because it does not provide the security I desire (ie, something equivalent to Full Disk Encryption). So if I am leaving the computer alone, I always shut down and physically secure the device.

Now that I've been educated, I agree that it is a good design choice to NOT have screen lock occur if the user has auto-login enabled. And mucking with the code to create a setting for enabling/disabling screen lock is unnecessary and not advisable.

---

### Post by scaine on 2012-03-14
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I have to ask why bother encrypting your drive, if you have auto-login enabled, doesn't that defeat the purpose of encryption. 

I thought the main reason to encrypt the drive was so that other couldn't access the system when you aren't logged in. By having auto-login enabled, any unauthorized user can start the system and have access to all the files.

The argument of having the screen locked when the system comes out of sleep or hibernate just doesn't hold water, since all a user has to do is reboot the system, and they are in.

This also allows someone access to your info, if your system is stolen, this just doesn't make sense to me. You can't deny access to the system 24 hours a day, unless you put it in a locked safe when you aren't using it, so disable auto-login if you value your privacy.

Hi Cariboo. I don't think you've ever used LUKS before, as your assertion above is incorrect. LUKS requires an unlock password on boot, whether from cold, or restart, so the assertion that "all a user has to do is reboot and they are in" is false.

This is a reasonable use case in my opinion. A bug should be filed against this behaviour. Marc's patch makes a narrow view assumption about how auto-login will be used. True, he may well hit 95% or higher of use cases out there, but still undermines the use of LUKS by doing so.

I suspect, given the way Canonical is pushing Ubuntu at the moment, that filing such a bug is more likely to result in the removal of LUKS as an install option than it is to offer the user an actual option to lock the screen when they want it locked.

Perhaps I'm just being cynical.

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2012-03-14
Under 'System Settings -> Brightness and Lock' I have a tick box for 'Require my password when waking from suspend'.  Is this not what you want?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-03-14
> **scaine said:**
> Hi Cariboo. I don't think you've ever used LUKS before, as your assertion above is incorrect. LUKS requires an unlock password on boot, whether from cold, or restart, so the assertion that "all a user has to do is reboot and they are in" is false.

You are right I haven't used LUKS encryption, and a large majority of users that use encryption don't use it either, from what I've found. Most of the users that use encryption use the option available from the Live Cd, which only encrypts the home directory, and the number of users that encrypt there home directory, and then use auto-login is quite surprising.

> This is a reasonable use case in my opinion. A bug should be filed against this behaviour. Marc's patch makes a narrow view assumption about how auto-login will be used. True, he may well hit 95% or higher of use cases out there, but still undermines the use of LUKS by doing so.

I suspect, given the way Canonical is pushing Ubuntu at the moment, that filing such a bug is more likely to result in the removal of LUKS as an install option than it is to offer the user an actual option to lock the screen when they want it locked.

Perhaps I'm just being cynical.

I doubt if Canonical will remove the option from the alternate install iso, as it is mostly advanced users that use it, and they do want to keep the advanced users.

---

### Post by nanog on 2012-03-30
> Under 'System Settings -> Brightness and Lock' I have a tick box for 'Require my password when waking from suspend'. Is this not what you want?

This toggle is nonfunctional on 2 out of 4 precise installs. The gconf2 key also no longer works. Does anyone know where the lock screen key is stored in ubuntu?

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2012-03-31
Wouldn't a better solution be to have Luks modify the password behavior at the time it is installed?

---

