---
title: "Strange partitions on default install Sunblade 100"
date: 2007-02-20
forum: Sun Sparc Users
---

### Post by shoki on 2007-02-20
Hello All,

I did a fresh install of 6.06 Server for sparc. When it asked to make the partitions I told it to erase the entire disc.

The results were not what I expected.

Free Space  4095.99 GiB (Free space not available)
Partition 1 /dev/hda1   /boot 94.13 MiB
Free Space  4095.99 GiB (Free space not available)
Partition 2 /dev/hda2 / 17.7GiB
Free Space  4095.99 GiB (Free space not available)
Swap Partition /dev/hda4 839.33 MiB

Is this a normal set up for Silo or for Sparc installs?

I was expecting to see something like I normally get on a x86 system where is make a / partition and a small swap.

Thank you for your time.
--Shoki

---

### Post by shoki on 2007-02-21
Hello All,

I hope I can get some response here. I have my SunBlade100 happily running Ubuntu 6.06. I also figured out how to get the software raid working.

Thing is it seems to copy files very slowly. DO you think this is because of the ide=nodma setting or is it because of the software raid or perhaps even both.

I have (2) ST320011A 20GB Baracudas  one on IDE1 and one on IDE2. I set it up as (1) 38GB RAID 0 disk.

I am able to copy 400MB in about 4 minuets. 

I hate to re format and re-install just to test a single drive configuration.


Thank you for your time and advice.
--Shoki

---

### Post by netztier on 2007-02-22
> **shoki said:**
> 
I have (2) ST320011A 20GB Baracudas  one on IDE1 and one on IDE2. I set it up as (1) 38GB RAID 0 disk.


One thing: Turning off DMA of course slows harddisk access down to a crawl. Check **[FONT="Courier New"]hdparm /dev/hda[/FONT]** and [FONT="Courier New"]**hdparm /dev/hdb**[/FONT] (assuming your IDE disks are /dev/hda and /dev/hdb) to verify their DMA settings. I had thought that turning off DMA was only needed during installation from CD-ROM.

The other thing: RAID 0 is nonsense, in my personal opinion. These are 20GB disks, and probably are quite old already. One failing disk in a RAID 0 kills the entire array - so you actually *lessen* the array's reliability compared to a single disk! RAID 0 is only useful when you want to handle very large files and directories that exceed the maximum partition size, which (without RAID 0) has it's upper limit at the disk boundaries. RAID 1 (mirroring) will give you speed and reliability. 

Both of these are software-RAID, and will eat some more CPU during each disk access. And with a Sun Blade 100, it's not as if you had lots of CPU capacity to waist on software RAID, and this won't help speeding up disk access neither.

A clever distribution of the directories across the two disks might have done the trick also:
/home and /var on the second disk, / and swap on the first, for instance. This of course depends on what you intend to do with the system.

best regards

Marc

---

### Post by shoki on 2007-02-22
I'd like this machine to be a internal LAMP server doing CMS web serving (joomla)  / forums (simple machines) / & DNS. 

Mostly small files going back and forth with maybe 20 users max. I will split the disks as you suggest unless you think there is a better way to split them in this case.

Thank you for your time and knowledge.
--Shoki

---

### Post by netztier on 2007-02-23
> **shoki said:**
> I'd like this machine to be a internal LAMP server doing CMS web serving (joomla)  / forums (simple machines) / & DNS. 

Mostly small files going back and forth with maybe 20 users max. I will split the disks as you suggest unless you think there is a better way to split them in this case.


Well as a server... provided you don't run any desktop environment on it, you'll have to check if performance does not suffer too much from software RAID. Maybe the CPU overhead generated by a RAID 1 (mirroring) remains tolerable.

The downside of it: 20GByte have to be enough for the tasks you intend to run on it - and then you'll have a "flat" partitioning of the disk with /boot, /, /var and /home on the same disk.
If you actually need more disk space, I suggest trying find two IDE disks in the 80GByte range - they'll be faster, too.

best regards

Marc

---

### Post by freedomblue on 2007-02-24
If you think space is going to be an issue further down the track, i'd use LVM..

Then when you run out of space on your disks, you can go to the store and buy for example a 500gb ide disk and just add it to your existing setup.

---

