---
title: "Please Help With ( Fiesty ) Ultra 10 &amp; 3d ELITE"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Sun Sparc Users
---

### Post by pheedme on 2007-10-25
Thanks for taking the time to read this...


Picked up an ultra 10... Set up ubuntu server.. & Finlly got the Desktop Running.

So to improve on the performance i pick up an ELITE3d that originlly went with the machine.
Notes:

When I oot with the Ne video card connected, I see a hapy face Sun logo where the Sun usual logo was.
Testing Memory... Silo Etc.

Loading Linux. And thats it. Thats where the display stops.  With the 3dELITE Installed ... With No card... rage 3d onboard, display is normal.

I Ran a few tests,  Figured maye the os was still configured for the rage 3d... So Tried booting the installiation CD Same thing... The Computer Boots and processes as normal, but the last thing I see on the Display is the Sun Boot Screen, until X11 Makes its attempts to load,  Looks successfull at first, but the flashing indicated it isnt, and then im left with a ghost image of a cursor ( the initial x11 cursor ) on my Screen...

Tried Before and after the whole AFBINIT Business of flashing the card....  No difference same crash 

Dunno What I Left out PLease Help... Im at a loss as for what to do with this thing...

Config is as Follows :

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"cfb"
	Load	"cfb32"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"false"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Sun Creator3D"
	Driver		"sunffb"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-100
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Sun Creator3D"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


(( Running a Panasonic SL75 Monitor.... Its Fairly Tolerant.. )) Card Uses a 10w3 --> SVGA adapter.

---

### Post by zanderred on 2007-10-25
Hi, you should have a look at you're nvram settings first?

try gutsy, it has better hardware detection?

---

### Post by jcastill on 2007-10-25
Elite3D cards needs to load "afb" firmware before it works. I know you already tried but I got some Ultra60 with the same video card and work great under all revisions since dapper.

You should read:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1673729&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1673729&postcount=11)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=383785](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=383785)

Good luck and let me know if I can help out.

---

### Post by pheedme on 2007-11-03
:confused:  Thank you for the Prompt Response. I have been busy this week so its the soonest I can check Back...  :confused:

In My Original Attempt, I Included the AFB Firmware ( But Loaded it Manually, through TELNET )
I Reviewed the Listed Posts Nonetheless...

Now im not Sure if the Card is Defective...

When I boot with the Card, I Get the Sun SILO Screen ( Which, when the card is plugged in, the SUN Microsystems Logo is Replaced by A Smiling Sun Icon.

The System Proceeds to "Load Linux" and this is the last thing I will see on the screen. ( Is this normal, should I be seeing the Text Output as kernel loads? ( as I would with the onoard  ATI RAGE )

The Card Puts out Large amount of Heat ( Not Dangerous ) But the Card is Suspiciously hot for a device that hasn't been initialized by the system. ( O/s )


Anyways, the long and short of the attempt is I will SEE the Initial X Loading Screen ( X - Windows Cursor, the good old x ) And thats is roughly where the server Crashes. The Results are Identical ( same on screen crash ) When Ive Loaded the AFB firmware ( Microimage ) , vs when i dont. This coupled with the heat  output & some of the data I've read on previous posts leads me to believe that I may be trying to get a damaged piece of hardware to work.,,

Im Taking the System Down for a Drive Upgrade today, I will have try to apply any suggestions tomorrow. Unfortunately, I don't have the Luxury of Installing the Next Distrib (Yet ) But if theres a conscensus that it will solve the problem, I am willing to try. Please forgive my newb-ish-ness. I'm having my First Cup of Ubuntu and SUN Mixed together. :popcorn:


I would Appreciate further advice, or possibly a howto ( I wish )
Me and my Ultra 10 , Thank you in advance for you posting.


Thank you :KS

---

### Post by crazypeanut on 2008-01-31
Hello,
i've experienced the same problems on my SUN Ultra 10 with a Creator 3d Card (UPA-Slot). It worked fine for me using feisty and the sunffb driver. After upgrading to gutsy, including Xorg 7.3, Xorg now hangs, when I try to start gdm. I can see the Ubuntu Mouse Cursor for nearly half of a sencond, befor X crashes. Xorg.0.log says that everything is fine. No faults/errors etc....
I have read about a lot of people using a Creator (3d)/Elite 3d Framebuffer in other SUN Workstations, but this is the first time I found somebody using a SUN Ultra 10, having the same problems like me. Perhaps not the Framebuffer Hardware is the Problem, but the U10's.
I've absolutely no idea how to fix that thing...
So, if anybody reading this knows how to fix these things, pse reply...
Greetings,

Andreas

---

### Post by capt_caveman on 2008-03-27
For some reason, gdm now seems to be looking for Xinerama. Bit of a pain, as it (Xinerama) conflicts with xrandr.

Anyway, the solution to your GDM problems is at [http://www.csn.ul.ie/~ivan/install_ubuntu_on_ultra10.html#gdm%20woes](http://www.csn.ul.ie/~ivan/install_ubuntu_on_ultra10.html#gdm%20woes) - basically, add +xinerama to the X command line in /etc/gdm/gdm*.conf

---

