---
title: "8.04 64bit + Pidgin + Yahoo"
date: 2008-11-27
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by banasw01 on 2008-11-27
I just installed 8.04 amd64 bit version of Ubuntu. I updated everything. I can setup an MSN account with Pidgin and it works fine, but when I setup a yahoo account I get the following error:
<my user name> disconnected
Could not establish a connection with the server.
Error resolving scs.msg.yahoo.com: Name or service not known
Yahoo messenger and Pidgin work fine in Windows 2000, but I can't connect to yahoo in Ubuntu. Any ideas? Thanks

---

### Post by Izek on 2008-11-27
Try getting the latest pidgin (2.5.2) after uninstalling the old pidgin:

[http://www.getdeb.net/search.php?search_distro_id=10&keywords=pidgin](http://www.getdeb.net/search.php?search_distro_id=10&keywords=pidgin)

---

### Post by Porpoise on 2008-11-27
> **banasw01 said:**
> I just installed 8.04 amd64 bit version of Ubuntu. I updated everything. I can setup an MSN account with Pidgin and it works fine, but when I setup a yahoo account I get the following error:
<my user name> disconnected
Could not establish a connection with the server.
Error resolving scs.msg.yahoo.com: Name or service not known
Yahoo messenger and Pidgin work fine in Windows 2000, but I can't connect to yahoo in Ubuntu. Any ideas? Thanks

Interestingly, I've had yahoo working fine in pidgin for ages but I installed Empathy the other night ans I just get a network error in that for Yahoo but MSN works fine. However, as Yahoo now doesn't work in Pidgin either nor on any of my other (Windows) systems, one has to assume that the problem lies with Yahoo - not Pidgin or Empathy oy Yahoo Messenger.

---

### Post by Izek on 2008-11-27
Strange, yahoo works for me even in hardy (Pidgin 2.4) and windows vista (Pidgin 2.5.2)

---

### Post by Porpoise on 2008-11-28
> **Izek said:**
> Strange, yahoo works for me even in hardy (Pidgin 2.4) and windows vista (Pidgin 2.5.2)


It does for me too - except for when it temporarily didn't work on anything (which points to it being a Yahoo server issue).

---

### Post by banasw01 on 2008-11-28
I removed old Pidgin and installed the new version like Izek suggested, but I still get the same error message. However Yahoo did connect for me for a while but now it does not want to connect anymore. I just keep hitting the reconnect button over and over, but it does not want to work now.

---

### Post by kioleanu on 2008-11-28
I'm sorry that my first post is a "complain-about" post, but here it goes: I have the same problem. 

It all started about a week ago. Both Empathy and Pidgin give network errors when connecting to yahoo. i have windows in a virtual machine and the regular Y!M client works like a charm.

After 30 minutes, Pidgin and Empathy start too.

I use Ubuntu 8.10

---

### Post by UAA on 2008-12-08
there is a fix.
[http://developer.pidgin.im/ticket/7663](http://developer.pidgin.im/ticket/7663)

under Pager Server replace scs.msg.yahoo.com with 66.163.181.166

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-12-08
> I'm sorry that my first post is a "complain-about" post, but here it goes: I have the same problem. 

No need to apologize.  Best thing to do if you have a problem is search to see if a solution has been found in another thread, and if not, then post your problem.

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2008-12-08
I did not have any problem at all with Pidgin and Yahoo! Pidgin is also one of the reasons why I switched over to Ubuntu. Later I came to know it was also available for Windows. But Ubuntu has **LOADS** of other features Windows would only dream of having. :)

---

