---
title: "8.10 system stall, apparently caused by X"
date: 2009-01-25
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by wolterh on 2009-01-25
Hi. I've been having this system stalls, or pauses--however you prefer to name these undesirable flaws--for a couple of days now, and I don't know how to get rid of them. 

I know that it is caused by X because allquixotic @ irc.freenode.net#ubuntu told me to run sysprof to sample the CPU usage. That I did.

I can also see the stall in system-monitor applet I have embeded in one of my panels. It looks like a short, yet edgy peak, and it is there present, at  the exact momment when I expirience this discomfort.

I would appreciate vastly if someone would help me eradicate this problem, thanks in advance.

---

### Post by defex on 2009-02-16
I think I have the same problem as you there woli,

For a couple of weeks after installing it was fine, but over the past 2 or 3 days, it's been stalling from time to time. If there's any audio playing at the time, it starts stuttering like crazy, so I know the system is still crunching numbers. It's just getting into a loop of some sort.

If there is any information that I can provide to help resolve this, let me know. Is there a bug report for this yet?

---

### Post by wolterh on 2009-02-16
Oh, I am sorry. As no one had replied this thread of mine, I had nearly forgotten it's existence. Well, I did solve the problem--at least over here, in my laptop. The problem was caused because the kernel didn't quite work well with the current nvidia graphic drivers, so I download the newest nvidia drivers. But now, this is the solution for my case, and that doesn't guarantee that you will have your problem solved this way.

Now, if you use nvidia, this might be the solution, probably, but if else, you could go ahead and download the latest drivers for your graphics card.

---

