---
title: "8.04 - Intel 965 chipset - rendering issues (checked other posts)"
date: 2008-06-07
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by bmoney80 on 2008-06-07
I apologize in advance for posting something that is commonly discussed on here but it seems that as I search through archives - I haven't been able to find my exact situation. So I'm having problems with rendering - video often trails when windows are moves and sometimes video remains on wallpaper. I'm running 64bit 8.04 on a dell 1720 ...

***I have attached two screen captures of what my "Screen and Graphics Preferences'

[ATTACH]73288[/ATTACH]
[ATTACH]73289[/ATTACH]

I hope someone can give me a hand - I'm a major linux/ubuntu noob. 
---------------------------------------------------

:~$ lspci | grep -i gm

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 0c)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)

---------------------------------------------------
:~$ gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

--------------------------------------------------

:~$ gksudo gedit /var/log/Xorg.0.log

*** This was long so I attached a log.txt with some info (not all but what seemed to be significant) ***

[ATTACH]73291[/ATTACH]

---------------------------------

Any help on getting this resolved would be really appreciated. I'm sorry if this is a repetitive issue .. it kinda sucks to be so clueless.

Thanks in advance,

Ben

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-07
Disable the visual 3D effects. They tax your weak video card too heavily.
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/tipsandtweaks](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/tipsandtweaks)
(number 5 )

---

### Post by bmoney80 on 2008-06-07
> **Pjotr123 said:**
> Disable the visual 3D effects. They tax your weak video card too heavily.
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/tipsandtweaks](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/tipsandtweaks)
(number 5 )

Thanks a lot for the reply. More specifically, thanks a lot for the new resource! I don't know if it already is - but they should have that as a sticky within the beginners section.

B

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-08
> **bmoney80 said:**
> Thanks a lot for the reply. More specifically, thanks a lot for the new resource! I don't know if it already is - but they should have that as a sticky within the beginners section.

B

You're welcome! :)

Thanks for the compliment. I hope my website can help to make Ubuntu easier for the interested amateurs (like I).

I've only recently published this website in English: originally I wrote it in Dutch. As I'm reasonably proficient in German and French too, I'm considering to publish versions in those languages as well. A long-term project at best, however, because translating is a tedious job...

Greeting, Pjotr.

---

### Post by DelSol on 2008-06-08
i've got the same issues here with an gma3000 graphic from intel. this problem didnt happen in fedora. so i think its rather poor support for the graphics in ubuntu - i dont think its because the graphic hardware is too weak. i also submitted a bug report about that with screenshots, please have look at them
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/238209](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/238209)

---

### Post by bmoney80 on 2008-06-08
> **Pjotr123 said:**
> You're welcome! :)

Thanks for the compliment. I hope my website can help to make Ubuntu easier for the interested amateurs (like I).

I've only recently published this website in English: originally I wrote it in Dutch. As I'm reasonably proficient in German and French too, I'm considering to publish versions in those languages as well. A long-term project at best, however, because translating is a tedious job...

Greeting, Pjotr.

It definitely helped me - especially the multimedia section. I haven't had any issues since following those tips. 

The one question I still have is regarding :

:~$ lspci | grep -i gm

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 0c)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)

--------------------

I've noticed other people who have posted similar information have "(rev 3)" after the hardware information, which makes me question the current status of my driver. 

Thanks again for the information and support.

Ben

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-08
Your card is already working fine on the right driver! :)

The Intel company itself provides good open source drivers for all of it's products, so those drivers are part of the Linux kernel by default. 

You can increase the performance of this weak but very energy efficient video card, by assigning more RAM memory to it, in the BIOS of your computer. If your BIOS offers that option, that is: my Sony Vaio laptop with Intel 915 video card, allows in it's BIOS 128 MB RAM maximum for the video card. 256 MB would be preferable.

Business users are most often best served by Intel video cards, although they are weak, because of their energy efficiency: this means increased battery time....

Greeting, Pjotr.

---

### Post by DelSol on 2008-06-08
raising the graphic memory in the bios does not stop the ghosting or trailing.

---

