---
title: "9.04 64-bit does not recognize 4 GB RAM"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by 55tptag on 2009-05-21
I read the post by "John.Michael.Kane" titled, "Advantages and Disadvantages of 64bit."   It indicated one of the positive things about using 64-bit Ubuntu was that it had the "Ability to address memory amounts over four GB, and up to 16 exabytes."  To read that thread click here, "http://tinyurl.com/3lsuxa".

My question is, "why doesn't my Ubuntu 64-bit see all my 4GB of RAM?"
My system sees:
$cat /proc/meminfo 
MemTotal:        3565160 kB
MemFree:         2516748 kB

I've taken onboard hardware into account.  

Please also note that when my system had 2GB of RAM that is "saw" all 2GB.

If you know the answer please tell.

Thanks.

---

### Post by googlegot on 2009-05-21
Do you have an integrated video card? If so, they tend to eat memory.

Also, are you absolutely sure you have 4 gigs in there? I see no reason for a 64 bit operating system to not detect all 4 gigs.

---

### Post by 55tptag on 2009-05-21
Hi,

I use a NVIDIA Video card and a soundblaster sound card.  The only integrated device I have is the built in network interface card.

The BIOS recognizes all 4GB of Memory.

---

### Post by googlegot on 2009-05-21
whats the model of the video card?

some stand alone cards eat system memory

---

### Post by 55tptag on 2009-05-21
Looks like the company that made my card is PNY Technologies.
The card itself is a NVIDIA GeForce 8500 GT PCI Express Graphics Card.
512MB DDR2

---

### Post by pxwpxw on 2009-05-22
There is an explanation here, referring to windows, but applies generally to other OS, and depends on the firmware. It is not a bug with the RAM.

[http://blogs.msdn.com/hiltonl/archive/2007/04/13/the-3gb-not-4gb-ram-problem.aspx](http://blogs.msdn.com/hiltonl/archive/2007/04/13/the-3gb-not-4gb-ram-problem.aspx)

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2009-05-22
read this please

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1157289&highlight=64-bit+does+not+recognize+4+GB+RAM](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1157289&highlight=64-bit+does+not+recognize+4+GB+RAM)

---

### Post by 55tptag on 2009-05-26
Thanks.  The best I can get is about 3.5GB RAM.  I tried searching to see if there was a simple kernel parameter I could pass to it thru grub during boot up but haven't found anything yet.

---

### Post by zgornel on 2009-05-27
If it makes any difference, 3.5 or 3.9 GB is almost the same thing performance-wise ;)

---

