---
title: "Compile 32 bit assembly on AMD64"
date: 2009-07-09
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by DarkW0lf on 2009-07-09
I am trying to compile 32 bit code on an AMD64 Athlon x2
This code will also be used on the same machine.

I can run as with --32 parameter without error and ld with -m elf_i386 with no errors but on executing program bash reports permission denied (that is the extent of bash's error). I have permissions set and I am the owner of said app.

I am trying to compile code generated by HLA (32 bit app), the code is GAS syntax and I can get as and ld to compile and link as above but the app won't run.

I have the ia32 libs installed and the libs HLA requires, are there others that I need to compile i386 GAS code on AMD64

---

### Post by DarkW0lf on 2009-07-23
Found an OpenSUSE presentation for porting to 64 bit.
In it the parms for generating 32bit code is -m32 for gcc and -m elf_i386 for ld (--32 for as). I use those parms and still can't execute program.

In same presentation they use ldd to check which libraries a program uses.
When I use ldd to check the app I just built it tells me it's not a dynamic executable and I don't have permission to execute it. But I am owner and perms are set to 777 (rwx for all) ???

Why can't I execute ?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-07-23
You've been at it for almost a year and you still haven't set up a chroot?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=877404](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=877404)

Oh, and as I said:
> You don't compile assembly code; you **assemble** it into object file(s) and link it.

---

### Post by Milap Desai on 2009-08-10
Hi, 

I have used with --m32 and its worked fine. 

I have one more question regarding m32 flag.

If I use -m32 flag to compile file on Linux 32bit platform  then  it could be create any different ??  I have read man page of gcc and it found that on 32bit linux  -m32r  flag is  passed default.  

I have tried with one sample file using m32 flag ,  
In both cases the size of  the output files are same.
 
gcc -m32 -c -o test1.o temp.c
du -s test1.o
4.0K    test1.o

gcc -c -o test2.o temp.c
 du -s test2.o
4.0K    test2.o

Thanks in advance.
--Milo.

---

