---
title: "NVIDIA ION DRIVERS UBUNTU 9.10 x64"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by denis6902 on 2009-11-03
Hi everyone!

Well, basically i am a novice user on ubuntu. I have been using ubuntu for a while but i still consider myself as a noobie as i cannot install nvidia drivers :( its pretty lame and frustrating and i am loosing a big amount of hair as i go :lolflag:

I have a Mini-Itx Zotac N330 with ION Chipset

WIN7 runs smoothly fine, but on linux is being quite tricky.

I tried first 9.04 jaunty and followed several tutorials with no success.

Decided to move on to the newer _ubuntu 9.10 x64_, which i was quite happy after installing it. As i could see the NVIDIA Hardware Drivers **available** through **SYSTEM>ADMINISTRATION>HARDWARE DRIVERS** which is something i didnt get on 9.04 previously.

tried SYSTEM>PREFERENCES>APPEARANCE>VISUAL EFFECTS> (SET TO EXTRA)
**error:**
```
SystemError: Failed to lock /var/cache/apt/archives/lock
```

tired clicking on activate, so i downloads but fails on installation and then i dont have my ubuntu anymore, besides i dont know how to fix the xorg.conf because when it restarts at command mode the desktop is blinking like crazy and i cant type anything.

I tried this on all my displays (Dell LCD 20" [VGA&DVI]/ LG LCD 22"[VGA&DVI]/ Samsung LCD HDTV 40"[VGA&HDMI] )


What do i do next?

Why are these drivers so complicated to install? Couldn't it be as easy adding Medibuntu Repositories? :popcorn:

Well....i hope there is still an alternative :)

....and please help me out? [-o<

***remeber that i am not an expert on linux and commands can be very confusing :-k

---

### Post by denis6902 on 2009-11-03
Guys, this must be a miracle, somehow i tried again and again via the Menu and restarted and it worrrrrrrrrrrrrked!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Cant believe it! YES!!!!!!!!!!! I dont know what happened or what i did different but it works now, well...at least on the main monitor it works!

Tried enabling the secondary monitor beside me but it asks for: **Save to X Configuration File**, as soon as i click the program exits displaying this error:

```
Failed to parse existing X config file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'!
```

Its sad, but i am already very happy i managed to get it working on the main monitor at least! 

If anyone can help, it would be much appreciated

---

### Post by denis6902 on 2009-11-03
Alright, i manged to figure it out.

1 - I backed up the xorg.conf
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup
```

2 - I opened the xorg.conf via the terminal erased it all and saved
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
**remember to save using (CRTL+O)** **and (CRTL+X)** **to exit**

3 - Opened nvida-settings configured as i need to and clicked save to x configuration (which continued to give an error)
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

4 - so i open nvidia-settings again i preview the newer config, copied it all, opened the xorg through the terminal once more, pasted the preview configuration and saved it.
```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL E207WFP"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "LG ELETRONICS"
    ModelName      "LG M228WA"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "ION"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "ION"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1680x1050_60 +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1680x1050_60 +0+0, DFP: 1680x1050_60 +1680+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT: 1680x1050 +0+0, DFP: 1680x1050_60 +1680+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1680x1050_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```
**remember to save using (CRTL+O)** **and (CRTL+X)** **to exit**

5 - sudo reboot
```
sudo reboot

```

6 - happy linux user! YES!!!!!!!!!!


):P  SOLVED! (Dunno how the first part SOLVED yet. It is still a mystery for me so far, as i tried several times. It was the 3rd fresh resintallation i did)

Thanks all anyway!

---

### Post by angyii on 2009-11-07
Here is a working xorg.conf for single video card folks.  You can carefully modify it to suite your setup (videocard/driver) and it should work.  I made it by modifying denis6902's provided xorg.conf

> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL P780"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 85.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 120.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection



---

### Post by Arup on 2009-11-07
The driver from the repos fails to create a xorg file, you have to do a gksudo nvidia-xconfig which creates that file and then do a gksudo nvidia-settings and save to file.

---

### Post by denis6902 on 2009-11-16
> **Arup said:**
> The driver from the repos fails to create a xorg file, you have to do a gksudo nvidia-xconfig which creates that file and then do a gksudo nvidia-settings and save to file.


Thanks man, i just tested your method and it works very well too! and easier then doing all that!

Gave up on the karmic koala, too heavy for atom n330. Trying the netbook remix here!

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-11-16
> **denis6902 said:**
> Thanks man, i just tested your method and it works very well too! and easier then doing all that!

Gave up on the karmic koala, too heavy for atom n330. Trying the netbook remix here!

You are welcome, how about trying out Xubuntu?

---

### Post by denis6902 on 2009-11-17
> **Arup said:**
> You are welcome, how about trying out Xubuntu?


Why? :D


Need to format ext4 and sawp area too btw, i am getting a weird red grubdos screen when i select my win7 partition.

Or is there q quick fix for that?

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-11-17
> **denis6902 said:**
> Why? :D


Need to format ext4 and sawp area too btw, i am getting a weird red grubdos screen when i select my win7 partition.

Or is there q quick fix for that?

Xubuntu is lighter using XFCE desktop, easier on your netbook. If you are getting those lines, do a fresh install.

---

### Post by dBuster on 2009-11-17
> **denis6902 said:**
> Why? :D


Need to format ext4 and sawp area too btw, i am getting a weird red grubdos screen when i select my win7 partition.

Or is there q quick fix for that?

It is a sign!  Stay away from anything but Ubuntu!!!

---

### Post by denis6902 on 2009-11-17
im back after a good and successful fresh install :)

grub thing is still happening tho, weird

I used gparted live disk, delete both linux and swap partitions, applied, created new ones, installed os finely! no problems,

but if i choose win7 at grub, i get that grubDos error (RED BACKGROUND), then if i press ESC i have lots of options of how to start windows.

I always go with the one which says (default) 1st option on the list, and it boots win7 just fine.

But is there a way to fix that, because i really dont want to reinstall everything, win7 takes ages to setup with drivers and so on.
should i open a new thread?

Thanks on the xubuntu advice, i will make sure i try next time i need to reinstall linux. 

The netbook remix is doing quite well for me :) Way faster then the normal 9.10 x64 OS.

and btw, it aint a netbook, its a zotac n330 ion :) with 4gb of ram, should be fne, just wish i could fix the grub thing.

---

