---
title: "White triangles in desktop"
date: 2008-05-28
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by macrobyte on 2008-05-28
Im running Ubuntu 8.04 64-bit and im experiencing some glitchy white triangles whenever I have 3d windows on and I rotate the desktop, this also happens when I drag one window from one workplace to the other. Its really annoying and Ive already re-installed twice but the problem still persists. Is anybody else experiencing this and if so is there any way to fix it?

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-05-28
> **macrobyte said:**
> Im running Ubuntu 8.04 64-bit and im experiencing some glitchy white triangles whenever I have 3d windows on and I rotate the desktop, this also happens when I drag one window from one workplace to the other. Its really annoying and Ive already re-installed twice but the problem still persists. Is anybody else experiencing this and if so is there any way to fix it?

Sounds like a video driver problem to me.

---

### Post by pixel :-) on 2008-05-28
I can't help you.But post you /etc/X11/xorg.conf.Maybe someone will help.

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2008-05-29
Also some indication of the hardware inside your computer might help. How does "glxgears" do?

In addition to bad video drivers (most likely) you could also have overheating problems or bad video memory (both unlikely, and sometimes related to also the drivers).

---

### Post by macrobyte on 2008-05-29
here is my xorg file, dont know how to check for glxgears

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-05-29
open a terminal and type: ```
glxgears
``` and in case you are a ati/amd user, run additionally ```
fgl_glxgears
```Edit: search for any errors wich refer to xorg.conf in the log file via:
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log |grep EE
``` and post them all here

Note: Plx use code tags

---

### Post by macrobyte on 2008-06-02
Ok problem has been solved I just switched to the 32-bit and it runs smooth! thx for the help

---

