---
title: "8.10 64bit beta impression"
date: 2008-10-19
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by radtek on 2008-10-19
Off the bat I'm impressed. There's always been a problem with 64bit Ubuntu. Wifi on my Toshiba dual core A215-S5808 laptop plus sound also works. Some instability with Network connections and media codecs and programs such as VLC.

Haven't seen a lock up (yet) in contrast to 32bit 8.04 where I've seen constant lockups.

Finally! A 64bit OEM system for my lappy. BETA!

Dare I try it with my venerable Athlon 3200XP 64bit system?

---

### Post by John Jason Jordan on 2008-10-19
> **radtek said:**
> Off the bat I'm impressed. There's always been a problem with 64bit Ubuntu. Wifi on my Toshiba dual core A215-S5808 laptop plus sound also works. Some instability with Network connections and media codecs and programs such as VLC.
Dare I try it with my venerable Athlon 3200XP 64bit system?
For the media codecs, not all of them are installed by default. You may also need to enable additional repositories (System > Administration > Software Sources). 

As for your Athlon 3200XP, I suggest you start by just trying the 64-bit live CD. If something doesn't work with the live CD you can come back here and search the forums. If you can find out how to fix it, then go ahead and install 64-bit Ubuntu. If a search of the forums reveals that there is no fix, then you'll know what will happen.

As an alternative, if something doesn't work with the live CD, you might consider waiting 11 days for Intrepid Ibex.

Chances are that everything that will work in 32-bit Ubuntu will also work in 64-bit Ubuntu. There is practically no difference these days in driver availability and functionality.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-10-19
Are you looking to discuss Intrepid with other users? This subforum isn't really the place for that.
> Dare I try it with my venerable Athlon 3200XP 64bit system?
The Athlon XP series (alsa known as K7 or 'Barton' core) does not have 64-bit capabilities. If you meant Athlon 64 3200+, yes, it will work fine on that.

---

