---
title: "9.04 - weird behavior"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by andyubu on 2009-05-21
Hi there:

I just bought an Acer Aspire AX 3200 - 3 cpu 8450 AMD (64 bits) - 4GB - 640 GB hard drive - monitor acer H213H - windows vista home premium 64 bits

Then I install Ubuntu 9.04 64bits and a wireless usb D-Link DWA 130 (revision C) 

Until now, I still can't make the wireless card work with Ubuntu. 

But it's just not that. The behavior of the machine under Ubuntu really drives me crazy.

At first, whenever I launch Firefox, the whole system crashes miserably. 

However, when I replace the monitor with an old one (from my garage, waiting to be recycled), the problem just disappears. Everything is fine. But as soon as I put back the monitor, the problem keeps on crashing when firefox is launched. 

It's like that for a whole day.
 
Then, suddenly, the problem disappear but the CD/DVD/Bluray drive cannot be mounted anymore (message: "the volume ... use the file system which is not supported by your system")
At the same time, there is no more sound. 

asoundconf list 
gives nothing 

aplay -l
returns "no sound card"!

Any idea? 

I am thinking about install 8.04 32 bits instead. 
What do you think? 

Thank you very much

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2009-05-21
Have you been able to update 9.04

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-05-21
8.04 AMD64. Works a treat and is the long term support version (LTS). Very stable, and I need it to be.

As kinda mentioned above this, get yourself a hardwire ethernet cable and plug that in and reboot if that is possible. Get up to date and see if that solves the problems.

---

### Post by andyubu on 2009-05-22
After connecting it to the wire, I try to install/reinstall almost 10 times with different versions (8.04 LTS 64 bits, 8.04 LTS 32 bits, 9.02 64 bits). Still none of them work. 
With 8.04 LTS, both 32 bits & 64 bits can't recognize the proprietary video card (which is something like nvdia 180). Therefore, the screen resolution is wrong (this leads to a portion of the screen is not accessible), the refresh rate is wrong. When I run hardware test, the video test doesn't show anything. When I change the resolution, it is fine until restart, then it can't even boot anymore. Change to [recovery mode], still get stuck after one hour. 
I am trying now to install 9.02 32bits to see if there is any hope to make this machine work with ubuntu.

---

### Post by andyubu on 2009-05-22
can I install both ubuntu 9.02 64 bits and 9.02 32 bits on this machine? 
if yes, how?
thank you very much

---

### Post by karamu on 2009-05-22
I guess you would just rerun the installer again after installing one version and then install the other one.

I don't know about Nvidia cards but I had a problem with my ATI card using 8.04- it wouldn't display anything after login- I had to use failsafe login option which would let me use the machine.

I would recommend persevering with 8.04 (64bit)- 9.04 seems to be somewhat unstable (I am experiencing a lot of crashing with it)- try to get in with failsafe login, go to the Nvidia website and get the correct drivers for your card and try installing- good luck.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-05-23
I agree with karamu. 8.04 LTS means it is the Long Term Support version, has been on the streets for over a year and is stable enough for me to rely on it for uni (three machines in the household). I will probably install Karmic Koala over the holidays on a separate partition for testing purposes only (I need the machines to be solid otherwise). 

You could try the same. Have the stable 8.04 LTS on one partition and the latest bleeding-edge Ubuntu x.xx on another and help the community along by testing it out. That way, never the 'twain shall meet, as they say. If you need your machine to be reliable, DON'T install any versions which are still testing.

A rule of thumb I try to use is if I am going for an install, I download the ISO a few weeks or a month in advance. That way, by the time I install it, a few more glitches have been worked out. :)

---

### Post by karamu on 2009-05-23
I like the idea of downloading the ISO a few weeks in advance so the updates iron out any glitches- thanks for the tip!

---

### Post by ZootNerper on 2009-05-23
Hi Folks,

Is there a way to downgrade from 9.04 to 8.10 or 8.04? Or do I have to do a complete re-install from scratch?

-- Zoot

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-05-23
Reinstall would be easiest I would say, but you could have a go at my suggestions from a few posts ago, if you have the disk space. Leave the dodgy install for tinkering, fixing, breaking and learning if you are that way inclined and dual-boot with 8.04 LTS for stable/everyday use.

---

### Post by andyubu on 2009-05-23
I have no luck with 8.04 LTS. Both 32 bits & 64 bits work fine with the monitor I borrow from my other computer (hp2700, 20 inches). As soon as I use its monitor (the one coming with the computer), which is an Acer h213h, 21.5 inches, it crashes like crazy. 

Then I change to 9.04 64bits. Ubuntu now recognize two proprietary drivers Ndivia 173 and 180 (recommended). At first, I choose 180, it works fine. But whenever a window is maximized, it crashes miserably (the only thing I can do is Alt-PrtScr R-E-I-S-U-B).

Now I move to 9.04 32 bits:
+ If I don't activate any driver, then it crashes just as with 8.04 
+ If I activate Nvidia 180, then it crashes whenever a window is maximized
+ If I activate Nvidia 173, when a window is maximized, it just becomes almost frozen. Very slow or no response at all to anything. However, I can still close, minimize or reduce the size of the window. Once the size of the window is reduced, it works fine again. 

For now, I can survive by reducing the resolution of the screen, so that it looks like a 20' monitor and maximizing a window is no more a problem. Now it works fine. My guess is that if I do the same thing in 9.04 64 bits, then it might be OK. However, this trick doesn't work for 8.04. 

So, I stay with it for a while 
Still have some trouble with the wireless usb, but I will post this in the networking & wireless forum

Thanks for all your help 

BTW, still don't remember how to mark a thread as solved.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-05-25
Swapping from 64 to 32 bit is not going to make much difference with this problem. You're probably just confusing the issue. Just load 64 and stick with it and we'll try and work out how to fix the problem. We'll keep thinking ...

---

### Post by pixel :-) on 2009-05-25
I would recomend to search for bugs on your graphic card/driver combination

start a tread in the hardware forum

The workaround is probably to edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. But the options are quite obscure, i can't help you, in the hardware forum, you should find help.

---

### Post by andyubu on 2009-05-28
Thank you for the suggestion of the hardware forum
Well, I still struggle everyday with this machine since I bought it one month ago. 
After the sound card, the wireless usb, the screen, I am know struggling with the keyboard and the mouse. Yes! Keyboard and mouse! Can you believe that. They just stop working even when I am typing. When this happens, the only thing that responses to me is the power button.

---

### Post by pixel :-) on 2009-05-28
Your problems seem quite erratic and wide spread, and you said the pc was new, and i presume, you didn't do much with vista. Try a memory test, in grub, 3° option. This is a very thorow test, it will take some time, the memory test of the bios doesn't worth much. My theory is, that when you use the memory above a threshold, you start using the corrupt part, and hell brakes lose.

---

