---
title: "8.10 Freezing unpredictably."
date: 2008-11-17
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by FlintPaper on 2008-11-17
I'll start off with my machine specs:

MSI P6n - SLI Platinum (nforce 650i based), bios ver 1.7
8 gigs ram
Intel quad core q6600 CPU
nvidia 6800GT
3 x SATA 320gb hard drive (dual boot with vista 64)

To take some of the blame from any potential hardware issues, Vista 64 is running as flawlessly as any Vista install can.  No crashes, no lockups, no hangs.

I've installed 8.10 - 64 bit smoothly with no problems or warnings.  Desktop effects can be set anywhere from off to full, same issues.

When using Ubuntu, I'm having three problems:

-randomly getting temporary lockups and freezes that will either lock all windows leaving the mouse free or lock everything including the mouse.

-random total computer seizure.  All windows visible, mouse sometimes able to move, not always; does not recover.

-unable to shutdown properly.  On shutdown, goes immediately to a black screen and stays there with occasional HD activity.

What are the steps necessary to troubleshoot this issue?  My brief searches showed nothing immediately applicable and I'm not getting any obvious error message to search on.

Any help resolving this would be much appreciated.  This is the first time I've had issues with linux on an apparently healthy machine that a bit of google searching couldn't resolve.

---

### Post by FlintPaper on 2008-11-17
As a follow-up, I've also tried 8.10 32 bit now.  No issues.

---

### Post by Arup on 2008-11-17
I installed Intrepid x64 on three machines in my house, a old dual core AMD4000 with on board nvidia graphics, a quad core Phenom with nvidia 6200 and my own, a dual quad core on Intel X5400 motherboard with a single ATI 4850 Radeon, this PC has 8GB as well, its a single OS install and I have had no issues with it except when logging out and then trying to login which leads to a blank screen. Did you have the latest video drivers for your PC? I don't use the ones from the rep, I get it straight from the manufacturer's site.

---

### Post by pulpo69 on 2008-11-18
hi flint paper, i have the same problems (AMD64bit ati X800card)and i don't have any idea why. (hardy64bit never caused this problem).

---

### Post by ubuntum0nk3y on 2008-11-18
I had an issue similar to this when I was building my brother in law's machine. Random lockups at random times, etc. Would also happen in Fedora etc.

It came down to the memory sticks I was using. Even though they were same brand and same specs, they were still not properly matched and were causing the issue. When I pulled the 2 offending sticks, it ran flawlessly.

Might not be the same issue, but worth a look.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-11-18
Please check your log files for errors after the freeze occurred - these can be found in the /var/log directory, especially kern.log and syslog. The other file to check is .xsession-errors which is a hidden file in your /home/username directory.

---

### Post by carnadi88 on 2008-11-18
I only have this problem when I'm downloading torrents. Besides that I haven't seen any freeze ups.

---

