---
title: "2.6.25.4 - the experience so far (long)"
date: 2008-06-27
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2008-06-27
Since 2.6.25.4 changes some important things since 2.6.24.x, I thought I would report my experiences with a new build.
This was on a Dell Inspiron 1501 with dual core AMD turion cpu and 1GB of ram, sata hdd, ati radeon x1100igp graphics card, running Hardy Heron.

First things first - copy my previous config into the source directory, and make oldconfig, answered the new questions, then make gconfig.

First I corrected some options relating to the laptop's chipset, since I didn't know exactly what to use when I did the earlier (2.6.24) build, and have since found out (atiixp although the i2c stuff is handled by the intel driver if I remember correctly).  I also enabled preemptible rcu (already had preemptible kernel), changed the timer frequency down to 300hz (to hopefully make vga out look a bit better on the TV), and turned on the couple of debugging options that powertop needs (doing this from other computer so can't check what, sorry!).  In general, I enabled everything that looked like it might make the kernel run faster, with less memory and less power (often things which are mutually exclusive, I know) and built as many drivers as modules as I could.

On rebooting, the first thing I noticed was that booting was much quicker!  Roughly three quarters of the time taken with the previous home brew kernel, and half that for the generic kernel.  Things seem a bit more responsive and programs start faster too, once in Gnome.

The brightness control now works, using the Fn-up and Fn-down keys, although the Gnome brightness applet still doesn't work.  Still a way to go with that I think.

Now for the downside...
Attempting to build the fglrx (8-6) driver fails with "GPL-incompatible module fglrx.ko uses GPL-only symbol '__rcu_read_lock'".  Still no 3d acceleration with the free driver for my card.  ATI support sucks, btw.
kwlan has definite problems.  It always announces "new interface found" on starting up, then proves unreliable.  It's fine with the older kernels.  Connecting from the command line works just fine and dandy however so I think I will just stop using kwlan and use a script or something.
Seem to have some strange activity with the hard disk - I can hear it spinning up every so many seconds.  But maybe this is something I can change elsewhere.
What little functionality I had with the Fn-F2 key to kill the wireless is now lost.  Interestingly, with 32bit Feisty on this laptop, this switch would power the wireless both on and off.

So to sum up, I have a noticeably more responsive machine that boots quite fast, with one major annoyance (I don't actually need 3d, I just want (really badly want) it to work!) and some niggles that can be fixed with further tweaking.

For those struggling with fglrx, I found this page:
[http://sarah-a-happy.livejournal.com/90345.html](http://sarah-a-happy.livejournal.com/90345.html)
although the errors he gets are different to mine, and I haven't got round to trying the fix.  I also found some much quoted advice to edit the files in fglrx/build_mod to change references to the license to GPL rather than the ATI license.  I expect this is illegal and it didn't work for me anyhow.
Whilst writing this post I have come across an article that may have a more useable fix:
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_ATI_Drivers](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_ATI_Drivers)
so I will try this later and post my findings.

Hope this little article is of interest and possibly even use!

Alexis Phoenix

---

