---
title: "- 8.10 64 bit- IBM DB2 install problems"
date: 2009-02-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by JoelJohnson on 2009-02-02
Hello. First off, I'm pretty new to Ubuntu and Linux in general. I've been searching for help on google, but nothing has helped thus far. So I figure someone here can help.

I'm trying to install DB2 express on Ubuntu 8.10 64 bit for a class I'm taking. I've tried both the latest beta and the latest stable and both of them when I run "sudo ./db2setup" like the readme says, I get the splash screen then a blank gray window. None of the controls are showing up. When I hover my mouse on the left side of the window, the cursor changes to the little hand showing that there's supposed to be a button there. 
I googled for help on installing DB2, and I found a site that showed me the libs I have to have installed before I can run an install, and I have them all installed.

I did try running another file in the downloaded folder labeled, "db2_install" and I sudo ran that, and it asked me where I want to install all stuff. It completed successfully, but I can't find how to open any of the tools or anything. (This is actually more related to me being a Linux/Ubuntu newbie, and I have never used DB2 before)

anyone know how to help me?
Thanks.

---

### Post by javahollic on 2009-02-02
Firstly turn off Compiz, the opengl accelerated desktop does not like java swing apps.  This should fix the grey window problem.

After that with 9.5.1 you will also need a few libraries, ia32libs, libaio1 I think.

cheers
Andy

---

### Post by JoelJohnson on 2009-02-02
Thank you. That worked great.

I disabled Compiz by right clicking the desktop -> Change background -> Visual Effects tab -> None
but then I lose all my settings and stuff. Is there a way to turn off compiz without changing all the settings?

by the way - I know that if I turn them off, I won't have all my settings while it's off. I just don't want to have to reset them when I turn it back on.

---

