---
title: "8.04 Nvida No Ethernet"
date: 2008-05-04
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by cnolan011 on 2008-05-04
Did a fresh install of AMD_64 - 8.04 with the following hardware:
   ASUS P5N32-E SLI Plus (on board network interface - 2 jacks)
   Intel Core 2 Duo E6420 Conroe 2.13GHz Dual-Core
   Patriot XP 2GB (2 x 1GB) 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 800 (PC2 6400)
   XFX GeForce 8600GT 256MB GDDR3 PCI Express x16
Install went fine except networking does not work, the network mgr is in the top right corner showing the monitors if everything is fine, and when i left click on it is has selected in the radio button:
   'Wired Network (nVidia Corporation MCP55 Ethernet)'

Also the display seems to work fine (a perfect 1600x1200 on a 21inch LCD), but when I brin up Appearance Preferences, Visual Effects it wil not allow me to choose anything other than 'None'
Also under hardware drivers - Device driver - nvidia_new - Enabled - Not in use

I feel like there is a connection with all of this, but the most important is to get the network up and running and then i can work on the special visual effects.
Help please!!
lol
all of my hardware is fine as it was running on windows earlier but built a new box for windows and passed this hardware down for my media server
thanks
- chris

---

### Post by Nubsauce on 2008-05-04
For starters, did you reboot after you enabled the restricted drivers?  Your system will need to reboot after so it can load the nvidia kernel module for support with your graphics card, after that it should work(Mine did at least).  It being your special effects which should get auto-enabled after your reboot.

As for your network problem, I'm not too sure, I have the same chipset(pretty sure) and everything is functioning properly.

---

### Post by cnolan011 on 2008-05-04
The nvidia_new driver was already enabled, it says in the far corner 'Not in use', which i am not sure what that means, i can not figure out how to Put it in use, . . . . .

---

### Post by Nubsauce on 2008-05-04
> **cnolan011 said:**
> The nvidia_new driver was already enabled, it says in the far corner 'Not in use', which i am not sure what that means, i can not figure out how to Put it in use, . . . . .

Try rebooting your computer.  :)

---

### Post by cnolan011 on 2008-05-04
sry, forgot to mention that I tried that

---

### Post by Nubsauce on 2008-05-04
> **cnolan011 said:**
> sry, forgot to mention that I tried that

Crap, well, I can't really be of any other assistance, my x86-64 install locked up on me and then kept locking up trying to log back in..  so I said screw it and booted back into Linux Mint for the moment while I debug the other install.

:(

However, once I get back in the other install, I'll do some digging around to try and reproduce what you're experiencing since we're running close to the same setup.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-05-05
Do you have a Live CD? If so, how well does it run?

---

### Post by cnolan011 on 2008-05-05
in using the live CD i get the same response, . . . 
also i was thinking that maybe i would just install the 32bit version, but for some reason when i boot to the CD and select the (install OR live) option the kernel only loads up 3% and then shows a text box that says "I/O Boot Error" with a button to reboot.
If I could get the 32 bit version to install i would try that and see if i get the same effect

---

### Post by luckyjonny on 2008-05-05
I'm suffering the same problem in 32 bit Hardy with my Asus Striker Extreme, also with MCP55 ethernet. Seems to be a  [known issue]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/136836"). The comments list some workarounds.

Hopefully a patch will fix it one day :D

---

### Post by cnolan011 on 2008-05-06
went to the link and sure enough it is a bug, but the recommendation does work, once i did the following:
  Add the following line to /etc/modprobe.d/options
  options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0

  Then rebuild initramfs like this
  sudo update-initramfs -u

  reboot

all was well

thank you everyone for your help

---

