---
title: "Sreen Resolution  not sticking!"
date: 2008-05-05
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by s_spiff on 2008-05-05
I'm on Hardy Haron x64. Amd 3500+ on a Gigabyte iDNA series motherboard, having a NVidia 6100 graphic card onboard. I installed the nvidia drivers using EnvyNG ( available in the repositories ), automatic mode.
In case of Gutsy, I had an option ( System > Preferences > Screen Resolution ) of upto 1280x1024 with a refresh rate of 96 Hz.
Since I've upgraded to Hardy, the max resolution I'm offered is 1024x786. I bypass this by using System > Administration > Nvidia Server Settings, where I'm able to set a 1280x1024 resolution. But on a reboot, this doesn't seem to stick. It reverts back to 1024x786. 

I'm attaching my xorg.conf file. Can someone let me know how to make the settings stick, if by modding the xorg.conf? or any other way for that matter!
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "AddARGBGLXVisuals"    "True"
    Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option        "Composite"    "Enable"
EndSection



Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Cappy on 2008-05-05
Try
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and change the screen section to
```

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Monitor "Configured Monitor"
	Device "Configured Video Device"
	Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
	Defaultdepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth   24
		Virtual 1280   1024
		Modes           "1280x1024@96" 
        	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Also, the nvidia tool should be run as root (prompts you for password) and you should click the "Save to X" button or something like that

---

### Post by s_spiff on 2008-05-05
Hey, thanks. I thought this has to do with something related to xorg beging edited. So I made the Settings Manager generate a xorg.conf for me.Since it wasn't running as root, it wasn't allowing me to save it to xorg.conf. So I copied the contents, opened xorg.conf using the termina, and replaced the entire contents with the one generated by the Server Settings Manager. And touche! i have my 1280x1024 settings with absolutely no issues!

---

