---
title: "9.04 64-bit does not recognize 4 GB RAM"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by 50words on 2009-05-12
BIOS shows 4096 MB RAM, but System > Admin > System Monitor shows only 3.8 GB. Any ideas why this would be?

Computer is a 2008 Dell Inspiron 530 bought with Ubuntu 8.04 pre-installed.

---

### Post by 50words on 2009-05-12
.

---

### Post by 50words on 2009-05-12
Really? I tried several searches on Google and this forum, and got nothing.

---

### Post by John.Michael.Kane on 2009-05-12
One of these threads could possibly explain why your system does not recognize 4 GB RAM.

[Using all 4GB of my RAM in 64-bit Desktop Ubuntu Read post #7]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=979441&highlight=recognize+GB+RAM")

[4GB RAM Problems > Only Detecting 3GB]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1030027&highlight=recognize+GB+RAM")

[64bit only finding 3GB Ram?]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=783707&highlight=recognize+GB+RAM&page=2")

---

### Post by TheBuzzSaw on 2009-05-12
I always thought it was simply a counting error. I have 2 GB RAM, but my system says I have 1.9 GB. My laptop has 1 GB, but it acknowledges only 994.4 MB.

---

### Post by becho on 2009-05-12
Key note:
 you could be sharing some ram for your video chipset.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-05-12
Some of your RAM will be used for hardware addressing. This isn't just a Linux limit either; though Linux is a lot more "honest" about available RAM. Windowz generally reports the RAM as seen by the BIOS. You have to dig in sysinfo to see the actual address space available.

---

### Post by lensman3 on 2009-05-12
Do a "more" or "less" on the pseudo file "/proc/meminfo".  That file tells you exactly what the kernel is using.


The size of the file /proc/kmem is the total virtual memory that the kernel is using at the time.  

Do a "man kmem" and a "man proc" to see more that you ever wanted to about system memory.  At one time, the "ps" program, I think, read the /proc/kmem file to see which processes were running.  "ps" now man read other files.  The proc file system was new to SunOS and Linux.

---

### Post by Artemis3 on 2009-05-12
Well mine also shows 3.8 and i don't even mind :)

Dmesg shows: Memory: 3979384k/5242880k available (4760k kernel code, 1050180k absent, 212356k reserved, 2540k data, 536k init)

But then it also shows: Please enable the IOMMU option in the BIOS setup
 This costs you 64 MB of RAM

Which is an option i can't find in my bios or might have a totally different name :)

---

### Post by Cliffr39 on 2009-06-12
I installed the 64-bit version last night and it shows "2.8 GiB" from my 4GB installed.  The integrated video is set for 128mb in the BIOS - not sure where the rest is...

---

