---
title: "Heeelp!"
date: 2008-07-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by linuxn00b84 on 2008-07-02
Hi~,

First and foremost, thanks for your time.

I've just recently entered the world of linux, thanks to winblows sucking so badly and all of my friends recommending it. And it worked almost perfectly.. Until I installed a driver. Right after installing it had a worse impact on everything than the previous driver (The one linux came with.) So I uninstalled it, and tried "Rolling back" (The only expression I can think of, atm.) To the working driver, I've uninstalled, reinstalled, several different drivers in hopes of finding one that would work again.. I can't get ubuntu out of low gfx mode. I have no idea what or why this happend, and i'd like to get it solved as soon as possible.. Any help is greatly appreciated; Some info you may or may not need (I have no idea, but anyways.)

Specs of the pc:

CPU: (Quad-Core)Intel® Core™ 2 Extreme QX9650 @ 3.00GHz 1333FSB 12MB L2 Cache 64-bit
MB: EVGA nForce 780i SLI Mainboard FSB1333
PSU: 1,200 Watts Thermaltake W0133RU ToughPower
Vid: ASUS (HD) EAH3870
Ram: 8GB 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 800 (PC2 6400)

Linux:

Linux Shigure 2.6.24-19-generic #1 SMP Wed Jun 18 14:15:37 UTC 2008 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Current drivers (tried):

ati-driver-installer-8.38.6-x86.x86_64.run
ati-driver-installer-8-6-x86.x86_64.run
envy_0.9.10-0ubuntu2_all.deb

If any other info is needed, let me know.. I'll be here for quite a while.. *sighs*

---

### Post by hubie on 2008-07-02
It may be that the ati driver overwrote your X config file.  You might want to look in your X11 directory to see whether there is a backup of the configuration file (assuming the ati driver backed it up).

---

### Post by linuxn00b84 on 2008-07-02
I've tried loading the backup "Xorg.conf" 's.. same results.. I can't get linux out of low gfx mode, and my resolution over 800x600. It seems like its not even detecting it any longer.

---

### Post by hubie on 2008-07-02
Check out [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video) to see whether you skipped any setup steps.

---

### Post by Ripfox on 2008-07-02
Is it ubuntu? > sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

---

### Post by linuxn00b84 on 2008-07-02
I re-tried all of those steps and still no success.. I'm stuck in low gfx mode and nothings working right.

The results of fglrxinfo:

robbie@Shigure:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3-rc2)

My Xorg.config:

[hide=Config]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


My old:

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"

	# These modules are required for 3D acceleration
	# (the DGA extension is broken in the fglrx driver)
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dri"
	# Load "extmod" but omit DGA extension
	SubSection "extmod"
		Option	    "omit xfree86-dga"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"

# this is the important bit
	# If X refuses to use the screen resolution you asked for,
	# uncomment this; see "Bugs and Workarounds" for details.
	#Option "NoDDC"
	# === Video Overlay for the Xv extension ===
	# Note: When OpenGL Overlay is enabled, Video Overlay
	#       will be disabled automatically
	# === Use internal AGP GART support? ===
	# If OpenGL acceleration doesn't work, try using "yes" here
	# and disable the kernel agpgart driver.
	Identifier  "ATI"
	Driver      "vesa"
	Option	    "UseInternalAGPGART" "no"
	# === OpenGL Overlay ===
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "your screen"
	Device     "ATI"
	Monitor    "your monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"

# this is only an example,
		# use your preferred resolution here
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x960"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x960"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection
[/hide]

Any other options?

---

