---
title: "8.04 LTS x86_64 and firefox 32bit"
date: 2008-05-11
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by leifj on 2008-05-11
Hi Guys,

I have just installed the 8.04 Desktop version of Ubuntu, which was very smooth. Everything seems to work fine including browsing on the net with the 64bit version of firefox.

  However, I need full 1.6 Java compatibility (among other things), so I downloaded the 32bit version of firefox (both 2.0.0.14 and 3 beta 5). After installing the ia32-libs package I can run firefox but I can´t make it do name resolving. E.g. if I input the URL: [www.crysberg.dk](www.crysberg.dk) I get nothing, but if I input the IP address instead: 194.239.152.69 I get the page ok, just without pictures (probably because they are referenced by site name). At this point I haven´t even downloaded any Java yet.

  I can do ´host [www.crysberg.dk´](www.crysberg.dk´) and get the IP address fine. I can also get that site using the 64bit firefox. Looks to me as if some 32bit name resolving has been broken !?

  I have tried on 2 different PCs and on 2 different networks with same result.

  Please help,

 Leif

---

### Post by negora on 2008-05-11
I'm using Kubuntu, but I got the same problem too. Apart of that, KDE seems not to be able to apply its styles to bars (scroll, progress...), like it does with 64 bits GTK applications. But this is another story...

I followed these steps to install Firefox 32 bits:

1 - Installing "ia32-libs".
2 - Installing "getlibs-all".
3 - Downloading "by hand" the 32 bits version of Firefox from one repository.
4 - Installing this package with "dpkg" and the option "--force-architecture".
5 - Using "getlibs" to get the missing libraries.

Firefox runs ok, but like leifj said, it's unable to resolve domain names.

I'm starting to believe that the alternative of making a "chroot" maybe it isn't so bad after all...

---

### Post by negora on 2008-05-11
Ops, we should have searched a little further... Maybe this thread has much to do with this issue:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786985]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786985")


SUCCESSFUL: Ok, tested. It was caused by the lack of that library. Now the domain name resolution is ok. Thanks to the people from the original thread who solved it ;) .

---

### Post by leifj on 2008-05-11
Yes, that lib32nss-mdns sure did it. Thanks a lot for the hint.

 Leif
:)

---

