---
title: "8.10 mouse jumps to center of screen"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Big_G on 2008-10-31
Hi all,

I am a bit of a noob to ubuntu so as i am of work for 8 weeks i thought i would give it a go and am quite impressed its made its way on to my laptop and desktop pc. And from what i can make out alot if the comands are very siminal to sco unix anyways here is my prediciment.

When useing the mouse in the gui mouse movment is fine for about a second then jumps to the center of the screen and keeps doing this. I thought it might be my optical mouse but have also tryed this with a ps2 mouse. I think 8.10 is still in beta testing but was wondering if anyone else had come across this and if there is a solution. please be gentle with me as i have only been useing ubuntu for 7 days now. I am hopeing that this isue can be resolved as 8.04 has kittens with my vga card. Imfomus white screen after reboot.



If i have posted this in the wrong area i apoligise in advance :o

Any help would be great 

Thanks

I am useing 64bit ubuntu 8.10 

q6600, asus p5q , ATI x850xt PE,  4gig ram

---

### Post by Beaucephus on 2008-10-31
Same issue here.  I've never had this problem before.  I'm still using the live CD/USB since I have a Debian install that works fine. This is very basic functionality that is very broken.  Anyone else?

UPDATE
I tried with the i386 live CD and got the same results.  The problem is not 64bit specific.  It looks like I'll be sticking with Debian since something important breaks with every upgrade of Ubuntu.

UPDATE 2 
The second time I booted from the USB drive this seems to have fixed itself. Weird.

---

### Post by mr_weasel on 2008-11-01
I've noticed this also.  I've worked out that it's related to my joystick being plugged in.  The desktop seems to think I want to use it as a mouse, but I don't.  (Why would I want to do that?)  If I move the joystick the mouse pointer moves, but none of the joystick buttons do anything.  If I tap the joystick a couple of times it settles down and I can use the mouse until I bump the joystick again.

---

### Post by endesign on 2008-11-01
For all those who posted above I had this problem too with the move to 8.10. It turns out (see this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=953639]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=953639")) that joystick config settings are not complete in Ubuntu 8.10 so many joysticks are recognised as mice hence your mouse and your joystick play tug of war for the mouse cursor. A temporary solution is simply to remove the joystick. Lots of folks are following the launchpad instructions to upload joystick information to launchpad so these joysticks can be configured for 8.10 (I did this for mine - the logitech 3D force pro) and there are quite a few sticks already noted on the site. Proper fixes should come through in updates i guess, but at least you can rest easy a bit knowing that the problem has a temporary fix and will soon enough get a permanent one.

---

### Post by Big_G on 2008-11-01
> **mr_weasel said:**
> I've noticed this also.  I've worked out that it's related to my joystick being plugged in.  The desktop seems to think I want to use it as a mouse, but I don't.  (Why would I want to do that?)  If I move the joystick the mouse pointer moves, but none of the joystick buttons do anything.  If I tap the joystick a couple of times it settles down and I can use the mouse until I bump the joystick again.


Thanks done the trick all working a ok :)

---

