---
title: "8.10 alternate amd64 install: stuck @ &quot;media change&quot;"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by kennethd on 2008-11-02
hi, 

i am trying to install onto a thinkpad x61s intel core2 duo using the ubuntu-8.10-alternate-amd64.iso image (md5 verified).  the x61s has no internal optical drive, so i am using a usb optical drive.  i am stuck at the screen which reads: 

"""
[!!] Select and install software 

Please insert the disc labeled: 'Ubuntu 8.10 _Intrepid Ibex_ - Release amd64 (20081028)' in the drive '/cdrom/' and press enter.

Media change

<Continue>
"""

in terminal f2, `grep DISKNAME /cdrom/README.diskdefines` reads: 

#define DISKNAME Ubuntu 8.10 "Intrepid Ibex" - Release amd64

I notice this is missing the "(20081028)" part, and the underscores are replaced with quotes.  which makes me wonder, is there some inconsistency in the release?  if so, is there a way around it?  

thanks very much for reading,
kennethd


(EDIT) 
after starting over, here is some more info which may help someone diagnose this: 

1st, there is another error prior to this step @ "Configure the package manager", which results in the error: 

"""
apt configuration problem 

An attempt to configure apt to install additional packages from the CD failed
"""

/var/log/syslog reports something about not being able to mount /cdrom/, though `ls /cdrom/` shows that it is already mounted, and pressing <Continue>" allows one to move on 

(EDIT2)
/target/etc/apt/sources.list is where the DISKNAME string with the date is coming from, I was able to edit it to match what is on my CD if i did the edit after the "install the base system" stage completed, and before the apt configuration stage, and thus get a little further into the install, but only a little; the next error happened during pkgsel language support, when i started getting a lot of "Couldn't find package X" messages, and then finally: 

"""
in-target: E:
in-target: Couldn't find task minimal 
in-target: tasksel: aptitude failed (100) 
main-menu[3200]: WARNING **: Configuring 'pkgsel' failed with error code 1
main-menu[3200]: WARNING **: Menu item 'pkgsel' failed.
"""

trying again, this time i'll answer no to that language support question...

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-11-02
Perhaps [this page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick") can help you.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-02
I had the same problem the other day when I used the alternate install cd. I just started the installation again and it installed with no problem.

Jim

---

### Post by TheRide on 2008-11-26
I am having the same issue when trying to install 8.10 from the alternate install disk.  Every time the installer makes it a bit past 70% then stops and asks for the media change.  At this point my optical drive is totally dead, can't even open the tray until rebooting.

I've tried the following to get around the issue but always with the same error:

[LIST=1]
[*]Double Check MD5 hash (it is correct)
[*]Check disk for errors (all have passed)
[*]Re-burned media at 4x speed
[*]Tried a totally different drive from a spare pc
[/LIST]

Any advice for what else I can try is appreciated, I'm starting to get pretty frustrated after loosing several evenings to this same error.

---

### Post by TheRide on 2008-12-02
> **TheRide said:**
> I am having the same issue when trying to install 8.10 from the alternate install disk.  Every time the installer makes it a bit past 70% then stops and asks for the media change.  At this point my optical drive is totally dead, can't even open the tray until rebooting.

I've tried the following to get around the issue but always with the same error:

[LIST=1]
[*]Double Check MD5 hash (it is correct)
[*]Check disk for errors (all have passed)
[*]Re-burned media at 4x speed
[*]Tried a totally different drive from a spare pc
[/LIST]

Any advice for what else I can try is appreciated, I'm starting to get pretty frustrated after loosing several evenings to this same error.

Finally gave up and went back to the 8.04 release which installed with no problems, I was then able to update to 8.10.  Since the upgrade I've had no problems with 8.10 at all.

No idea what caused the issue, but at least I was able to workaround it.

---

### Post by headhog on 2008-12-21
I ran into the same issue.  I cut the ext3 partition from 70G to 35G, and restarted the installation, and the issue disappeared.  Throw enough mud against the wall, some of it will stick.

:confused:

---

### Post by isecore on 2009-01-30
What the hell is this crap? Pardon my french, but I'm royally angry at the moment. Intrepid is the WORST release ever - it can't even install! This is outrageous if you ask me.

I'm in the same situation. Trying to install from a cd. It's been verified in every way - MD5, the built-in utility, so forth and so on. There's nothing wrong with it. This can only mean that the actual image you download is broken in some way. Absolutely ludicruous.

This stinks! This is total BS!

Update: apparently it had to do with my drive, which is quite odd. I have a NEC ND-3540A. When I dug out an old Sony CDRW from my closet it installed just fine. Weird.

---

