---
title: "8.10 screen scramble becuz of running wrong screen resolution with no vid card driver"
date: 2009-01-29
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Chevy86 on 2009-01-29
Hello im a new ubuntu user migating from windows. im running ubuntu 8.10. ive had problems from the start with trying to get a driver for my ati radeon 9200 running. on my last reboot a message box appeared on startup it said somthing like "your driver for your graphics card is not configured right" and gave a list of options like "start ubuntu in low graphics mode", reset old configs" and "setup new config". the first time this happend i chose start in low graphics. then when it loaded the desktop the screen resolution was wrong so i went to change it and it scrambled my screen. now whenever i restart my screen is scrambled in ubuntu and none of the options in the message box at startup fix it. is there a way to fix this (maybe from running the os on the  boot cd?) without reinstalling ubuntu?

---

### Post by Chevy86 on 2009-01-29
Ok, i was able to get into ubutu without the scrambled screen by switching out my gaphic card for and older one. now im trying to install envy but thats giving me problems to. btw the massage at startup is "ubuntu is running in low graphics mode" and it still shows up.

---

### Post by BillAda on 2009-01-29
I'm running a Radeon ATI 9000 and I changed to drivers I found in Add/Remove. When I tried to boot this AM I got "ubuntu is running in low graphics mode". Went thru recovery and tried to use default drivers and still the same "low graphics problem" with the scrambled screen. I'm going to come back  to this page later to see if their's any resolution.

---

### Post by Chevy86 on 2009-01-30
ok ive figured some stuff out. i dont really know what im doing, im just pressing buttons untill i find the button that works so to speak. ive found that removing your video card driver and removing the "driver line from xorg config fixes the "ubuntu is running in low graphics mode" thing. but whenever i try to reinstall a driver the massage returns. ive never been able to get xorg to recognize my hardware. but the first time i installed ubuntu it did so im thinking of reinstalling ubuntu but id rather not cuz my internet is so slow and it takes forever to download the 245 updates.

---

### Post by Chevy86 on 2009-02-02
ive got it working a little better. for some reason ati catalyst control messes it up though. this is the walkthru i followed to get it working; [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) and then i followed; [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Radeon_9200/9250_(RV280)_and_DVI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Radeon_9200/9250_(RV280)_and_DVI) from that page cuz my card is a RV280 wich apperently has a bug. Before following the instructions i think you need to make sure xorg.conf is set back to defalts and you dont have any other video drivers installed.

---

### Post by nss0000 on 2009-02-02
C86

Casual Ubuntu lusrs don't mess with the "custom" NV drivers. They are evil. If you wish to suffer, keep messing with them. Otherwise for a peaceful life use the graphics drivers built-into Ubuntu.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-03
@nss0000

What do Nvidia drivrs have to do with ATI cards. Your comment is not helpful.

Jim

---

