---
title: "9.10 Network problem on DX58SO"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Hemanth S A on 2009-10-30
I installed Ubuntu 9.10 a few hours ago. I'm running Core i7 920 with DX58SO board.
Everything in the OS works fine but the network. The strange part is that I get ping replies from major sites but I can't use internet to browse or to download any software packages. I've connected my router through Ethernet port.

I'm not really sure if its a driver issue since I'm getting ping replies.

Any help will be appreciated.

---

### Post by Hernan Wilkinson on 2009-11-02
Hi, 
 network is working fine in my machine (also the same board).. I did not have to do anything... did you check the network options?
 Is the sound working in your machine? it is not in mine... if it is working, could you tell me the sound settings you have?

 Thanks,
 Hernan.

---

### Post by Hemanth S A on 2009-11-03
Now that you mention it I noticed that even the sound isn't working. I wasn't really worried about the sound.

I hope we can get our problems fixed.

As for the network I tried Automatic(DHCP) and tried manual settings too. But no luck in being able to download or browse. I'm using manual settings in Windows atm.

---

### Post by Hemanth S A on 2009-11-03
All the sound settings in Karmic was muted by default. I had to unmute them all and increase the volume. Sound is working fine in mine now.

I also figured out a way to get my firefox to browse the network. I just had to disable ipv6 in about:config.

As for as the software manager goes, I couldn't get the package downloads to work. I tried disabling ipv6 totally. I can't even check for updates.

---

