---
title: "2.6.24-21 Kernel NVidia Issues"
date: 2008-10-15
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Elim_Garak on 2008-10-15
[FONT="Courier New"]I just wanted to pass along my experience with the latest kernel update and its effects on the NVidia proprietary package, because I'm sure I'm not the only one who will come across it, and some will be very frustrated.  I did the update and rebooted into the new kernel, only to find I was booted into the lo-res graphics mode.  I did a couple checks with the NVidia-Settings in Gnome, and it stated that nothing was installed.

I didn't feel like messing around with it right now, so I just removed the new kernel and went back to 19.  Rebooting into 19 gave me the same problems, so I did a bit of deeper digging.  It would seem that some of the X configuration settings were modified.  I checked in the shell using the NVidia-installer to check for updates, and there were none.  I then used gksudo nvidia-settings to reset my resolution and the like and save to the configuration file.  All went back to normal.

I suspect that I could have gone through this procedure with kernel 21 and straightened everything out.  I could be wrong, and I'm sure others will let us know if it was this easy to resolve in the new kernel.  When I have time, I'll reinstall the new kernel and see if my little procedure works to get NVidia back in business there, too.[/FONT]

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-10-15
Can anyone confirm they have this working ?

---

### Post by wfp on 2008-10-15
No problem here on Nvdia 6150 updated kernal tonight.

---

### Post by Elim_Garak on 2008-10-15
> **wfp said:**
> No problem here on Nvdia 6150 updated kernal tonight.

[FONT="Courier New"]Did you have any of the weird problems that I did, or did it just work straight off the bat for you?[/FONT]

---

### Post by wfp on 2008-10-15
No none of the issues you stated. Just restarted after kernal update and everything was still set to my default setting. Checked X-server settings nothing changed. Sorry to hear your having problems.

---

### Post by htrex on 2008-10-15
while using proprietary NVIDIA drivers you must recompile it's kernel module when kernel is updated from the repository.

to do so be sure to have a driver binary somewhere on your local storage
(you can get an appropriate binary here [http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html))

switch to a terminal (CTRL+ALT+F1) and stop GDM (sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop)

cd where you have downloaded the driver

chmod +x driverfilename.bin (to add execute permissions)

sudo ./driverfilename.bin --uninstall (to remove previous driver version)

sudo ./driverfilename.bin (to install the new one)

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

it should work like that.

Alessandro

---

### Post by Stunts on 2008-10-15
Hi!
Just wanted to say that everything went smooth over here too. 
Using EnvyNG drivers on an nVidia 8600GTm.
Sorry to hear about your issues...

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-10-15
I have nvidia and sound issues with the new -21 kernel.

Is this isolated to the 64 bit version?

---

### Post by gdp77 on 2008-10-15
My 32 bit hardy is broken after the update. I had installed nvidia drivers with envyNG. Now I can only have 800x600 (8800 GT). I uninstalled and reinstalled the nvidia drivers and the problem remains... Trying to boot with the old kernel and I have the same problem... It is frustrating and I am not a terminal expert to try to correct the situation. 

administration --> hardware drivers, shows that I am not using proprietary drivers and it doesn't give me the option to install them (like my 8800GT doesn't exist)

---

### Post by Stinger on 2008-10-15
Confirming trouble with the new kernel and nvidia driver using envy.
I had to uninstall the driver using envy-gtk and completely remove envy, revert back to a default xorg.conf wich BTW laves me with 800 X 600 :-({|= 
I hate the default bulletproof X !
Reboot, install envy again, install nvidia driver using envy, one more reboot and everything seems OK. Phew !!
Took me 2 hours.

I hate these kind of regressions.

But I still think UBUNTU ROCKS :guitar:

BTW I'm using the 32 bit edition.

---

### Post by gdp77 on 2008-10-15
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

solved the problem for me (now I can work at 1280x1024 with open source driver). I will try to uninstall envy, reboot, then install envy and reinstall proprietary drivers and see what happens.

---

### Post by Sigma1 on 2008-10-15
Just for the information, things seem to be working fine after a kernel upgrade from 24-19 to 24-21, with an old NVidia Gerforce 5100 (installed using Envyng).

---

### Post by briandu on 2008-10-15
BTW, just as a point this is the 64 bit thread and not 32 - you may inadvertently confuse folks.


There seems to be a prob with the 64 bit version - I looked at the nvidia site and it seems they have not released the necessary code for 64bit. I kinda explains why I have had to revert back to an older version combined with this kernel.  :sad:

I am not using envy in my case.

---

### Post by apedraza on 2008-10-15
> **briandu said:**
> BTW, just as a point this is the 64 bit thread and not 32 - you may inadvertently confuse folks.


There seems to be a prob with the 64 bit version - I looked at the nvidia site and it seems they have not released the necessary code for 64bit. I kinda explains why I have had to revert back to an older version combined with this kernel.  :sad:

I am not using envy in my case.

I upgraded my 64bit machine this morning without a hitch. However my laptop running 32bit with envy nvidia is not working properly....

---

### Post by briandu on 2008-10-15
I have sorted my nvidia card 9600 to take the .80 driver no prob. BUT.....not on the .21 kernel only the .19

If you do a dist-upgrade then it seems the .21 kernel is not happy for some reason. Do not know yet.

So far so good.

---

### Post by Embiggens on 2008-10-15
Hi, not sure if this is related, but I'm finally up and running so maybe this can help someone.  Inspiron 1720 32-bit with nvidia geforce 8600.  I did a dist-upgrade to kernel 2.6.24-21 (from -19), and did have problems with my graphics card.  I tried reinstalling with the nvidia utility, which has worked before, to no avail. looking at dmesg output, I saw
```
[  307.023695] NVRM: API mismatch: the client has the version 177.80, but
[  307.023697] NVRM: this kernel module has the version 169.12.  Please
[  307.023698] NVRM: make sure that this kernel module and all NVIDIA driver
[  307.023698] NVRM: components have the same version.

```
I went to the nvidia forum, and apparently this is an issue with the linux restricted driver manager- essentially (I think) ubuntu's trying to override the proprietary driver...or something.  Anyway, they give a number of suggestions here:
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=72490](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=72490)

my steps were the following:
-uninstalled linux-restricted-modules-common
-removed the file /etc/init.d/nvidia-kernel (maybe these first 2 steps were reversed)
-deleted the file /lib/linux-restricted-modules/.nvidia_new_installed
-added to /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common the line
```
DISABLED_MODULES="nv nvidia_new"
```

Then I re-ran the nvidia installer and everything was cool.  Again, that link has a bit more info than what I'm giving. Hope this helps someone, I've never been able to help anyone before.

---

### Post by NoLinuxGuru on 2008-10-15
I have the same issue. It started as soon as I rebooted after the kernel upgrade. 

I have a Dell M1210 with GeForce 7400 video. 

I tried all of the above suggestions. I got my res to 800x600 which is finally usable but not optimal. 

Any help is much appreciated..

---

### Post by wfp on 2008-10-15
You can try this to get a better resolution> First try this:
atl+f2
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
see if your monitor is on that list.
If not:
Choose Generic
and resolution that your monitor supports

This is not a fix for your driver issue with the new kernal, but should get you a better resolution.

---

### Post by Jokermage on 2008-10-15
I can confirm this problem. I'm on an AMD 64 system using a Geforce 7600 GT and Geforce 6-series that is built into the mother board. Restarting after the update forced me into low-res mode. After a couple hours of trying various procedures mentioned in the forums, I pulled the 7600 and plugged my monitor into the on-board and got the same problem.

I will try the suggestions mentioned here.

Update: [htrex's instructions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5968985&postcount=6") resolved the problem for me. Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by NoLinuxGuru on 2008-10-16
The only thing that worked for me is reboot back into 2.6.24-19 kernel (as discussed above) and reinstall Nvidia driver using Envy. 

Things went back to normal: display, compiz, etc... good to be back :popcorn:

Please post fix for GeForce 7400 driver with new kernel if you find solution. 


I want to use new kernel but will back off until there's a fix.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2008-10-16
Similar problems for me with newest 2.6.24-21 kernel on Hardy 32 bit with NVidia 6800LE and Envy package - 800x600 screen resolution, also wireless and Vodafone 3G completely broken.

Luckily booting back into the 2.6.24-19 kernel fixed things for me.

---

### Post by beardo on 2008-10-16
I had similar issues, booting into low res. Think my card is geforce 9600 series.

Anyhow did this:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

and it have given me a workable resolution. I have not got time to play with anything else, but as long as I can get some work done today is all that matters!

Thanks!

---

### Post by Elim_Garak on 2008-10-16
> **htrex said:**
> while using proprietary NVIDIA drivers you must recompile it's kernel module when kernel is updated from the repository.

[FONT="Courier New"]Thanks for making that concise.  It sounds like what I eventually would have attempted, but using a lot more trial and error, heavy on the error.  I will give it a go and see how it works.

Also, thanks to all the other posters on this thread for your support, assistance, and input.  Ubuntu works better than anything MS produces on its own, as it stands.  The support community simply makes it that much better.[/FONT]

---

### Post by Psykotik on 2008-10-16
> **steveneddy said:**
> I have nvidia and sound issues with the new -21 kernel.

Is this isolated to the 64 bit version?

No, pulseaudio doesn't recognize anymore my (integrated Realtek ALC882) sound card on Ubuntu 32.

---

### Post by briandu on 2008-10-16
It does work together - that is: .21 kernel and .80 nvidia driver. I reloaded a AMD64 T3 and away it went. Nvidia 8600GT

Now to sort out my Q6600 that did not work with 9600GT card

It must be something in the xsettings that is being affected.

---

### Post by Milleman on 2008-10-16
Read my posting: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=949268#2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=949268#2")

:guitar:

---

### Post by Big_astur on 2008-10-16
I had problems too.

Took me sometime to finally have it working.

I had to uninstall the nvidia drivers using Envy and then reinstall it with the same tool. I was a bit lost till i decided to try that.

I use Ubuntu 64bits + 8800gtx.

---

### Post by 4Play on 2008-10-16
I confirm the above reply, I have a XPS M1530 (Nvidia 8600M GT) and the 2.6.24-21 kernel update ruined my display settings.
Simply running envy (thers a nice gui!) to uninstall the nvidia drivers, then reinstall (with a reboot after each operation) solved my problem.
Now I am running the 2.6.24 kernel on 64-bit Ubuntu with compiz and everything working fine.

---

### Post by sornen on 2008-10-16
I had the same problem with nvidia 9600 and amd-64 went back to using the 24-19 kernel.

---

### Post by stchman on 2008-10-16
Yes, if you are running Envy drivers or nvidia drivers from Nvidia website then the new kernel would break the drivers.  I am running the nvidia drivers from the restricted driver manager and the new -21 kernel works fine.

---

### Post by phlembob on 2008-10-16
I have read a few others with some NVIDIA problems and with envy-NG.  My NVIDIA 6100 is not affected. Most of the problems seem to be with 8800, 9800, with accelerated suffixes like GX, GS, GTX, etc.  Hey --- just keep bringing up the problems and they will be rectified.  Trust Hardy.:guitar:

---

### Post by Amorget on 2008-10-16
8600M GT here w/ the latest drivers from nVidia.  Installed new kernel, restarted, got safe mode, reinstalled nVidia drivers, restarted, good to go.

---

### Post by NoLinuxGuru on 2008-10-17
Fixed my issue. Using Envy drivers

System Info:

Dell M1210 Intel Core 2 Duo
GeForce 7400 graphics card

- Start with new kernel (if you just ran the update, right after reboot)
     - You will get the low resolution option, continue
- Uninstall The driver using Envyng 
     - Reboot
          - You will get the low resolution option, continue (res around 800x600)
- sudo apt-get install envyng-qt
- launch envyng
     - Applications > System Tools > EnvyNG
          - Install your Nvidia driver again, select Auto
          - Reboot 

That worked for me. It's simple enough. Hope it works for you

:guitar:

---

### Post by Naguz on 2008-10-17
> **stchman said:**
> Yes, if you are running Envy drivers or nvidia drivers from Nvidia website then the new kernel would break the drivers.  I am running the nvidia drivers from the restricted driver manager and the new -21 kernel works fine.

I have the drivers from the repo, they are broken. (8800GT)
They were installed using the restricted hardware drivers from the system administration menu. Now it doesn't even seem to find my card at all. "No proprietary drivers are in use on this system." On my laptop I installed the drivers the same way, and  no display problems there, though it uses a 700M card, and i see 8800 is mentioned as a "bad guy". On my laptop, on the other hand, when it upgraded my boot.lst (or whatever the grub boot config file is called), it had the funny idea of substituting the drive from hd(0,1) to hd(0,3), resulting in the system not booting. No problem fixing it, but updates rendering your system unusable is not a very good thing, IMHO.

I have tried "sudo nvidia-xconfig" as well as uninstalling and reinstalling the nvidia drivers from repo, but still no go. Guess I'll have to install the binary drivers from nvidia tomorrow, maybe that will do the trick. Or I'll just use the old kernel until the -21 is actually fit for release. This should clearly have been a beta.

---

### Post by Npl on 2008-10-17
Had troubles after update aswell... I now chosen to try to fix this kinda trouble once on for all.

installed dkms, removed nvidia-packes in synaptic, [disabled nvidia in the restricted drivers]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=72490"), manually installed NVidias drivers, installed the matching nvidia-kernel-source from the intrepid repos (which setups dkms automatically).

Everythings fine now, but the true test will be the next kernel-update. If everythings working right, dkms should automatically compile the kernel-module.

---

### Post by blank172 on 2008-10-18
> **wfp said:**
> You can try this to get a better resolution> First try this:
atl+f2
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
see if your monitor is on that list.
If not:
Choose Generic
and resolution that your monitor supports

This is not a fix for your driver issue with the new kernal, but should get you a better resolution.


yes this help me for better resolution. thx :)
I miss my wobbly effect :/

---

### Post by HungryMan on 2008-10-29
I'm not on a 64-bit system, but the -21 kernel killed my video card (metaphorically of course). I tried reconfiguring xorg.conf to the defaults, but it never asked me about anything but the mouse and the keyboard (the max resolution was 800x600, acceleration wasn't enabled). I tried installing the drivers from nvidia's website, I got a max resolution of 1024x768, still no acceleration. I got pissed and changed to an old vid card (even if it has no accel, at least I can get to 1280x960)
I asked here on the forums and rolling back to -19 seemed to be the only option. I still haven't done it still though, but with the posts here, I'm not really sure if I should.

I had an nVidia GeForce FX 5000 with the drivers from the repos. Now, I have a video card that appears to be nVidia, but it uses savage/vesa (not sure which one, but I think it's vesa) drivers.

---

### Post by blank172 on 2008-10-30
My problem solved by uninstalling the nvidia-glx-new and installing envy. 
Google it. But i cant find it from [www.appnr.com](www.appnr.com) anymore. envy should install the right driver for your graphic card by itself.

For the resolution problem.
Run gksudo displayconfig-gtk
screen>model
choose generic 
choose  LCD Panel <ur screen size>
u hv to tick the wide screen box at bottom left.
then ok.
>screen
choose <ur screen size> resolution
choose correct frame rate for ur LCD (50hz etc) 
(If ur graphic card not detected just use vesa)
then ok restart/logout

p/s: It should have work great with Vesa if ur graphic card not there.

---

### Post by bangeko on 2008-11-03
> **gdp77 said:**
> My 32 bit hardy is broken after the update. I had installed nvidia drivers with envyNG. Now I can only have 800x600 (8800 GT). I uninstalled and reinstalled the nvidia drivers and the problem remains... Trying to boot with the old kernel and I have the same problem... It is frustrating and I am not a terminal expert to try to correct the situation. 

administration --> hardware drivers, shows that I am not using proprietary drivers and it doesn't give me the option to install them (like my 8800GT doesn't exist)

install linux-restricted-modules first

---

### Post by paolol61 on 2008-11-04
Mine broken too :mad:
I upgraded on line and after the reboot I got  low res.
Then now I have a flashing monitor with changing color :mad:
I try also to change the video card with a new 260 but still no go.
It's very annoin problem, it was fine on my laptop and is not working on the desktop, also is not working if I boot from the CD same problem :(
I will try you suggestion when I go back home ;)
:p

---

### Post by robert114 on 2008-11-05
I know this is slightly offtopic but i'm using Ubuntu 8.10 with the 2.6.27-7-generic kernel. 
I must say... I really love DKMS! I've manually installed the Nvidia driver (for testing purposes because of a lot regression problems) And after the kernel update today I expected I had to recompile/reinstall Nvidia. But I didn't had to! Because of DKMS

So these problems you folks had, should belong to the past with Ubuntu 8.10 and higher!

Dell thanx for DKMS =D>

---

### Post by Duranxl on 2008-11-05
I had the same problem after updating the kernel.
But i just re-ran EnvyNG and all problems were solved.
Now I just upgrade to 8.10 and i'm having no trouble at all

---

