---
title: "8.10 reboots to terminal after nvidia activation"
date: 2009-02-24
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by toki_the_collector on 2009-02-24
after a fresh install of intrepid amd64 and the 258 updates(burned disc in january) I try to activate hardware driver for nvidia (177 recommended) it tells me I need to reboot.  upon reboot instead of flashing the terminal and loading gnome and logging me in like normal it normally does it stalls at the terminal screen.  from what I can gather it doesn't know what the primary screen is.  gnome is running because when I shut it down it says *stopping gnome*. After a second reboot sometimes I don't get that far.  I've tried 4 fresh installs with the same results.  when I boot from livecd it won't let me activate the driver(probably due to required reboot)

I've also noticed before the driver problem that from a cold boot(20c) it says my apeture is 32 and less than 64. but after a boot @ temp(27-29c) it says greater than 4 gigs and ignoreing.

I have a dualcore amd, a biostar "gf8100m2+ se" motherboard (recognizied as a 8200) and a geforce 8(5 or 6)00gt with tv out to component video to a standard def ntsc tv, and ONE gig of ram.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-24
Start in revoery mode and at the menu select xfix, once it is finished select resume and you should boot to your desktop. From what you are describing, you haven't completed the upgrades yet. Before installing the nvidia drivers open an Applications-->Accessories-->terminal and type:

```
sudo apt-get -f install
```

once the above command has finished in the same terminal type:

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

This should hopefully finish your upgrade and then you can install the restricted drivers.

Jim

---

### Post by Reeman on 2009-02-25
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Start in revoery mode and at the menu select xfix, once it is finished select resume and you should boot to your desktop. From what you are describing, you haven't completed the upgrades yet. Before installing the nvidia drivers open an Applications-->Accessories-->terminal and type:

```
sudo apt-get -f install
```

once the above command has finished in the same terminal type:

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

This should hopefully finish your upgrade and then you can install the restricted drivers.

Jim
Do you think the ice on Fir and Owen lake is thick enough for a jaunt up there? I can't wait till the end of May I just gotta go fishing or I am gunna go crazy...I am having no luck at all with the ATI drivers on a RT kernel...guess I will just have to wait to use GoogleEarth, I need my PC for audio work. Are there show stopper issues with the NVIDIA drivers and RT kernels with 64 bit? I know this is hogging the thread but you sound like you might know about 64bit kernels and why Ubuntu Studio delivered a release without one.

---

### Post by toki_the_collector on 2009-02-25
sudo apt-get -f install

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  linux-headers-2.6.27-7 linux-headers-2.6.27-7-generic
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

same with " sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade"

didn't try the xfix yet because i reformatted, but i'm gonna try to activate the driver now.  system->administator->hardware drivers now

---

### Post by toki_the_collector on 2009-02-25
still fails but i'm saving the install this time.

xfix warned me that it was replacing some posibly custom configurations.  after that i selected normal boot and nothing changed.  restarted the computer and nothing changed.

is it bad when you memorize your wep128 encryption key

using a livecd now is there anything you might need from the drive?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-02-25
I have heard of this before (nvidia install failing while X is running). The general suggestion I see is to boot into recovery mode, drop to a root prompt, purge any existing install of the driver and install it from the recovery mode terminal.

---

### Post by toki_the_collector on 2009-02-26
I didn't know how to purge the driver so I did another clean install..and update.  after restart I went to nvidia and got the amd64 180.29 driver. rebooted.  went into recovery droped to root ran sh 64-blah-pkg.run when it started it suggested I run it in runlevel 3 because devfs might not be running. normally the system runs in 2 but for poos and giggles I tried telinit 3.  this started gnome (and probly x)so I rebooted this time ignoring the warning and installing anyway. as you can probably guess this gave me an error saying opengl-blah.so.1 may or may not exist and didn't work so my questions now are 

does 180.29 even work. 
Is there a way to kill x in runlevel 3 like it asks for. 
how would I activate 177 from the command line.

sorry I'm trying

also after normal boot I tried telinit 1(since 2 was normal with gnome)and the system locked up in the black ubuntu bar screen.  but if I start in recovery mode droped into root I can go back and forth between 1 and 2 no problem.  by the way stuck at terminal again

---

### Post by DonaldJ on 2009-02-27
I'm experiencing this glitch in trying to get an old Dell to finish the install...
I'm guessing that it might be something in a bit of early warning "virus detection" that's stopping mine..?

---

### Post by toki_the_collector on 2009-03-03
after thinking for a while I disabled the gf8100 on the motherboard since it wasn't vital hardware and I remembered that the primary screen wasn't defined.  guess what IT WORKED.. warning to others though if you don't have a flat screen your tv cuts off the edges of the screen.  haven't gotten past that yet.

---

### Post by DonaldJ on 2009-03-03
"disabled the gf8100"


I'm not that computer wise...  How did you "disable the gf8100"..  what ever that is..?  I've got a flat screen...

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-03-03
> **DonaldJ said:**
> "disabled the gf8100"


I'm not that computer wise...  How did you "disable the gf8100"..  what ever that is..?  I've got a flat screen...
S/He disabled the onboard video (Geforce 8100) in the BIOS.

---

### Post by DonaldJ on 2009-03-03
There isn't a gf8100 in this Dell...  but just fer the h of it, I'm gonna pull all the cards, a try a boot...

---

### Post by justiceerolin on 2009-03-05
Has there been a resolution for this?

I'm currently running Ubuntu 8.10 x64.  I have two nVidia geForce 6800 GS's hooked up.

After a fresh install and full updates, I activated the nVidia drivers (177 was recommended).  I restarted the machine, but after it booted up, only a command prompt was shown.

GNOME is loaded because when I hit CTRL ALT DEL, it attempts to shut down GNOME.

I also attempted to activate 173 instead, with the same results.

Here is a snippet of the error message.

```
Module Loader present
(it then lists the markers)
(==) Log file: "var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Wed Feb 11 22:54:02 2009
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"

giving up.
xinit: Connection refused (errno 111): unable to connect to X server
xinit: No such process (errno 3): Server error.
```

I'm new to Ubuntu, so please be as detailed as possible.  Thanks.

---

### Post by Orkus on 2009-03-05
I'm also having this same error.  I'm running 2 nVidia GeForce 9800 GTX cards in my system under Ubuntu 8.10 x64

Everything boots fine and runs like a dream until I install the nvidia drivers.  So far i've tried driver versions 173, 177, and 180 all with the same result of the GUI failing.  I'm in the process of a fresh install of Ubuntu (again) because i can't figure out how to get rid of the problem after I install the drivers.

---

### Post by DonaldJ on 2009-03-05
I am novice too...

Try at the command:   startx

That might tell you what's wrong..?

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-06
i download the latest releases, 180.37 currently, from [www.avenard.org](www.avenard.org).
i am not sure which programs are needed so i install all six provided:
nvidia-180-libvdpau
nvidia-180-libvdpau-dev
nvidia-180-modaliases
nvidia-180-kernel-source
nvidia-glx-180
nvidia-glx-180-dev

---

### Post by justiceerolin on 2009-03-07
> i download the latest releases, 180.37 currently, from [www.avenard.org](www.avenard.org).
i am not sure which programs are needed so i install all six provided:
nvidia-180-libvdpau
nvidia-180-libvdpau-dev
nvidia-180-modaliases
nvidia-180-kernel-source
nvidia-glx-180
nvidia-glx-180-dev 
And this worked?

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-07
> **justiceerolin said:**
> And this worked?

it works fine for me

---

### Post by Chibone on 2009-03-07
Maybe try writing a new xorg.conf with "sudo nvidia-xconfig"?  Make sure you back up your old config first if you added anything special to it.

---

### Post by freedomIndia on 2009-03-11
> **norwoods said:**
> i download the latest releases, 180.37 currently, from [www.avenard.org](www.avenard.org).
i am not sure which programs are needed so i install all six provided:
nvidia-180-libvdpau
nvidia-180-libvdpau-dev
nvidia-180-modaliases
nvidia-180-kernel-source
nvidia-glx-180
nvidia-glx-180-dev

Where exactly did you find them?
Am on [http://www.avenard.org/media/Ubuntu_Repository/Ubuntu_Repository.html](http://www.avenard.org/media/Ubuntu_Repository/Ubuntu_Repository.html) and i can't find any, even nearby.
Can you provide exact URLs?

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-11
> **freedomIndia said:**
> Where exactly did you find them?
Am on [http://www.avenard.org/media/Ubuntu_Repository/Ubuntu_Repository.html](http://www.avenard.org/media/Ubuntu_Repository/Ubuntu_Repository.html) and i can't find any, even nearby.
Can you provide exact URLs?

i update to the latest nvidia proprietary releases for 64 bit Ubuntu 8.10 and nvidia 9600GT, 180.37 currently, from [www.avenard.org](www.avenard.org) (third party software source "deb [http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos](http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos) release/")using synaptic package manager.  add "deb [http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos](http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos) release/" to software source in tab third party software of synaptic and the files will appear on the list.

---

### Post by Orkus on 2009-03-17
I think I've narrowed my problem down to the xorg.conf file.  I can't seem to find any errors during startup other than ubuntu telling me that my BIOS doesn't have IOMMU option enabled.  I don't know if that would cause this problem... but seeing as I get GUI fine before the driver update, I don't think it would.  I'll try the sudo nvidia-xconfig command, but I think I might have tried that.

---

### Post by tjmack3rd on 2009-04-09
so you don't have to reinstall when it reboots to the terminal type:
> sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx-180
Then
> sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

it will then tell you to type
> sudo apt-get autoremove

this worked for me and I have been trying to figure the driver problem out.

is there a fix yet?
anybody

---

### Post by corpsehacker on 2009-04-09
I had the same problem and still cant figure out what is causing the error. That kinda annoys me because it wont allow me to run desktop effects and also costs the gpu some performance. Sorry, I cant help.

---

