---
title: "64bit 8.10 desktop edition ISO keeps installing server edition"
date: 2008-11-26
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by thestripedone on 2008-11-26
I don't know if this is just something obvious that I'm doing wrong or what, but this is the third time I have re-downloaded the desktop 64bit ISO (file is titled ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64 so I know I'm not grabbing the wrong image) on my computer.

Every single time when I install it it ends up being server edition!  Are there extra steps I need to go through to set up 64bit desktop?  All the tutorials I've seen show the purely GUI-based install process I'm used to (having installed 32 bit ubuntu, both dapper and intrepid on two separate laptops), but whenever I install it or even test it, it goes to the command prompt and a startx tells me I have server edition. :confused:

I am a relative new-comer to linux (as you can no doubt tell from my reliance on GUIs) and this is baffling.  My cat, who just sat down in my lap, is equally baffled!  

I'm thinking there are two or three ways this could go:
1) There is something obvious and I am an idiot.
2) graphics-card confusion?  This machine has an ATI Radeon HD 3450 on it.  But I don't know if or how that would affect this.
3) Some kind of Windows Vista conspiracy to keep me using their awful new OS.

Chipset for this computer is AMD Phenom 9550 quadcore.  My cat and I would greatly appreciate any assistance.

---

### Post by balaknair on 2008-11-26
I'm using the 8.10 AMD64 desktop installation right now, there are no extra steps to install(download iso, burn, boot from CD, install). My guess is the server you're downloading from might have a wrongly labelled image(?).
Suggestions-
1) Try downloading from a different location by going to
[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/getubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/getubuntu/download)  -->  select 64bit version and select a location near you from the dropdown menu[Please select a location]

2) Try downloading using BitTorrent(that's what I usually use, since it reduces load on the Ubuntu servers immediately after release)
[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#bt](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/getubuntu/downloadmirrors#bt)

select the one titled 
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent](http://releases.ubuntu.com/8.10/ubuntu-8.10-desktop-amd64.iso.torrent)

Hope you and your cat find this useful.

---

### Post by balaknair on 2008-11-26
The file size for the desktop and server versions are different, the desktop version being around 699.03 MB and the server version being ~ 652 MB. What size is the ISO image you downloaded?

---

### Post by thestripedone on 2008-11-26
It's 699MB.

This is the third time I've downloaded it, and I got the file from two different servers and once from the torrent (since the first few times I thought maybe I'd grabbed the wrong file or it was mislabeled)

Glad to know the "There's something else I need to do and I'm an idiot" option is discounted, at least. :p

---

### Post by nzadLithium on 2008-11-26
**ATI Radeon HD 3450**

Are you sure it's actually the server version that your getting when you install? That sounds like a fairly new card to me. I'm thinking its a possibility that the ubuntu drivers aren't able to identify the card properly, which could be causing x to fail, and dropping you to a command line. You might mistake it for being the server version (which it isn't it would be the client version with no pretty pictures :p). You might want to check that its using the right drivers, you'll have to get someone else to explain it to you though, as i've got exams this week and my computer has borked internet due to something going weird in the acx modules after upgrade. :S

---

### Post by balaknair on 2008-11-26
OK, the problem might have to do with the ATI card(not sure why the installer says it's the Server edition though). 

There's a known bug in 8.10 with some ATI cards, where the screen goes into power save mode. To work around it, install from the safe graphics mode and then update the drivers.
Here's how:
1)Boot from CD and at the first screen, instead of selecting "Try Ubuntu without changes..." press F4 for more options
2)Then select "Safe Graphics Mode" and press Enter
3)Now you can start up the Ubuntu GUI in 'Safe Graphics Mode'

The graphics won't be very pretty, probably low resolution as well, but it will enable you to install the OS easily from the GUI. After installing Ubuntu, you can install and activate the latest ATI drivers to get the best out of your card.
1) Boot into the newly installed Ubuntu--> you'll probably get notifications about updates available. Install those but don't reboot yet. Use the Add/Remove Programs entry in the Application menu to get the restricted ATI driver. Now reboot.
2) After rebooting, you can go into System Menu>Administration>Hardware Drivers and you'll be able to activate the restricted drivers.
3) You might have to reboot one more time. This time the system will boot using the restricted ATI drivers and you can now safely adjust the screen resolution.

Hopefully this should do it.

---

### Post by balaknair on 2008-11-26
OK, going through your first post again, I think there's been a small misunderstanding here. As nzadLithium pointed out, you might be confusing a failed Xserver(the GUI on Linux systems) with the Server edition. Anyway, not important now. Just follow the steps outlined above. If you still have trouble installing, post a reply here(if possible write down the text you see on screen). I'll check back in a couple of hours(at work, sorry).

Wishing you luck.

---

### Post by felker2 on 2008-11-26
> **thestripedone said:**
>  My cat, who just sat down in my lap, is equally baffled!  

<snip>  
My cat and I would greatly appreciate any assistance.

LOL!

If it's just a GUI / Graphical thing that's not working (and making you think you have the server edition), try the "Safe Graphics" (or something like that) from the live CD boot menu.

---

### Post by balaknair on 2008-11-26
So, how'd it go?
If the "safe graphics" option worked for you(or if you found something else that worked, please share it with us), please mark the thread as 'Solved'.
That'll help others with similar problems find it more easily.
Thanks.

---

### Post by thestripedone on 2008-11-26
Thanks guys, I'll give that a try when I get home from work in 7 or 8 hours. :)  I thought it might be something to do with the graphics card.

> OK, going through your first post again, I think there's been a small misunderstanding here. As nzadLithium pointed out, you might be confusing a failed Xserver(the GUI on Linux systems) with the Server edition. Anyway, not important now.

It's quite possible, but I'm pretty sure it said "server edition" in big letters when I did the startx.

Advanced options, here we come!  (eventually)

---

### Post by thestripedone on 2008-11-27
Still no dice with safe graphics mode.

I selected that and ran from the CD and I'm still sitting here staring at a terminal.

startx tells me:
"Fatal server error: No screens found."  before it gives up.  (And yeah, I guess it is just a failed xserver command)
and then after giving up:
xinit: Connection refused (errno 111): unable to connect to x server.
xinit: No such process (errno 3):Server error.

---

### Post by felker2 on 2008-11-27
> **thestripedone said:**
> Still no dice with safe graphics mode.

I selected that and ran from the CD and I'm still sitting here staring at a terminal.

startx tells me:
"Fatal server error: No screens found."  before it gives up.  (And yeah, I guess it is just a failed xserver command)
and then after giving up:
xinit: Connection refused (errno 111): unable to connect to x server.
xinit: No such process (errno 3):Server error.

I guess because of the these (X) server message you thought it was "Ubuntu Server", right?


Back to your problem: it's your ATI radeon HD 3450 that's not recognized or can not be used. I'm surprised the "Safe Graphics" from the live CD did not work. You're sure you have selected that option?

Does the 32-bit Ubuntu 8.10 recognize the card? I don't expect any different behavior, but it could worth a try.

An ugly workaround: can you put in another graphics card into your system to see if that works?

FWIW: the ATI radeon HD 3450 is mentioned here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5970548](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5970548)

---

### Post by balaknair on 2008-11-27
Ouch. Yep that's an Xserver error message. Looks like your graphics card isn't talking to Ubuntu.

I know that ATI cards have a bad reputation with Linux, but I don't recall coming across a situation where even safe mode doesn't work, at least not since Ubuntu 7.10 and later. I did have some trouble with 7.04(Feisty Fawn) though.

Anyway, I can suggest one more trick I can think of(sort of a last resort for me). I haven't had to resort to it in a long while. Basically we force the VESA drivers.
Here's how you can go about it(hint: write this down or take a print out, since you're going into command line territory)

1) When the screen comes up blank(with the errors etc.), press Control+Alt+F1, to get to a text console(no GUI). Then edit the video configuration file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) using the command

*sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf*

2) You'll see a file with # comments and immediately below that a section that says

[I]Section "Device"
     Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/I]

3) Add a line after the identifier which forces the driver, Driver "vesa" so that the file looks like this.

[I]Section "Device"
     Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
     Driver	    "vesa"
EndSection[/I]

4) Save the file, by pressing Control+X, then Y, then press 'Enter'. Now press Control-Alt-F7 to return to the blank screen, then press Control+Alt+Backspace to restart the X server, and if all goes well, the X server will restart and you will have a barebones GUI which you can use to install Ubuntu.


If you install from the Live CD while in safe mode or have modified the xorg.conf file, the installed system will use the same settings you had set up when you installed. So after installation, you will have to boot from the hard disk, log in, and install and activate the proprietary ATI drivers to get a fully functional video setup. Don't make any changes to the basic VESA set up till you have done this(eg. don't try to change the resolution etc.)

Normally, once you boot up, Ubuntu should inform you that proprietary drivers are available for your hardware, but since your video card apparently isn't talking to Ubuntu at all, you can download the the drivers yourself.

Applications menu> Add/Remove Applicationss--> Search for 'Radeon'--> There should be one entry for an ATI driver(package name 'ATI binary X.Org driver') which is maintained by Canonical(it'll have a little Ubuntu logo or a rose next to it)--> Select this, and click 'Apply Changes' to download and install the driver.

Now reboot the system.

Now you have to activate the proprietary driver.

System Menu> Administration> Hardware Drivers --> select the driver you want and click 'Activate'.
This step might take 2-3 minutes and during 'activation' your screen graphics might get a little crazy for a few seconds, but will then stabilize.
You will now have to restart the system again, and this time it should boot up with the correct Radeon drivers for your GPU card.

OK, that took a while to type :)

If this doesn't work, I'm afraid I can't think of anything more that might help. If the VESA driver doesn't work either(since you haven't installed Ubuntu or made any changes to your PC, it hasn't done any harm other than wasted some of your time) maybe you should skip Ubuntu 8.10 on that machine(?) :(


I've already tried searching the various Linux forums for anything specific to your card, but couldn't find anything in addition to what I've already posted.

I've generally steered clear of ATI cards for this very reason, preferring to go with either Intel(onboard) or nVidia(discrete) video cards. Intel cards seem to have the best support for Linux, especially on laptops.


Anyway wishing you luck.

---

### Post by thestripedone on 2009-01-15
Little bit of necro here, but I've been excessively busy the past few months, and haven't had time to tinker.  I booted up from the CD (in safe mode), then went into the xorg.conf file and saw that it already had Driver "vesa" tagged.  (ctrl-alt-backspace didn't restart the xstart thing, unless I was doing it wrong.  It just put a ^H on the screen.)

So I went into regular non-safe mode and put "vesa" in there as well, but no dice.  Still a black screen.

Oddly, it isn't giving me the startx *errors* any more, just a command line interface instead of the GUI.  

I'm going to try 8.04, although I'm pretty sure that will work even less than 8.10, just to see.  If not, I guess I'll just have to wait a while and install later on :)   Anyway, thanks for all your help from a few months back!

---

