---
title: "8.10: Nvidia driver issues...again... as well as invisible partitions...help?"
date: 2009-02-14
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by The MAX on 2009-02-14
So I recently formatted and decided to go with 64 bit ubuntu as opposed to the regular 32 bit flavor.

I DLed and installed 8.04 LTS 64 bit and had major issues.
Couldn't get Lan/sound/or video drivers installed.

Previously in 32 bit I had some trouble but after some help everything ran smoothly.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866539]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866539")
with this advice I got my nvidia drivers working great with 32 bit.

Now I heard from another person on the hardware canucks forum that he recently installed 8.10 on his P5Q-Pro (same mobo as me) and it auto detected all drivers except for nvidia.

I DLed and installed this.
Now my lan and sound is working, but 
A) I can't see my NTFS partitions to mount them like I previously could
```
Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xfdb7fdb7

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       15298   122881153+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           15299       60800   365494815    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5           15299       60800   365494783+   7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xdfc9dfc9

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        4255    34178256   83  Linux
/dev/sdb2   *        4849       30400   205246440    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdb3            4256        4848     4763272+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb5            4256        4848     4763241   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order

```

and B) I can't enable the restricted video driver...theres two listed 173 and 177 but I try to activate and the downloading and intsalling box pops up and sticks at 0% until the window freezes...


Anyway, if anyone can give me some advice here I'd appreciate it.
Thanks

---

### Post by The MAX on 2009-02-15
Okay so reformatted without importing any stuff from XP and now I can see all my other partitions however am still not able to activate the nvidia driver.
Before I formatted I had the nvidia-settings package installed but when I opened nvidia x server settings it said something about no driver and asked to run nvidia-xconfig.
I installed and ran that but got nothing.
I thought I might have has issues because I installed the nvidia-settings before activating the driver, but upon fresh install am still having the system hang when trying to activate.

so yeah...
Any tips on 64bit Ubuntu 8.10 tips for nvidia drivers would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by The MAX on 2009-02-15
okay...update again...even though no one appears to be caring. lol

So turns out after the format the enabling of the driver took.
Installed nvidia settings and all is well and good.

But I can't save my settings to the xorg.conf file.
Tried to do it manually and screwed it all up had to go to back up.

I'm DLing a bunch of updates now while I go to bed. Hopefully someone who has this setup will give me a clue about 64bit and nvidia in the morning.

---

### Post by tenmoi on 2009-02-15
to save the setting you must sudo nvidia*.

---

### Post by mad_max0204 on 2009-02-15
Hi

I have an Asus P5Q Pro and everything works out of the box in 8.10.
2.6.27 kernel brought support to our Atheros Lan card.
There were some drivers for the older kernel on asus support site.

As for the Nvidia, since I learned how easy it is to install it I'll never do it automacially again.
Boot your computer, do alt+ctrl+F1 to get to tty1, login and type

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop   (or /etc/init.d/kdm stop if your using kubuntu)

Then go to dir where you downloaded your nvidia drivers, type

sudo sh ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.xx-pkg2.run  (xx for your version)

folow the installer (compile kernel modules, install 32bit libs,...).
Say yes when it asks you to edit xorg.conf.
When installer finishes type

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start    (or kdm start for kubuntu)

and it works.
Then when you wanna change settings with nvidia-settings just fire up your terminal and type

sudo nvidia-settings

so you can save your xorg.conf file.

I'm currently using 180.29 beta drivers from nvidia's ftp.
Anything else you got problems with just ask.

---

### Post by The MAX on 2009-02-15
Thanks guys
Mad_Max I already had the restricted driver enables when I read you're reply and got everything working now so I don't want to mess with it.
But I will definitely try that next time around. Thanks.

Tenmoi, that worked perfect, dunno why I didn't think to do that, its been a couple of months since I've done anything in linux.

Thanks Guys.

---

