---
title: "2.6.29.6 Real-Time Kernel and SMP folding client"
date: 2009-08-25
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by ThunderRd on 2009-08-25
I'm not sure if this is the right place to post this.  Let me know if it should be elsewhere.

I have been running kernel 2.6.26.8 for some time now, patched with Ingo Molnar's Real-Time Preemption patch rt-13.

The machine is an Opteron-185 CPU running 64-bit Xubuntu 9.04. The machine is a dedicated folding at home rig, running the current SMP client.

This week I decided it was long enough on the old kernel and built a new one on 2.6.29.6, patched in the same way with the rt-23 kernel patch. I imported the same .config that was used in the prior version. On my first build, everything seemed to be OK until I started the folding client. Only one core engaged. I ran menuconfig again, checking to make sure that all SMP options were selected. AFAICT, all were ok. In the next two days I tried selecting several different options that I thought could be causing the problem, and built three more kernel attempts, each failing to run the SMP client with more than one core.

I tried another build using the 2.6.29.6 kernel, and DID NOT patch it with the RT patch. This build ran the client fine. So the problem lies with the RT kernel patch configuration, but where?

For brevity, the process was like this:
-start machine, loading kernel 2.6.26.8-rt13 patched: client runs OK [running this way for months now]
-build new 2.6.29.6 vanilla [no patch];install new kernel
-reboot and load kernel 2.6.29.6 vanilla: client runs OK
-patch 2.6.29.6 with rt23 and build; install new kernel
-reboot into kernel 2.6.29.6-rt23 patched; client runs one core only.

It seems that I have failed to check some obscure option (perhaps a new one) in the new kernel build, breaking SMP somehow. Is there anyone out there with knowledge of the RT kernel who has some idea where I can check for this option?  I can post a copy of .config if needed.

Thanks to anyone who can help.

---

### Post by ThunderRd on 2009-08-26
Is there a better place to post this?

---

