---
title: "9.04 Dual boot disaster"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2009-05-03
Yesterday I suffered a fairly catastrophic upgrade attempt that appears to have destroyed my XP Pro partition.  I began yesterday morning with a dual boot arrangement using Ubuntu 8.04 and Windows XP Pro to support some hardware I haven't been able to get working properly with Ubuntu.  In preparation for a future upgrade to 9.04, I forced an update to 8.10.  Update Manager told me that update would take about 90 minutes and I went out for a few hours after answering the various question to get things started.  When I returned my machine was locked in a blank "Orange screen of death"  After trying to unsuccessfully restart the system, I opted for the 8.10 "Recovery" option.  The system attempted to fix various failed packages and eventually took me to the user ID/ Password screens.  After entering the password I would once again cycle to a blank orange screen for about a minute and then get kicked back to the User ID screen again.  Attempts to use earlier version of Unbuntu (6.006 LTS and 7.04) were unsuccessful.  At this point XP still worked normally.

I then made the fatal decision to downland and install a fresh copy of 9.04.  I downloaded the OS and burned an ISO CD.  The first attempt appeared to work successfully.  I accepted the default option to install 9.04 alongside XP as well as separate partitions containing 6.06, 7.04 and 8.10.  When I booted into 9.04 and tried to run Update Manager or Synaptic I got an error saying there was no room on the partition and to run "sudu apt-get clean" to clean up leftovers from previous installations.  Running this command did not resolve the lack of space. At this point XP worked normatlly.

I came up with the brilliant idea that i really didn't need 6.06, 7.04 or the broken 8.10 and that I would attempt the installation again.  The HD Ubuntu and XP share is a 320 G that was split into 160 setup up as NTFS and the remaining 160 broken into multiple partitions with the various Unbuntu distirbutions formated for Linux.  Using the manual formatting option, I told the system to free the three existing Linux partitions hoping toconsolidate them into one 155 G partition and a 5 G swap file.  I did not mark any of the NTFS labelled partitions believing the the system would ignore these areas,  After choosing a file system type and being warned of my irreversible actions, I pressed the ENTER key.  

What I have apparently ended up with according to the Ubuntu partitioner  is a 160 G 9.04 partition and a 160G swap file.  Xp is no longer a boot option and can not be recovered with the XP Recovery Console. I believe it is gone.

I have lost a lot of personal files on the XP machine which I am going to miss.  Some things like digital pictures can not be replaced.  If anyone has a suggestion of how this might not be a total loss I would welcome it but that is not really the purpose of this post since I think the former is a lost cause.

Here is the question.  Is there a tutorial or guide on to how to consolidate the multiple Unbuntu partitions that a 2 to 3 year old machine will accumulate over time without destroying a multiple boot environment?  After blowing everything to pieces, I would really like to understand how this should have been done properly, perhaps beginning at the side-by-side installation that called for expanding the original 9.04 partition. I understand NTFS pretty well and thought I had a good enough grasp of linux partitions as well although has proven not to be the case.  Any links to some education is greatly appreciated.  

BTW, 9.04 seems to work fine, I'm using it right now.

---

### Post by dabomb1022 on 2009-05-03
That sucks

---

### Post by Richard9795 on 2009-05-03
The Swap Formatted to the XP partition, Which sucks because it was FORMATTED to that Particular Partition. I'm afraid to say this, but it might not be recoverable... The installer probably made a mistake in the partition table and formatted the XP partition as swap instead of not touching it like you told it to. 

Sorry that happened to you.

---

### Post by PRC09 on 2009-05-03
Sorry about your misfortune on the dual boot.If you still wish to recover your pictures and documents there is software available to do this.It is however for use on windows (I am new to Ubuntu ) so I dont know if there is an equivalent piece of software available but this has worked every time even after formatting.It is commercial software,I use it for work that I do and it is awesome.
I hope this is helpful....

[http://www.diskinternals.com/partition-recovery/](http://www.diskinternals.com/partition-recovery/)

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-03
> What I have apparently ended up with according to the Ubuntu partitioner is a 160 G 9.04 partition and a 160G swap file. Xp is no longer a boot option and can not be recovered with the XP Recovery Console. I believe it is gone.

With the Live CD >  Applications > Accessories > Terminal

then copy and paste (or type) this command:

```
sudo fdisk -l
``` small L   Then copy and paste it here.   It shows you what is on your partitions.

---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2009-05-04
Thanks for the command which verified my fears that the XP partition has been destroyed.  I accept my fate which was self inflicted but ask where I may post this outcome in case it is the partioner routine that caused the problem rather than my LOFT.  I would welcome user experience comments from other longtime Unbuntu users about how they deal with the numerous partitions that accumulate on PCs over time as Ubuntu moves forward.

"The road to Hell is paved with software upgrades"

---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2009-10-29
I am hoping not to repeat history.  I have just put a new machine together to test Windows 7 Professional and Unbuntu 9.10 side by side.  Here are the steps I have taken and the current issue:

Installed fresh 640 G HD

Installed Windows XP Pro (this is an old copy pre SP1)

XP disk formatter only recognizes 137 G of the drive (a known problem with early XP installers)

Installed XP successfully

Upgraded XP to SP2 (Windows 7 upgrade requirement)

Perform a clean install of Windows 7 Pro in 137 G partition

After successful installation of Windows 7, go to manage disks and recover and format NTSF a D: with the remaining 500 G not detected originally by XP.  System now sees a C: partition with Windows 7 on it and a second empty D: with 500 G

Installed Ubuntu 9.04 64 from live GD.  When partitioner comes up elect "install side by side" with Windows 7 (detected as Vista)

Ubuntu 9.04 installs successfully.  

Systems now dual boots

Boot into Ubuntu and select update manager.  9.10 update available.  Attempt to update to 9.10

Get error "insufficient disk space empty trash or remove previous installation files) - none exist

There is less than 500 meg left in the Ubuntu partition.

Mount Ubuntu install CD again and run partitioner.  Partitioner now sees neither operating system and wants to format the entire 640 G HD

Exit install and reboot, both OS still show in GRUB and both work

So how can I increase the size of the partition that Ubuntu resides in without blowing everything to pieces as I did back in May when I started this thread?

---

### Post by TwiStEr55 on 2009-10-29
> **j0eb0b said:**
> 
There is less than 500 meg left in the Ubuntu partition.

Mount Ubuntu install CD again and run partitioner.  Partitioner now sees neither operating system and wants to format the entire 640 G HD

Exit install and reboot, both OS still show in GRUB and both work

So how can I increase the size of the partition that Ubuntu resides in without blowing everything to pieces as I did back in May when I started this thread?

so the 9.10 partitioner doesnt recognize the NTFS (with Windows) nor the Linux partition? that is weird ... are u using guided partitioning? I have never used that since I always do this manually ... if the guided partitioning doesnt give you what you want, maybe you should look at the layout in the manual option. Im pretty sure, that if you didnt use encryption, which I assum you didnt the partitioner will show all partitions with according filesystems ....

If I understood you correctly it should look like this ....

1 137GB ntfs
2 500GB ext3/ext4 
(3 X GB swap) ... im not sure how the guided partitioning behaves

is that the case? or does it really not recognize anything?

---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2009-10-29
Thanks for responding.  As I said, this is a clean install of both Windows 7 and Ubuntu on a fresh drive in a test bed system.  No encryption and or settings ported over from a previous system.  I tried booting from the Live CD and using gparted to fix the problem.  When I go in with gparted from the live CD he sees no partitions at all, and gives me the option to create new partitions on a virgin 597 GB landscape.

When I look at my mountable devices from the live CD I have one 2.5 G partition that contains my 9.04 install, a 137 G partition that contains Windows 7 and a device listed as New Volume containing 465 G.  

Is there a possibility that the problem is that Windows 7 is a 32 bit install and 9.04 is a 64 bit system?  If the drive was originally prepped by a 32 bit system is a subsequent 64 bit install going to have a problem with the real estate?

---

### Post by TwiStEr55 on 2009-10-29
That should be a definit NO. That doesnt matter.

Ok so gparted has a problem detecting your partitions properly running of the live cd.

What you want to do is a clean install along side the Win 7 right with the option to dual boot?

I dont know if there is an manual partitioning option on the Live CD based installer, but Im sure there is. Does the installer itself see the partitions correctly?

If it does, you can easily install 9.10 .. if it doesnt maybe you can consider using the alternate install CD ... its basically the same process just not as pretty and the partitioner there never gave me any problems ...

---

### Post by efflandt on 2009-11-01
If you want something done right, do it yourself.  If an automatic program does not spell out exactly what it is going to do before it does it, or you do not understand what it is going to do, it is better to be safe and bail out than sorry.

In the first case it sounds like it used the entire drive for 2 partitions only, overwriting what was there before.  In the second case it sounds like it tried to install itself "alongside" the 2 partitions you already configured as ntfs, on a 3rd partition that you intended to be a swap partition.  You did not even realize that you were running from that small partition with almost no space on it.

The first thing you should do (after you back up anything you do not want to lose), and before tampering with partions, is either print or write down the output of Linux "fdisk -l" for that /dev/whatever.  Then you can at least reconstruct the partitions if something goes wrong before formatting.

A handy tool for playing with partitions is a gparted-live boot CD.  You can either use the gparted gui, or fdisk in a terminal.

The first time I let an OS mess up a drive was actually while installing Windows XP64 beta.  It changed my disk geometry from 240 heads to 255 heads with a different number of cylinders.  But it apparently did not understand what it did to itself, because it could not even boot itself, much less get me into XP Home.  Since I did not have fdisk output written down before that, I had to calculate how many cylinders to to match 240 heads, and then play with partition sizes until I got it to boot.

While I was later installing SuSE (8 or 9?) the numbers it threw out at me indicated it was going to do the same thing.  So told it not to touch the partitions, just put it on the partition I created for it.

When I installed Ubuntu a week ago, I did not know what its automatic partitioning would do when I wanted to overwrite the expired XP64 beta without overwriting XP Home or SuSE.  So I used the advanced mode to select specifically which partition to reformat and use for Ubuntu, and it did what I told it to.

---

