---
title: "Correct drivers for nVidia GeForce G100?"
date: 2009-02-17
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by gustoflow on 2009-02-17
I can't figure out the correct drivers to install for my on board graphics card. I've been messing with it for a week and can't find anything on the web. Here's the details..

Ubuntu 8.04, running on an Acer Aspire X1700 (AX1700 U3700A), which says the graphics card is a GeForce G100 -- which I can't find any documentation for.
The desktop is connected to a 32" flatscreen television with its VGA connector, and works correctly with my XP and my Vista partitions.

It worked correctly until I tried to get the resolution to stick after logging out. It would switch back to 800x600. I might have changed kernels about the same time, to 2.6.24, but I don't know exactly what the cause is...

If anyone has any suggestions for which packages I should (and maybe should not be) installing I would gravely appreciate it. 

BTW nVidia shows us in sysinfo, but states unknown model.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-17
What driver is recommended when you go to System-->Administration-->Hardware Drivers?

Jim

---

### Post by gustoflow on 2009-02-17
Under System> Administration> Hardware Drivers, it states "No proprietary drivers are in use..." Even when I had one installed, upon restart it would not take to installing.

My xorg.conf file is constantly changing. Do I need to blacklist any drivers or what? This is my xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:16:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x1024"
	Horizsync	31.5-64.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	1024
		Modes		"1024x768@60"	"1280x960@60"	"800x600@60"	"1280x1024@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"VESA driver (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection



And it's all incorrect. In System> Preferences> Screen Resolution, I only have options for 800x600, and 640x400. No enhanced visual effects and my Virtual Box in running in 4-bit graphics mode, when it worked quite well two weeks or so ago.

When I run nvidia-xconfig, the systems seems to hand for awhile, blinking on and off for a minute before the login screen. The last line visable is 'initiating log on scripts' I believe.

I have these packages installed:
jockey-common
jockey-gtk
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24.16-23.56
nvidia-glx-new
nvidia-kernel-common
nvidia-kernel-source-envy
nvidia-settings

And I'm pretty sure I have something incorrect there. If I uninstall them, will Ubuntu try to install the best drivers at all??

Thanks
Erik

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-02-17
The only comment I can make is that your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file shows that the generic vesa driver is in use. Do you know which nVidia drivers support your card? It appears to me that there are none, so to speak, in the Ubuntu repositories which will assist you in resolving your problem, thus the default to vesa.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2009-02-17
Take a look at [http://forums.nvidia.com/lofiversion/index.php?t86835.html](http://forums.nvidia.com/lofiversion/index.php?t86835.html) and take solace in the fact that you are not alone; problems with XP and Vista, too, from what I read, although there is a link to obtain the correct XP driver. Guessing that as this is a relatively new card, support will lag.

---

### Post by gustoflow on 2009-02-17
I know it's a bit of a pain to get some nvidia drivers working, I had the same problem with my laptop (RIP). But what's the most irritating is that I had the nvidia driver working, but it would switch back to default resolution upon booting, and when switching between users, so leave it to me to try to mess with it. More damage than good, and I can't figure out how I had it configured before!

My XP partition and my vista partition have all the drivers installed correctly (XP didn't have an ethernet driver so I had to download one), with very little fuss.

So in an effort to fix what I had done and couldn't figure out myself, I installed drivers from the nvidia website, and then got a message saying the no compatible kernel was found, and none off of nvidia's ftp site matched, so it tried to compile its own. After restarting I get the "Ubuntu is running in low graphics mode" window, and no settings I put in will change my graphic settings.

I had the drivers working, is there any way to revert the settings I have now to when I installed last month? I'm starting to cuss everytime I boot and it's getting maddening. 

Erik

---

### Post by jet2230 on 2009-02-17
if you are running 64bit ubuntu try this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071283](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071283)

the drivers you need for your graphics card are the same as mine get them from [http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/linux_display_amd64_180.29_uk.html](http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/linux_display_amd64_180.29_uk.html)

i had a bit of a problem upgrading my drivers to the latest ones - but ubuntu should have picked up your graphics card from the install.

you have a good graphics card, very suited for the special effects (compiz) - get it working, it will be worth it!

i dont understand why nvidia do not make simpler installers for linux - how hard is it to remove the current driver and install the new one from 1 install - seems like a impossible task for nvidia ATM, nevertheless its not that hard either to install the drivers - the readme files usually have all the information 1 needs.

---

### Post by gustoflow on 2009-02-17
Time to celebrate! Got it working. Precisely how, I don't know. I ended up uninstalling all of my drivers once I installed the proprietary nvidia driver from nvidia's website. NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.29-pkg2.run specifically. But all of the sudden no xserver, or more importantly, no driver to use! After uninstalling all the drivers, xserver would not start the GUI, so I had to do:

apt-cache vesa | sort 
to find a driver that I knew would at least start the desktop,
and install it
sudo apt-get install [whatever the package was- something-xorg-video-vesa?]
and it started xserver on reboot! That I enabled my nvidia driver under system> admin> hardware drivers and all is well, and here I am at square two!

I appreciate all the help, I'll make sure to reciprocate.

Thanks, 
Erik

---

### Post by gustoflow on 2009-02-17
I guess I'm at square one after all. So I'll just ask before I do it again:
How do I get my resolution settings to stay in nvidia x server settings?? I tried to run it as root and save it that way, but after restart it reverts again. Should I manually replace the xorg.conf file with what nvidia-settings outputs? Cause that's my last idea.

Erik

---

### Post by jet2230 on 2009-02-18
> **gustoflow said:**
> I guess I'm at square one after all. So I'll just ask before I do it again:
How do I get my resolution settings to stay in nvidia x server settings?? I tried to run it as root and save it that way, but after restart it reverts again. Should I manually replace the xorg.conf file with what nvidia-settings outputs? Cause that's my last idea.

Erik

the problem is this - if after installing the latest nvidia driver your system still gets reverted back then chances are you still have old nvidia modules compiled for your kernal - until these get removed you will not be able to install new nivida drivers

you can try this: sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx-173 nvidia-glx-177

these are the propriety drivers you need to remove from ubuntu before attempting to install the new modules from the 120.29 package.


this also might help, before installing the new drivers from NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.29-pkg2.run try: sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.29-pkg2.run --uninstall

---

### Post by jet2230 on 2009-02-18
also you should never have to touch the xorg.conf or run the nvidia-xconfig command after the latest nvidia driver install - because the install will run the nvidia-config for you on your 1st run and the default settings it sets SHOULD work!  if it keeps reverting back remember you still have nvidia modules installed with will conflict with the new 1's - so the old modules need removing 1st before an attempt to install the new drivers is made - very important.

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-15
I tried purging the earlier drivers as directed and discovered that they were not installed but I am still experiencing an inability to change gnome display resolutions on jaunty 32bit server. When I try to change it with the display tool, I receive the "It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool. Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?" and when I click "No" I only have options for 640x480 and 800x600 display resolutions. Does the order of the sections matter? How and where do I add modelines? My xorg.conf below:```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Vendorname	"Samsung"
	Modelname	"SyncMaster 950P
	Horizsync	30-96
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Device		"Device0"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device0"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```Will someone with the G100 GPU post a working xorg.conf?

---

