---
title: "x64... How to tell?"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by ian2112 on 2009-11-13
Okay,

How can I confirm whether I'm running a 64-bit version of Ubuntu, Firefox and Flash?

I am trying to resolve why I can't get flash working in Firefox.  When I type about:plugins in Firefox I get No Plugins Are Installed.

When I run Firefox from a terminal window I get 'wrong ELF errors' lots of them, example follows:

LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]

So doing some research on the above error I suspect I've got a 32-bit version of Firefox (I installed using SPM).  However, when I go to Help / About Mozilla Firefox I get:

Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686 **(x86_64)**; en-GB; rv:1.9.1.3) Gecko/20090824 Firefox/3.5.3

I've seen some guidence in other posts that suggest i686 is an indicator of a 32-bit version, but the (x86_64) makes me think I've got a 64-bit.

Also, trying to make sure I've got a 64-bit version of 9.10, when I type uname -a I get:

Linux ian-desktop 2.6.31-14-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 16 14:05:01 UTC 2009 x86_64 GNU/Linux

So... am I missing something?  Is there anything else I could check?  

As always - an help / insight would be appreciated.

Thanks,
Ian.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-11-13
well, you do have a 64bit kernel installed. I don;t think FF comes in a 64bit flavor, but I may be wrong there.
not sure what to tell you about the elf errors though. sry

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-11-13
Sure you have a 64 bit system. What other errors does it give besides your Flash plugin?

---

### Post by ian2112 on 2009-11-13
Here's a more complete sample.  The only type of error I receive is the ELFCLASS64... for all the various libraries (so far as I can tell).

 [/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk/jre/lib/amd64/IcedTeaPlugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/xulrunner-addons/plugins/libnullplugin.so [/usr/lib/xulrunner-addons/plugins/libnullplugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/xulrunner-addons/plugins/libunixprintplugin.so [/usr/lib/xulrunner-addons/plugins/libunixprintplugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-cone-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-cone-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-gmp-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-gmp-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-mully-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-mully-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-narrowspace-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-narrowspace-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/librhythmbox-itms-detection-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/librhythmbox-itms-detection-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-cone-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-cone-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-gmp-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-gmp-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-mully-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-mully-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-narrowspace-plugin.so [/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libtotem-narrowspace-plugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]
LoadPlugin: failed to initialize shared library /usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk/jre/lib/amd64/IcedTeaPlugin.so [/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk/jre/lib/amd64/IcedTeaPlugin.so: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]

Thanks for taking a look!

Ian.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-11-13
ok, it looks like you are mixing flash-nonfree with IcedTea. I would not have thought they would work together.

try installing sun java and reinstalling the flashplayer:
```

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras 

```
and give it another try

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-11-13
You have a 32-bit browser there. The browser string basically says "i686 build on an x86_64 machine"

---

### Post by efflandt on 2009-11-13
Weed through the firefox symlinks to find your firefox binary and use the **file** command to see what it is:

**file /usr/lib/firefox-3.5.5/firefox**
/usr/lib/firefox-3.5.5/firefox: ELF 64-bit LSB executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked (uses shared libs), for GNU/Linux 2.6.15, stripped

---

### Post by ian2112 on 2009-11-14
Here's the output from my file command:

firefox: ELF 64-bit LSB executable, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked (uses shared libs), for GNU/Linux 2.6.15, stripped

That seems to indicate I have a 64-bit firefox, yet the opinion further above on the output from my Help / About Mozilla Firefox: ...(X11; U; Linux i686 (x86_64)... indicates I have a 32-bit browser (the i686) on a 64-bit OS (x86_64).

Just a curious observation.  I suspect the 'file' command indicates it's a 64-bit browser (does anyone know for sure?).

Regardless, I think the thing for me to do is completely remove Firefox, locate a confirmed 64-bit version, and install that.  

Again, any comments / help / wisdom / general cheering from the sidelines is helpful :)

Best,
Ian.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-11-14
Are you sure you "file'd" the right firefox binary? It sounds like you have multiple versions.

---

### Post by ian2112 on 2009-11-14
> **Temüjin said:**
> Are you sure you "file'd" the right firefox binary? It sounds like you have multiple versions.

Am I sure? Nope!  I'm pretty new.  Any suggestions on how I could confirm?  Here's what I did...

When I launched firefox from the terminal window I just type "firefox" and that's where I grabbed the "... wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64]" errors I noted above.  Similarly, I "file'd" "firefox" in the "/usr/lib/firefox-3.5.5" directory.  This would be the 'firefox' that gets executed when I type it, no?

Regardless, another hypothesis I'd like to investigate is whether I have multiple instances of FF on my machine, and I'm just grabbing the wrong one.  I only see one Firefox in my Applicatons / Internet window.

I think I've successfully removed other earlier versions, but could be wrong (again... I'm new)

All thoughts, comments etc. are welcome.

Still trying to find a confirmed version of 64-bit Firefox.

Thanks again for everyones help and interest.

Ian.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-11-14
just out of curisoity, why are you installing firefox? it comes bundled,

---

### Post by ian2112 on 2009-11-14
> **doas777 said:**
> just out of curisoity, why are you installing firefox? it comes bundled,

Why?  Because I seem to have conflicting advice in this thread.  One person suggested my browser is a 32-bit version - compiled for a 64-bit OS (Based on the Help / About Mozilla Firefox).  However, based on the response to the "file" command on the Firefox executable, I think I have a 64-bit browser.  Last, there is the possibility that I have both, and somehow only launch the 32-bit version...

So, I think I should completely remove all things Firefox and re-installed.  I've paused for a bit while I read more, and other life priorities take over.

As always - I appreciate any help / comments, etc.

Ian.

---

### Post by ian2112 on 2009-11-17
I'm a bit closer to solving my issue (Yeah!).  Today I inspected usr/bin and found I have both a firefox and firefox-3.5 executables (is that a correct reference?).  I tried entering 'firefox-3.5' from a terminal window and voila - no errors (i.e., wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64).  And, I'm now able to use flash.

I have few follow-up things to figure / learn, but I don't intend on re-posting to this thread unless there's a specific question.

So... hopefully anyone reviewing this thread finds something that may help!

Thanks,
Ian.

---

