---
title: "32 or 64"
date: 2009-07-29
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by El Rengo on 2009-07-29
Hello!!

I am using a Xubuntu and Debian in 32 bits, but I have a 64 Bits processor, AMD Atlhon 64 3200+.

When my CPU appear I try with Ubuntu 64, but I have more isues to can run Flash, Java and other packages. And exist two methods to run application 32 under OS in 64 bits. Once are installing lib32 with APT method other was create a CHROOT. But I never understood the last how to work. 
I do not know if both method today works or exists more or less methods.

If any can help me!! :)

Thanks!!!

El Rengo

---

### Post by quixote on 2009-07-31
I've been running 64-bit since January.  At first, yes, there were heaps of flash and java issues.  At this point, Sun has a proper 64-bit version, so that's sorted out, Flash runs fine.  Some streaming video seems to crash X (ie everything goes black and I'm back at the login window), but I don't know whether that's a 64-bit issue, or just general multimedia problem.

I do still have some weirdness with sound, but I don't think that's a 64-bit issue either.

So, all in all, I'd say go ahead and try the 64-bit.  The problems are pretty well ironed out by now.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2009-07-31
> **quixote said:**
> The problems are pretty well ironed out by now.

^^

I haven't tried a 32 bit version, ever, but I've seen the few issues I do have complained about by enough 32 bit users to know they aren't 64 bit specific.

Unless you have a really low amount of ram there's no reason to not use 64 bit imo.

---

### Post by ericab on 2009-07-31
i have absolutley no issues running 64bit.
as quixote said, the issues have been ironed out.
dont be shy; 
64bit is waiting.

---

### Post by Malta paul on 2009-07-31
I agree with quixote when I changed from 32bit to 64bit I did have a bit of tweaking to do. The biggest problem was my printer driver which is only for a 32bit system. Thanks to one of our community guys, who had just written a script to enable the 32bit diver to work on a 64bit system problem was solved. I also use ext4 disk format which works rather fast.

So I would say if you have a stable 32bit system and don't want to do any tweaks stay with 32bit, but 64bit is the best system and if you don't mind doing a bit of research to get your system fully up and running, then go for it.

:D

---

### Post by El Rengo on 2009-07-31
Thanks for the answers!!!

But I have another question without reply. About how to use 32 bits applications.
Use CHROOT or install lib32. What of these method is better, and how work the chroot, becose I do not understad how it work.
Another idea I have is use apt-build to compile the application in my machine.

what do you recommend?

Thanks!!!

El Rengo.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2009-07-31
Well if you actually run into a 32 bit app (skype?)

You just get the 32 bit libraries. There is a tool floating around here somewhere that can get the libs your app needs automatically.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474790](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474790)

---

### Post by wolfgar on 2009-07-31
My wife runs the Ubuntu 9.04 / X64 and Ultimate Edition 2.3 / X64 version on a 
eMachine AMD Atlhon 64 3000 with two gig of ram.  She has never had a single issue
with Ubuntu 9.04 / X64 or the processor.

---

