---
title: "2.6.24-21 Kernal Issues (I think)"
date: 2008-10-16
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-16
Occasionally for no reason at all my computer freezes and the scroll lock + Caps Lock lights just start blinking and it just stays like that. The freeze points have occured at startup as well as when the OS is running. This all started shortly after the Kernel upgrade.

---

### Post by saru411 on 2008-10-16
you should still have the old kernel installed. when grub starts loading hit esc and load the old kernel to see if it isn't the newest kernel that is affecting you. it could just as easily be a hardware issue but only testing(ie. loading the old kernel) can verify.

---

### Post by Rog-Mahal on 2008-10-17
Sounds like a kernel panic. You might want to check your dmesg output for anything funky and file a bug report.

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-17
Aye but the new drivers for my wireless aren't on with the old kernal and wireless is all i have access to atm...Any thoughts on getting the old firmware back for my broadcom without DCing? Oh and how do i check my dmsg for the bug report? I've never issued a bug report before.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-10-18
[Try this.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5986899&postcount=4")

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-18
With the move to the new firmware for my wireless, the pervious kernal is unable to use my wireless...How would i fetch the old firmware driver...I done forgot what the drivers name was already x.x

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-18
I found the kernal logs i will post the link to them (sense they are too long to post here)

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-18
Here are my kernal logs. I hope someone can decipher the problem. (Sense i sure can't tell where such points are in the logs)

[[COLOR="Blue"](***_MyLogs_***)[/COLOR]]("http://geocities.com/designerkline/")

---

### Post by Rog-Mahal on 2008-10-19
hmmm, well, nothing looks out of the ordinary to me, but my skills are intermediate at best. I know that I had a lot of weird issues since the update as well. Luckily, 8.10 is coming out in a couple weeks :)

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-21
Hmm...prehaps whatever was causing the kernal panics was fixed...Ubuntu has been behaving lately...or its waiting for a moment to strike when i'm not expecting it...meh

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-22
Well actually the kernal wasn't fixed it just happened to be behaving for a bit this morning i started the PC up from a cold but and the kernal paniced as Ubuntu was being loaded. I have this from the log.

```
Oct 22 01:43:27 NexCore3200 syslogd 1.5.0#1ubuntu1: restart.
Oct 22 02:06:42 NexCore3200 kernel: [  560.324351] gvfs-fuse-daemo[5904] general protection rip:7f608c134423 rsp:7fff95d5d9c0 error:0
Oct 22 02:06:46 NexCore3200 kernel: [  563.707672] ip6_tables: (C) 2000-2006 Netfilter Core Team
Oct 22 02:06:47 NexCore3200 exiting on signal 15
Oct 22 12:17:48 NexCore3200 syslogd 1.5.0#1ubuntu1: restart.
```

The last restart marked where i had to force restart the system because the kernel panicked.

I've also updated my site with it too.

---

### Post by stormtrooprdave on 2008-10-22
I have hadthe same problem for the since kernel 19 and it still happens on 21.  It only happens on boot though and I have to hard reset sometimes more than once to get it to boot.  I am almost certainly sure that it is a wireless issue but Ive never managed to resolve it

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-22
Its only been on 21 for me and it has occasionally hit while running or at least it did. But mostly on startup for me too.

---

