---
title: "8.04 won't pass login screen"
date: 2008-05-19
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by vishaldesai on 2008-05-19
hi i have amd athalon 64 with 350 mb of ram. and i installed ubuntu 7.10 and it works fine but when i installed 8.04 it wont' let me login when i put user and password screen goes blank and goes back to login screen. it even does that when i try to use live cd. can any one tell me why 7.10 works and 8.04 does this.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-05-19
Try changing your session to gnome safe mode and see if you can log in that way. If you can then go to System/Adminstration/System Log and look for a message like this:

(pam) authentication failed, file pam_smbpass.so missing blah blah blah or something like that.

If so, open synaptics, search for libpam_smbpass and install it and it will fix your problem.

I ran into this with both 386i and amd64 8.04 iso disks burned from the MIT mirror. It seems to particularly effect people with AMD64 processors.

---

### Post by vishaldesai on 2008-05-20
i can't check it because i can't even log in to system. after i put in my username and password it acts like it is going to login but then it doesnt. screen goes black and it goes back to login screen.

i just installed 8.04 on my cousin and he has amd athalon 64 and it works fine on his

---

### Post by Mgiacchetti on 2008-05-20
you could try a reinstall, and format this time.

Although that is wierd, considering the live cd isnt set up to go to login screen.

you might want to redownload the iso...  this time check its checksum with the tools provided on the site. 

i ran into problems myself during an install, although not the same as yours, but I corrected the problems by doing another install, (without usb devices plugged in, and after cleaning the disk)  

Burn a new live cd, and try running that, to me, it sounds like you have a bad disk.

although I am new to ubuntu as well.

---

### Post by vishaldesai on 2008-05-20
ok thanx i am gonna give it a try see what happens

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-05-20
> **vishaldesai said:**
> i can't check it because i can't even log in to system. after i put in my username and password it acts like it is going to login but then it doesnt. screen goes black and it goes back to login screen.

i just installed 8.04 on my cousin and he has amd athalon 64 and it works fine on his

On the bottom left corner of the login screen is a little logo, click on that and a menu pops up. One choice is change session. Choose Gnome safe mode and you should be able to log in and get Gnome up and running.

---

### Post by vishaldesai on 2008-05-21
ok i got it to load with failsafe mode but in synaptic package manager i can't find that smbpass thing you told me to install. it comes up with no results.

---

### Post by Mgiacchetti on 2008-05-21
im using heron 8.04 64 on an amd athlon 64 hp (mobo: naos gl6) with no problems... yet

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-05-21
> **vishaldesai said:**
> ok i got it to load with failsafe mode but in synaptic package manager i can't find that smbpass thing you told me to install. it comes up with no results.

Click the search button on Synaptics and type libpam_smbpass.so in the window. It is the only way I ever found it.

---

### Post by clast on 2008-05-29
I have the same problem with my Hardy. After todays update wich installed about 120 packages i cann't pass the login sceen anymore. 
My console login is still working but if i try gnome or kde4 i fall back to gdm everytime. Even gnome failsafe is no longer working. I can only use a xterm session. 

Are there any log files for gnome where i can look for errors? 
I tried xorg but there are no hints.

---

### Post by stephenb on 2008-05-30
I've got a similar black screen problem, except that I first get the notorious xsessions message for a second or two. Then my screen goes **black** and just stays like that. I think it's got something to do with this from syslog:[INDENT]May 30 22:33:38 server1 gdm[6413]: WARNING: failsafe dialog failed (inhibitions: 0 0) 
May 30 22:33:38 server1 kernel: [  113.631490] [fglrx] interrupt source 10000000 successfully disabled!
May 30 22:33:38 server1 kernel: [  113.631496] [fglrx] enable ID = 0x00000000
May 30 22:33:38 server1 kernel: [  113.631498] [fglrx] Receive disable interrupt message with irqEnableMask: 10000000; dwIRQEnableId: 00000009
May 30 22:33:38 server1 kernel: [  113.631506] [fglrx] interrupt source 20008000 successfully disabled!
May 30 22:33:38 server1 kernel: [  113.631508] [fglrx] enable ID = 0x00000000
May 30 22:33:38 server1 kernel: [  113.631510] [fglrx] Receive disable interrupt message with irqEnableMask: 20008000; dwIRQEnableId: 00000008
May 30 22:33:39 server1 gdm[9330]: Gtk-WARNING: cannot open display: :0 
May 30 22:33:39 server1 gdm[6413]: WARNING: failsafe dialog failed (inhibitions: 0 1) 
May 30 22:33:39 server1 gdm[9332]: Gtk-WARNING: cannot open display: :0 
May 30 22:33:39 server1 gdm[6413]: WARNING: failsafe dialog failed (inhibitions: 1 1) 
May 30 22:33:39 server1 gdm[6416]: WARNING: gdm_slave_xioerror_handler: Fatal X error - Restarting :0 
May 30 22:33:41 server1 kernel: [  115.935512] firegl1.isse.e1[9365]: segfault at c rip 4a6dcf39 rsp ff826d50 error 4
May 30 22:33:41 server1 kernel: [  115.936209] firegl1.isse.e1[9366]: segfault at c rip 4a6dcf39 rsp ffea13c0 error 4

[/INDENT]What I have to do is hit Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to return to the login screen. I can then log in normally. 

I had the xsessions error in Feisty but was able to fix it pretty quick. I've never encountered the black screen thing before, but then Hardy has introduced me to many new bug species I've never had to deal with previously.

---

### Post by Kernel_Krunch on 2008-05-30
> **stephenb said:**
>  Hardy has introduced me to many new bug species I've never had to deal with previously.

Agreed, this version installs my IDE drives as SCSI (udev rules seem bare) CD image problem i wonder.  Something wrong with the Software Sources pull down menu, ftp no longer an option.

I havent used the 32bit version, maybe its just lack of development on x86_64 branch... idk

---

### Post by stephenb on 2008-06-01
Actually, I've found that I only get this problem after installing fglrx according to these instructions:[INDENT][http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)
[/INDENT]This is the only way I can get fglrx working properly. 

However, if I use the regular Ubuntu xorg repositories for fglrx, it doesn't happen. But then I am left with Mesa OpenGL rendering, which is terrible.

_UPDATE_

I think I've found a fix for my problem at least. I don't know if it'll help with others because the causes might be different. My fix was staring me in the face but I was so distracted with other Hardy bugs and annoyances that I got sidetracked. However, the following would appear to stop the hanging black screen issue for me.[INDENT] sudo gedit /usr/share/xserver-xgl/Xgl-session
[/INDENT]In that file, go down the end to where is says this:[INDENT]     xauth add $XGL_DISPLAY . $(xauth nextract - $DISPLAY | cut -d ' ' -f 9)

    verbose "Starting Xgl with options: " $XGL_ACCEL_OPTS $XGL_OPTS "\n"
    $XGL_WRAPPER $XGL_DISPLAY $XGL_ACCEL_OPTS $XGL_OPTS &
[/INDENT]After that just add this:[INDENT]sleep 5
[/INDENT]Then reboot to test. This is an old fix to an old problem it would seem. I found another way of doing it on some forum that involved a more extensive code change, but this simple step above seemed to solve it for me.

---

### Post by clast on 2008-06-03
I found the solution for my problem too. I had compiz git installed which was messed up by the latest updates. After uninstalling it i could again login into gnome.

---

### Post by jdsampayo on 2008-06-29
I have the same problem, with the live cd from the MIT, and then with the alternate cd from the Canada repository, checked hashes, verified burned data cd, verified integrity of the cd in the option of the alternate cd, then installed the alternate cd, everything in the install was fine, but I can't pass the login, it shows a black screen for one or two seconds and then return to the login screen.

I don't have the file "/usr/share/xserver-xgl/Xgl-session" to try the stephenb solution.

I have tried to reconfigure x11 via dkpg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, but it is strange, the wizard finishes after the keyboard configuration, I can't configure the video device.

Also, my /etc/X11/xorg.conf doesn't appear to show any information at all about my screen, monitor and video card, here it is:

-------------

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
 Driver "kbd"
 Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
 Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
 Option "XkbLayout" "es"
 Option "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Configured Mouse"
 Driver "mouse"
 Option "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
 Identifier "Configured Video Device"
 Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
 Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
 Identifier "Default Screen"
 Monitor "Configured Monitor"
 Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
 Identifier "Default Layout"
 Screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

-------

any ideas?

---

### Post by stephenb on 2008-06-29
If you installed with the alternate CD, the server one, then you won't have Ubuntu desktop and everything that goes with it. Did you install Ubuntu desktop?

[INDENT]sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
[/INDENT]
If you already did that, then it looks like your video card is not supported or something didn't install properly. You could install Envy and give that a try. What kind of video card do you have? 

Also, have a look around on the Web for xorg.conf examples. You'll be able to get an idea of what they should look like for a working setup. Try some different Screen settings.

---

### Post by jdsampayo on 2008-06-29
> **stephenb said:**
> If you installed with the alternate CD, the server one, 

I installed the alternate CD of the desktop version, the one that doesn't have the live cd option, but it installs the desktop version in a text based installer, not the server one.

> **stephenb said:**
> If you already did that, then it looks like your video card is not supported or something didn't install properly. 

I think that is an old problem of my video card, looking here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=160304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=160304)

But the strange thing, is that they say the problem was solved in Dapper Drake.

I will check that version to see if the problem is solved.

---

### Post by jdsampayo on 2008-06-29
> **stephenb said:**
> You could install Envy and give that a try.

it worked like a charm!!!

thanks!

---

