---
title: "9.04 64Bit does not want to work, 32bit works fine"
date: 2009-05-27
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by giancast on 2009-05-27
Hello I installed yesterday 9.04 64Bit in my PC and for the first time ever, my internet connections does not work and cannot figure out why. I can ping my router but that is as far as I get. My monitor again for the first time ever is recognized as a 17in instead of a 19in so I do not get the full 1600x1200 resolution it only gives me the 1280x1024 which stinks. 
I am typing this from my second HD which has the 9.04 32Bit and is working great. 
The install went great, under 14 minutes from the time I inserted the CD until I was logged in, but what a dissapointment when things did not work as expected from Ubuntu. All my previous Ubuntu installs have worked pretty much out of the box until now. Any hints will be appreciated, I will try to do a reinstall and see what happens.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2009-05-28
Tell us what hardware you have (brand, model etc).

---

### Post by giancast on 2009-05-28
I have a GIGABYTE GA-MA790GP-UD4H, AMD Phenom II X4 940 Deneb 3.0GHz, G.SKILL 4GB (2 x 2GB) 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM. I am using the built in video card ATI Radeon HD3300 graphics with a CRT so I am using the VGA output and I am also using the built in ethernet port. Thanks.

---

### Post by pixel :-) on 2009-05-28
for your screen, in 

system>preferences>display

you can't fix it?

---

### Post by giancast on 2009-05-28
Correct. System-Preferences-Display only gives me the resolution up to 1280x1024 and nothing else. When I click on the button Detect Monitor, it does not do anything. Maybe it has something to do with the ATI video card, but doubt it since in the 32bit I had no problem setting it up.

---

### Post by pixel :-) on 2009-05-28
You should be able to fix the rezolution, relativly painlesly with this

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution)

about the router
this howto should help
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetHowto)

The gui tools help?
system>administration>network tools
system>preferences>network conections

you have ethernet(i bet not) usb or wifi router?

In a browser, in url bar

10.0.0.138

this should display the router configuration page, works?

---

### Post by giancast on 2009-05-29
Pixel, thanks for your reply. I think that I should be able to fix the monitor issue once I have internet access. In the 32 bit I am using restricted drivers for the video card. 
I will play more with the internet. I copied all the settings from the 32bit and it still does not work. I have assigned fixed IP address to the computer and nothing. DHCP does not work either. I can ping my router and all the other computers in the network I just cannot get out of the LAN.

---

### Post by Random-penguin on 2009-05-29
I was just wondering if you could get on-line with the 64bit live cd. If yes it may be worth trying a to re-install. I know that sounds quite drastic but I have had installs not quite configuring things right and may be quicker than fathoming out what is wrong. If the live cd doesn't work either then that is odd because, as you stated 32-bit works and you've never had issues before:-?

---

### Post by giancast on 2009-05-30
Hello everybody, I am half there now. I just fixed the internet. I had to modify the resolf.conf file in the /etc directory. I checked all the files host, hosts.conf, host.allow, host.deny and they had the same content as the 32bit version. Then I decided (educated guess) to check the resolv.conf since I was able to ping my network and not able to get out to the internet. I remember a few years ago having a similar issue and somebody mentioned to me that it had something to do with my computer not being able to resolve internet addresses. So this is what I did from my 32 bit disk

sudo nautilus

then in nautilus I open the resolve.conf

in the resolve.conf I only had the following line:

# Generated by NetworkManager

while the 32bit file had the following lines:

nameserver 68.94.156.1
nameserver 68.94.157.1

so I added those two lines to the 64 bit resolve.conf, so now it looks like this:

# Generated by NetworkManager
# Added by me May 30, 2009 copied from Ubuntu 9.04 32 bit folder
nameserver 68.94.156.1
nameserver 68.94.157.1

got out of the 32 bit and into the 64 bit Ubuntu and now the internet works. I am typing this from the 64 bit. Great.

Now I still have the resolution problem. I am going to try to do an update and see if now that I have an internet connection the update picks up that I have the Radeon video card and downloads the driver. 

I'll post my results. Thanks to the people that tried to help.

Now I did an update with sudo apt-get update (Update manager did not work) and now my monitor is getting closer I get 1400x1050, 60Hz (stinks) and my monitor is Unknown. Close but no cigar. Still cannot detect monitor. The proprietary driver is installed but cannot get the ATI Display manager to display (I'll keep playing with it).

Installed Skype (should be another thread, I just want to mention it, I do not expect any suggestions) and my microphone does not work. At this moment is not a Skype problem since I cannot capture anything in Sound Recorder (had the same issue in 32bit and I figured it out).

---

### Post by Random-penguin on 2009-05-30
Glad you've solved the internet problem. Guess my input was a little lame :p

Regards the ATI driver have you tried downloading the linux driver from AMD? I had issues with the ubuntu driver that were solved using AMD's latest driver.

---

### Post by DonL on 2009-05-30
I know it's not a fix, but I got fed up trying to make 9.04 work on my emachines D620 with single core AMD Athlon processor. Even with 3 gigs of ram, video was jerky and occasionally locked up. Google Earth wouldn't work no matter what I tried. I think the biggest problem was the ATI drivers. So I dumped 9.04 and went back to 8.10 AMD 64, turned on restricted formats, and all is well. It works so well, I'm hard-pressed to figure out why I wanted to change up!

---

