---
title: "6.06 LTS, 4GByte++ RAM &amp; Network problems"
date: 2008-08-18
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by LinusLandar on 2008-08-18
Hello Folks,

i am running several (four) servers with 6.06LTS. all mainly same hardware, only storagecontroller differs (but all 3Ware SATA-RAID) and two have 2GB RAM, the other two have 4GB and 8GB.

since serveral weeks i am noticing problems with ftp and http upload on the two machines with 4/8GB RAM. mainly photos, sometimes also other files get corrupt during the upload.

after weeks of searching i come to the point, that the memory is the source of the error. but not the memory itself, it was checked with memtest, its ok. only if i allow ubuntu to use all the memory, there are network problems during upload. if i limit the memory with grub to 3.9GB, everything works fine.

i updatet ubuntu to latest version via apt-get, installed new e1000 driver, nothing changed on the problem.

perhaps someone here can clarify this behavior to me?

here the spec's of the servers:

MoBo: Supermicro X7DVL-E S5000V
CPU's: 2x Intel® Xeon 5130
RAM: 4/8 GB
Network: Intel® (ESB2/Gilgal) 82563EB (on Board Dual GigaBitEthernet)
Ubuntu 6.06.2 amd64-2.6.19-52 with e1000 v7.6

best regards

Frank

p.s. sorry if my english is something bumpy, i am litte out of practice writing in english...

---

### Post by LinusLandar on 2008-08-19
hello,

no need to go search further. problems semm to be related to a bug in driver for 3ware 8006 controller. i updated the driver, deleted the grub-mem-option, and everything seems to be fine.

if someone is interested, here you can find the updated driver:

[http://www.3ware.com/KB/article.aspx?id=15243&cNode=6I1C6S](http://www.3ware.com/KB/article.aspx?id=15243&cNode=6I1C6S)

thanks to all!

live long and prosper

---

