---
title: "TTY mode only need help to get back to GUI."
date: 2009-02-10
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by dtechlogic on 2009-02-10
Hi Guys,

I have update the video drivers to the latest one that Nvidia have available on their website. I have a Nvidia geforce 8700M GT 512MB. The driver got update and now i can't get to come out of TTY screen. i have try sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start and nothing and i have press ctrl+alt+f7.. Pease advice how can i get my Gui back soon. Help guys.

---

### Post by Denestria on 2009-02-10
Sometimes the GUI is on F9.  So if you haven't yet try ctrl-alt-F9.

---

### Post by johnl on 2009-02-10
It seems you have found the reason why the nvidia drivers are packaged in the repositories :)

To help you troubleshoot we will probably need a little more information.

Sometimes it's as simple as making sure the new nvidia module got loaded.  Try 'sudo rmmod nvidia' and then 'sudo modprobe nvidia' before restarting GDM.  

If that doesn't work, you'll need to check your X log.  Type "more /var/log/Xorg.0.log"  Look for lines starting with (EE) -- these indicate errors starting the display.  You can post those here and someone should be able to help you with them.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by dtechlogic on 2009-02-10
When i was installing the drivers NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.22-pkg2.run. The installatin went fine i did not get an error. One thing it did was to rebuild the kernel and everything when smooth. I will try anything that might work.

---

### Post by TutonicMonkey on 2009-02-10
I have the exact same issue on U8.10 x64 after installing nvidia 177 or 173 via available(restricted hardware drivers). I had the same results on Xubuntu x64 too.

This is after a clean install and after installing every available patch in update manager.

hardware:
q6600
msi p7n sli plat 750i
4gb ddr2 1066
200gb wd
2x nvidia 8800gt ssc 512mb -SLI


edit:
I forgot to mention everything works just fine w/out the drivers. ctrl+alt+f7 dose not take me to a gui - just a blinking line

---

### Post by dtechlogic on 2009-02-10
All this happen because i was tryong to have Compiz work. My question is will the driver 177 work well with nvidia 8700M and also with Compiz. So that i don't update next time if i have to install ubuntu again.
Thank you.

---

### Post by dtechlogic on 2009-02-10
This is wath i have in the x.org file

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

