---
title: "Ubuntu locks at boot."
date: 2008-05-22
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Vitamin X on 2008-05-22
I have Hardy Heron 8.04, and this is a tad frustrating to get to, as this might have to be the third time I'll have to re-install it if it doesn't get sorted out.

It seems I'm having some sort of bad luck with putting my computer on suspend/standby, since this happened the last time as well. Basically, the kernel is loading up, and last time it just froze and crash- when in recovery mode, I saw it had the infamous kernel panic from which no one shall return. This time, I (idiotically) put the ol' Linux on standby again, and this time I encountered a similar problem, although there's no kernel panic this time- Recovery just stops when it searches for SCSI connections (?!?) and that's it, it just doesn't go past that any more.

Can anyone tell me what's going on here, before I have to do yet another re-install?? And just when I finally got all the things I wanted downloaded and set up the way I wanted! Damn.

---

### Post by Patb on 2008-05-22
> **Vitamin X said:**
> ... this might have to be the third time I'll have to re-install it if it doesn't get sorted out...
Vitamin, it's probably small consolation but in hindsight, I've reinstalled a number of times when I didn't have to - there was a simpler way.  

I don't use hibernate much so I can't give you much advice.  Before resorting to reinstalling though, I would boot from a live CD and start gparted.  Then I would find the swap partition, make sure it is  not in use (Partition/Swapoff) and format it as "linux-swap" again.  This will erase any hibernation data.  Then reboot. 

This is pretty rough though - a sort of last resort.  I'm sure more knowledgable people will be able to suggest a better approach.  

Cheers, Pat.

---

### Post by Vitamin X on 2008-05-22
Thanks for the suggestion, Pat. I tried it out, and unfortunately, it didn't seem to work.

Of course, now I have a new problem. I went and re-installed Ubuntu, and I think I accidentally enabled the ATI display drivers. Big mistake. I recall trying to do that before, and the screen did the infamous "whiteout", wherein Ubuntu tries to start up but the screen just goes completely white, no startup sound or anything. I've fixed this in the past before by booting into recovery mode, then fixing the x-server, and it goes back to the way it was, just fine.

However, now it does not work. But, the caveat is that I can start it running on failsafe-GNOME and have it going without a problem, so it seems that there's a startup script in there that's causing some sort of major issue. I can work just fine on failsafe, everything included too, but I want to know what's messing with my system since it won't start on normal. Anyone have any suggestions???

---

### Post by Vitamin X on 2008-05-22
This is the output from my xorg.conf file right now, by the way. Why would this be causing a white screen on boot into regular Ubuntu???

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by Vitamin X on 2008-05-23
Anyone have any ideas?

---

