---
title: "8.40.1 will not install on X64 system"
date: 2008-08-02
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by useroflinux on 2008-08-02
Hi,

I have been a desktop user of Ubuntu for over a year.  I had Ubuntu 7.10 64amd running on my computer and went to upgrade to 8.04 via download and the system stopped with 3 minutes to go of installing the software.  It said some thing about loading locals. Eight hours later I stopped the upgrade by resetting the computer. 

I downloaded the new ISO disk file 8.04.1 and checked it.  Then created the 8.04.1 x86-AMD64 loading program on CD.  On boot up it reported "Error Kernel Requires X86-64 only detected an i1586 CPU unable to boot".  

I have an AMD 64 processor that the 7.10 64 software was running on very well.

My equipment is Tyan S2865 Tomcat K8E mother board, AMD Athlon 64 Processor 4000+, 2GB DDR KVR400 memory, WD 500GB ATA hard drive and ATI Radeon X1600 Pro Video card. 

Any suggestions would be welcome.[http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/confused.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/smilies/confused.gif)

Thank you

---

### Post by Bad_Byte on 2008-08-03
Appears to me the bios hands over wrong cpu information, my old motherboard used to do that if I had changed any thing in the bios that affected the cpu.

My only tip would be to try a cold boot (as in power off and let it rest for a minute or two before turning on power again) and try again, that used to set my old motherboard straight.

---

### Post by useroflinux on 2008-08-03
Thank you Bad_Byte,

I will try the cold boot as soon as the alternate ISO disk stops downloading.  I figured I should try it to see if it could make any changes.  I think you have a good handle on what could be causing the software from not loading. Thank you.

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-08-03
You may think about a bios update.

---

### Post by Sitix on 2008-08-03
You could also try setting your bios to its default settings. And then a cold reboot, then try again.

If that doesn't work, the two chances you have might be (what soxs said) a bios update or replacing your motherbord. Those are only about $30 to $40, and it brings some general improvements anyway. But the last option is a little radical, perhaps other people have other suggestions.

---

### Post by useroflinux on 2008-08-03
> **soxs said:**
> You may think about a bios update.

Thank you all for your suggestions so far.  I tried the cold boot (as bad_byte suggested) with the same negative results.  Also the  alternate CD loading 8.04.01 produced the same report "Error kernel requires X86-64 CPU, but only detected and i1586 cpu".  Does anyone know what a valid detect report for an AMD Athlon 64 bit single core processor should be?

I will try to get an updated Bios file next as soxs and Sitix suggested.  

I deeply appreciate you all reading about my problem and appreciate your suggestions.

---

### Post by Bad_Byte on 2008-08-03
As a last resort you can use the 32bin version, unless you are "heavy database user", "number crunching", "must have more than 4GB of ram" etc.. you won't lose much by switching back. Better to have it working slightly slower than not working at all.

---

### Post by suri.mahendra on 2008-08-03
I got some bad burns and Ubuntu 8.X would not install.  Try a few different mirrors and see if the problem persists.  Most of the time its the simple things that trip you up.

Cheers

---

### Post by useroflinux on 2008-08-05
> **Bad_Byte said:**
> As a last resort you can use the 32bin version, unless you are "heavy database user", "number crunching", "must have more than 4GB of ram" etc.. you won't lose much by switching back. Better to have it working slightly slower than not working at all.

Thank you to “bad_byte, Soxs, Sitix and Suri.mahendra” who responded to my request for assistance.    I am very grateful since your advice helped me come to an operational conclusion.  

I tried three different mirror downloads of Ubuntu and one of Kubuntu of the AMD64 type and all failed to load even after upgrading the mother board BIOS.  Recall that the 7.10 and also the 7.04 AMD64 Ubuntu software ran and still can be loaded on this AMD 64 Athlon Processor computer.  Conclusion here is that the 8.04 version of Ubuntu and Kubuntu have changed their acceptable identification requirements of 64-bit processors and it does not accept my computer's AMD 64 Athlon processor's ID.  

Now when I took “bad_byte's” most recent advice (see quote above) and downloaded the i386 32-bit version of Ubuntu, I now have my computer running with 32-bit Ubuntu and the advantage of the 8.04 software upgrades.  

Positive things I have learned:
Backups are a must
If you only have a single computer you must have multiple operating systems installed.  (That is what allowed me to contact the forum when Ubuntu died after upgrading [I used Susi Linux].)
The Forum run by Canonical is a great place to obtain help and advice!!!
Your data should be on a separate partition from any operating system so if an operating system goes down such as software upgrades, you do not lose all your data and it is still accessible via the other operating systems.

Thank you for your help!!!!  I am back up and operating!!
:)

---

### Post by punkybouy on 2008-08-05
Your upgrade may have worked.  My 32 bit upgrade did the same thing a few weeks ago and the locale issue was discussed in a couple of posts but the fix is to go to terminal and rm /usr/bin/localdef and then run dpkg --configure -a and the install should finish. Reboot and it should be ok.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-08-05
So you didnt get the 64bit installed?

---

### Post by Sitix on 2008-08-06
> **useroflinux said:**
> Now when I took “bad_byte's” most recent advice (see quote above) and downloaded the i386 32-bit version of Ubuntu, I now have my computer running with 32-bit Ubuntu and the advantage of the 8.04 software upgrades.

Actually, now you mentioned... I have an AMD64 X2 5000+ processor, and as that is 64bit, I should use Ubuntu 64 bit. But I never bothered using it. I just installed the 32 bit version and the only problem is that it doesn't see my full 4GB ram, but that's all. No speed limitations or anything sortlike. It runs fast and smooth.

Anyway, I'm glad it all worked out. :)

---

### Post by useroflinux on 2008-08-06
> **tuxxy said:**
> So you didnt get the 64bit installed?

Hi,

No I did not get the 8.04.1 64 bit Hardy to install.  It will not recognize my AMD 64 bit Athlon system.  I need a functional system and am using the 32 bit version released 8.04.  It is working good so far.

---

