---
title: "8.04 Ndiswrapper WUSB54G v4 stop working after recent upgrade"
date: 2008-09-16
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by the_weekend on 2008-09-16
I would have posted this under network, but somehow my user permissions won't let me post there. Anyhow, so like it says, I can't get on the internet anymore. I had NDiswrapper and an Windows 64-bit driver for my WUSB54G v4 working great and after an upgrade earlier today, It won't authenticate. NDiswrapper is still loaded and my WUSB54G module is loaded, have power and blinky lights when trying to connect but no workie...
Please help!

---

### Post by the_weekend on 2008-09-21
I switched out my drivers to the native rt2570, which worked sorta okay before I installed ndiswrapper. It recognized my wireless adapter, but it seems the problem lies with the network manager for both cards. Both cards are recognized, but neither will connect to my router.
Any help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2008-09-21
I had that many times as well. Upgrade and everything seems to work, but no connection to router. At the release of Hardy I was so tired of it, that I bought a new network card (a Linksys WMP54G). Since you have two already, I doubt this will help.

The trick was to file a bug report for Ndiswrapper and kernel X and network manager Y. Usually new updates would arrive for a new network manager and ndiswrapper. 

You could try to deinstall network manager and use the manual network settings to enter your access, but that is limited to WEP (disable roaming does the same without uninstalling network manager). 

Also an option is to compile the new ndiswrapper (if available) from source yourself. That saved my life once as well.

---

