---
title: "9.04 64 bit boot problems (X related, I think)"
date: 2009-09-13
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by TobiasV on 2009-09-13
Hello everyone

About an hour ago I turned on my computer and went to go grab a drink, when I came back, my computer showed nothing but a black screen and my mouse cursor, I could move my cursor, but my keyboard was locked (I tried hitting numlock, capslock etc., nothing changed). So I decided to just restart it. I watched it boot this time, and the Ubuntu splash screen appeared, and everything seemed fine, until where it's supposed to start the X server, the screen turned black again, and only my mouse was working. I tried to reboot two more times, with the same result.

So I decided to boot into recovery mode, and I did a filesystem scan (just in case), and then tried the fix x option (or something like that), then I chose the resume regular boot. After this I was shown several black screens with with random patterns of different colours on the top quarter of the screen, until it finally stopped at one screen with a random pattern, and again my keyboard was locked (couldn't do anything), this time with no mouse cursor. I tried rebooting twice with the same result. After that I once again booted into the recovery mode, and I had a look at my xorg.conf file, and it looked VERY default, I don't think it had even specified a driver.

So now I'm asking you guys for help. Possibly to tell me what my xorg.conf file should look like (so I can try with that), using the fglrx (or whatever the ATI one is called) driver. Or if that's not the problem, to try and help me figure out what the real problem is, thanks in advance.

-TobiasV

---

### Post by sanderj on 2009-09-13
Can you still live-boot from a CD (just to check your video card)?

---

### Post by TobiasV on 2009-09-13
Yes, I am able to boot from my live CD, and also from my other installed OS.

---

### Post by TobiasV on 2009-09-14
No one has any suggestions?

---

### Post by alienexplorers on 2009-09-14
Please post your xorg.conf file here so we can look at it.

---

### Post by TobiasV on 2009-09-15
I've now attached my xorg.conf file, which is the exact same as the live CD I'm currently running is using.

I have always attached a tarball of various logs I think might help.

---

### Post by chris1950 on 2009-09-15
Just a thought, have you tried restoring the xorg backup file from recovery mode?:)

---

### Post by TobiasV on 2009-09-15
Not really, but it wasn't working before I changed anything either...

Will try when I get home though.

---

