---
title: "?. gvfs in ./ home"
date: 2008-09-14
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by UlrichvonHutten on 2008-09-14
hi, maybe somebody can answer about the following:
i checked as root my homeaccount and found a RED marked entry as following:
**/home/equinox[COLOR="Red"]?.gvfs[/COLOR]**   , size 0, _MTime 1.Jan 1970_
A big Q followed, because: how old was Linus then ????
_1970_ ???? was linux already invented at that time ??? 
ok, back to basics. who can help me out of this dilemma ? what happens if i simply kill it, do i shoot my distri to bits & pieces ?

regards,

UvH

---

### Post by skunkTrader on 2008-09-15
1 Jan 1970 is the earliest date as far as all *nix are concerned

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time)

---

### Post by UlrichvonHutten on 2008-09-17
thx skunkTrader,

for so far i learned a bit more about time, space etc. still i wonder about that questionmark before gvfs and of course the warning color RED. by the way, doe other ubuntu hardy users see it, too ? :roll:

UvH

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-09-17
> **UlrichvonHutten said:**
> A big Q followed, because: how old was Linus then ????
_1970_ ???? was linux already invented at that time ??? 

[History of Linux](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Linux) - it was invented in 1991.

And on 1 Jan 1970, [Linus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds) was just 5 days old! :)

---

### Post by UlrichvonHutten on 2008-09-20
So far so good, but still i'd like to know if i should delete it or not. who's got some experience will sort like cases ?

UvH

---

### Post by IntuitiveNipple on 2008-09-20
What is the command(s) you used to see that output? Please show it here in a [ code ] block to make it easier to read and reproduce.

---

