---
title: "Postscript printer FS1700+"
date: 2008-09-16
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by howlingmadhowie on 2008-09-16
Hi everybody.

i'm having difficulties getting my Kyocera FS1700+ to print correctly under 64-bit Ubuntu. On 32-bit it has in the past worked fine. It also works fine when printed to by an old G4 (32-bit) powermac with fedora 8 installed.

the problem is that it just prints out the ps instructions it gets, rather than try to interpret them. does anybody have a similar problem?

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-17
How are you installing the drivers?

---

### Post by howlingmadhowie on 2008-09-17
> **Sef said:**
> How are you installing the drivers?

i'm using the graphical printer manager in administration. i've tried the ppd from kyocera and a generated ppd from the openprinting.org site (which i presume is the same as the one generated by foomatic) ( [http://www.openprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Kyocera-FS-1700plus](http://www.openprinting.org/show_printer.cgi?recnum=Kyocera-FS-1700plus) ), neither of which worked (not that i've looked into the structure of a ppd-file, so i don't know if it's relevant to a failure to parse postscript).

i just booted up 7.10 on my old 32-bit laptop and the printer worked fine with the foomatic generated postscript driver. on my new 64-bit laptop the printer just prints postscript text when i do the same.

------------------

thinking about it, this looks more and more like a bug report

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-17
>  thinking about it, this looks more and more like a bug report

I agree.

---

### Post by howlingmadhowie on 2008-09-17
i have absolutely no idea why, but i just tried it again and it works. very strange...

---

