---
title: "8.10 AM64: Unable to use nvidia 180 driver on PC with 2 Graphics cards 9800GTX+ and"
date: 2009-03-11
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by freedomIndia on 2009-03-11
UPDATE:
Closed. Disabled my secondary 8600GT at BIOS level and was able to successfully to install nvidia drivers using Envy.


All,
My PC Config: M2N-E-SLI motherboard with AMD X2 64-bit dual-core 4200+ processor.
Graphics cards: Two. (one 9800GTX+ as primary and one 8600GT as secondary)
Tried installing from Live CD into a separate partition, and also using Wubi.
Both times, the Gnome or KDE desktop works as default without using any nvidia drivers.
The moment i use synaptic to install nvidia 177 (recommended drivers) or my downloaded copy of 180.xx drivers, the GUI fails to boot up.
It says: "
No Device found"
"type1 module not found"
It recognizes my 8600GT as pci@0000:04:00.0 as "8600GT"  and my 9800GTX+ is recognized at pci@0000:05:00.0 as "nvidia corporation" (???)
I tried every thing possible: installed from command line the latest drivers, did NOT install the restricted drivers before installing 180.xx, installed everything per synaptic from GUI, added the BusID to xorg.conf and even tried to bring back the xorg.conf.failsafe back in place.
Nope. Nothing seems to work.
It comes to tty1 and that's it.
Its in fact even repeatable across installations:
1) Tried it with partitioned install from live CD: no GUI after upgrading to 177 (recommended drivers via synaptic)
2) Tried it with wubi: downloaded and installed 180.xx drivers on pristine Ubuntu install fresh. No GUI after reboot.
All the time i used only 64-bit drivers.
What is wrong with my steps?
Am tearing my hair out.
I thought Ubuntu would be as easy as installing Leopard on my iBook... sadly it is not so.

---

### Post by turniphead on 2009-03-29
I'm having the same problem, as soon as the driver is installed ubuntu boots to terminal with no GUI. Looks like it's happening across multiple distributions.

Asus A8N32 SLI Deluxe
2 x XFX Geforce 6800 GS XXX Edition

Tried installing the 9.04 beta which defaults to the 180 driver. No joy, so I tried 8.10. Same thing happens as soon as I install the 180 driver.

Even reverting back to the 177 package from terminal I still get no GUI.

I'm now on my fourth installation today! Not a happy bunny. Think I might steer clear of the 180 driver for now.

---

### Post by blitzer on 2009-03-29
I to suffer the same problem with the new driver 180 for my system 1 vid card.  I will have to search the forums for a how to to get back to gui.

---

### Post by freedomIndia on 2009-04-04
> **turniphead said:**
> I'm having the same problem, as soon as the driver is installed ubuntu boots to terminal with no GUI. Looks like it's happening across multiple distributions.

Asus A8N32 SLI Deluxe
2 x XFX Geforce 6800 GS XXX Edition

Nope. Can't do.
Disable the secondary card at BIOS level.
Linux drivers recognize only one card, the primary.
Hell, you are not going to play Company of Heroes or Crysis in Linux, are you?

---

### Post by arapa on 2009-04-04
I was having a lot of problems getting my 9800GTX+ cards (SLI) running under 180 drivers (also in windows). There is a problem with a large batch of these cards across manufacturers (XFX, eVGA, etc). 

The fix is a GPU BIOS update for the card. My cards are XFX - if you have an XFX card register and open a support ticket. They will send you a BIOS flash ISO. If you have another manufacturer contact them. 

I'm now running the latest drivers in both XP and amd64 Ubuntu 8.10

---

### Post by arapa on 2009-04-04
> **freedomIndia said:**
> Nope. Can't do.
Disable the secondary card at BIOS level.
Linux drivers recognize only one card, the primary.


I'm running ubuntu in SLI. There is an xorg.conf setting to enable SLI.

Here's mine:
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
        Option         "SLI" "on"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
BusID  "03:00:00"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection
```

Make sure you include the **BusID** for the card your monitor is pluged into.

run ```
lspci | grep VGA

```
 to find what numbers you need to use.

---

### Post by MountainMan2000 on 2009-04-05
Yeah, I suffer from a similar problem.  I run multiple OS partitions (Win Vista, Win 7 beta, and Ubuntu).  So it isn't an acceptable fix to remove my second video card from the computer or disable it in the BIOS.  I'd be willing to configure Ubuntu to not use the second card but in windows I like to have my two monitors and HDTV all connected to my two cards.

Anyway, I'm trying to get Ubuntu working with my i7 build that includes an EVGA GTX260 and EVGA 8800GT.  The MB is an EVGA x58.

The default graphics driver worked okay, at low rez, but once I tried to install and activate the NVIDIA driver xwindows stopped working.  When I switched to the graphics terminal I just saw a blinking cursor.  Reboots just dump me into a terminal prompt without GUI.

I played around with many combinations and found that the xwindows gui works fine if either the 8800 or 260 are installed but fails to work whenever both are installed.

I also found that mulitple monitors on a single card work fine and I was able to go into the nvidia settings tool and make changes.  But once I reinstall the second card I get stuck back at the blinking cursor until the second card is removed.  I can log into a text terminal and make configuration changes.

But I can't figure out what edits to make in xorg.conf to resolve this problem and I can't get to the gui nvidia settings tool when the second card is installed.

The two card config works fine in Windows Vista and 7 beta.

I'm not trying to run in SLI because my cards are not the same and I want to run multiple monitors, hence no SLI.  But I do want both cards to be present in the system with at least one functioning.

Your input is appreciated.

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-04-05
nvidia has an extensive README for each driver.  google nvidia README driver.version (nvidia README 185.13) to find the RTEADME file.  there is information about sli and dual card installations.

---

### Post by genesis2seven on 2009-04-27
I have yet to have ubuntu or envy to be able to properly install/configure the nvidia drivers for me. I'm on an XPS630 with dual Nvidia 9800 cards. After much research and many failed attempts once again with a fresh install of 9.04 (already been through this with 7.10, 8.04, and 8.10) I posted my solution on my blog and in another related forum post, but don't remember the forum post. Link to my blog solution below. Just did this successfully on 9.04 with dual cards and dual monitors. The post still lists the 180.29 driver but I'm using the 180.51 now and also they've disabled ctrl+alt+Backspace in 9.04 so just reboot when you get to that step instead and you'll be fine.

[http://www.adamlowe.me/2009/02/nvidia-18029-driver-on-ubuntu-810.html](http://www.adamlowe.me/2009/02/nvidia-18029-driver-on-ubuntu-810.html)

---

