---
title: "Swap file on a RAM disk"
date: 2009-01-27
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Jiri Simsa on 2009-01-27
I was trying to follow the How To at [http://kerneltrap.org/node/3660](http://kerneltrap.org/node/3660) to setup a swap file on a RAM disk -- do not question my motives, they are virtuous =).

I get the following error:

First I set the ram disk size to 2GB in /boot/grub/menu.lst. Then:

$ sudo mkdir -p /swap/ramdisk

$ sudo mke2fs /dev/ram0
mke2fs 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
Filesystem label=
OS type: Linux
Block size=4096 (log=2)
Fragment size=4096 (log=2)
125440 inodes, 500000 blocks
25000 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
First data block=0
Maximum filesystem blocks=515899392
16 block groups
32768 blocks per group, 32768 fragments per group
7840 inodes per group
Superblock backups stored on blocks:
    32768, 98304, 163840, 229376, 294912

Writing inode tables: done                           
Writing superblocks and filesystem accounting information: done

This filesystem will be automatically checked every 31 mounts or
180 days, whichever comes first.  Use tune2fs -c or -i to override.

$ sudo mount -t ext2 /dev/ram0 /swap/ramdisk/
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/ram0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

$ dmesg | tail
...
[ 3966.389185] EXT2-fs: Magic mismatch, very weird !
[ 3980.491120] VFS: Can't find an ext2 filesystem on dev ram0.

Alternatively, I tried:

$ sudo mkswap /dev/ram0
Setting up swapspace version 1, size = 2047995 kB
no label, UUID=659f0dbf-5340-482a-8d1b-c27a96b3008e

Then added "/dev/ram0 none swap sw 0 0" line to /etc/fstab.

$ sudo swapon -a
swapon: /dev/ram0: Invalid argument 

Any ideas, why are both approaches failing?

Jiri

---

### Post by AliTabuger7 on 2009-01-27
I would just follow the typical swapfile directions, but use /dev/shm/swapdisk as the file. /dev/shm is a ramdisk on all debian machines.

For example:
sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/shm/512Mb.swap bs=1M count=512

I am extremely curious about your motives though...

---

### Post by Jiri Simsa on 2009-01-27
Thanks. I am going to give it a try. 

As for my motives, I am measuring the effect of different swap file devices -- RAM, SSD, HDD -- on the runtime of a specific scientific application, which requires more memory than is physically available.

So, I gave it a try:

$ sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/shm/1Gb.swap bs=1M count=1024
1024+0 records in
1024+0 records out
1073741824 bytes (1.1 GB) copied, 1.2108 s, 887 MB/s

$ sudo mkswap /dev/shm/1Gb.swap 1048576
Setting up swapspace version 1, size = 1073737 kB
no label, UUID=b5671a1f-72d8-4b93-a7a2-a4eaf7ad8da8

$ sudo chmod 0600 /dev/shm/1Gb.swap 

$ sudo swapon /dev/shm/1Gb.swap 
swapon: /dev/shm/1Gb.swap: Invalid argument

:(

---

### Post by bettlebrox on 2009-01-27
I wouldn't create the swapfile under /dev as it'll probably go away when you reboot and /dev/ is regenerated by udev.

Reading the swapon man pages it looks like you need to create an entry in your /etc/fstab for swapon to see the swapfile. This should do the trick (make a backup copy of /etc/fstab before you edit the file):

[INDENT]/dev/shm/1Gb.swap  swap swap defaults 0 0[/INDENT]

Then run:
[INDENT]swapon -a[/INDENT]

---

### Post by mdhunn on 2009-03-20
I started to set up like that, but thought better of it.  I created a ramdisk for /tmp and it is not cachaed during shutdown, neither is /dev/shm.  So swapon would have looked for a non existent file on startup.

Still it would be nice to be able to put a swap file in ram so that any apps that may be hard coded to use swap couldn't slow down my 8Gb system.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-03-21
> **mdhunn said:**
> Still it would be nice to be able to put a swap file in ram so that any apps that may be hard coded to use swap couldn't slow down my 8Gb system.
I don't think apps are hard-coded to use swap (correct me if you know otherwise). Has free -m ever shown swap in use?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-03-21
> **Temüjin said:**
> I don't think apps are hard-coded to use swap (correct me if you know otherwise). Has free -m ever shown swap in use?
I agree, that concept does not make sense.

swap is a "behind the schemes" part of the way that the OS manages the memory on the machine. There is no reason for an application to know or care about it.

I'd like a better explanation of why anyone would want this. Because the whole point of swap is to free RAM. If the swap is in RAM, there is no point to it.

---

