---
title: "Unique New Nvidia Driver Woes..."
date: 2008-10-15
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by conway.federico on 2008-10-15
Up until this morning I had a functioning nvidia GeForce  (When running 'lspci | grep' I get  “VGA 
00:05.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C51 [Geforce 6150 Go] (rev a2)”)  I'm not sure  what driver I was running before, but it was out of synaptic, and done automatically..... and xgl and compiz were working.  This morning I tried to install the Linux drivers from NVIDIA's site.  It won't run and now I can't get my card functioning again... the below script has been edited under device, driver,  “nvidia” to “nv” just to allow ubuntu to book normally into GUI, Otherwise I get an error loading X Server and I have to re-install the driver.  If I try installing the newest drivers through system, preferences, appearance... It auto installs the newest drivers for me... but then again I have the error x server boot issues, and I get dropped at a command line...  Below is my xconfig file for the New Nvidia driver...   


  GNU nano 2.0.7                                                      File: /etc/X11/xorg.conf                                                                                                                   

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file) 
# 
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using 
# values from the debconf database. 
# 
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page. 
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.) 
# 
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only* 
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg 
# package. 
# 
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated 
# again, run the following command: 
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg 

Section "InputDevice" 
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard" 
        Driver          "kbd" 
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg" 
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105" 
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us" 
EndSection 

Section "InputDevice" 
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse" 
        Driver          "mouse" 
        Option          "CorePointer" 
EndSection 

Section "InputDevice" 
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad" 
        Driver          "synaptics" 
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true" 
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux" 
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev" 
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0" 
EndSection 

Section "Device" 
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device" 
        Driver          "nv" 
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True" 
EndSection 

Section "Monitor" 
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor" 
EndSection 

Section "Screen" 
        Identifier      "Default Screen" 
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor" 
        Device          "Configured Video Device" 
        Defaultdepth    24 
EndSection 

Section "ServerLayout" 
        Identifier      "Default Layout" 
  screen "Default Screen" 
        Inputdevice     "Synaptics Touchpad" 
EndSection 
Section "Module" 
        Load            "glx" 
EndSection 


 Please help!!!
****

---

### Post by briandu on 2008-10-15
hi there,

u upgraded to kernel .21 from .19 and this seems to be the problem. The new NVidia .80 driver does not seem to have all the supporting code yet so use and older driver out of the Nvidia archives/

also when you boot - on Grub press Esc and select older version of kernel (.19) and u should be able to reconfig as I have done.

---

### Post by briandu on 2008-10-15
OK sorted out .80 nvidia driver with .19 kernel and it works.


download NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.80-pkg2.run

chmod +x NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.80-pkg2.run

then:
sudo  /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.80-pkg2.run     (say yes/accept to all)
sudo reboot and OK


BUT no dist-upgrade - the .21 kernel needs more tweaking somewhere????:confused:

---

### Post by conway.federico on 2008-10-16
Hey thanks... but still no cigar.  The good part is that when loading up into the .19 kernal and doing the driver re-install I actually get a boot into gui and not a X Server load error and the reports...  but I still do not have a working Nvidia chipset... If I try to mess around with compiz or my advanced appearance settings I now get a blank tan screen, if i enter then it goes away. (some sort of error i can't see due to the full screen tanness I assume).  Also I am told my X server is not configured when i go to the X server settings under system tools.  

"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."  

 but after running this I get "Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' "
 and then a restart, nothing much changes... 

Also, how can I can set up to boot into .19 instead of .21 so I don't have to do it manually? 

Also, I noticed that booting in .19generic gives me the X Server err.or, but .19rt gets me to the gui.  

Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by Elim_Garak on 2008-10-16
> **conway.federico said:**
> Hey thanks... but still no cigar.

I had basically the same problem.  Check [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=948301]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=948301") for some solutions.

---

### Post by conway.federico on 2008-10-16
So... fed up, I totally annihilated anything NVIDIA, rebooted, and then used envy.  Worked like a charm, except... I can't set anything with compiz or appearance... one step back, two steps forward... how do I get everything working again?  I assume that this discussion [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5974916#post5974916](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5974916#post5974916) about the kernal is what I am up against.. but I am unsure...

anytime i try to adjust things in appearance... I am told to re-install the proprietary drivers, and that takes me back to my X server error and back to problem one....

 any help I have missed?

---

### Post by briandu on 2008-10-16
It does work together - that is: .21 kernel and .80 nvidia driver. I reloaded a AMD64 T3 and away it went. Nvidia 8600GT. This is from raw metal.

Now to sort out my Q6600 that did not work with 9600GT card

It must be something in the xsettings that is being affected.

---

### Post by Milleman on 2008-10-16
Read my posting: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=949268#2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=949268#2")

:guitar:

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-10-16
Plx post the output you get under 2.6.24.21 from ```
glxinfo
``` (in code tags)

---

### Post by conway.federico on 2008-10-16
So... I am stuck booting into the .19rt kernal... If I boot into the .21 I get an error.  I need to know how to get my kernal properly configured and updated for what I need... as for the Nvidia drivers in .19rt Kernal... If I use envy, I get a good install and the "Nvidia" logo displayed ... but i can't enable any of the effects, or run any screensavers... etc...

 I tried "Milleman"'s advice and looked for "linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-21-generic" but I could only find "linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24  Version 2.6.24.14-21.51"  Installing this has enabled me to only boot in the .19rt kernal... even after uninstalling "linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24  Version 2.6.24.14-21.51"

glxinfo gives me....

```
glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 24 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x22 24 dc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x7b 32 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None

```

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-10-17
This shows that your driver install is messed up, purge it via synaptics and additionally tell envy to install the drivers and then purge them again. Reboot. Try to install again. My only advice atm...

---

### Post by Milleman on 2008-10-17
> **conway.federico said:**
>  I tried "Milleman"'s advice and looked for "linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-21-generic" but I could only find "linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24  Version 2.6.24.14-21.51"

I have updated the previous postings at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5977052#2]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5977052#2")

/Mill

---

### Post by conway.federico on 2008-10-21
Ok, So I have tried purging the drivers via EnvyNG and doing many fresh installs. But still glx gives me.. 

```
glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 24 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x22 24 dc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x7b 32 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None

```

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-10-21
I don't know... as I remember I always reinstalled my sys when it came up with something like that, mostly because I spent one whole day tryng to fix and that was about 20 times more than a fresh install requires...

---

### Post by conway.federico on 2008-10-30
Yeah, I ended up doing a fresh install and now I have compiz working fine. I set it up using the proprietary drivers.  Then I used envyng to update.. after envying nothing really changed... Its just now that I have the " X server settings" under administration. 

 When I click on it, I am told that "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.".   When I run 'nvidia-xconfig' I get this...

```
$ nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

WARNING: The CorePointer device was not specified explicitly in the layout;
         using the first CorePointer in the config input list.


WARNING: The CoreKeyboard device was not specified explicitly in the layout;
         using the first keyboard device.


ERROR: Unable to write to directory '/etc/X11'.
```

I noticed that under my proprietary drivers, the Nvidia option is now not selected... but I am afraid to pull the full setup for fear of starting it all over again... compiz works fine now, but I have not working Nvidia card manager (x server).... can anybody advise me further on this?  I would like to get at least my S video working, and some better utilization for the few games I play.

---

### Post by xen-uno on 2008-10-30
This has been bulletproof for me ...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6)

I'm running the latest NVidia drivers (from their site) on a 8800GT and latest x64 8.04.1 kernel (-21).

---

### Post by conway.federico on 2008-10-30
Ill give this a try this evening, it looks promising. Just to check im running Ubuntu 64 bit.  All should be well?  I also noticed specific nVidia woes mentioned in the 8.10 ubuntu release.  Does you / anybody know if there has been any mention of a fix to get the best nvidia use out of 8.10? I am currently running 8.04, just curious if its worth it for the upgrade yet If I am using nvidia.

---

