---
title: "X sever and GDM freezes every 5 seconds. Please Help!"
date: 2009-02-21
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by drake495 on 2009-02-21
Sorry in advance for the long post, but I wanted to put as much relevant information as possible.

The issue: Tonight all of a sudden, my screen started lagging, and making jagged lines and triangles show up. (reminds me of GL type screen saver error back when I had some of those issues) 

About every 5 seconds or so, my screens will flash (dual monitor setup), one will go blank, and then re-appear. 

No major changes have been made since Christmas. I upped from 2 gig to 4 gig and was running smoothly for 2 months. Just the normal updates.

The system:
Ubuntu 8.04 64 bit
kernel: 2.6.24-23-generic
gnome 2.22.3

Gigabyte GA-965P-DS3 MOBO
4 gig of CORSAIR XMS2 1GB 240-Pin DDR2 SDRAM DDR2 800 (PC2 6400)
nvidia 7100 graphics card
500 gig sata hd
all partitioned for linux. (been great being windoze free since august)

The logs seem to point to xorg and gdm. here are some logs pasted below.

 gdm[5775]: GLib-CRITICAL: g_key_file_get_string: assertion `key_file != NULL' failed 
Feb 20 23:24:46 drake-base gdm[5775]: GLib-CRITICAL: g_key_file_free: assertion `key_file != NULL' failed 
Feb 20 23:24:46 drake-base gdm[5996]: Gtk-WARNING: Ignoring the separator setting 


Feb 20 23:53:20 drake-base gdm[5775]: WARNING: gdm_slave_xioerror_handler: Fatal X error - Restarting :0 


derek@drake-base:/var/log/gdm$ tail :0.log
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Fri Feb 20 23:53:21 2009
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(II) Module "ramdac" already built-in
expected keysym, got XF86KbdLightOnOff: line 70 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessDown: line 71 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessUp: line 72 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdLightOnOff: line 70 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessDown: line 71 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessUp: line 72 of pc
SetClientVersion: 0 9

derek@drake-base:/var/log$ tail Xorg.0.log
tossed event which came in late
tossed event which came in late
tossed event which came in late
mieqEnequeue: out-of-order valuator event; dropping.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Initialized GPU GART.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "CRT-0:nvidia-auto-select+1280+0,CRT-1:1280x1024+0+0"
(II) NVIDIA(0): Initialized GPU GART.
(II) NVIDIA(0): Setting mode
(II) NVIDIA(0):     "CRT-0:nvidia-auto-select+1280+0,CRT-1:1280x1024+0+0"

derek@drake-base:/var/log$ tail messages
Feb 20 23:23:40 drake-base kernel: [   65.153149] Bluetooth: HCI socket layer initialized
Feb 20 23:23:40 drake-base kernel: [   65.165585] Bluetooth: L2CAP ver 2.9
Feb 20 23:23:40 drake-base kernel: [   65.165589] Bluetooth: L2CAP socket layer initialized
Feb 20 23:23:40 drake-base kernel: [   65.217829] Bluetooth: RFCOMM socket layer initialized
Feb 20 23:23:40 drake-base kernel: [   65.217843] Bluetooth: RFCOMM TTY layer initialized
Feb 20 23:23:40 drake-base kernel: [   65.217845] Bluetooth: RFCOMM ver 1.8
Feb 20 23:23:54 drake-base kernel: [   79.315350] br0: topology change detected, propagating
Feb 20 23:23:54 drake-base kernel: [   79.315356] br0: port 2(vbox1) entering forwarding state
Feb 20 23:43:32 drake-base -- MARK --
Feb 20 23:55:10 drake-base pulseaudio[6697]: pid.c: Stale PID file, overwriting.

and the big long one: the xorg.conf file:

derek@drake-base:/etc/X11$ cat xorg.conf
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Thu Jun  5 09:27:12 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic M70"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7100 GS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7100 GS"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0, CRT-1: 1280x1024 +0+0"
EndSection


So if you've read all this. And I really appreciate your time and help if you have. 
I have come to the conclusion that it is something in my xorg.conf that might be causing it.

I tried to reinstall gnome, but it wouldn't let me, even in a failsafe terminal. 

I might try udpating the drivers for the nvidia 7100. But I wanted to check here first. Everything was working fine yesterday, and now it doesn't. Only thing was I left the printer printing when I went to bed and it ran out of paper. But I have rebooted so many times and have completely unplugged the printer so I don't think it is that. 

The memory is only using 11% but is running like it's over 100 percent. I don't have anything running right now, because it will freeze up and kill x.

I have attached a screen shot. I tried to get it when the errors were flashing on the screen.  If you look in the top left terminal, there is a white box, which is a small example of the error.

Thanks again for any help. Really scratching my head on this one. 
any ideas? 

Derek

---

### Post by Reeman on 2009-02-21
Try turning off the desktop control timeouts for no activity. You might have a screen saver setting or blank screen timer turned on and it borks on the two monitors. You find it under system/preferences. 

It could also be the settings for the second screen in the Nvidia control panel. If you do not have the Nvidia control panel installed then you might not be able to control the second video screen resolution or timing and the other device's eeprom is sending out info errors to X that causes gdm to bork intermitantly, 5 seconds sounds about right for a monitor eeprom error send. Because it is an lcd it does not necessarily hurt the chips but because of the nature of design (a hold over from crt monitors) it thinks it is about to die. If you are sending something which is slightly out of range for the second monitor this would explain everything. 


and BTW if you were using Windows it would not even work if it did not auto config correctly! Microsofts answer to several lawsuits they got into over their operating system (Windows95) burning up monitors!

---

### Post by Starbase 9525 on 2009-02-21
Perhaps if you were running Window$ you wouldn't have this problem. <GRIN>

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-02-21
You might want to run a LiveCD for a bit and make sure it's not a hardware issue.

---

### Post by drake495 on 2009-02-22
bump

---

### Post by drake495 on 2009-02-24
I ran on a live cd for a few days and no problems. 

I found this page very helpful. 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video)

I overwrote my xorg.conf and reset it to the default and everything ran great. I reinstalled the restricted drivers for my nvidia 7100 card and rebooted and the problem immediately returned. 

So does this mean something got corrupted in the xorg.conf file (unlikely I think) or
has my video card gone bad (more likely) ??

I havn't messed with the xorg.conf file since august when I set up dual monitors. I'm guessing it's time to by a new video card. :frown:

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-24
I would suggest checking to see if your / partition is full. In a terminal type:

```
df -h
```

If you find you have no space left run:

```
sudo apt-get clean
```

and 

```
sudo apt-get autoremove
```

the above to commands will remove the archived packages in /var/cache/apt/archives and any unneeded dependencies.

Jim

---

### Post by drake495 on 2009-02-24
[QUOTE=cariboo907;6795540]I would suggest checking to see if your / partition is full. In a terminal type:

```
df -h
```

265 gig available. Only using 39%. But thanks for the help.

---

