---
title: "8.04 Random Freeze/Crash"
date: 2008-08-20
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by beardo on 2008-08-20
Today my machine has been starting to randomly freeze/crash ending in me having to force a reboot. Up until now the machine has been very stable.

How can I find out what is causing the issue?

My machine details:

Ubuntu 8.04
Kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
Gnome 2.22.23

Memory 3.9Gb
Processor Dual Core AMD Athlon 64 X2 4800+

I thought it might be when i use the 'Connect to server' feature in Gnome to open an SSH connection to a local server filesystem - though I am not 100% sure and if it is that it is not happening immediately.

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by Nysomin on 2008-08-20
What GPU do you have?  I've had some very unexpected hangs with the default video drivers.

You could also try booting into rescue mode and running dpkg too see if any packages didn't install correctly.

---

### Post by beardo on 2008-08-21
GeForce 9600 GT
62.94.11.00.02
512 MB
PCI Express 16X

Driver version: 173.14.09

It's really odd, it has been fine the rest of yesterday and (touch wood) so far today).

I was getting worried as this is my main workstation. If the problem persists I will try the dpkg route as you suggest.

Thank you for the reply!

---

### Post by elmoosecapitan on 2008-08-21
Does either your 'CapsLk' or 'ScrLk' light flash?

---

### Post by beardo on 2008-08-22
Weirdly the issue has not raised it's head since I posted.

I've not noticed the lock lights flashing - but I have not been in a position to look out for that behaviour since the problem started the other day.

I will obviously come back if/when it reoccurs.

Thanks for help thus far.

---

### Post by elmoosecapitan on 2008-08-22
Try running some system information program that displays the diagnostics of your computer, i.e., temperature, swap, usage. This way if you see anything peak you might end up with a lead to your problem.

---

### Post by probin51 on 2008-09-17
Hi guys.

I'm getting the same problem. 

I ditched all my Windows machines and bought myself a UBUNTU-friendly box (EP35-DS4, Q9300 QUAD @ 2.5Ghz, 8GB RAM, nVidia 8600GT, etc.).

I installed the nvidia-settings applet and turned on the dual monitors (twin view), and compiz (why not?).

Sporadically, the machine hangs after a while (1/2 hour or hour). I must then hardware reset.

How do I go about diagnosing the cause and getting help?

Should I just turn things off, then turn things back on one by one?

Will it get metter with 8.0.10?

Any help gratefully appreciated.

Pete

---

### Post by probin51 on 2008-09-17
Ok,

I've spent a little time looking at this and it seems I can recreate the problem, at least on my machine.

Yesterday, I installed a (Atheros) WLAN card so that I don't have a cable running through my apartment. When I try to send a large file (eg. 5MB video) to a friend using the evolution email client. 

After installing the WLAN card, I did not disable my eth0 card.

Reading in these forums, someone mentioned disabling ipv6, so I did this. Alas, same problem. 

So I disabled the card using 

    sudo ifconfig eth0 down

I think this has [SOLVED] my problem. It's been stable for well over an hour now even though I've been "prodding" it with traffic rather a bit.

I'll let you know if I have the problem again.

Pete

---

### Post by caeroe on 2008-09-17
> **beardo said:**
> 

My machine details:

Ubuntu 8.04
Kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
Gnome 2.22.23

Memory 3.9Gb
Processor Dual Core AMD Athlon 64 X2 4800+

Thanks for any help!

Very similar to my setup.  I had a random freeze until I got a new 480w power supply.  Prior to that it was a cheapie 300w with an old Nvidia 7300 card.  

The new power supply was what also held me back on getting a better graphics card, I'm toting a 8800GT now.

---

### Post by probin51 on 2008-09-18
[SOLVED]

Yup. Ran all night without problems. My problem has been fixed.

Symptoms
Initially, I installed my PC connected via an ethernet cable.

Having installed a wireless lan card and removing the ethernet cable, the PC froze completely (requiring a hardware boot) when transferring data. 

Solution
Deactivate the ethernet card (on-board on EP35 Motherboard). Ubuntu no longer sees the eth0 card.

Problem solved.

---

### Post by probin51 on 2008-09-19
SPOKE TOO SOON.

Still diagnosing. Could it maybe something to do with the WLAN card or an IRQ problem?.

I've disabled it and I'm checking again.

(The freeze seems to happen quite a bit in Firefox).

---

