---
title: "2.6.27-11-generic update broke wireless?"
date: 2009-02-23
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by mendnwngs on 2009-02-23
Hello all..

Im a bit lost here, finally updated my intrepid install, and among the updates it dropped in 2.6.27-11-generic. Upon reboot, wireless was gone. 


lspci reports the hardware, but its not a device in ifconfig. 

Got it working currently via the windows driver, and the windows wireless drivers app.

lspci reports
03:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 03)

Intrepid, AMD 64

Im sure theres a quick fix, but the wireless config stuff is just outside my realm of (admittedly newb) linux knowledge. 

Thanks for any help.

-Jason

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2009-02-23
My laptop uses a Broadcom BCM4318 device.  When the new kernel was installed, DKMS took care of the drivers for me.  Make sure that your device is checked in System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers.  The b43-fwcutter and dkms packages should be installed.

---

### Post by mendnwngs on 2009-02-23
Thanks for the quick reply, but if memory serves me, I believe the 4328 is an oddball, and has a different driver..

As I recall ( I can check this later, after a reboot to the previous kernel) the actual ko was called wl.

Perhaps I should start there.. Any insight for a newb on how to build, and load a kernel object?

Thanks again!

-Jason

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2009-02-24
[http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/build-linux-kernel-module-against-installed-kernel-source-tree.html](http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/build-linux-kernel-module-against-installed-kernel-source-tree.html)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-02-24
You shouldn't need to build the wl module. It should be provided by linux-restricted-modules-2.6.27-11-generic, which should have been pulled when you updated the kernel. My guess is that you don't have the restricted modules metapackage installed.
Make sure the restricted repository is enabled (System -> Administration -> Software Sources). Then:
```
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules
```

---

