---
title: "[8.04] dmraid -- strange errors that prevent booting"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by nstgc379 on 2008-05-13
I was setting up Ubuntu 8.04 this morning but then when I tried to boot, I got strange error message. I then began to isolate the problem.

Note that at no point in what is mentioned below did I have a raid powered on. I did later try little things here and there in bios and with the raid, but thye didn't seem to effect the errors.

I reinstalled, bootted and logged in then restarted. I was trying to make sure that nothing went from during the installation process. I then logged in a second time and installed a bunch of stuff. It did it again. I take note of the error messages. The ones that caught my eye looked like:

[51.02457] ata7: then something. I can't remember any more. The ata7 could be ata1.

Having shown that this error is repeatable I did as I did in the second paragraph, but I tested things a bit better. I installed those things which I was sure were okay. I restarted and rebooted so that I could login and install the next tier of software and drivers. I finally got to dmraid. After installing that it died.

REinstall again. To test to make sure I was right, I installed dmraid immediately after the reinstall. I got a similar, but shorter, screen full of black and white hate, but I also got it to boot and load. I thought this was bizar, but good. I should have tried to boot again, but I didn't. Instead I installed the updates (but not my drivers). Again, the errors and this time no boot.

reinstall and stuff. I tried that again, but instead of the updates, I tried my video driver. Same result.

While not part of my systematic testing, things like gstream and wine can be loaded along side dmraid and everything will work. I think thats true, but I may be mistaken so don't think on it too much.

So it seems there is a conflict between dmraid and some stuff that I really would like to have.

[edit] I'd like to add that grub is working fine. Its only during the actually Ubunutu boot screen, that I have problems.

[edit2] I essentially have the error message.

[some number that goes to 6 decimal places] ata7.00 (although I've seen other numbers like 1.00): exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 frozen

[somenumber] cmd ao/01:00:00:60:00:00:00:00:00/ao tag 0 dma 96 in

[some number] status: {DRDY}

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-06-03
What are your hardware specs?

---

### Post by nstgc379 on 2008-07-06
Monitor: SyncMaster 206BW
GPU: 8600 GT
GFX card maker: MSI
CPU: 13x Windsor (1 MB cache variant)
HTT: 210
RAM: 2 1 GB sticks of G.Skill DRR2 800 RAM stock latency of 5-5-5-15 (2:1 divider @4-4-4-4-12 not sure about the RAS)
MOther board: GIGABYTE GA-M57SLI-S4
OS: Currently Hardy Haron 32b, however I have also had this problem with Hardy 64b, as well as the 64 bit versions of Gutsy and Feisty.

I'm not sure what I did, but I'm not having this exact same problem. I still have delayed bootting, but thats tolerable.

---

