---
title: "8.10 AMD64 modem problem"
date: 2009-03-18
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by danielsk on 2009-03-18
I've got a new notebook, a HP Pavilion DV5-1160(BR) and decided to get rid of Vista (by get rid lets say dual boot, you never know).

This is my first try with Ubuntu and so far I'm loving it. Since I'm new I figured the latest version available was the way to go and got the 8.10 AMD64 (Since my processor is a Turion 64x2).

All the instalation was smooth except for a small detail, I cant get the modem to work.

Reading stuff around I tried to run scanmodem, but the terminal gets stucked in this:

> UPDATE=2009_03_01
 Continuing as this update is only 2 weeks old,
 but the current Update is always at: [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il)

grep: 01:05.1: Arquivo ou diretório inexistente
grep: 01:05.1: Arquivo ou diretório inexistente


Also the ModemData.txt is very short:

> --------------------------  System information ----------------------------
CPU=x86_64,  
Linux version 2.6.27-14-generic (buildd@yellow) (gcc version 4.3.2 (Ubuntu 4.3.2-1ubuntu12) ) #1 SMP Fri Mar 13 19:54:51 UTC 2009
 scanModem update of:  2009_03_01


Some modem drivers can only be used in 32 bit modem on x86_64 systems,
while some others are competent on x86_64 Systems.  Cases are:
1) [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-seventh/msg03119.html](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il/bigarch/archive-seventh/msg03119.html) 
for the snd-hda-intel audio+modem driver. Also applicable to AC97 modem controllers.
In both cases, 32 bit libraries must be installed to support the slmodemd helper having a precompiled 32 bit component.
2) For USB modems using the slusb.ko driver. 32 bit libraries must be installed to support the slmodemd helper having a precompiled 32 bit component
3) The hsfmodem and hcfpcimodem drivers for Conexant chipsest modes are x86_64 competent.

 There are no blacklisted modem drivers in /etc/modprobe*  files 
 Potentially useful modem drivers now loaded are:
  snd_atiixp_modem snd_via82xx_modem snd_intel8x0m     snd_hda_intel       


In Windows I get that the modem is an Agere Systems HDA Modem (not very helpful) and it works all right.

Any idea of what I should do? I wasnt worried with the telephone modem, but next month I'll be moving and it might be a while till i get my ADSL up and running again.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-03-19
Do you have the lib32asound2 and ia32-libs packages installed?
Did you run scanmodem with root permissions?

---

### Post by danielsk on 2009-03-21
Hi, thanks for the help. Both packages are installed.

To run scanmodem with root permission is: "sudo ./smartModem" or there's other command needed?

---

### Post by danielsk on 2009-03-25
Well, found that my modem is the infamous chipset 11c11040, so still no go to 64bits.

---

