---
title: "9.10 suspend/hibernate issue"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-10-31
I did a clean install of 64bit 9.10 with no problems.
I have encountered one issue so far.....
my laptop will not come out of suspend or hibernate (reboots to a black screen).
Any suggestions anybody?
previously running 64bit 9.04 with no problems.

**This issue is affecting both **64bit AND 32bit**. So, 32bit users please add your problems to this thread.

---

### Post by bovender on 2009-10-31
Hi,

I have a similar issue. Clean install of Ubuntu 9.10 on a Thinkpad T61 (Intel T9300, NVidia Quadro NVS 140M with proprietary driver 185, 4 GB RAM, 5 GB swap partition). My system won't wake up from hibernate -- it says "please wait..." while booting, and then the screen gets distorted, a few seconds later I hear a beep, and then the system stalls.

I'm new to Ubuntu, but I consider myself a Windows power user, and I have done Windows programming, so if the solution to this problem involves fiddling with the system, that's fine with me.

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks

lazy

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-10-31
Hi lazy_leukocyte, sorry to hear you have similar problems to me.
I am using a Dell Vostro 1000 - been a good machine for the last two years.
You seem to be getting some kind of activity after suspend but i don't get anything - drive spins up and that's it. Second monitor shows "no signal".
My machine seems to power down but not quite turn off when suspend or hibernate is activated - if that makes sense!
Fingers crossed there's a solution out there.

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-10-31
Hello,
same issue here with an HP DV8040.
I have tried changing the SidePort settings for the shared memory on the video card.
Also, I installed the backports module for the kernel.  No change.... the laptop will suspend fine, but upon resume, I only get a black screen, and the wifi light does not come on.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-10-31
I've made partial headway with suspend problem.
```

gksudo gedit /etc/acpi/events/lidbtn

```then changed the following line
  action=/etc/acpi/lid.sh
to this
  action=/etc/acpi/sleep.sh
then saved.
Did a reboot, closed lid, went into suspend mode, opened lid, resumed normally(ish). 
My laptop screen is dimmed, but my second monitor is perfect!!
Now to resolve the dimmed screen.
Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-10-31
Update.
Put laptop into suspend mode twice more.
Failed to reboot both times!!
Nearly had it, but it's slipped through my fingers again.
Hmmmm...better change **lidbtn** back and continue searching for a different solution.

---

### Post by bovender on 2009-10-31
Well I just now noticed that this is a thread in the 64bit section. I am running the 32-bit version... But it seems there are problem regardless of 32/64 bit.

---

### Post by kgarbutt on 2009-10-31
I am having a similar problem in Karmic that I didn't have in jaunty. On my hp Compaq d530 CMT after the computer is idle for awhile it freezes (display is black and no response from computer). I have to unplug it & restart the computer to get out of it. This never happened in Jaunty.

I would appreciate any suggestions anybody might have.

Thnks much.

---

### Post by clevertomato on 2009-10-31
Same experience here. Before upgrade to 9.10, 9.04 suspended and woke up fine on my Gateway MX7118 laptop. After upgrade, suspend and hibernate both yield a black screen with frozen computer when trying wake up. It requires a hard reset. I hope this is fixed soon because suspending is a commonly used feature, especially with a laptop.

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-10-31
I, too, am having this problem.  Help would be greatly appreciated.  I have 32bit Ubuntu 9.10.

---

### Post by Kingsley on 2009-10-31
I'm having the same issue on 64-bit Kubuntu 9.10. My laptop suspends as it normally should but it's unable to resume normally. I get stuck with a nonresponsive black screen.

---

### Post by Pedro Galvao on 2009-10-31
Similar issue on my Vaio NS11Z - Computer does not go properly into suspend or hibernate - hangs and the only solution is to force a shutdown.

---

### Post by Altay_H on 2009-10-31
I'm having the exact same problem in 32-bit Karmic with my HP Pavilion zv6000. The computer suspends without any problems, but it goes to a black screen upon attempting to resume.

---

### Post by Pro75357 on 2009-11-01
Just joining the club... HP DV5000 here.

---

### Post by 00ber n00b on 2009-11-01
Same here gateway M-1625 laptop

---

### Post by The Funkbomb on 2009-11-01
I believe I read that this is a known issue and a fix is being worked on.  If I recall correctly, the issue has to do with the memory swap.  I believe the notes said that in order for hibernate/suspend to work, you must have a swap partition greater than or equal to the amount of physical memory.

"Hibernation may be unavailable with automatic partitioning 

The default partitioning recipe in the installer will in some cases allocate a swap partition that is smaller than the physical memory in the system. This will prevent the use of hibernation (suspend-to-disk) because the system image will not fit in the swap partition. If you intend to use hibernation with your system, you should ensure that the swap partition's size is at least as large as the system's physical RAM. ([345126]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/partman-auto/+bug/345126"))"

Link goes to the bug report on launchpad.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
Good morning from a wet and windy Dorset.
Sorry to see the list of affected machines is growing ever longer...not good.
The swap partition size is not a problem on my machine, ample headroom has been allocated, (the Bug report, highlighted by The Funkbomb, relates to an Alpha release of Jaunty...one hopes that that bug has been fixed).
After much searching and reading, i have come to the conclusion that, the suspend/hibernate problem, has been an issue throughout the release cycle of Ubuntu (one Bug report thread has been running for several years!).
I installed 9.04 along side 9.10 last night and checked the difference between the routines used for suspend/hibernate/resume etc....9.10 does not use the same routine that 9.04 did.
I looked in /etc/default....same.
/etc/acpi...different.
/etc/acpi/events...different.
Is that significant?

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-01
I have the same problem on my Znote 6224w with Nvidia Geforce 8600 gt VGA.
Hope ubuntu team find a solution for this problem problem ASAP.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
One certainly hopes the Ubuntu team resolve this issue quickly, otherwise, when Linux Mint-8 (distro version based on Ubuntu 9.10) is released later this month there will be more unhappy Linux Laptop users!!!

Goodbye Windows Blue Screen of Death,
Hello Ubuntu Black Screen of Death.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
inserted **acpi=oldboot** into the boot sequence and now laptop comes out of suspend. 
Tried twice, worked twice!!
Dimmed laptop screen has returned, but second monitor is unaffected.

---

### Post by bovender on 2009-11-01
Hi xeno_phile,

how do I add that to the boot sequence? I guess I need to sudo gedit a file, but which one? Thanks.

As for the issue with the size of the swap partition (mentioned earlier), mine is larger than my physical RAM as well (5 GB vs. 4 GB), so that should not (?) be the problem.

lazy

---

### Post by HPEliteBook6930p on 2009-11-01
Hi - I'm just joining the club I'm afraid - the computer's in my name :p

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-01
+1 on a Lenovo Y530 runing a clean install of Karmic x64 with a swap partition, encrypted home, and additional Vista and system restore partitions.

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-01
I fixed the problem on my computer in this way:
before installation I went into the bios of my computer and changed 
"VIDEO-Repost" from disable to linux
then I installed ubuntu 9.10 and the problem fixed in my case.
Good luck

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
To add parameters to the boot sequence, hold down the shift key during initial boot.
Add a new instruction to the end of the line that ends with the splash comment, and then press enter.

My success was short lived acpi=oldboot failed after two tries.

Bios!!...Hmmm, must go and have a look.

I have filed a bug report in Launchpad.

---

### Post by Kingsley on 2009-11-01
**acpi=oldboot** seems to have worked for me. I've only tried it once though.

I added it to the end of the "linux" line of Ubuntu's menu entry in /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
ali780..I don't have Video_Repost on my Bios.
I have Phoenix Bios v2.5.2, not much is available for users to alter.
Does your solution provide a consistent Resume from Suspend/Hibernate?
xeno

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
Glad you have had some success Kingsly.
I shall copy your route and see what it does for me.
So far we may have two solutions to this problem..are they connected or machine specific?

If anybody is interested here is the Launchpad link.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/468850](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/468850)

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
Kingsley...I looked at /boot/grub/grub.cfg and saw this at the top.

# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

From that message i would assume the file is generated at boot time from the above mentioned templates. How did you get your alteration to stick and be available at boot time? 

xeno

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
I have tried **acpi=oldboot** at boot time again and added it to /etc/default/grub (so it is auto generated at boot time) without success.
If i was paranoid i would say this bug is intelligent!!
Once a solution is found it is then added to a black list so it is recognised by the bug and is no longer effective.
My software paranoia stems from many years running Windows!!!

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2009-11-01
Fresh install of 9.10 32bit, suspend actually worked for the first time! however when waking im getting a kernel error cropping up. System seems to continue to run fine however.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
Gorlist...good news, let us know if your solution remains consistent.
I will continue to nudge the Ubuntu Team about this problem and point them to this this thread, so any long term feed back you can provide will not only help the affected users but, will provide information for the solution providers.
xeno

---

### Post by kallywag on 2009-11-01
Just adding myself to the list experiencing this problem.  Goes to suspend properly, but when lid is opened, computer sounds like it has started up, but only get a black screen.  Must do hard reset.

I had this problem with Jaunty too, but not with the prior version (Intrepid)... it's possible this could be caused by using the 64-bit version as indicated a few posts ago, since I think it worked when I used the 32-bit version before Jaunty.  I guess I'll try 32-bit Karmic to see if fixes this wake-from-suspend issue.

I'm on an HP dv5000z laptop as follows:
- AMD Turion(TM) 64 ML-40 (2.2GHz/1MB L2 Cache)
- 128MB ATI RADEON(R) XPRESS 200M w/Hypermemory(TM)

Thanks for any help that might be discovered!

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
Kallywag....Several posts are from 32-bit 9.10 users,but any information you can add will certainly help.
Perhaps this issue is machine specific** and** General at one and the same time.

If anybody has access to suspend/hibernate on a desktop, and has problems, could they add themselves to this thread. 
I only use a laptop so i don't know how one would resume from suspend/hibernate on a Desktop!
xeno

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-01
Here's something I find interesting....
If I boot to the live CD, I can suspend perfectly.  
the kernel on the live CD is 2.6.31-14-generic #48

bertmanphx

---

### Post by bedhead75 on 2009-11-01
I only use a desktop (Gigabyte GA-EP45-UD3P motherboard and Nvidia GeForce 9800GT) and I've been having the same problem, black screen with a blinking cursor, after resuming from suspend in 64-bit Karmic after a fresh install.  This is before proprietary Nvidia drivers were installed.  But after installing Nvidia drivers, resume from suspend "works" and I get back my desktop, but it leads to an unstable kernel with a crash report.  The system eventually freezes up once I start running new programs and I have to do a hard reboot.  Resume from suspend in Jaunty works fine only AFTER installing the video drivers, and there's no kernel crash.  Going into suspend works fine using both LiveCD's, but resume doesn't work in either.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
bertmanphx...Tried suspend and resume from LiveCD (Kernal 2.6.31-14). Suspend worked perfectly but resume didn't work for me. 
bedhead75...Thanx for the input from a Desktop user, sorry you are experiencing problems too. 
This problem really does seem to be quite wide spread.
Keep the input coming in and i will keep nudging the Ubuntu Team: The larger the bug base the quicker we may get a solution to this problem.
It would be a shame to have to revert to jaunty permanently because i think 9.10 is quite an improvement over 9.04.

xeno

---

### Post by brianwhaley on 2009-11-01
Just adding my $0.02 to the thread.  I have a Lenovo S10, 2.5GB RAM (2GB Recognized), 500GB HDD, and a fresh post-release install of Ubunto 9.10.  I tried acpi=oldboot, and that did not work to bring the laptop back from the suspend or the hibernate. Hope we find a solution soon.

---

### Post by trampas on 2009-11-01
I have a T61p with 9.10 X64 and suspend works most of the time. The big problems I have are:

1. When resume suspend will resume then go back to sleep. I have to wake will power button. 

2. Sometimes laptop will not suspend with lid, Sleep LED just keeps blinking and finally have to hard power off. 

3. Sometimes suspend will not resume, just LEDs on and no LCD. 

Thanks
Trampas

---

### Post by tensop on 2009-11-01
This particular suspend issue has been around for a long time now.

Usually you will either get no suspend ability at all, or only the first suspend will work, and any subsequent one will fail.

This has been happening for me since a kernel update to ubuntu 8.04

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-01
That's grim news tensop.
How have you coped without a reliable suspend/resume for such a long time?
Having to shut down my laptop every time i close the lid is driving me nuts!!
I can load any Windows OS from 2000 onwards onto my laptop, and i know suspend/resume will function correctly every time. Why is it so difficult to implement reliably in Linux!!

---

### Post by nikislash on 2009-11-01
me too, sigh

upgraded 9.04 to 9.10, was having no problems before the upgrade but now I can't resume my laptop after suspend and also it seems to randomly go into suspend mode (not sure but i just get a black unresponsive screen with backlight and wireless light still on) occasionally for no reason (3 times in 2 days).

You'd think I would have learned by now to wait until some of the bugs are ironed out to upgrade but I'm just too impatient. 

toshiba protege r500 32 bit

---

### Post by vtdstein95 on 2009-11-01
I thought I had the same issue with my Thinkpad X40, but noticed the the system did actually resume, it was just the LCD backlight that did not come back on.

Found this on launchpad: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/417599](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/417599)

Adding 'return 1' as Manuel Siggen describes fixed my issue.  Hope this helps someone else.

---

### Post by Bluejade on 2009-11-01
My suspend problem is slightly different:  rather than not awakening from suspend, it doesn't enter suspend.

The computer, a Dell Optiplex 760, suspended fine in 9.04 (32 bit). Now that I have upgraded to 9.10 (32 bit), suspension results in a black screen, but the computer stays active (power light lit, fan spinning). The only thing that seems to respond after attempting to suspend is to press and hold the power button until the system turns off, after which I can reboot.

Note that I did a clean install from cd, not an upgrade, and that I reformatted all Ubuntu partitions. I did select the option to encrypt my home directory, but that should only affect the ability to hibernate, not suspend.

---

### Post by mitchellcipriano on 2009-11-02
I have the same issue. I am running 9.10 on a ThinkPad R51 and had no problem with suspend and resume on 9.04. After upgrading today it no longer works. I do not think my notebook properly enters suspend. The sleep LED continues to flash rapidly when I close the lid. It will not resume without a hard reboot. After the reboot, I get a crash message saying the kernel had a problem trying to suspend.

I have a desktop as well. It seems to have no problem with suspending and resuming.

I must agree, this is a frustrating issue and I wish I would have waited to upgrade, but it worked so  well on my desktop and I had not read about major issues.

---

### Post by gorg_karlo on 2009-11-02
Same problem here - Lenovo Thinkpad SL300 with Nvidia GeForce 9300M GS, 4GB RAM, using 64-bit version. Back in 9.04, suspend to RAM and suspend to disk were all working well albeit with some warning messages. I've been looking for an answer for days now.

Don't really like the idea of going back to 9.04. I do hope that a fix will come soon.

---

### Post by maaarcooose on 2009-11-02
Same problem here with a Dell Latitude X300 laptop.

In 9.04 I could close the lid and it would suspend, I think, and then recover correctlly after opening again. This worked with Gnome and KDE4 so it's not to do with the desktop power management.
Now with 9.10 it just stays as a black screen.

After looking on this following thread:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/417599](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/417599)

Which seems to be talking about the problem.

.. I have confirmed that I can do the following:

  sudo pm-suspend --quirk-s3-bios --quirk-s3-mode --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-vbestate-restore

Close the lid and then reopen and the screen comes back correctlly.

I've tried adding this to the /etc/acpi/lib.sh (or rather replacing it) and setting the gnome power management to do nothing on lid close but it still doesn't work. 

I have a small workaround at least. Best bet may be to make a shortcut on your desktop that does this, click it then close the laptop lid.

I guess that the lid opening section is okay as it resfreshes the screen correctlly.

Will add more if I find out anything else but I think it's being fixed or has been already, just not in general release.

!m!

---

### Post by r.mezhuev on 2009-11-02
Same problem, cant resume from suspend/hibernate  Sony Vaio C71.... I hope somebody will solve this problem ASAP

---

### Post by BFG on 2009-11-02
> **xeno_phile said:**
> One certainly hopes the Ubuntu team resolve this issue quickly, otherwise, when Linux Mint-8 (distro version based on Ubuntu 9.10) is released later this month there will be more unhappy Linux Laptop users!!!


Don't hold your breath. I've never been able to get any machine to come back from suspend / hibernate since 8.04.  9.10 included, which was a real disappointment.  

I always (perhaps unfairly) imagine that this is because the stereotype coder lives in a world where PCs are running 24/7, and they just can't relate to the importance of this functionality.   This issue is the ONLY one which stops all my clients moving their entire organisations over to Ubuntu.  Any requests for help draw a blank, so I just gave up. (My swap is 12Gb).

Maybe I'll try again on 9.10.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-02
The list grows ever longer!

[B]"This issue is the ONLY one which stops all my clients moving their entire organisations over to Ubuntu. Any requests for help draw a blank, so I just gave up."
[/B]
The above post extract from **BFG** should be taken seriously by the Ubuntu guys. 
This issue is losing Ubuntu potential customers and only adds to the already widely held belief that Free OS Software just doesn't work properly, reliably, and lacks real support.

Just to let you know what i have done so far...
I have tried...
**return=1**  (worked once, returned a dimmed screen, doesn't want to work again!!)
I have tried...
**sudo pm-suspend --quirk-s3-bios --quirk-s3-mode --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-vbestate-restore** (worked once, just won't work again!!!)

xeno

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-02
Hello,
I noticed that also, Apport does not come up after a hard reset.  Early on in Jaunty, I had a similar error when trying to resume / suspend.  When it didn't resume, apport made it easy to file a bug report.

If Apport is not popping up, is it possible that some of these issues are not being reported correctly?  This problem could be more wide spread.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-02
Apport doesn't come up on my laptop either.

Went to the Apport Ubuntu Wiki and found this...

Apport is not enabled by default in stable releases, even if it is installed. There are two ways to enable it. 

[LIST]
[*]If you want to debug a specific program once, just do:** sudo force_start=1 /etc/init.d/apport restart**
[/LIST]
Then you can simply trigger the crash again, and Apport's dialog will show up with instructions to report a bug with traces. Apport will be automatically disabled on next start. 

I heartily recommend you try the above instruction...for me it was SO helpful..NOT!!
I'm not a code junkie and it just ran me round in circles.

---

### Post by freelsjd on 2009-11-02
I have an hp2510p notebook that worked fine in 9.04 to suspend or hibernate (as expected).  However, after the upgrade, I enter hibernate, and it only locks the screen.  It will accept a password to unlock the screen (as if only a screensaver was being run), but the rest of the suspend (or hibernate same problem) process does not occur.  This is a little different problem than what has been described here it sounds like.

---

### Post by Johnny2good on 2009-11-02
Dam i thought i find a fix here but hit a wall with everyone with the same problem lol i also have a Dell Vostro 1000 , everything was working fine i thought  until i hit Hibernate and bang it went all crazy on me 2 :( had 2 go through all the Ubuntu steps to get it running again,:) wont be hitting hibernate again in a hurry lol hope we get a fix soon. ;)

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-02
**johnny2good**...Are you saying that Suspend and then Resume worked (and is still working) as it should, and you are only experiencing problems when you initiate Hibernate?

xeno

---

### Post by esor on 2009-11-02
I've tried almost everything and it still doesn't work. I wonder why it works on my old old notebook.

lenovo y530 :(

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-02
> **esor said:**
> lenovo y530 :(

+1 (same rig)

---

### Post by Flying~Dolphin on 2009-11-02
I have pretty much the same problem on my Asus N80, When I first suspended it it worked fine but it couldn't seem to complete the resume function. It displayed the screen that asks for a password but wouldn't accept any input, the only way out was a hard reset. Once it booted back up it reported a kernel error and compiz.real crashed, but other than that it was usable. I then switched from the current[recommended] nVidia driver to the old one and now everything works fine, except it will not resume after being suspended. Suspend and resume both worked fine under 9.04 as well as 8.10. hibernate ha never worked and still doesn't since I don't have a swap partition.

---

### Post by per engberg on 2009-11-02
> **Pro75357 said:**
> Just joining the club... HP DV5000 here.

Same here on a DV5000

---

### Post by chrisod on 2009-11-02
Same problem with a dell 600M. Worked perfectly on 9.04, didn't work in 8.10, worked in 8.04. Clearly I need to skip the October releases :)

---

### Post by flusheDData on 2009-11-02
I suspend my Inspiron 8200 by closing the lid. When I open it back there is no video. Well, I never got suspend to work with whichever early version either.
I hope there may be some workaround.
Regards,
Miguel

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-02
All,
I seem to have solved this issue with a workaround.
I'm running an HP DV8040 laptop with an ATI 200m video card.

I added these options to grub upon booting:
nosplash nomodeset

I can not suspend and resume fine, I have not tried hibernate.

Now, I'm going to add these lines to the grub config.  Not sure how to do that with the new Grub2, so if anybody can chime in, it would be appreciated.

This tells me is a KMS problem right?

bertmanphx

---

### Post by Altay_H on 2009-11-02
> **bertmanphx said:**
> I'm running an HP DV8040 laptop with an ATI 200m video card.
I have the exact same video card. Which driver are you using?

> **bertmanphx said:**
> I added these options to grub upon booting:
nosplash nomodeset
I just tried that hoping to have the same results. Unfortunately these options have no effect on my problem.


> **bertmanphx said:**
> This tells me is a KMS problem right?
I'm not sure what KMS is, but for me it's definitely graphics related. I tried stopping gdm and pm-suspend worked consistently without any problems. It's only when I have gdm running that this problem occurs.


It's just a hunch, but is everyone here using the non-proprietary ATI driver? I didn't see any nVidia graphics cards posted. Perhaps the problem lies in this particular graphics card driver.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-02
> **Altay_H said:**
> It's just a hunch, but is everyone here using the non-proprietary ATI driver? I didn't see any nVidia graphics cards posted. Perhaps the problem lies in this particular graphics card driver.

I have integrated Intel video on my laptop, and I also have this problem.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2009-11-02
All I can confirm is that it is not a problem for everyone, or maybe some of you do not realize that **you have to move the mouse or something for the password box to pop up** on that black screen.

My desktop is an older HP A530n Athlon64 3200+ 2000 MHz 1024K cache and upgraded ATI video card which I had just installed 9.04 a week ago and updated to 9.10 with Update Manager (all 64-bit).

I have not tried hibernate because I do not have a swap partition (just swap file not set up for hibernate yet)  It has no trouble with standby.  It does show a warning in its logs and dmesg when it wakes up, but apparently it is not critical, because everything works after standby multiple times without booting:

WARNING: at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.31/kernel/power/suspend_test.c:52 suspend_test_finish+0x7c/0x80()
(does a call trace)
PM: Finishing wakeup.
Restarting tasks ... done.

That did prompt me to file a bug report, but I just added a note to a similar one.  But my system is no longer bugging me about that, or the probably meaningless oops error about ECC not enabled for RAM.

Likewise I had just installed 32-bit 9.04 updated to 9.10 on my Toshiba A105 laptop Intel dual-core with Intel integrated video.  It works fine with standby and hibernate (swap partition 2X RAM).  I was not sure if it was going to wake from hibernate properly because the grub menu came up, which I just let time out, and it started loading the RAM.  It did show the splash screen with "Waking up" and then some scrambled video before it went to the black screen.  But as soon as I moved my finger on the touchpad, the password box came up and it resumed.

Not sure if the fact that an update still uses grub and fresh 9.10 install uses grub2 makes any difference.

PS: No errors or warnings in laptop dmesg at all, through hibernate or suspend, but it is older hardware from 2006.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2009-11-02
Have not installed 9.10 but let me offer that you consider Ubuntu's canned approach for altering the OS's performance. Press the ESC key in boot up. This will give you a screen, which gives about 8/9 methods to alter the OS's performance
  - Return to normal mode
  - Operate in recovery mode
  - dpkg [with an explanation I cannot recall]
  - something [I cannot recall this operation]
  - something [I cannot recall]
  - something [I cannot recall]
  - xfix which updates and fixes x
each of these goes through the specific correction offered, then lets you return or move back and forth to each option or return to normal mode. If you select one, two or more helps, you'll be prompted by advice; do what is plausible then proceed to return to normal mode. This very likely will clear up problems you describe. 

Do a search for the gray screen. I believe Markbuntu gives you a method involving opening terminal and inserting code that solves this outage. 

Good luck!!
Kenneth

---

### Post by gradedcheese on 2009-11-02
I have a similar problem with my ThinkPad X40, however I believe the video card is working fine, it's just that someone doesn't turn the backlight back on.  That is, after opening the lid to wake from suspend, I can faintly see the password box but only if I light the screen up with a really bright lamp.  I'm not sure if this is still a graphics driver problem (I have the Intel i915 chipset) or a screwup related to backlight handling specifically but it would be interesting to know if others have the same issue.

Also I can reproduce this by leaving the laptop idle for a long time, in which case the screen backlight will be turned off to save power and it will never come back on.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/441272](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/441272)

---

### Post by mitchellcipriano on 2009-11-02
I noticed that my screen will not turn off. The screen saver comes on and blanks the screen, but it never actually turns off. It is set to turn off in the power management section of the screen saver setting.

I had no problem with the screen issue or the suspend/resume issue until upgrading over the weekend from 9.04. I really think my issue is when the notebook tries to enter suspend. It begins normally, but then the sleep LED starts flashing rapidly. Then when I try to resume the notebook crashes.

---

### Post by peakpc on 2009-11-02
compaq v5000 AMD Turion64/ATIXpress 200m/2gb ram

Same problem as orginal post (32bit) all worked well in 9.04.:(

---

### Post by totor lekiller on 2009-11-03
I had the black screen problem on my Compaq presario f700 when resuming after a suspend.
After poking around for a while, I found that it is the consequence of 2 different issues that had to be solved separately. It also seems to affect many laptop brands, not just HP/Compaq.


#1 the driver for the graphic card had to be update. For the NVIDIA accelerated graphic driver, I had version 173 and the latest is 185. Once I update, the screen started coming back from suspend without being all black.  To perform the update, got to System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers

Now, the second problem is that coming out of the suspend, the screen is readable but dimmed (no backlight). That problem was traced  ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/417599](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/417599)) to the handling of quirks (whatever that is) and the workaround provided is to edit the file /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/98smart-kernel-video
and add a line "return 1 " at the beginning of the have_kms() function

here is what it looks like:

# Test to see if the kernel has a video driver that is smart enough to
# handle quirks without external assistance. If it is, remove the quirks.
have_kms()
{
    #fix the absence of backlight on resume issue (next line only)
    return 1

    # if we are running with a KMS-enabled video driver, we should not
    # attempt to run any quirks
    [ -d /sys/class/drm/card0/device/graphics/fb0 ] || return 1
    remove_all_video_quirks
    add_parameters --quirk-no-chvt

To do that I used the command:

 sudo vi /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/98smart-kernel-video

But something more civilized than vi could be used too.

That seem to have solved completely the black screen issue for me. My machine now suspends and resume fine.

I hope that helps.

---

### Post by maaarcooose on 2009-11-03
I have also fixed this by modifiying grub and a few other bits.

- Edit **/etc/default/grub**
- Add into the default options **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX** variable **nomodeset vga=791**
  (This helps my console be set at 1024x766)
- Run **grub-update**

I had edited /etc/acpi/lid.sh to attempt to do the pm-suspend line, but I've put it back to standard now.

I've also added the quirks line into my setup.

I think the grub change is all that is required though.
I can now close my laptop lid it suspends, reopen and it recovers.

:D

It's funny, but for years I've been setting vga=791 in my grub & lilo configs to make the actual console more usable, and now they try to do it automatically.

I'm going to experiment a little more with the grub config to see what I can do as well as this. For ubuntu studio, it's nice to be able to select between the standard and realtime kernels.

I have to say my general experience of 9.10 has not been good so far.

!m!

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-03
> **maaarcooose said:**
> I have also fixed this by modifiying grub and a few other bits.

- Edit **/etc/default/grub**
- Add into the default options **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX** variable **nomodeset vga=791**
  (This helps my console be set at 1024x766)
- Run **grub-update**

I had edited /etc/acpi/lid.sh to attempt to do the pm-suspend line, but I've put it back to standard now.

I've also added the quirks line into my setup.

I think the grub change is all that is required though.
I can now close my laptop lid it suspends, reopen and it recovers.

:D

It's funny, but for years I've been setting vga=791 in my grub & lilo configs to make the actual console more usable, and now they try to do it automatically.

I'm going to experiment a little more with the grub config to see what I can do as well as this. For ubuntu studio, it's nice to be able to select between the standard and realtime kernels.

I have to say my general experience of 9.10 has not been good so far.

!m!

This works for me!
Thanks

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-03
Altay_H,
I'm using whatever driver Ubuntu installs by default.
I believe with version 8.04, the 3D effects began working with the stock radeon driver for this video card.

bertmaphx

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-03
> **ali780 said:**
> This works for me!
Thanks
[B]
maaarcoose,
I think the command is update-grub


[/B]

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-03
> **bertmanphx said:**
> [B]
maaarcoose,
I think the command is update-grub


[/B]

Yes.
It works for 3 times and then it did not work any more!:(

---

### Post by gorg_karlo on 2009-11-03
Yah, maaarcoose, should be update-grub. :-D

---

### Post by gorg_karlo on 2009-11-03
After trying the suggestion of maaarcoose, I still have the same issue. Didn't work for me. :(

Maybe I should really wait for the patches to come in before I break my system!

---

### Post by trampas on 2009-11-03
I have a problem where when I do a pm-suspend the screen goes black with a blinking cursor and the laptop never suspends. Also the sleep LED blinks forever.

Ubuntu 9.10 64-bit
Lenovo T61p
Nvidia latest drivers

About 1 out of 10 tries the laptop will suspend correctly with lid closing. 

Does anyone know how to further debug this problem? 

Thanks
Trampas

---

### Post by trampas on 2009-11-03
Finally figured out my problem. It appears that 9.10 will not suspend if the internal SD card reader has a mounted SD card. Thus I modified the pm-suspend script to force an unmount of the SD card before suspending. 

Thanks
Trampas

---

### Post by maaarcooose on 2009-11-03
> **gorg_karlo said:**
> 
Maybe I should really wait for the patches to come in before I break my system!

I'd already broken mine by installing 9.10 so I wasn't to bothered if I messed it up.

Yes, I got the update-grub command wrong. Sorry about that.

I'm going to have a good look through all my modifications and see which are needed and which aren't.
I think though, the quirks line is likely to be very different for each video card.

To be continued....

!m!

---

### Post by jeffster1970 on 2009-11-03
thought I would add my two cents to this thread.  I have the acer aspire one, and it fails to suspend - as well as inaccurate battery measurement when unplugged. (it says that unit is still plugged in unless I reboot with battery only) when I suspend, i get the spinning hd as if it is doing what it should, then that is it - the screen is totally frozen. only a hard reboot fixes this. 

question - is this a kernel issue or a ubuntu issue?

---

### Post by jeffster1970 on 2009-11-03
> **trampas said:**
> Finally figured out my problem. It appears that 9.10 will not suspend if the internal SD card reader has a mounted SD card. Thus I modified the pm-suspend script to force an unmount of the SD card before suspending. 

Thanks
Trampas
Ha...oddly enough, that works. what is the script to auto unmount SD Card before suspend?

---

### Post by bodycoach2 on 2009-11-03
Not only does my HP ze5200 not resume out of suspend, if I have to do a hard restart, the file system will not mount. Now doing a complete reinstall of Ubuntu 9.10.

---

### Post by Pedro Galvao on 2009-11-03
My Vaio NS11Z started suspending fine when I removed the SD card from the internal reader. The funny thing is that the log messages don't show anything (that I've noticed) about being unable to suspend because of the SD card...

---

### Post by wgarider on 2009-11-03
After reading all the posts here, I feel lucky!

My issue is that it takes 3-4 minutes to go into hibernation....in Jaunty,, it was 30 secs, tops....much, much, much longer in Karmic....

---

### Post by gorg_karlo on 2009-11-03
> **trampas said:**
> Finally figured out my problem. It appears that 9.10 will not suspend if the internal SD card reader has a mounted SD card. Thus I modified the pm-suspend script to force an unmount of the SD card before suspending. 

Thanks
Trampas

HOLY... Trampas... you gave me a big favor. Your suggestion to unmount the SD Card first before suspend worked for me!

Can you please send us more info on how to edit the pm-suspend script, and what lines/values should we edit?

Again, thanks!!!:popcorn:

---

### Post by iherbivore on 2009-11-03
> **maaarcooose said:**
> I have also fixed this by modifiying grub and a few other bits.

- Edit **/etc/default/grub**
- Add into the default options **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX** variable **nomodeset vga=791**
  (This helps my console be set at 1024x766)
- Run **grub-update**

I had edited /etc/acpi/lid.sh to attempt to do the pm-suspend line, but I've put it back to standard now.

I've also added the quirks line into my setup.

I think the grub change is all that is required though.
I can now close my laptop lid it suspends, reopen and it recovers.


This kinda worked for me (all I did was the grub mod), except that it has a crash notification when it resumes, and my wireless was knocked out.  This is on an acer aspire, w/o any sd cards within three feet of it.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-03
Tried to update my graphics driver last night and screwed everything up.
Gonna have to do a complete install of 9.10 again.
Been looking at Mandriva and openSUSE forums, the latest versions of their respective distro's are causing the same problems that 9.10 is causing here....so it's not just bad Karma!!
Seems quite widespread, so i would assume its a kernel issue, or aliens, or The Large Hadron Collider, or something!!

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-11-03
> **trampas said:**
> Finally figured out my problem. It appears that 9.10 will not suspend if the internal SD card reader has a mounted SD card. Thus I modified the pm-suspend script to force an unmount of the SD card before suspending. 

Thanks
Trampas

This fixed the problem for me.  Thank you!

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-04
> **trampas said:**
> Finally figured out my problem. It appears that 9.10 will not suspend if the internal SD card reader has a mounted SD card. Thus I modified the pm-suspend script to force an unmount of the SD card before suspending. 

Thanks
Trampas

How you did it? Could you write step by step?

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-11-04
> **ali780 said:**
> How you did it? Could you write step by step?

If you have an SD card in your computer, you could just take it out then suspend :P  No script editing there.

---

### Post by Malarowski on 2009-11-04
Hey I had the same problem on a MSI-1651 with a nVidia GTS 160m. I fixed the problem by installing the recommended nVidia drivers through Ubuntu (version 185). Hope anybody else can fix their problem through that as I am an absolute beginner with Ubuntu and would not be able to come up with anything else. ;)

---

### Post by matski on 2009-11-04
Tosh Sat Pro U400 - suspend works but if I invoke through power item on panel then I have to also close lid otherwise I cannot take out of suspend.

Hibernate does not work though, screen goes blank (does not power off) and then I get the login prompt again.

---

### Post by milton1 on 2009-11-04
> **trampas said:**
> Finally figured out my problem. It appears that 9.10 will not suspend if the internal SD card reader has a mounted SD card. Thus I modified the pm-suspend script to force an unmount of the SD card before suspending. 

Thanks
Trampas

Will this work, and then remount correctly on resume, if you have /var and /home mounted on the SD card?

---

### Post by Roanoke on 2009-11-04
Dell Inspiron E1405, and I have this issue too.
I remember seeing the people with this issue on 9.04 and thinking "At least I don't have this issue." Well, now I do.

---

### Post by markjreed on 2009-11-04
I also have an EliteBook 6930p with this issue, and none of the solutions so far (grub, pm quirks) have done any good.  It seems to suspend fine, including hardware signals (get the slowly fade-blinking power light), but won't come back.  The screen is not just not backlit, either; it's completely black, and does not respond to the keyboard either (typing blind has no effect).

Running 9.10; never ran an older version of Ubuntu on this laptop, so don't know if they would work.  But I've essentially given up on Ubuntu on the laptop and keep it booted in Windows because of this problem.  It's very frustrating.  If there's anything I can do to help get it resolved, let me know what I should try, what diagnostics I should capture, etc..

---

### Post by dv3500ea on 2009-11-04
Installing the latest Nvidia drivers fixed this for me!

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-11-04
> **dv3500ea said:**
> Installing the latest Nvidia drivers fixed this for me!

I dual boot Windows 7 and Ubuntu.  If I install nVidia drivers on Windows 7, do those drivers effect Ubuntu as well?

To resolve the suspend problem that I was experiencing, I just take my SD card out before suspending, then put it back in.  However, I don't really want to do that all of the time, so I would like to try to take the drivers rout.

Thank you.

P.S.  I have a Dell Inspiron 1525, if that info is needed.

---

### Post by jcapinc on 2009-11-04
I have posted a bug report to launchpad.  I have the same problem.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/474568](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/474568)

And I linked it back to here.

I have a dell vostro 1000, I used jaunty and hade none of these problems.

---

### Post by gasparov on 2009-11-04
> **jcapinc said:**
> I have posted a bug report to launchpad.  I have the same problem.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/474568](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/474568)

And I linked it back to here.

I have a dell vostro 1000, I used jaunty and hade none of these problems.

They will not fix it, sorry but is quite simple: 4 out of 5 time it will not be fixed. Just hope it is not an acpi problem but is just some bad driver version that will be updated in a short time.
Most of acpi implementation are buggy, acpi itself is buggy, lots of drivers are badly written and more some hardware producers deliberately produce motherboard that work bad with linux.(never buy foxconn)
> "I disassembled my BIOS to have a look around, and while I won't post the results here, I'll tell you what I did find. They have several different tables, a group for Windows XP and Vista, a group for 2000, a group for NT, Me, 95, 98, etc. that just errors out, and one for LINUX. The one for Linux points to a badly written table that does not correspond to the board's ACPI implementation.' The worst part is Foxconn's insistence that the product is ACPI compliant because their tables passed to Windows work, and that Microsoft gave the the magic WHQL certification."


I've filled two bug reports in my life concerning acpi problems, two out of two times i got a message after 5 months that was telling me: 
There's a new Ubuntu version, could you tell us if the problem was fixed?

The first time i read it i tought it was a joke.....

Good luck

P.S. the hard way to fix this problem is to bump those acpi tables and check for errors and if you find some you'll need to be a sort of computer god/guru to fix them.

---

### Post by musper on 2009-11-04
> **trampas said:**
> Finally figured out my problem. It appears that 9.10 will not suspend if the internal SD card reader has a mounted SD card. Thus I modified the pm-suspend script to force an unmount of the SD card before suspending. 


> **andddlay said:**
> If you have an SD card in your computer, you could just take it out then suspend :P  No script editing there.

Thanks trampas, and anddlay!

I have a desktop with internal Floppy/16in1 card reader which seems to make all the fuzz with suspend on my 9.10 install. I have no media cards inserted in the reader, but since I had unplugged the card reader, I could normaly suspend the desktop several times through afternoon.

7-8 suspend/resume cycles so far, everything works.

Previous to that I could suspend sometimes when I got lucky, and when it didn't work i have been stuck with a blinking cursor on top-left corner of the display, and PC would continue to hang there indefinitely.

I've begun to experience this problem 2-3 weeks before I've upgraded 9.04/64 to 9.10/64. One of the things I hoped for was that I will be able to suspend/resume normally when I upgrade, which proved not to be the case.

So it looks it was the internal cheap-o card reader that borked my suspend. Luckily for me, it was easy to fix, since I have been looking to replace that reader either way.

---

### Post by jmundinger on 2009-11-04
Add me to the list with a Dell 4700.  I updated from 9.04 to 9.10.  With the update, I'm pretty sure that I am booting from GRUB and not GRUB2, i.e the file /boot/grub/menu.lst still looks a lot like the boot menu that I get when I turn the computer on.  My computer has 1.5 gb RAM.  The Swap file, which was created automatically with the installation of 9.04, is 2.1 gb.

---

### Post by VidJa on 2009-11-04
same problem here on standard Dell Latitude 630c. Although the upgrade tried to install the 1.85 nvidia drivers, I had to remove them completely and reinstall them to get suspend working (don't forget to run the nvidia x setup tool as root as I forgot the first time)

The only thing I encountered after this install were fans going berserk, but somehow that faded away after a couple or reboots

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-04
Managed to install 9.10 again. 
Updated my Bios.
Suspend - OK, Resume - failed.
Hibernate - OK, Wake Up - OK(ish)..dimmed screen.
Laptop won't wake up from Hibernate at all now.

Take a look in here..**/usr/share/doc/pm-utils**, the documentation will tell you what is going on when Suspend/Hibernate is activated.

This short extract from README might explain why the suspend/hibernate issue is appearing on forums across the Linux Distro range.
> === pm-utils ===
Why do we need it?

* All the main distributions  are re-implementing the same
  functionality to support common power management
  operations. pm-utils provides a standardized distribution agnostic
  layout and interface for common power management tasks, which frees
  software and hardware vendors from having to maintain
  distribution-specific suspend/resume functionality.One solution fits all?

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-04
If you want to generate a useful crash report, to send to Launchpad, when suspend or hibernate fails, you will have to enable **Apport - GUI based automatic error reporting system** (it is disabled by default).

To enable Apport.....
**sudo nano /etc/default/apport**
change[B]... 
enabled=0[/B] to** enabled=1**
Save changes.....
press** Ctrl+X**
press **Shift+Y**
press **Enter.**

Perhaps if enough useful reports are logged we might get some help...not holding my breath though.
**Please switch Apport to Enabled=0 when you have caught one crash..don't upset the developers by flooding them with reports.

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-04
I have a Dell Inspiron 8100

Minimal install of Karmic

Will only suspend with pm-suspend but will not resume. I have tried all the solutions on this thread none have worked for me.

Is there anything else I can do besides downgrading back to Jaunty?

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-04
> **pelebkf said:**
> I have a Dell Inspiron 8100

Minimal install of Karmic

Will only suspend with pm-suspend but will not resume. I have tried all the solutions on this thread none have worked for me.

Is there anything else I can do besides downgrading back to Jaunty?

Wait for the new kernel to be released as an update, since it supposedly has a lot of suspend/resume fixes in it. It's already a Release Candidate afaik, so it shouldn't be long. You might want to enable proposed and backports updates to be sure that you get it quickly.

---

### Post by bovender on 2009-11-04
michaelzap, that's good news.

I just wanted to reiterate that at least on my machine the problem has nothing to do with an internal card reader (none present), nor is it "just" a backlight problem.

Waking up from hibernation: I see a "Please wait..." message underneath the Ubuntu logo, and after a while this logo gets shifted to the bottom left, and what seems to be random data is written to the graphics memory -- noise appears at the top of the screen. This is reproducible.

Interestingly (and luckily), standby/wakeup works just fine on my machine, and that is the feature I use most of the time. Hibernation usually over night, but for the time being I'll just put the machine to standby, or shut it down completely.

---

### Post by staf0048 on 2009-11-05
Just wanted to add my laptop to the list.  Toshiba Satellite A135.  

Will go into suspend just fine, but get the blank screen upon resume.  

Interestingly, hibernate works just fine (tried it twice now), although it obviously takes a bit longer to wake up than suspend.  Still better than having to reboot every time.

---

### Post by devnulljp on 2009-11-05
Lenovo T500 w/ 64 bit Kubuntu 9.10 fresh install.
I did two things and so far it's better.

sudo vi /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/20-video-quirk-pm-lenovo.fdi

Add this section (Obviously only for a T500...)


```
      <!-- T500 -->
      <match key="system.hardware.product" string ="2242CTO">
        <match key="system.hardware.version" string = "ThinkPad T500">
          <merge key="power_management.quirk.vbe_post" type="bool">true</merge>
          <merge key="power_management.quirk.vbestate_restore" type="bool">true</merge>
        </match>
      </match>

```

sudo /etc/init.d/hal restart


========================
Now, fix sleep

sudo vi /etc/pm/sleep.d/00CPU
Enter this:
```
#!/bin/sh
# Workaround for concurrency bug in xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.4.1-1ubuntu10.
# Save this as /etc/pm/sleep.d/00CPU

. "${PM_FUNCTIONS}"

case "$1" in
        hibernate|suspend)
                for i in /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/online ; do
                        echo 0 >$i
                done
                ;;
        thaw|resume)
                sleep 10        # run with one core for 10 secs
                for i in /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/online ; do
                        echo 1 >$i
                done
                ;;
        *)
                ;;
esac


```

See if that helps any...

---

### Post by bodOrange on 2009-11-05
> **bedhead75 said:**
> I only use a desktop (Gigabyte GA-EP45-UD3P motherboard and Nvidia GeForce 9800GT) and I've been having the same problem, black screen with a blinking cursor, after resuming from suspend in 64-bit Karmic after a fresh install.  This is before proprietary Nvidia drivers were installed.  But after installing Nvidia drivers, resume from suspend "works" and I get back my desktop, but it leads to an unstable kernel with a crash report.  The system eventually freezes up once I start running new programs and I have to do a hard reboot.  Resume from suspend in Jaunty works fine only AFTER installing the video drivers, and there's no kernel crash.  Going into suspend works fine using both LiveCD's, but resume doesn't work in either.

I have similar hardware (GA-P35-DS3P and 7600GT) and see the same problem.Maybe  different to the majority of laptop issues discussed here.  First impression is that resuming from suspend works fine, then some applications fail to launch and gnome desktop eventually freezes.  Sometimes I can get back to a console, other times not.

Under Jaunty resume from suspend and hibernate worked well.  Where as Jaunty used uswsusp by default, Karmic appears not to. Switching to uswsusp on 9.10 seems to have resolved our problem:
aptitude install uswsusp
Specify uswsusp sleep module in
/etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module

BTW the alt-sysreq keys has worked without fail when I have had to reboot.  It goes some way to minimising fsck problems of hard reset.  alt-sysreq-s (sync), alt-sysreq-u (remount filesystems RO), alt-sysreq-b (reboot).


HTH

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-05
Hello,
Well, the fix I posted here seems to no longer work.  There were some updates this morning. apparently, they broke this fix for me.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by HPEliteBook6930p on 2009-11-05
Hi - me again.

I've tried all fixes listed so far and no luck on HP EliteBook 6930p running Karmic with all updates installed. However - 
-- NEW FIX --
On the EliteBook the issue seems to be related to the SD/MMC card issue but is not quite that simple. BLACKLISTING 'ricoh_mmc' WORKED FOR ME! I assume this will work for the other guy with an EliteBook on this thread. Also, those with other computers may have luck blacklisting their SD/MMC card reader drivers.

To blacklist, type the following into a terminal:[INDENT]'sudo rmmod ricoh_mmc'

[/INDENT]If that worked, then you can make the change permanent by adding the following to the bottom of /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf:[INDENT]'# Blacklists ricoh_mmc to allow resume from suspend
blacklist ricoh_mmc'
[/INDENT]Hope that helps somebody! :D

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-05
Any fix for this seems to be all over the place!
From modeset, to vga=, to blacklisting modules.

I think I'll look for that new kernel....

bertmanphx

---

### Post by ar-jar on 2009-11-05
Same issue here with a Compaq 8430. Worked like a charm with 9.04. Now after upgrade suspend may work once or twice. Then the third or maybe the fourth time the computer goes black but doesn't go into suspension and requires a hard shut-down. This behavior doesn't seem to correlate to whether any of the usual suspects like Skype is running or not.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-05
Try passing this as a boot option
```
acpi_sleep=s3_bios
```or 
```
acpi_sleep=s3_mode
```when i close the lid on my dell, this option blanks the screen and halts HD activity.
It is not a full suspend but i do get my screen re-activated when i open the lid.

look here..[http://en.opensuse.org/S2ram#Up_to_date_packages_for_various_distributions](http://en.opensuse.org/S2ram#Up_to_date_packages_for_various_distributions)

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-05
> **bertmanphx said:**
> Any fix for this seems to be all over the place!
From modeset, to vga=, to blacklisting modules.
 
I think I'll look for that new kernel....
 
bertmanphx
 
I thought that Karmic was coiming with a new Kernal when it was released. Apprently not. 
 
I did however install grub2 and it made absolutly no difference in the problem on my Dell Inspiron 8100
 
I am really considering going back to Jaunty even though I love the boot speed of Karmic.

---

### Post by Gunnder on 2009-11-05
Compaq nx6325
AMD TL60
Ati Radeon Xpress 1150

Suspend worked great in Jaunty,  Not working in 9.10.

9.10 working better in other areas on this laptop, but gotta have the suspend!

Waiting for a fix patiently (kinda).

---

### Post by mitchellcipriano on 2009-11-05
Oddly enough hibernate seems to work on my notebook with no problems other than on restore the screen is dark until I press a key. So I set my notebook to hibernate now when I close the lid. This seems to be an OK work around. Not perfect, but definitely preferable to shutting down all the time.

The only other issue I have seen is that my screen will not turn off automatically after the set time in the power options. I think this is related to the suspend issue, but cannot be sure.

---

### Post by andycullison on 2009-11-05
Just adding my name to the list. Suspend worked great on 9.04 on my Dell XPS M1330...

Now I'm getting the same restart issue that everyone on this thread has.

---

### Post by mnoyes on 2009-11-06
Add me too -- ubuntu karmic on a dell mini 9. Worked great under jaunty -- closed the lid and the machine slept, opened it, hit any key and it came right back to where I left it. Now when I open the lid the screen is frozen, have to hard reset.

This is an important feature and this is not the only problem I've had with 9.1, sadly...

Ooops -- missed the title of this section of the forums -- I'm on 32bit!

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-06
Installed Mandriva 2010 (32bit) yesterday to check another distro's implementation of suspend/hibernate.
Got exactly the same result as Ubuntu 9.10.
We are not alone .

xeno

---

### Post by shushek on 2009-11-06
I'm having a similar problem with Hibermnate mode on my Desktop which is an assembled one (AMD Athlone X2 3600+ on Gigabyte S2 mobo c; 512 RAM, 160+80 HDD 17' LCD). I set it to hiebernation but when i turn it back on it wont take me to the same screen which i left. Worked once in the begining but now its not. Installed 9.10 a week back. Also the system is slow (may be i dont have enough RAM i guess), but that i one issue i've noticed so far.
 
Gratful for your help on this.
 
_SHUSHEK

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-06
Booted a Live CD version of openSUSE 11.2 rc2 (latest release) and suspend to ram worked (without any modifications); both in Performance (AC) and powersave (battery) mode!! 
My laptop seems to dislike openSUSE: it refuses to install correctly..can't test hibernate mode..difficult with a Live CD.
I'm not advocating a change of Distro (I've been with Ubuntu since 7.10), just letting you know that at least one Distro appears to have got it right. 

xeno

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **xeno_phile said:**
> Booted a Live CD version of openSUSE 11.2 rc2 (latest release) ... just letting you know that at least one Distro appears to have got it right. 
I expect they're still using an earlier kernel, since these regressions seem to have been introduced with the latest final kernel.

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-06
FWIW, I just put two old drives into my laptop, installed the latest iso of Fedora 12, updated it, and have the same issue.  This appears to be kernel related across distro's.  

In 9.10, I did enable Apport to run during each session, and have managed to report the crash.  Looks like there are plenty there already, so I just tagged on one of them.

Is there a PPA for testing kernels?  I know SuSE has "Kernel of the day"...

bertmanphx

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-06
**michaelzap**..the kernel version on the CD is 2.6.31.5-01-desktop.
I've managed to install openSUSE 11.2 rc2...had to register with NOVELL before i could update the software.
Feels like Micro$uck all over again.

---

### Post by FreezWay on 2009-11-06
add me also... gateway SX computer... it has GMA4500X graphics

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-06
Finally I solved my problem!
It was easy.
I migrate from ubuntu to mandriva 2010.
It is a great OS.
I suggest you do so.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-06
> **ali780 said:**
> Finally I solved my problem!
It was easy.
I migrate from ubuntu to mandriva 2010.
It is a great OS.
I suggest you do so.

You're going to have to change your signature. ;)

What is it that you like so much about Mandriva (other than that it works for you)?

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-06
**ali780**...I've tried mandriva 2010 and i could only get a partial lid close suspension by passing acpi_sleep=s3_bios at boot time.
Suspend/Hibernate from menu didn't work.
Personally i found it a messy Distro, reminds me of Fedora!

xeno

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-06
> **michaelzap said:**
> I expect they're still using an earlier kernel, since these regressions seem to have been introduced with the latest final kernel.

Your post was 9 hours ago, and I was just musing about how long 9 hours feels if your computer isn't working correct.  I think I'm addicted to Ubuntu :)

bertmanphx

---

### Post by marmida on 2009-11-06
I am also having a problem with suspend, but I am a desktop user.  Hibernate works fine.  Once the machine goes into suspend, it doesn't wake up on mouse or keyboard events, and manually hitting the power button turns the machine on, but I only get a black screen.

---

### Post by markjreed on 2009-11-06
> **HPEliteBook6930p said:**
> 
-- NEW FIX --
On the EliteBook the issue seems to be related to the SD/MMC card issue but is not quite that simple. BLACKLISTING 'ricoh_mmc' WORKED FOR ME!
Hope that helps somebody! :D

Yup, that worked here, too!  So the problem is in the Ricoh MMC driver.  Shame I have to disable the cardreader to get a resumable laptop, but I'll take that tradeoff - I can always insmod it when I need it.

Thanks!

---

### Post by yugge on 2009-11-07
> **bertmanphx said:**
> FWIW, I just put two old drives into my laptop, installed the latest iso of Fedora 12, updated it, and have the same issue.  This appears to be kernel related across distro's.  

In 9.10, I did enable Apport to run during each session, and have managed to report the crash.  Looks like there are plenty there already, so I just tagged on one of them.

Is there a PPA for testing kernels?  I know SuSE has "Kernel of the day"...

bertmanphx

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

There you go :)

---

### Post by bmartin on 2009-11-07
For the first time EVER, hibernate works for me. That's a first!

However, my suspend has NEVER worked. When I've entered suspend mode in Intrepid/Jaunty/Karmic, it has shut down completely.

Perhaps it's sending too low of voltage to something, or perhaps cutting power to something essential on my computer that isn't essential on other computers. It's got an AMD 5050e in it and [this mobo]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16856167036"), along with an Nvidia card and the proprietary drivers.

Usually power issues work themselves out with releases, but this one doesn't seem to be solving itself any time soon.

Any ideas on where to start?

---

### Post by bizzy123 on 2009-11-07
I've been using Ubuntu for almost a year now on an HP Compaq nc6000 laptop (not 64 bit) and it has worked without any problems. I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 with overconfidence. Now I have this problem with suspend and hibernate as well. It goes into suspend/hibernate just fine, but when I try to resume, only the mouse appears on a black screen and it is frozen. All I can do is reboot. I did not have this problem in the earlier versions. 

Things worked so well before that this is my first post!

I don't have any SD card slots on this computer, so there is nothing there to disable.

Anyone have any suggestions?

---

### Post by mitchellcipriano on 2009-11-07
I was able to get hibernate to work pretty well on my notebook, but I just had a hang when restarting. I did a hard restart and hibernate seems to be working again now. Suspend is still a no go.

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-07
I'm having similar problems. I have a five year old compaq presario v2405us which has the same hardware as the v2000z but instead of a 64bit cpu my laptop has a 32bit sempron cpu.

I was using Ubuntu 8.10 (intrepid) for about a year and suspend/hibernate worked everytime, but after a fresh install of 9.10 resuming from hibernate or suspend results in a blank screen everytime without fail, and I have to press and hold the power button to restart the laptop.

So, when I click hibernate or suspend the screen goes blank, the audio mute button comes on with a loud pop from the laptop (from the speakers, I think), and then the mute button light goes off with another popping sound. Then, there is this on the screen;

atiixp:codec set timeout
atiixp-modem: codec set timeout.

The laptop powers-off after a few seconds.

A few seconds after turning on the laptop, I see the Ubuntu logo, and it says, "waking up please wait", then a blank screen and no disk activity. The mute button is also active. I let is sit for a few minutes to see if anything would happen, however nothing occurred.

After a reboot the crash report tool says the kernel was causing this problem.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-07
You might try the release candidate of the new kernel posted by yugge above. It didn't fix my suspend issues, but it supposedly has fixes for such issues on some hardware. It's no big deal to install it, since if it doesn't work you can always boot from your existing kernel again.

---

### Post by panvorax on 2009-11-07
I would like to add the Toshiba P300 to the list of machines not resuming after suspend. It's the blank black screen with a backlight and active cursor and nothing else. Hard reset seems to be the only way I can recover.
 This problem is recent as I have run Ubuntu and Mandrake on this machine with successful suspension and resumption. Latest install of 9.04 is where the issue began to blight me.

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-07
> You might try the release candidate of the new kernel posted by yugge above. It didn't fix my suspend issues, but it supposedly has fixes for such issues on some hardware. It's no big deal to install it, since if it doesn't work you can always boot from your existing kernel again.

Thanks. I'll try some of the new kernel releases when they are posted to see if they fix the problem. Just tried the latest rc and it has the same issues (plus adds a new one).

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-07
Well,
I'm not sure I have much faith...
I just installed the 2.6.32-rc6 kernel from the mainline PPA, and got the very same results.  Whatever bug this is, it's persistent.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-07
Ok,
I feel like I'm pounding the keyboard here.............

Upon installing that Mainline Kernel, I rebooted and suspend did not work.

However, when I did the same trick and added "nosplash nomodeset" into grub, suspend just worked.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by uubbuunnttuu on 2009-11-07
This may seem incredibly unhelpful (other than as influence to get this fixed), but i have the same issue.  I have an HP Tc1100.  Jaunty Suspend and Resume worked fine, but Hibernation has never worked.  The first suspend in Karmic (maybe the second, I can't remember) worked fine, but ever since then it has suspended properly, but only resumes to a blank screen. It's also worth adding that it suspend and resume worked fine when using the LiveCd before installation, but after installation, resuming from a suspend on the LiveCd has only got me a blank screen.

---

### Post by t-o-c on 2009-11-07
Just adding my 2c here..
Two machines, one 64 bit, one 32 bit.
Both upgraded from perfectly suspending 9.04 to 9.10.

Both have issues with suspend under 9.10.

My system - Intel Core2Duo, 6GB ram - suspend works and fails randomly. I had thought it was my radio causing problems, but I ruled that out.

The other system, HP compaq P4 box, 768MB ram, runs intel graphics slowly. Suspend doesn't work, it 'seems' to suspend, but video and system remain on.

I went further with the HP box, I removed just about every module I could, and then typed pm-suspend.
The keyboard lights flicked to indicate it lost power, the USB mouse powered off, but the desktop remained on, and the monitor displayed continued to show the root login terminal with the last line I typed 'pm-suspend' remaining..

Nothing in the pm-suspend.log of interest on both machines (no clear errors). Quick scans of /var/log/messages do not show the issue, tho I did suspect pulseaudio (and ruled it out above).

Any pointers?

---

### Post by t-o-c on 2009-11-07
> **bodOrange said:**
> I have similar hardware (GA-P35-DS3P and 7600GT) and see the same problem.Maybe  different to the majority of laptop issues discussed here.  First impression is that resuming from suspend works fine, then some applications fail to launch and gnome desktop eventually freezes.  Sometimes I can get back to a console, other times not.

Under Jaunty resume from suspend and hibernate worked well.  Where as Jaunty used uswsusp by default, Karmic appears not to. Switching to uswsusp on 9.10 seems to have resolved our problem:
aptitude install uswsusp
Specify uswsusp sleep module in
/etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module

BTW the alt-sysreq keys has worked without fail when I have had to reboot.  It goes some way to minimising fsck problems of hard reset.  alt-sysreq-s (sync), alt-sysreq-u (remount filesystems RO), alt-sysreq-b (reboot).


HTH

I tried this on my machine (very close hardware to yours), and I got the issue on the 5th suspend / resume attempt

The HP machine behaved the same.

The issue affects Gnome also - Evolution will lock up on resume, the launchers on the taskbar won't work (i.e. "Firefox" or "terminal"), programs don't open.

---

### Post by studavis on 2009-11-07
I have a Toshiba Portege R200. Try disabling Network before you suspend. Works most times for me, Network comes on again okay. Installing Gnome Do broke this so I've removed it.

---

### Post by t-o-c on 2009-11-07
I wonder if Koala's being nocturnal have anything to do this with Sleep / Hibernate issue?


Here's some output from /var/log/messages during a bad suspend:

Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  611.310096] sd 0:0:0:0: [sda] Starting disk
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  614.530030] ata1: SATA link up 3.0 Gbps (SStatus 123 SControl 300)
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  614.532630] ata1.00: configured for UDMA/133
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  614.830029] usb 4-1: reset low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 2
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.410029] usb 4-2: reset low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 3
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732191] PM: resume devices took 5.450 seconds
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732192] ------------[ cut here ]------------
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732198] WARNING: at /build/buildd/linux-2.6.31/kernel/power/suspend_test.c:52 suspend_test_finish+0x7c/0x80()
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732200] Hardware name: P35-DS3
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732201] Component: resume devices
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732202] Modules linked in: binfmt_misc ppdev vboxnetflt vboxnetadp vboxdrv snd_hda_codec_realtek snd_hda_intel snd_hda_codec snd_hwdep tun$
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732232] Pid: 4133, comm: s2ram Tainted: P        W  2.6.31-14-generic #48-Ubuntu
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732233] Call Trace:
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732238]  [<ffffffff8105e788>] warn_slowpath_common+0x78/0xb0
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732240]  [<ffffffff8105e81c>] warn_slowpath_fmt+0x3c/0x40
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732243]  [<ffffffff810934dc>] suspend_test_finish+0x7c/0x80
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732245]  [<ffffffff81093289>] suspend_devices_and_enter+0xa9/0xe0
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732247]  [<ffffffff81093398>] enter_state+0xd8/0x110
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732250]  [<ffffffff81092952>] state_store+0x92/0x100
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732253]  [<ffffffff81274197>] kobj_attr_store+0x17/0x20
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732256]  [<ffffffff81184780>] sysfs_write_file+0xe0/0x160
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732260]  [<ffffffff8111ede8>] vfs_write+0xb8/0x1a0
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732263]  [<ffffffff8152bf74>] ? do_page_fault+0x194/0x370
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732266]  [<ffffffff8111f89c>] sys_write+0x4c/0x80
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732269]  [<ffffffff81012002>] system_call_fastpath+0x16/0x1b
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732270] ---[ end trace eb8ae6d9c9cf0a53 ]---
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.732295] Restarting tasks ... done.
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.801522] r8169: eth0: link up
Nov  8 13:55:34 x kernel: [  615.801530] r8169: eth0: link up

Hmmm, I tried to use the kernel method to debug, but suspend manually works OK (with and without radio on).
A problem I've found is the radio I have cx8800 driver, has a remote control support for it, but this causes the Shut Down window to appear (probably bad input).. i can ignore that tho, it suspends and resumes manually OK).

---

### Post by BrianDrab on 2009-11-08
Dell Precision M4300 32-bit. Vista Ultimate 32-Bit was the original Host OS. I used the Wubi installer to install Ubuntu 9.10 so it would be dual-boot.
 
Same issue...no hibernate in Linux....only Windows. Bummer.

---

### Post by sathiya_sp on 2009-11-08
Same issue here....

When closing the laptop lid, it goes to suspend/hibernate state and does not wakes up while opening.

Restarting the laptop is only being the solution till now ?

-- Is there any fix available or what is the procedure to solve this issue ?

Note: It was working very fine with 9.04 ... but issue only after upgradation to 9.10

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-08
More distro checks...
Fedora 11 (kernel version 2.6.30.9-96) suspend/hibernate work 100%.
Fedora 12-beta release (kernel version 2.6.31.1-56) suspend/hibernate work 100%
Fedora 12-beta release (kernel version 2.6.31.5-122) suspend/hibernate work 100%.
Getting the feeling that this issue lies with Ubuntu.

Compared some file versions in 9.04 with those in 9.10...
Only looked at file updates related to Laptops, pm-utils and acpi.
laptop-mode-tools 1.47-1ubuntu1 updated to 1.47-1ubuntu2
libapm1 3.2.2-12ubuntu3 updated to 3.2.2-13ubuntu3
apmd 3.2.2-12ubuntu3 updated to 3.2.2-13ubuntu3
acpi-support 0.121 updated to 0.129.
pm-utils 1.2.2.4-ubuntu5 updated to 1.2.5-2ubuntu7.
The next two files were not in 9.04...
acpi-tool 0.5-3
hal-info 20090716-0ubuntu1 
hope this is of some help..

xeno

---

### Post by stu500 on 2009-11-08
I seem to be suffering from the same/similar problem. 
Dell Inspiron 1501 (AMD) Laptop
using 32bit Ubuntu 9.10 dual boot with vista.

Suspend seems to work when i close the laptop lid however suspend/hibernate  don't work from the menu.

Hibernate seems to not power down and produce a flashing curser at the top left of the screen.

Suspend seems to turn off but just goes to a black screen when i turn back on.

This is my first proper go at installing linux, for me it's just been one problem after anther - to be honest i really dont think i could recommend it.
speaking of problems, my screen just dimmed as i was typing this reply and wont brighten back up .](*,)

---

### Post by scarr on 2009-11-08
I am just adding my laptop to the list: I have a Sony Vaio and currently hibernate does not work. When I first clean installed 9.10 hibernation worked fine, however after about three days it stopped working and now I only boot to a black screen.

---

### Post by YourKhan on 2009-11-08
Having problems on a Dell XPS m1530.  Computer goes into suspend, but only shows a black screen on resume.  If I hibernate, it gets stuck at the boot splash screen with the message "Waking Up..."

---

### Post by uubbuunnttuu on 2009-11-08
Sorry to say that there is yet another issue.

I downgrading to Jaunty (because of the Suspend/Resume issue) thinking it would fix the suspend/resume issue.  It did.  Then I updated (not to Karmic) and Resume has been broken again.  So I'm guessing this is either an ACPI issue or a kernel issue.

Please Ubuntu team fix this, I don't want to have to go back to Windows because of this.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-08
> **uubbuunnttuu said:**
> Sorry to say that there is yet another issue.

I downgrading to Jaunty (because of the Suspend/Resume issue) thinking it would fix the suspend/resume issue.  It did.  Then I updated (not to Karmic) and Resume has been broken again.  So I'm guessing this is either an ACPI issue or a kernel issue.

Please Ubuntu team fix this, I don't want to have to go back to Windows because of this.

Have you tried the RC6 kernel linked here?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135)

---

### Post by ethos_dacapo on 2009-11-08
Same problem on Acer Aspire One ZG5 Netbook. Worked fine in 9.04! It looks like we're 16 pages deep now. Has anybody heard from the Ubuntu team or is this gonna be another one of those never ending threads that never gets a response?

---

### Post by uubbuunnttuu on 2009-11-08
> **michaelzap said:**
> Have you tried the RC6 kernel linked here?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135)

To be perfectly honest, I have no idea how to do that.  I was looking at the kernel I just installed, and it is "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-16-generic" which is producing the Suspend/Resume issue in 9.04, I don't know if that is helpful though.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-08
> **uubbuunnttuu said:**
> To be perfectly honest, I have no idea how to do that.  I was looking at the kernel I just installed, and it is "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-16-generic" which is producing the Suspend/Resume issue in 9.04, I don't know if that is helpful though.

It's really easy - just like installing any other software from .deb files. Click on the link that yugge provided and go to the latest folder (RC6). Then download and install the header and kernel files for your hardware (64-bit or not) and the "all" header file (you don't need the source file). Then just restart and choose that kernel from grub. If it doesn't work well for you, reboot and use the older kernel. You can remove any software installed this way in Synaptic (or you could just leave it installed, since it doesn't do anything unless you boot from it).

---

### Post by rosstripi on 2009-11-08
Same problem here.  Running 9.10 on a Macbook Pro 5,5.

---

### Post by uubbuunnttuu on 2009-11-08
> **michaelzap said:**
> It's really easy - just like installing any other software from .deb files. Click on the link that yugge provided and go to the latest folder (RC6). Then download and install the header and kernel files for your hardware (64-bit or not) and the "all" header file (you don't need the source file). Then just restart and choose that kernel from grub. If it doesn't work well for you, reboot and use the older kernel. You can remove any software installed this way in Synaptic (or you could just leave it installed, since it doesn't do anything unless you boot from it).

Thanks for the help.  I tried it, but it did nothing as far as the suspend/resume issue.  The only difference was that instead of just a blank screen there is a blank screen with a blinking "underscore"(?).

It may be worth adding that during the update that screwed up the suspend/resume I noticed that there were several updates to the ACPI.  That may have something to do with the issue.

I also tried the kernel that was installed before the update which was "Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic".  The suspend/resume no longer works there as well.

Also, I know that it is not a back-light issue as you can see that the screen is fully backlit.  This happened on any version/kernel update I have tried.

---

### Post by thelifela on 2009-11-08
having the same problem will post video for youtube so that you guys can have a link of what's going on with me, stay tuned.  Hope we can all find a solution.

---

### Post by w1ntermute0 on 2009-11-08
To add another post to the thread, I have a Thinkpad R50e.  No card reader.  Suspend worked fine in 9.04.  After upgrading to 9.10, on suspend the sleep LED flashes quickly but never goes solid (like it normally would when the laptop is in suspend).  Have to hard boot to get it working again.

wm

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-08
> **michaelzap said:**
> Have you tried the RC6 kernel linked here?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8263419&postcount=135)


That Kernel worked for me the first two times....then never again.
Now I'm back to the latest version in the official repo's, trying the backports kernel module.

no luck yet

bertmanphx

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-08
I've report this bug on Launchpad as # 477130
It's got no attention yet from the Developers.  I'm guessing it's just one of many.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by QuimO on 2009-11-08
Same problem for me after installing a fresh ubuntu 9.10: suspend can't resume.
Suspend was working good with ubuntu 8.04 until the installation of karmic in another partition. So the problem has relation with grub.
Fixed uninstalling grub2 and installing old grub. [Instruccions here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Uninstalling%20GRUB%202")


Now my netbook can resume after suspend.

Good luck

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-08
> **bertmanphx said:**
> I've report this bug on Launchpad as # 477130
It's got no attention yet from the Developers.  I'm guessing it's just one of many.

bertmanphx

I think they're definitely working on this:
[http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/11/3/377](http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/11/3/377)

---

### Post by Trenchbroom on 2009-11-09
Another laptop user with the problem: Dell Mini 9.  As was mentioned earlier in this thread the issue may be related to the SD card reader.  My suspend works fine now *but only if the SD card reader is empty.*  Having an SD card in the reader at all (locked, unlocked, mounted or unmounted) hangs my suspend completely (hard reset).

---

### Post by t-o-c on 2009-11-09
> **michaelzap said:**
> I think they're definitely working on this:
[http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/11/3/377](http://lkml.org/lkml/2009/11/3/377)

Rafael J. Wysocki (2):
      PM: Make warning in suspend_test_finish() less likely to happen
      PM / yenta: Split resume into early and late parts (rev. 4)
---

Sounds like the way to go.

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-09
Well I re-installed jaunty now no suspend issues on my Dell Inspiron 8100. 
 
I miss the speed of karmic's boot sequence and karmic seems to run faster on my computer. However resuming in jaunty is much faster than booting in karmic. 
 
I really hope that there is a resolution on this ASAP. 
 
This has been by far the best thread on the internet in relation to this issue. i have tried all the fixes presented here except for the new kernal (which does not seem to be working for anyone).
 
I want to say thank you to the people that have wrote on this thread. Your comments have been helpfull. 
 
I will continue to monitor this thread until the issue has been resolved.

---

### Post by zsenike on 2009-11-09
Just putting my name on the list. HP desktop suspend problem :( hibernate OK.
 Waiting for fix :cry:

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-09
> **pelebkf said:**
> i have tried all the fixes presented here except for the new kernal (which does not seem to be working for anyone).

The RC6 kernel actually didn't resolve my suspend/hibernate problems on a Lenovo Y530 either, but it fixed the constant crashing and freezing I was experiencing. I posted it as a possibility because supposedly it includes fixes for such things, even though it didn't work for me. To try it, just install the headers and kernel .deb files for your architecture and the "all" headers file and then choose it when rebooting.

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-09
> **bertmanphx said:**
> Ok,
I feel like I'm pounding the keyboard here.............
 
Upon installing that Mainline Kernel, I rebooted and suspend did not work.
 
However, when I did the same trick and added "nosplash nomodeset" into grub, suspend just worked.
 
bertmanphx
 
I am going to try the new Kernal and the nomodeset to see if that works tonight. I will post of my success/failure tonight.

---

### Post by richchb on 2009-11-09
Ok so I found a quick workaround for my dell inspiron 600m

Go to System>Preferences>Power Management and then change any instance that involves "when laptop lid is closed" to black screen.

The problem for me seems to come up with suspend and hibernate only.

This is in no way a solution but its better then nothing I guess. Hope it helps!

---

### Post by Mahngiel on 2009-11-09
[Subscribe to the bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/468850") if you haven't.

Affected:
HP Pavillion ZD7000
60 Gigs of Dedicated HD to Ubuntu - solo boot-o :)
Nvidia gofx5600 w/ Proprietary driver #173
1G RAM

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-09
This thread has grown way beyond what i imagined when i started it.....just goes to show that a lot of users were suffering with the same problem and nobody had mentioned it. The thread may be long but it is still valid, a lot of users are venting their frustration but are also trying to help to solve this issue. Ububtu spirit, long may it live and grow.
Back to bussiness.....
Perhaps a way of ruling out the kernel as the culprit, would be to try to break 9.04 by using later and later kernels.
Try replacing some of the files in 9.04 (that deal with suspend/hibernate & resume) with later versions that were released with 9.10. 
With most of the developement time going into the 10.04 release, i would say that a solution to this problem coming from Ubuntu is slim to none. 
If this issue isn't resolved, for an ever increasing minority, with the release of 10.04, then for me it will be a deal breaker. I will certainly have to give serious consideration to changing to a Distro that doesn't give me this kind of aggro!! 

Xeno_phile

---

### Post by x-na on 2009-11-09
Well. I don't have the same problem, but this seems to be good thread to ask about this.

My desktop comp suspends once after a reboot. After that it just keeps waking up after about 10 seconds.

Couple other observations. Can't suspend if I have a locked screen, I need to unlock it and then suspend. Can't wake it up with just pressing a key on my keyboard. Both these worked in Jaunty but not in Karmic anymore. Although Jaunty was an upgrade, Karmic is a fresh install.

---

### Post by uubbuunnttuu on 2009-11-09
> **pelebkf said:**
> Well I re-installed jaunty now no suspend issues on my Dell Inspiron 8100. 
 
I miss the speed of karmic's boot sequence and karmic seems to run faster on my computer. However resuming in jaunty is much faster than booting in karmic. 
 
I really hope that there is a resolution on this ASAP. 
 
This has been by far the best thread on the internet in relation to this issue. i have tried all the fixes presented here except for the new kernal (which does not seem to be working for anyone).
 
I want to say thank you to the people that have wrote on this thread. Your comments have been helpfull. 
 
I will continue to monitor this thread until the issue has been resolved.

Has it really worked for you?
I downgraded, and after I updated it broke again.
Have you updated? and if so, how many times have you suspended and resumed?

---

### Post by neophytepwner on 2009-11-09
Having issues as well with my Dell Inspiron 6400.  I go to Hibernate and I get flashing color bars on my screen after the screen goes black.  This continues I don't know how long.  I must then power down manually to stop flashing color bars on screen. When I restart it then I am back to where I left my computer as if I had hibernated. Strange.

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-09
> **uubbuunnttuu said:**
> Has it really worked for you?
I downgraded, and after I updated it broke again.
Have you updated? and if so, how many times have you suspended and resumed?
 
Actually I fresh installed the jaunty from a mini.iso. 
 
I did not upgrade to karmic nor the kernal. I just went back to what I was using before. I can suspend and resume fine.

---

### Post by uubbuunnttuu on 2009-11-09
> **pelebkf said:**
> Actually I fresh installed the jaunty from a mini.iso. 
 
I did not upgrade to karmic nor the kernal. I just went back to what I was using before. I can suspend and resume fine.

Sorry, what I meant was once you installed Jaunty, did you update (not to Karmic, just a normal update/upgrade)?

Also, what is a mini.iso?

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-09
> **uubbuunnttuu said:**
> Sorry, what I meant was once you installed Jaunty, did you update (not to Karmic, just a normal update/upgrade)?

Also, what is a mini.iso?

No i never upgraded. I guess I am too use to Windows so I just always clean install. 

mini.iso is a small bootable file that installs ubuntu via the internet. I use it to command line install ubuntu for a minimum install.

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-09
> **michaelzap said:**
> The RC6 kernel actually didn't resolve my suspend/hibernate problems on a Lenovo Y530 either, but it fixed the constant crashing and freezing I was experiencing. I posted it as a possibility because supposedly it includes fixes for such things, even though it didn't work for me. To try it, just install the headers and kernel .deb files for your architecture and the "all" headers file and then choose it when rebooting.

Okay I installed the RC6 kernal as instructed earlier on the thread on TOP of JAUNTY and my suspend still works with no change to any file. 

That means at least for me that it had NOTHING to do with the kernal and it has to be something else. 

I am going to try to update to grub2 to see if that changes anything.

---

### Post by bodOrange on 2009-11-10
> **t-o-c said:**
> I tried this on my machine (very close hardware to yours), and I got the issue on the 5th suspend / resume attempt

The HP machine behaved the same.

The issue affects Gnome also - Evolution will lock up on resume, the launchers on the taskbar won't work (i.e. "Firefox" or "terminal"), programs don't open.

You're right, uswsusp did not resolve the problem. Having used the system more intensively, the problem persists though things do remain stable for longer.  After a resume, I see the trace triggered by the long resume time (apparently not a problem per se), then at some random point after that,  some crashed process (could be tar, gnome-power-manager, etc).  Finally the system becomes noticably unstable, the first sign usually being the gnome-panel dieing or failure to launch applications.  Eventually most open applications become unresponsive.  I can usually, but not always, switch back to the console and shutdown cleanly.

For the time being I am avoiding using suspend.  I just wish I knew how to remove the item from the gnome user menu.  The gconf can_suspend/can_hibernate options don't appear to be honored they they were in jaunty.

---

### Post by eldoraado on 2009-11-10
Same problem here on HP NC6120

---

### Post by andrix on 2009-11-10
Hi,
 In my case, I'm using from command line pm-utils (pm-hibernate and pm-suspend), I describe my situation:
   
  * hibernation works great
  * suspend works, but resume from suspend don't.
    When resuming the problem is that don't turn on the power of the laptop screen, seems to be without energy. I've tried some of the *workardounds* that are propsed here, but any of them work for me. The problem still remains.

Also, I've having this problem from Ubuntu 9.04, in 8.10 works great everything.

I tried to find information on the logs, but I didn't find anything related to the resume process, I've checked kern.log, messages, pm-suspend.log and I didn't find anything.

I'm using Ubuntu 9.10 64 bit fresh-install, my lptop is a Gateway T-1625 / AMD Turion X2 2.0 ghz, 3 gb ram, Video: ATI Xpress 1250, Wifi: Realtek 8187b.

If some need more details, just ask me and I can send everything needed to solve this.

Thanks!
 Andres

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-10
I've installed LOTS of kernels from the mainline PPA, always the last revision before jumping to the next number.
2.28
2.29
2.30
2.32

For me at least, 2.28 and 2.29 will resume from suspend IF i use the nosplash nomodeset switch at the kernel in grub.  One strange quirk though, my synaptics touch pad does not work.

I understand these do not have "Ubuntu Sauce" added to them, so that's expected I guess.

2.32 did suspend and resume, once, then not again.  Looks like we need either a patched 2.31 kernel, or 2.32 with sauce.
I'm sure there is more to it than that, but whatever it is, does not appear to be simple.

Still, I can suspend and resume repeatedly from the live CD, which is something i could never do before.  I don't know what makes the live CD special.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-10
Just found this on the Ubuntu wiki...
**[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume)**
this is from the bottom of the page..
> DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume  (l**ast edited 2009-10-12 **23:43:31 by [Erik B. Andersen]("https://launchpad.net/%7Eerik-b-andersen"))

and this one....
**[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspend](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspend)**

xeno_phile

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-10
I've tried those instructions, but never managed to get it to work properly.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-10
Absolutely nothing I've done has made suspend or resume work on my Lenovo Y530, but I've decided not to put a whole lot of effort into it until after the new kernel is out (since I have some hope that may fix it, given that Linus himself indicated that there were such fixes in it).

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-10
I recommend all of you read this through and then i think you will understand how difficult these problems are to resolve, and why it may never be resolved for certain makes and models!!!!!
[B][http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=13148](http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=13148)

[/B]xeno_phile

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-10
> **xeno_phile said:**
> I recommend all of you read this through and then i think you will understand how difficult these problems are to resolve, and why it may never be resolved for certain makes and models!!!!!
[B][http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=13148](http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=13148)

[/B]xeno_phile

Of course for most of us it works in Windows and other Linux distros (including previous versions of Ubuntu). So we know it can be done. That's not to minimize the complexity of the task or the work put into it, but this is not an optional feature for a mature OS.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-10
**michaelzap**....I heartily agree that it shouldn't be an optional extra on a mature OS.
The Bug thread was for a laptop thas was running a Debian OS (a very stable platform).
The main points to take away from the Bug thread are these, it is the Linux Kernel Bug team trying to work out what they had done to cause this problem to surface for this one Sony laptop model, and the time frame involved in trouble shooting this one model (6 months-and it stil isn't resolved). 
My conclusion is that this problem has to be solved on a model by model basis...there is no ONE cure all!
If you go back through the postings on this thread, you will find one user has had suspend/resume broken since Hardy!! 
Let's hope it's not a case of "once broken, always broken".

xeno_phile

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-10
Whoa,
This is interesting stuff, but WAY over my head.
See here - [http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14484](http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14484)

bertmanphx

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-10
**bertmanphx**....
I'm only 5ft 4in tall, most things are over MY head!!
Read through the bug thread, did you notice it was LINUS TORVALDS himself having the problem?
If he can't solve this problem for himself, what hope is there for the rest of us!!

xeno_phile

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-10
Just noticed Linus is running Fedora 12 beta, i have that on my laptop and suspend/hibernate&resume works fine on my machine.....upgraded to kernel rc4 and it still works fine.
Shame i can't get 9.10 to work.
makes me smile!!

xeno_phile

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-10
Xeno,
Like I posted earlier on in the thread, I tried FC12 and got the same type black screen with my machine......

bertmanphx

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-10
Wow again this is why I love you guys. You give us so much information to ponder. 
 
I think that xeno_phile is dead on the money as it relates to the brand of computer. And that is something that will work on some and not on others. So we have to try all the propective fixes to see if it will work on our particular machines. 
 
I also aggree 100% with bertmanphx that this should be fixed for all computers. This is the main reason people do no switch to linux due to the confusion.
 
The good news is that they are trying to fix this issue.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-10
**pelebkf**...To be honest i think the route cause of most of the problems related to linux installation/run time  problems is the fact that hardware vendors, and coders, are always looking to fix bugs within their respective products so they run comfortably within the Windows Userspace. 
Follow the money...It's the bottom line that counts!!
Linux users end up with broken machines on the back of a vendors race for Windows compatibilty (and no real desire to develop Linux specific products or code). This can be BIOS coders not strictly adhering to the agreed guidelines of  ACPI coding, or Video drivers being mangled to fix a Windows problem.
At some point an improvement to the Linux Kernel interacts with some non-standard fix and chaos ensues.
Perhaps Linux users will have to let go of the "Brand Loyalty" ethic, and be prepared to hop from one Distro to another to stay ahead of the Broken Distro syndrome.
Just a thought.

xeno_phile

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-10
xeno I am not loyal to only one distro but I have enjoyed ubuntu up until now. 
 
I would like to try other distros but I am too inexperienced at using the other ones. 
 
I only install the basics of ubuntu via the command line install. Then I install xorg and Chromium. That suits my purpose. I only use the computer for the web. But to shutdown and restart is way to time consuming for me. The ability to suspend and resume is a deal breaker. That is why until this is fixed I am sticking with jaunty even though I think jaunty is slightly slower that karmic. 
 
I am sure there are other distros out there that would accomplish my purpose.

---

### Post by JAXA on 2009-11-10
sleep is almost working on my mabook pro 4.1: the computer is resuming but then after showing the screen for a second it's going straight into sleep again. i've to press the power button to resume again & then it wakes up thouroughly.
anyone has an idea how i can convince the machine to skip the first wakeup-sleep cycle?
thnks

---

### Post by uubbuunnttuu on 2009-11-10
> **xeno_phile said:**
> **michaelzap**....I heartily agree that it shouldn't be an optional extra on a mature OS.
The Bug thread was for a laptop thas was running a Debian OS (a very stable platform).
The main points to take away from the Bug thread are these, it is the Linux Kernel Bug team trying to work out what they had done to cause this problem to surface for this one Sony laptop model, and the time frame involved in trouble shooting this one model (6 months-and it stil isn't resolved). 
My conclusion is that this problem has to be solved on a model by model basis...there is no ONE cure all!
If you go back through the postings on this thread, you will find one user has had suspend/resume broken since Hardy!! 
Let's hope it's not a case of "once broken, always broken".

xeno_phile

Well, I doubt it's once broken, always broken.  In the course of 48 hours, I have gone from ubuntu 9.10 to 9.04 to Win. Xp Pro to Win. Xp Tablet corporate edition to Win Xp Tablet retail edition back to Ubuntu 9.10.  In all but Ubuntu 9.10 (and ubuntu 9.04 after upgrade (but I already covered that)) suspend has worked fine.  I'm convinced it's a kernel issue, and can be fixed.

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-10
I think it's obvious that this is a Kernel issue.

The bug I posted above refers to Linus's own machine, which happens to be an Intel chipset notebook.  Interestingly, the bug appears to be dead on with the problems listed in this thread.  Unfortunately, [the bug ]("http://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=14484")has had no action since 11/6.  If you search [http://bugzilla.kernel.org](http://bugzilla.kernel.org) for suspend and resume bugs, you will find plenty.

I too will hang on for a bit.  With OpenSuSE being released tomorrow, I'll try it and see if I get the same results.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-10
Oh, well that was an interesting side bar....
I found a mirror that had already opened up with Suse 11.2, downloaded the Live Gnome 64 bit CD, and guess where it hangs?  Just where it turns the screen over to X...(I think).  The live CD will not even boot on my machine.  I also tried "nomodeset" at grub, and hitting the Esc key.  I might be able to try booting into init 3......

bertmanphx

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-10
Humpf.....
Even more interesting.  If I boot SuSE into text mode, then do "init 5" it starts......

---

### Post by bizzy123 on 2009-11-11
I tried [upgrading to grub 2]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2") to fix the problem. This ultimately didn't work, but I discovered something curious. When I originally tried to update Grub I did it incorrectly and didn't hit the space bar to select my boot choice. When I did this, my computer would not boot and I got the "error 15 file not found".

When I booted Ubuntu 9.10 off the livecd to fix the problem, I discovered that suspend worked when running from the livecd, but only when I had the error 15 on my regular installation. Once I had fixed Grub on my hard disk, suspend did not work either when booting from the hard disk or from the livecd.

It seemed the grub installation on one affected the other. strange.

---

### Post by nexsja on 2009-11-11
> **JAXA said:**
> sleep is almost working on my mabook pro 4.1: the computer is resuming but then after showing the screen for a second it's going straight into sleep again. i've to press the power button to resume again & then it wakes up thouroughly.
anyone has an idea how i can convince the machine to skip the first wakeup-sleep cycle?
thnks
 
Can confirm the same issue.
I'm running an Asus M50VC laptop (nVidia GeForce 9300M GS, 32Bit system though) and whenever i resume the system i get the password screen, and after a second or so the laptop just goes into standby again.

A rather annoying issue, to be honest. Even thinking of moving back to 9.04. 
Anyways, hope Ubuntu team is working on the issue. 

Thanks in advance,
nexsja.

---

### Post by mathfreak123 on 2009-11-11
Same issue here. Tried hibernate and suspend. Both entered suspension fine, but waking up had issues, as described extensively in this thread.

2.6.31-14-generic
ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
Mobile AMD Sempron(tm) Processor 3300+
638 MB of RAM

I am an ubuntu newb. If the solution to this problem is different for different computers, I better start reading up some more on Linux so I know what I'm doing to fix it....

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-11
**uubbuunnttuu**....."once broken, always broken" was refering to an individual Distro, not all Distro's.
If it is a code change within the Kernal that has affected your particular machine you are stuck with Ubuntu at 9.04..unless a kernel code change just happens to revert the problem (**bertmanphx** updated the Kernel on 9.10 as far as he could without it resolving the issue for him...he is now stuck with 9.04 as the last fully functioning Ubuntu Distro..."once broken etc etc).
With some of the Linux Distro's, it may be a combination of Kernal change, and in house code changes, that are affecting certain machines at certain times.
**bizzy123**....I thought 9.10 already shipped with Grub2 as the new default Boot Loader?

xeno_phile

---

### Post by bizzy123 on 2009-11-11
> **xeno_phile said:**
> 
**bizzy123**....I thought 9.10 already shipped with Grub2 as the new default Boot Loader?

xeno_phile


This is true, grub 2 is installed by default on NEW installations of Karmic if you do a clean install. However, if you update to Karmic from 9.04 it keeps the previous version of Grub, so you have to choose to update to Grub 2 separately.

Just to further clarify, I didn't install Karmic originally off the LiveCD. I ran the software update from Jaunty and it did not include Grub 2.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-11
**bizzy123**....I understand now, my error.
I tried livecd install and update via 9.04 and both ways produced the same result.
Why doesn't Grub get updated when 9.04 updates to 9.10?

xeno_phile

---

### Post by bizzy123 on 2009-11-11
> **xeno_phile said:**
> **bizzy123**....I understand now, my error.
I tried livecd install and update via 9.04 and both ways produced the same result.
Why doesn't Grub get updated when 9.04 updates to 9.10?

xeno_phile

The only explanation I have found so far was [this announcement from Colin Watson]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-announce/2009-June/000573.html") about the decision to include Grub2 as the default for new installations. Apparently there were more risks involved with upgrading Grub on an existing installations.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-11
Thank you **bizzy123**....The more i read the less i know. The less i know the more i read!!
Think my brain is going into meltdown.

xeno_phile

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-12
has the suspend resume problem solved or it persisit yet?!

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-12
ali780,
Not for me it isn't...
I keep looking for that rc7 kernel.  Perhaps it will be fixed there, then backported to the official Ubuntu Kernel.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by fboecom on 2009-11-12
I have had suspend problems with Ubuntu since the earliest test I did (v.7). Now 9.10 (9.04+'enforced' update). 9.04 or 9.10 go well into suspend but resume will give a black screen. Everything works (ping, ctrl-alt-F2 and F7 as well, as I can *hear* but not *see*).

What I am reading in this thread is that this problem is difficult to solve but I missing any specific or structured inventory which hardware (MB, graphics, monitor) would and which would not work. 

It's unbelievable for a contemporary OS and too bad actually, for me it's simply no ACPI = no Ubuntu.

Frederik
MSI 6702 motherboard+AMD64 3000+; Matrox G550 + 21" CRT.

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-12
> **fboecom said:**
> 
It's unbelievable for a contemporary OS and too bad actually, for me it's simply no ACPI = no Ubuntu.
 
Frederik
MSI 6702 motherboard+AMD64 3000+; Matrox G550 + 21" CRT.
 
I completly understand that reasoning. 
 
Couple of things On my Dell Inspiron 8100:
 
I have Jaunty 9.04 installed I had to edit lidbtn to the following to get the suspend to work:
[FONT=Times New Roman]sudo nano /etc/acpi/events/lidbtn[/FONT]
[FONT=Times New Roman]##Notebok Lid Closure Causes Suspend[/FONT]
[FONT=Times New Roman]event=button[ /]lid[/FONT]
[FONT=Times New Roman]action=sudo pm-suspend[/FONT]
 
I have not had any problems with Jaunty (after that edit)
 
I hope this helps

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-12
Here in lies the problem....
1. The bug is introduced at Kernel.org....why isn't it picked up there?
2. The bug is introduced by Debian whilst working on "unstable".....why isn't it picked up there?
3. The bug is introduced by Ubuntu....why isn't it picked up during testing?
IF, it really is a Kernel bug, why is it so selective with the Laptop make &models that it affects.
Why doesn't it affect ALL machines?
bertmanphx runs openSUSE 11.2 with no problems, but Fedora 12 is a no go.
I can't get suspend/resume to work on openSUSE 11.2, but it works perfectly on Fedora 12.
We both have problems with Karmic (9.10)!!
What is the connection between all of the machines that are affected by this one problem?
I have spent hours upon hours trying to work out where the beginning of the problem starts, i can't pin it down at all.
I do hope that the problem lies with Ubuntu, but i think this lies further upstream and it is related to machine specifics.
HOW does one solve a problem such as this?

xeno_phile

p.s....LinuxMint-8 is due out soon (based on Ubuntu 9.10) it will be interesting to see if THAT Distro works as expected.

---

### Post by wmcneil on 2009-11-12
Adding my machine(see signature) to the list, once suspended, a button press on my USB keyboard no longer causes resume with ubuntu 9.10 32-bit. Resume-on-button-press worked fine on 9.04 32-bit.

---

### Post by clevertomato on 2009-11-12
Still have problem here. I struggled with it in 9.04 working randomly, but usually suspending and then immediately coming out of suspend on its own. It seemed to start working more reliably after some of the later updates (in 9.04). Then I updated to 9.10 and KABOOM...suspend and hibernate resumes to a black frozen PC. Still happening, FYI.

Gateway MX7118 laptop. Otherwise, Ubuntu does pretty well on this machine.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-12
Found this response in my Launchpad Bug [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/468850](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/468850)
> [SIZE=2]From:[/SIZE][SIZE=2]gsmayya <gsmayya@yahoo.com>
[/SIZE] 

I use suspend/resume too extensively. 
I had been using Karmic from the Alpha 2. I did not had any suspend/resume problems. 

But after the kernel upgrade (as mentioned in the bug 449646, kernel
version 2.6.31-12), Ubuntu would never recover from a suspend. It would
show power light on, but no other sign of life.

I see some rc version of 2.6.32 being talking about the suspend/resume
problems ([http://lwn.net/Articles/360238/](http://lwn.net/Articles/360238/)).

Am not sure why no importance or status is still being updated?

thx
~gururaj
Then this..
> [SIZE=2]From:[/SIZE][SIZE=2]Mahngiel <mahngiel@yahoo.com> [/SIZE]

Have replaced the Ubuntu kernel with TuxOnIce's kernel, hibernates just
fine!

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tuxonice/ppa

sudo aptitude update

sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
Then this ...sadly
> 
[SIZE=2]From:[/SIZE][SIZE=2]Mahngiel <mahngiel@yahoo.com> [/SIZE]

update:

negatory on that.


What is going on?

xeno_phile

---

### Post by fboecom on 2009-11-12
Thanks for the tip, pelebkf.
In the meantime, I have fixed the resume issue. Although I had edited the /etc/default/acpi-support file with some recommended changes such as POST_VIDEO=false (which didnt work but it is still in the file), what made it work was changes in the BIOS (MSI 6702 motherboard, amibios). I changed 'ACPI standby' to Auto (from S3); I changed 'Call VGA BIOS at S3 resume' to Enable (from Disable) (I believe it was certainly that one) and I changed 'Display Activity' to 'Monitor' (from Ignore).

So, although I fixed the issue, the fact that it occurred in Ubuntu and not in Windows is a point of concern.
Now I can continue building my server. One thing that still doesnt work is 'Reboot' (Ubuntu shuts down but will not boot up) but that is of no real concern to me.
In the past, I have tested other machines that, also under versions Windows, had unwanted standby/resume behaviour. For instance, Windows 7 on my AMD-X2-3800 does standby but will not resume on any key, only on the power key.
My conclusion is: the right ACPI behaviour is a matter of a specific BIOS and a specific OS - not easy to find out which combination will work for you! An area where the computer industry urgently has to improve IMHO.

---

### Post by sn-1 on 2009-11-12
I had the some problem after fresh install of Ubuntu 9.10 x64. My notebook ASUS F7S didn`t wake up from suspent. But I have just insetred Ubuntu CD into CD-ROM, and the problem disappear! Even when i wake up without CD and my computer freezes with black screen, simply inserting CD will cause ubuntu to ask me password! Probably this problem arise with mounting/unmounting CD-ROM during suspend

---

### Post by stolle43 on 2009-11-13
Place me on this list! I have not figured out how to fix this feature! I have a HP Pavilion zv6100 laptop. Yes it is around 4 years old. It is pretty old school. I am just really tired of windows and want to have a new desktop. I love Ubuntu and have had it on my comp for the past couple of months. I recently upgraded it to 9.10 and really have done some work on it but need to figure out how to fix this Hybernation/ Suspend issue, when I put it under hybernation or suspend, it does the regular thing, then when I try to wake it up, it stays with a black screen and my keyboard is non functional. I will keep working but if there are any solutions, please reply to this message and let me know. Thanks.

---

### Post by friv_livs on 2009-11-13
2nd install on same HDD, 32 bit, Gateway M1624 laptop.

Also, "lock screen" in username menu doesn't lock screen.

---

### Post by mitchellcipriano on 2009-11-13
Hibernate, but not suspend, seemed to be working well for me until today. I tried to resume from a hibernation and I got a similar, but not the same, hang as I get with suspend.

---

### Post by mathfreak123 on 2009-11-13
Hibernation and suspend work well on my Toshiba Satellite M305-S4822, if that will help anyone. Still dead on my Compaq.

Intel Core2Duo T5550
3 GB RAM
5 GB swap
Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-13
Interesting.....
I can suspend perfectly to ram, IF I do it from the log in screen shown at GDM.
It makes no difference if I have the modeset put to 0, 1, or nomodeset.

Looks like as soon as X takes over, it's borks.

Anybody having luck?

Can somebody else try to suspend from GDM?

bertmanphx

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-13
UPDATE -
I just installed the rc7 kernel.  I can now suspend to ram ONCE.  but not again.  Then I have to do a hard reset.  Once I reset, I can suspend, one time.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-13
**bertmanphx**.....That's a shame, i was hoping for a little more progress with rc7. I looked at the long list of changes introduced in rc7,and there were some lines referring to suspend/resume with certain platforms...perhaps others may have better luck.

Seeing as how you enjoy kernel changes, could you do a kernel downgrade (if that is possibe!!) and check if suspend/resume was working in Alpha2 release?
> 
Alpha 2 includes the 2.6.30-5.6 kernel based on 2.6.30-rc5.
xeno_phile

**I can't find an Alpha2 image still available for download...and you seem to know what your doing.
Keep up the good work.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-11-13
> **xeno_phile said:**
> **bertmanphx**Seeing as how you enjoy kernel changes, could you do a kernel downgrade (if that is possibe!!) and check if suspend/resume was working in Alpha2 release?

You can get the 2.6.30 kernel here:
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

And just choose it at boot from the Grub menu to see if it works better for you.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-13
Thank you **michaelzap**....much appreciated.

xeno

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-13
Hello,
Believe me, I've got the mainline ppa bookmarked.
I installed that kernel and got no suspend to ram once logged in.
I do get the suspend to work just once, from GDM.

I wish I new how to debug it more.  There are a number of posts regarding the 200m chipset, and problems on multiple distros.  It's not a great chipset, but it used to work.  This regression happened after Juanty.  But the changes in X, KMS, Kernel, ACPI....where the heck lies the problem?

I've posted a bug report on launchpad, but nobody has contacted me.

This thread has 232 posts, and over 17,000 views.  Are there more people out there with problems?

help

bertmanphx

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-13
**bertmanphx**...didn't realise you were using the 200m chipset. Same as mine. 
I've dug deep into google and i can't find a lead at all.
As you pointed out earlier, the problem Linus was/is experiencing with his laptop doesn't appear to have been solved yet either. If it was, it wasn't done through the reporting mechanism!!
17000 views...many are from non Ubuntu users via google, all looking for the same answer/s we are. Probably.

xeno_phile

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-13
Just had my first resume from suspend!!! (no tweaks or mods added).
Logged out using menu.
Then used suspend from menu available at login screen.
**bertmanphx**...is that what you mean by GDM?

xeno_phile

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-13
Xeno,
I find it interesting that I can suspend from  GDM.  Also, with the same problem for me running the Gnome and KDE live CD for Opensuse right when X takes over, tells me that it could be X, not the Kernel.

Heck, who knows, but I've though about starting a new thread in the laptop section, and linking back to this one.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-13
> **xeno_phile said:**
> Just had my first resume from suspend!!! (no tweaks or mods added).
Logged out using menu.
Then used suspend from menu available at login screen.
**bertmanphx**...is that what you mean by GDM?

xeno_phile

Xeno,
Yes, GDM stands for "Gnome Display Manager"

If you had Kubuntu installed, that would be called KDM or "KDE Display Manager"

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-13
Three times out of Three.
When i log back into the laptop after the suspend, the Desktop is clear!!
I leave FireFox open but it isn't there when i return. Launching Fire Fox again brings back the page instantly.

Can somebody else try this please.

xeno_phile

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-13
Thanks **bertmanphx**...now i understand.

Three out of Three is the best i managed. Rebooting doesn't make it work again!!!
Perhaps i need to let the memory flush itself properly before doing a reboot (gonna switch off and give it a few minutes and see what happens).

This doesn't make ANY sense at all.

xeno_phile

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-13
No luck.
Doesn't want to work again.

This is madness.

xeno_phile

---

### Post by wwmcc on 2009-11-13
I have the following problem:  Resume from suspend or hibernate gives a black
screen with a working cursor.  Apparently, it is trying to display the password prompt,
and if I move the cursor to where it changes from an arrow to an "I" (to where the
password box should be), and then I type my password (to a black screen), the video
comes back, and everything is fine.  This works for both suspend and hibernate.
Annoying, but it works for me.

---

### Post by NigelHarrison on 2009-11-14
My laptop is a Thinkpad T61.  I recently dist-upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic.  Suspend/Resume worked as expected in Jaunty, but any attempt to Suspend (via the lid switch, the power-button menu, the System/Shut Down... menu, or just calling pm-suspend) simply appear to do nothing.  So, it looks a little different to other reports here.  I did look at the syslog etc, and it looks as though there is some attempt to suspend (the CPUs are switched to dormant state), but then everything is restarted.

Nigel

---

### Post by ar-jar on 2009-11-14
> **NigelHarrison said:**
> My laptop is a Thinkpad T61.  I recently dist-upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic.  Suspend/Resume worked as expected in Jaunty, but any attempt to Suspend (via the lid switch, the power-button menu, the System/Shut Down... menu, or just calling pm-suspend) simply appear to do nothing.  So, it looks a little different to other reports here.  I did look at the syslog etc, and it looks as though there is some attempt to suspend (the CPUs are switched to dormant state), but then everything is restarted.

Nigel

I had a similar symptom in 9.04 when connected to Internet either through 3G och through some hotel Internet connections (never at home). I never fully figured out a workaround but if I not only shut down the network connection but also disabled networking entirely and/or exited all applications that used Internet, then I was able to suspend the computer. Now with 9.10 any attempt to suspend results in a black screen but the computer is never switched off.

---

### Post by arttiast on 2009-11-14
I have laptop Fujitsu siemens Amilo Li 2732. I'm new in Linux.

Tried Ubuntu 9.04 ( 32 and 64 bit ) and suspend worked but did not wake up. Hibernate worked fine always.
And the same thing was with all other well known distributions.

Now I downloaded and installed Ubuntu 9.10 64 bit. installed and everything worked but did'nt get my printer to workd ( no 64 bit drivers ). But Suspend and Hibernate worked.

Tried to install Ubuntu 9.10 32 bit and SUSPEND wont wake up. everything else works.
I havent tried 64 bit again, tonight I will try it again.

SO I tried Ubuntu 9.10 64 bit again and SUSPEND and HIBERNATE both are working fine.
I hope my post will help someone... I know how hard it is when suspend wont work fine ;)

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-14
Good morning,
I seem to be getting nowhere fast with this.
I tried the instructions [here]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspend") but could not figure out what to do after the last part of the instructions.
My backlight comes on, then goes dark.  Also I cannot ssh into the machine.

bertmanphx

---

### Post by wrtrdood on 2009-11-14
> **bertmanphx said:**
> Interesting.....
I can suspend perfectly to ram, IF I do it from the log in screen shown at GDM.
It makes no difference if I have the modeset put to 0, 1, or nomodeset.

Looks like as soon as X takes over, it's borks.

Anybody having luck?

Can somebody else try to suspend from GDM?

bertmanphx

This has been my experience as well.  Attempts to suspend/hibernate while logged in result in a cycle to a black screen with cursor for about 5 to 10 seconds then a return to normal operation, being presented with a login prompt (at screen lock).  Logged out and sitting at the GDM login screen the laptop (HP dv6700 w/Nvidia 185 driver) will consistently suspend or hibernate.

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-14
> **wrtrdood said:**
> This has been my experience as well.  Attempts to suspend/hibernate while logged in result in a cycle to a black screen with cursor for about 5 to 10 seconds then a return to normal operation, being presented with a login prompt (at screen lock).  Logged out and sitting at the GDM login screen the laptop (HP dv6700 w/Nvidia 185 driver) will consistently suspend or hibernate.
wrtdood,
Not for me.  still, I can suspend once from logged in, but not again.

---

### Post by bizzy123 on 2009-11-14
I just want to add that my suspend and hibernate work fine from the user login screen as well, but once I login to either Gnome or KDE, it stops working (on wake up).

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-15
I can suspend my laptop at the login screen multiple times after my computer boots up, but if I log in to gnome, log out, and then suspend, resuming end with a blank screen. Also, the audio level isn't set to mute when suspending from gdm.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-15
Just a thought.....
If resume is the reverse of suspend (as i understand it to be) then perhaps suspend** isn't** working the way it should (contrary to popular belief)...ie, if the video card is not suspending correctly, one would assume it **can't** resume correctly!!!
If we are not looking in the right place we will not find the right solution.
I am not a coder, and the thought of following this_ [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3066404](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3066404)_ is a little daunting, to say the least.

xen0_phile

---

### Post by ethos_dacapo on 2009-11-15
One thing i have noticed is i can suspend or hibernate no problem, everything seems to work as it should, and alot faster than ever before i might add. The problem is even when my computer is turned on if i let it sit idle with the lid open after so long the screen will become totally unresponsive. It won't even come back by hitting ctrl alt delete and restarting x. When the screen first goes black if i move the mouse it will come back but after a certain amount of time its like the hardware goes to sleep and the software isn't telling it to wake back up. The same thing happens when i suspend or hibernate. If i resume right away everything comes back as expected but if it sits for 10-20 minutes when i try to wake up the screen stays black even though i can tell by cpu activity that its waking up. I thought that maybe if i knew the right command to wake the screen up i could simply enter it at this point and things would be great. Nigel Harrison mentioned pm-suspend, is there a similar command for waking up or does anyone know a command i can run to tell the screen to wake up?  


Also on a side note. When one of my clients upgraded to ubuntu 9.10 his system suddenly began freezing up and or totally dieing whenever there's was any load put on the cpu. EI screen goes blank and computer completely shuts off. Weird huh?


I'm running the 32 bit version of Ubuntu 9.10.

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-15
I wonder if this works for anyone with the blank screen problem after resuming from suspend mode. Open a terminal and run **sudo pm-suspend**. Did it work?

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-15
Hello,
If you do a search on the freedesktop.org  for "ati, black screen" you will find a LOT of bugs.  One interesting is [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/434956") it has been triaged on the launchpad site, and forwarded to freedekstop's bugzilla.

Whether or not this is actually kernel, KMS, or X at fault, I don't know.  I only know enough to be dangerous with my own system.  However, [I have read on the launchpad site]("https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kernel-lucid-bug-handling"), that the number of kernel bugs being transmitted back to the Ubuntu Kernel Development team is becoming difficult to mange.

I'm sure this will be resolved, eventually....

I am seriously contemplating moving back to 9.04, just so I can have suspend working.

Other interesting posts about this bug are:

[24951]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24591")
[23103]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23103")

bertmanphx

---

### Post by pelebkf on 2009-11-15
> **bertmanphx said:**
> Hello,
If you do a search on the freedesktop.org  for "ati, black screen" you will find a LOT of bugs.  One interesting is [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/434956") it has been triaged on the launchpad site, and forwarded to freedekstop's bugzilla.

Whether or not this is actually kernel, KMS, or X at fault, I don't know.  I only know enough to be dangerous with my own system.  However, [I have read on the launchpad site]("https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/kernel-lucid-bug-handling"), that the number of kernel bugs being transmitted back to the Ubuntu Kernel Development team is becoming difficult to mange.

I'm sure this will be resolved, eventually....

I am seriously contemplating moving back to 9.04, just so I can have suspend working.

Other interesting posts about this bug are:

[24951]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24591")
[23103]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23103")

bertmanphx

I am very happy with jaunty it may be a little slower but  suspend works. With a laptop you have to have suspend. i think I am going to wait until the next release before i update again.

---

### Post by linux4me on 2009-11-16
I have a clean install of Karmic 64-bit 2.6.31-14-generic running the restricted nVidia driver version 185 on the following desktop hardware:
[LIST]
[*]Gigabyte EP45T-UD3LR motherboard
[*]8 GB RAM
[*]EVGA nVidia 7600 GS
[/LIST]
I had the BIOS suspend option set to S3. In Jaunty 64-bit, suspend/resume worked flawlessly. 

When I tried to suspend the machine after installing Karmic, it appeared to suspend just fine, but I got the dreaded black screen (no video output) when I tried to resume even though the machine appeared to be restarting.

This morning, I thought it would be interesting to see what happened if I set the BIOS to S1. I did so, and found that the machine didn't appear to shut down when I clicked suspend even thought the screen went black. If I moved the mouse, the login appears and I could get back to the desktop, but what good is that?

I restarted and set the BIOS suspend option back to S3, then booted up and tried suspend again. It worked! I have tried it five more times both with no programs running and with Evolution and Firefox running (the two programs that were running during the original failures). Here's what the pm-suspend.log looks like when it worked:
> Mon Nov 16 10:20:24 CST 2009: Running hooks for suspend.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/000record suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00auto-quirk suspend suspend: Adding quirks from HAL: --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-dpms-suspend --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-vbemode-restore --quirk-vbestate-restore --quirk-vga-mode-3 
success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00logging suspend suspend: Linux Neptune 2.6.31-14-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 16 14:05:01 UTC 2009 x86_64 GNU/Linux
Module                  Size  Used by
ecb                     3296  1 
binfmt_misc            10220  1 
ppdev                   8232  0 
vboxnetadp             93292  0 
vboxnetflt            100300  0 
vboxdrv              1708492  1 vboxnetflt
snd_hda_codec_realtek   277860  1 
iptable_filter          3872  0 
snd_hda_intel          31880  2 
snd_hda_codec          87584  2 snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel
snd_hwdep               9352  1 snd_hda_codec
snd_pcm_oss            44704  0 
snd_mixer_oss          18976  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                93160  3 snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_seq_dummy           3460  0 
snd_seq_oss            33440  0 
snd_seq_midi            8192  0 
snd_rawmidi            27360  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event      8448  2 snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                60608  6 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              26992  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
snd_seq_device          8308  5 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
snd                    77096  16 snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
ip_tables              21200  1 iptable_filter
x_tables               25832  1 ip_tables
nvidia              10316904  40 
lp                     11908  0 
parport                40528  2 ppdev,lp
soundcore               9088  1 snd
snd_page_alloc         10928  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm
psmouse                57124  0 
serio_raw               6596  0 
sha256_generic         10816  0 
aes_x86_64              8992  307 
aes_generic            28480  1 aes_x86_64
cbc                     4224  304 
dm_crypt               14888  2 
r8169                  38884  0 
mii                     6368  1 r8169
intel_agp              32816  0 
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       8194072     713972    7480100          0      36792     257184
-/+ buffers/cache:     419996    7774076
Swap:      6377464          0    6377464
success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00powersave suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/01PulseAudio suspend suspend: success.
/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_grub-common suspend suspend: success.
/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_unattended-upgrades-hibernate suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/49bluetooth suspend suspend: not applicable.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/55NetworkManager suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/75modules suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/90clock suspend suspend: not applicable.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/94cpufreq suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95anacron suspend suspend: stop: Unknown instance: 
success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95led suspend suspend: not applicable.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/96laptop-mode suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/98smart-kernel-video suspend suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/99video suspend suspend: kernel.acpi_video_flags = 0
success.
/etc/pm/sleep.d/action_wpa suspend suspend: success.
Mon Nov 16 10:20:25 CST 2009: performing suspend
Mon Nov 16 10:20:57 CST 2009: Awake.
Mon Nov 16 10:20:57 CST 2009: Running hooks for resume
/etc/pm/sleep.d/action_wpa resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/99video resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/98smart-kernel-video resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/96laptop-mode resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95led resume suspend: not applicable.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95anacron resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/94cpufreq resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/90clock resume suspend: not applicable.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/75modules resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/55NetworkManager resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/49bluetooth resume suspend: not applicable.
/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_unattended-upgrades-hibernate resume suspend: success.
/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_grub-common resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/01PulseAudio resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00powersave resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00logging resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00auto-quirk resume suspend: success.
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/000record resume suspend: success.
Mon Nov 16 10:20:57 CST 2009: Finished.

The only thing I changed was to test the machine's suspend behavior with the BIOS set to S1 suspend rather than S3 suspend and then change it back. I haven't tried leaving the machine in a suspended state for a prolonged period of time yet, so my fingers are still crossed. I can't imagine what the switch from S3 to S1 and back might have done to help the situation, but I thought I'd put it out there. 

Maybe the successful pm-suspend.log will help someone troubleshoot the problem on their machine, too.

---

### Post by emeraldgirl08 on 2009-11-16
I have the same problems with my Thinkpad. I tried suspending yesterday and hitting the Fn and F4 key to wake but no luck. I tried hitting the power button- no luck. Resetting by Ctrl-alt-delete did not work either.

I hope we get some kind of update soon that corrects this nonsense. This is bad b/c this is the only version of Ubuntu that will work with my R51e so far. I don't want to go distro hunting just yet as reinstalling OS' can be a drag sometimes. 

How will we know when some news comes out about a fix of some sort? Will it be in the updates? Will it be proclaimed through the forums? And if it is where do I look up to see if it is updated?

---

### Post by koskoz on 2009-11-16
Hi,
same problem here, with a Vostro 1000 (the ame one has the original poster).

When I press the start button to resume the system, I can here the laptop is running but the screen stays black.

---

### Post by xeno_phile on 2009-11-16
With 'Jaunty' there was a concerted effort to resolve the suspend/resume problem.....
_[http://blog.redvoodoo.org/2009/02/jaunty-kernel-bits.html](http://blog.redvoodoo.org/2009/02/jaunty-kernel-bits.html)_....not so with 'Karmic'?

Why can i only get 'Vanilla Mainline Kernels' from Ubuntu _[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KernelMainlineBuilds)_ and NOT earlier Ubuntu kernerls for testing...pushing the problems upstream!!! 

Grub2, Ext4, Latest kernel, Under 20sec boot time....to much too soon?

I was dissapointed to find out that some of the bugs with the Dell laptops sold with Ubuntu pre-installed are still outstanding after one year...as a consumer i would be put off Linux for life.

Stability and reliability should be the core values of Ubuntu, not first to market with the latest and greatest of everything. Push the envelope too far and something will give. Ubuntu have pushed their luck too far and finally it has caught up with them. 

If the volume of defects become greater than the ability and time to resolve those defects, then for gods sake stop releasing ever more complex Distro's. Solve the current problems, learn the lessons, and move forward with a coherent stratedgy. 

No apologies for this rant, i am fed up. 

xeno_phile

---

### Post by bovender on 2009-11-16
I wonder why "we", i.e. the many, many people that experience standby/hibernate problems, don't hear anything from the developers who are responsible for Linux' or Ubuntu's ability to run, suspend, and resume properly on laptops.

By now it is quite clear that it the problem does not only affect a small group of people with maybe unusual hardware setup. I get the impression that it is a very widespread problem.

A thread as long as this in the official Ubuntu support forum cannot possibly go unnoticed by the developers.

IMHO not responding to users' complaints is a very, um, "Windows" way of dealing with things.

---

### Post by ethos_dacapo on 2009-11-16
I agree with lazy_leukocyte. They should at least have somebody respond in an official capacity on behalf of the Ubuntu Team. I understand this stuff isn't easy to deal with no matter which side you're on. I'm sure there have been times when they have responded in the past and it turned into a big mess. Maybe thats why they don't respond, but nevertheless, here we are stuck with a broken operating system, but you know what?? I can spin a cube just fine! :P

Ubuntu is only as good as the time you put into it...

> **lazy_leukocyte said:**
> I wonder why "we", i.e. the many, many people that experience standby/hibernate problems, don't hear anything from the developers who are responsible for Linux' or Ubuntu's ability to run, suspend, and resume properly on laptops.

By now it is quite clear that it the problem does not only affect a small group of people with maybe unusual hardware setup. I get the impression that it is a very widespread problem.

A thread as long as this in the official Ubuntu support forum cannot possibly go unnoticed by the developers.

IMHO not responding to users' complaints is a very, um, "Windows" way of dealing with things.

---

### Post by ethos_dacapo on 2009-11-16
I'm starting to get really irritated... Every time i forget to shut my laptop lid, i walk away, and come back a few minutes later to a black screen which will not come back on without hard resetting the thing. Honestly, suspend isn't a big issue with me, even on a netbook. I would just like the software and the hardware to play nicely together so we can all go back to being productive again. This is almost as bad as having to recompile a kernel for one stinking module to work :P

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-16
OK. suspend fails to resume if I click suspend from the indicator-applet-session or the gnome-power-manager (battery icon), but if I open a terminal and run pm-suspend, the laptop suspends and resumes without fail. However, hibernate doesn't resume no matter what I try, so I've given up on it.

Since pm-suspend works on my laptop (and something is better than nothing) I found a workaround which consists of a launcher on the desktop using information I found on the archwiki website which has a lot of information including fixing a blank screen when resume fails, but I'm not sure if it applies to ubuntu.

[Pm-utils ArchWiki]("http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Pm-utils#Execute_suspend.2Fhibernate_without_root_password")

Compaq Presario V2000
Radeon Xpress 200m (radeon)
Atiixp audio (snd-atiixp)
broadcom wifi (b43)

---

### Post by owend on 2009-11-16
Hi all, new to this thread so apologies if it's already solved.

I've gone to 9.10 with no problems, including a working suspend out of the box.

I had a suspend problem in 9.04, though, which I solved thusly:

Open sudo gedit and open /usr/lib/hal/scripts/linux/hal-system-power-suspend-linux

find the line QUIRKS=" "
		
change the line to QUIRKS="--quirk-s3-bios --quirk-s3-mode --quirk-dpms-suspend --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbestate-restore --quirk-vbemode-restore --quirk-vga-mode3 --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-reset-brightness" &#8211; not all may be necessary, but it hasn't done any harm; you can experiment if you want.

Save and exit. 

Set System>Preferences>Power Management for lid closed = suspend.

This may work for hibernate, but I never hibernate so I've never tried it.

Also, I haven't had to try it in 9.10, as suspend works oob, as I said.


Acer Travelmate, AMD Turion 64, Nvidia Geforce 6100. Hope this helps someone!:D

---

### Post by awregan on 2009-11-16
> **owend said:**
> Hi all, new to this thread so apologies if it's already solved.

I've gone to 9.10 with no problems, including a working suspend out of the box.

I had a suspend problem in 9.04, though, which I solved thusly:

Open sudo gedit and open /usr/lib/hal/scripts/linux/hal-system-power-suspend-linux

find the line QUIRKS=" "
		
change the line to QUIRKS="--quirk-s3-bios --quirk-s3-mode --quirk-dpms-suspend --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbestate-restore --quirk-vbemode-restore --quirk-vga-mode3 --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-reset-brightness" – not all may be necessary, but it hasn't done any harm; you can experiment if you want.

Save and exit. 

Set System>Preferences>Power Management for lid closed = suspend.

This may work for hibernate, but I never hibernate so I've never tried it.

Also, I haven't had to try it in 9.10, as suspend works oob, as I said.


Acer Travelmate, AMD Turion 64, Nvidia Geforce 6100. Hope this helps someone!:D

It doesn't work on my dell vostro 1510

---

### Post by bizzy123 on 2009-11-16
I thought doing the sudo pm-suspend command might be a good workaround, and it worked the first time I tried it, but not on later attempts, and not after restarting. This seems almost intermittent and random.

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-16
Well I just found that pm-suspend didn't resume if I leave my laptop in suspend mode for a couple of hours. Frankly, I've tried everything and i'm at an end. I'll probably go back to debian.

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-16
All,
I have started a new post, trying to find out if a particular patch has been implemented into an Ubuntu package, or PPA.  [SEE HERE]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8332440#post8332440")

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-17
Ok,
I am not recommending this to anyone, so try at your own risk!!

It seems I can now successfully suspend, at least 5 times so far and resume properly, using the following parameters:

Kernel from mainline - 2.6.32-rc7, using parameter "modeset=0"

and

The ATI driver only from the following PPA
[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/drivers-only](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/drivers-only)

While this has worked for my HP DV8040, with ATI 200m Video card RS480 5955, I do not know if this works for you.  

bertmanphx

---

### Post by NJC on 2009-11-17
> **koskoz said:**
> When I press the start button to resume the system, I can here the laptop is running but the screen stays black.
Suspend works fine on my machine, but I get the same unresponsive black screen after my monitor turns off via power management. There's a magical latency though ... IE if it's been off for only a short time, the screen wakes up properly; otherwise reboot is only option.

---

### Post by lothix on 2009-11-17
Same black screen on Thinkpad T40p after resuming from suspend and hibernate. Worked fine in 8.10, 9.04 and broke after upgrade to 9.10.

Bump for this thread.

---

### Post by madengineer on 2009-11-17
My $.02: I had something like this on a HP dv4t with NVidia graphics (suspend+resume produces a black screen, but the computer shows some signs of life, and I can reboot with the Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B sequence). It turned out to be an NVidia driver issue; after using EnvyNG to install the NVidia drivers (version 185) the problem went away. I tried to trace out what Envy was doing, and the key appeared to be to make the following your xorg.conf:
```
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
        Disable "dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Default Device"
        Driver  "nvidia"
EndSection
```
and run depmod -ae after installing the NVidia driver packages.

Now the only problem is the missing battery indicator after resume (which can be fixed by the patch to sleep.c that's gone into kernel 2.6.32 to deal with HP's violating the ACPI spec). No idea if this will help anybody with other laptops/video cards, but it might be worth a try. I'd recommend starting by using EnvyNG to install the driver, in case there are quirks for other configurations that would not be handled by my example here.

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-17
> **bertmanphx said:**
> Ok,
I am not recommending this to anyone, so try at your own risk!!

It seems I can now successfully suspend, at least 5 times so far and resume properly, using the following parameters:

Kernel from mainline - 2.6.32-rc7, using parameter "modeset=0"

and

The ATI driver only from the following PPA
[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/drivers-only](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/drivers-only)

While this has worked for my HP DV8040, with ATI 200m Video card RS480 5955, I do not know if this works for you.  

bertmanphx

I tried this on my laptop but it didn't work. The pm-suspend command doesn't work either. Karmic just isn't going to work right on my laptop.

---

### Post by lamaistres on 2009-11-18
I may have found a fix for my problem. I have a radeon xpress 200m 5955 igp. I replaced the -ati and -radeon packages that came with karmic with the latest modules from jaunty and now my computer resumes from suspend and hibernate. I have tested this on the 2.6.31-14 and the rc7 maineline kernels.

When my laptop resumes, it stops with a blank screen and a mouse cursor. When I move the mouse a window appears asking for my password.  

The two files I installed are:

xserver-xorg-video-radeon_6.12.1-0ubuntu2_i386
xserver-xorg-video-ati_6.12.1-0ubuntu2_i386

Now I just need to lock these files so apt doesn't update them. It appears this is a video module/driver problem in karmic and not the kernel.

Hope this information helps.

---

### Post by Renegade Lisp on 2009-11-18
My Thinkpad T61 wouldn't suspend after I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. I've been able to fix it: The reason was that I had force-downgraded the Intel xserver to a previous version under 9.04 in order to work around the performance problems introduced in that release. This downgraded package was not upgraded during the 9.10 upgrade.

I have manually installed the package xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.9.0-1ubuntu2 now, and this fixed the suspend problem. Incidentally, this also fixed the problem of my desktop effects (compiz) not working under the new release.

I like Karmic much better now :p

---

### Post by Udibuntu on 2009-11-18
AAO 751 won't recover from suspend on Karmic.

An idiot proof fix would be greatly appreciated.

Udi

---

### Post by ssri on 2009-11-18
> **lazy_leukocyte said:**
> I wonder why "we", i.e. the many, many people that experience standby/hibernate problems, don't hear anything from the developers who are responsible for Linux' or Ubuntu's ability to run, suspend, and resume properly on laptops.

By now it is quite clear that it the problem does not only affect a small group of people with maybe unusual hardware setup. I get the impression that it is a very widespread problem.

A thread as long as this in the official Ubuntu support forum cannot possibly go unnoticed by the developers.

IMHO not responding to users' complaints is a very, um, "Windows" way of dealing with things.

Well, for starters, I do not think many developers frequent these forums, so that could explain the lack of developer feedback here.  You should check the mailing lists, relevant bugs on launchpad or IRC.  Also, problems with resume/suspend has been around for awhile.  One day I read on LKML that resume/suspend issues were largely solved in 2.6.30 (or 2.6.31).  Then some time after, I read that there were regressions with it in 2.6.32.  *sigh* I do not think this problem will be solved for awhile.

Just my 2c, I've had suspend/resume problems ever since I started using kubuntu (intrepid), well mostly with resume, even though I have a separate swap partition 1.5x my memory.  It is a crapshoot whenever I try to resume from suspend on my laptop.  If I did not open to many programs during my session, resume works fine.  The problem with resume occurs with subsequent suspends or if I had to do some actual work in my session.  If I've had to do some work, especially with java-based programs, resume slows to a crawl with excessive disk reading activity ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1154906](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1154906)).  Even if I closed everything before suspending, whatever I opened is still cached in the memory.

---

### Post by NigelHarrison on 2009-11-18
> **Renegade Lisp said:**
> My Thinkpad T61 wouldn't suspend after I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10. I've been able to fix it: The reason was that I had force-downgraded the Intel xserver to a previous version under 9.04 in order to work around the performance problems introduced in that release. This downgraded package was not upgraded during the 9.10 upgrade.

I have manually installed the package xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.9.0-1ubuntu2 now, and this fixed the suspend problem. Incidentally, this also fixed the problem of my desktop effects (compiz) not working under the new release.

I like Karmic much better now :p

My T61 has an Nvidia graphics chip (Quadra) so this doesn't apply.  (Interesting that the product used more than one type.)  However, @Renegade Lisp's experience does suggest some kind of incompatibility between the video driver and the kernel.  My machine is using the closed source nvidia binary driver, and it seems to be the latest version.  I might try switching to the nv (open source) driver to see if it makes any difference.

What fun we're having! :)

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-18
> **owend said:**
> Hi all, new to this thread so apologies if it's already solved.

I've gone to 9.10 with no problems, including a working suspend out of the box.

I had a suspend problem in 9.04, though, which I solved thusly:

Open sudo gedit and open /usr/lib/hal/scripts/linux/hal-system-power-suspend-linux

find the line QUIRKS=" "
		
change the line to QUIRKS="--quirk-s3-bios --quirk-s3-mode --quirk-dpms-suspend --quirk-dpms-on --quirk-vbestate-restore --quirk-vbemode-restore --quirk-vga-mode3 --quirk-vbe-post --quirk-reset-brightness" – not all may be necessary, but it hasn't done any harm; you can experiment if you want.

Save and exit. 

Set System>Preferences>Power Management for lid closed = suspend.

This may work for hibernate, but I never hibernate so I've never tried it.

Also, I haven't had to try it in 9.10, as suspend works oob, as I said.


Acer Travelmate, AMD Turion 64, Nvidia Geforce 6100. Hope this helps someone!:D

Hello,
Seems this method works for me.
Thanks

---

### Post by ali780 on 2009-11-18
It worked just 3 time:confused:

---

### Post by sumashod on 2009-11-18
> **lamaistres said:**
> I may have found a fix for my problem. I have a radeon xpress 200m 5955 igp. I replaced the -ati and -radeon packages that came with karmic with the latest modules from jaunty and now my computer resumes from suspend and hibernate. I have tested this on the 2.6.31-14 and the rc7 maineline kernels.

When my laptop resumes, it stops with a blank screen and a mouse cursor. When I move the mouse a window appears asking for my password.  

The two files I installed are:

xserver-xorg-video-radeon_6.12.1-0ubuntu2_i386
xserver-xorg-video-ati_6.12.1-0ubuntu2_i386

Now I just need to lock these files so apt doesn't update them. It appears this is a video module/driver problem in karmic and not the kernel.

Hope this information helps.

This method works fine on my Vostro 1000 with Ubuntu Karmic 64 Bit.
Thank you!:p

---

### Post by pjalegria on 2009-11-18
My problem is a little diferent, after suspend/resume, i cant open any program, if i try to open Terminal, for exemple, i get this message:

Unable to load GDesktopAppInfo for /home/jango/.local/share/applications/gnome-terminal.desktop

How can i fix that???


Thanks

---

### Post by bertmanphx on 2009-11-18
> **sumashod said:**
> This method works fine on my Vostro 1000 with Ubuntu Karmic 64 Bit.
Thank you!:p

Sumashod,
Where did you pull those files from?

EDIT - I want to confirm that my fix didn't end up working for very long, or consistently.  The fix reported here by Sumashod, has worked now for 3 days or so.  I installed the packages from the command line, then locked them in Synaptic so that they cannot be upgraded.  Problem Solved!

bertmanphx

---

### Post by clevertomato on 2009-11-18
Sumashod,

Please explain more specifics of where you got the files and how you installed them. I found one deb file for the radeon, but when I double-clicked it, I was shown what it was and told that a newer version was already installed. I wasn't allowed to install this one.

---

