---
title: "Nvidia 8600m w/ 180.51, Compiz-check fails"
date: 2009-06-01
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by ThePenguinKnight on 2009-06-01
Howdy all. I decided to upgrade to Ubuntu64 9.04 from 32bit 8.04 on my Dell Inspiron 1520 laptop. I have an Nvidia 8600m GT graphics card, which was working well under the 173.xx drivers back on Hardy. I attempted to use the 173.xx drivers on Jaunty, but they apparently did not like the idea and failed to work at all. I then installed the latest drivers from Nvidia's website (180.51), and after a reboot or two they are working for basic 2d applications, but I am unable to turn on Compiz or anyhting more than basic Desktop effects.

I understand that there are a number of folks with similar problems, and I've spent the last few hours trolling the forums and blogs for an answer appropriate to my situation, as yet without success. I completely removed all drivers and Compiz and reinstalled, tried Compiz-Check. Here is its output:

```
Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 9.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         nVidia Corporation GeForce 8600M GT (rev a1)
 Driver in use:         nvidia
 Rendering method:      Nvidia

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [FAIL]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [FAIL]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [FAIL]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: Unable to detect maximum 3D texture size 

```

The computer functions in its basic capacity (internet, word-processing, etc.), but I would like to make use of my GPU again. If there is any further information that is needed for a proper diagnosis, please post what is required and how to get the information and I'll reply with it promptly.

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-06-01
How did you install the nvidia drivers, did you remove the previous ones including the modaliases. What does glxinfo reveal for you?

---

### Post by ThePenguinKnight on 2009-06-01
When installing 9.04, I formatted the root partition of my 8.04 install and reused the swap and home partitions. When uninstalling the graphics drivers, I used the Ubuntu Synaptic utilities to remove all elements regarding the graphics function, installed the basic package from Synaptic (for v173) and the Nvidia drivers website (for v180.51), then used the System > Admin > Hardware Drivers menu to install and activate the drivers. I am not aware of any modaliases, how to install or remove them.

Glxinfo returns:

```
name of display: :0.0
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual or fbconfig
```

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-06-02
> **ThePenguinKnight said:**
> When installing 9.04, I formatted the root partition of my 8.04 install and reused the swap and home partitions. When uninstalling the graphics drivers, I used the Ubuntu Synaptic utilities to remove all elements regarding the graphics function, installed the basic package from Synaptic (for v173) and the Nvidia drivers website (for v180.51), then used the System > Admin > Hardware Drivers menu to install and activate the drivers. I am not aware of any modaliases, how to install or remove them.

Glxinfo returns:

```
name of display: :0.0
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual or fbconfig
```

Remove linux-restricted-modules

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=72490](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=72490)

Follow the procedures listed here to a T and it will work.

---

