---
title: "[8.10] replace existing 64bit by 32 bit version"
date: 2009-03-11
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by BHrxs on 2009-03-11
Hi,

installed 8.10 64bit without checking well HW compatibility. So I ended up that everything works fine except my usb wlan stick from Netgear WG111v3. After hours of checking it seems that this will not work on 64bit but 32bit should be fine.

Since I dont want to buy a new (supported) stick I would like to install the 32 bit versin. 

I have 2 HD. Vista on first, Ubuntu on second.
Now my questions:

Can i just run 32 bit installation over the existing 64 bit ?

thanks,
BHrxs


p.s. hope thats the rigth place otherwise admin please move thread

---

### Post by stchman on 2009-03-11
> **BHrxs said:**
> Hi,

installed 8.10 64bit without checking well HW compatibility. So I ended up that everything works fine except my usb wlan stick from Netgear WG111v3. After hours of checking it seems that this will not work on 64bit but 32bit should be fine.

Since I dont want to buy a new (supported) stick I would like to install the 32 bit versin. 

I have 2 HD. Vista on first, Ubuntu on second.
Now my questions:

Can i just run 32 bit installation over the existing 64 bit ?

thanks,
BHrxs


p.s. hope thats the rigth place otherwise admin please move thread

The way the Linux kernel works is that the drivers are in the kernel.  The kernel is compiled in 64 bit and therefore the drivers are 64 bit.

All modules are compiled 64 bit then added to the kernel.

Windows 32 and 64 bit is different.  Just because a driver is not 64 bit Windows compatible does not mean the same for Linux.

As far as your WLAN USB stick install ndisgtk.

```
sudo apt-get install ndisgtk
```

This is a GUI front end for ndiswrapper.  Launch ndisgtk(System--->Administration--->Windows Wireless I believe and install the Windows .inf for that card.  It should work.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-03-12
> After hours of checking it seems that this will not work on 64bit but 32bit should be fine.
Netgear hasn't always had XP-64 drivers, and Realtek doesn't offer any generic XP-64 driver for the chipset your card uses (RTL8187b), so those pages may be outdated. Also, it's a bit tricky to get the files you need without having an XP-64 install. I had to execute the Netgear installer through WINE, then dig in the windows/temp directory, and then I had to rename XP64.sys to wg111v3.sys
Doing this, I was able to install the driver through ndiswrapper, but I have no way of testing whether it actually works.

You will need some way to get the drivers on your PC (usb key, floppy, burn a CD, other internet connection). You'll also need ndiswrapper and ndiswrapper-utils packages (found on Ubuntu CD).

Follow instructions here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper#Configuration](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper#Configuration)

---

### Post by BHrxs on 2009-03-12
Hi there,
thanks for your help.
I tried it out and installed the driver following the instruction from the link. I could see with ndiswrapper -l that it is installed. unfortunately no change to the behavior.

let me explain what happens. I can connet to the wlan router. I see the network symbol and my  router with iwconfig. So I am connected but I can not connect to the inet. If I ping my router i got 100% packet lost. Sometimes something seem to comes through since i got some update information from the system but it looks like in the range of 0.1 kbit/sec or so. 

Dont want to scrap my x64 since i have 8GB ram so I will try out another wlan stick to see if it the same thing.

Nevertheless can you tell me how to install x32 over x64 ? 
Can I just run the x32 installation and everything fine or do i have to uninstall x64 and grub?

thx BHrxs

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-03-12
Darn, I was really hoping that would work.
Yes, you can just install 32-bit Ubuntu over your current install if you dont want to save any data.

If you want access to most of your RAM in 32-bit Ubuntu, use the server kernel, which has PAE and can address up to 64GB of RAM.

---

### Post by mgranet on 2009-03-13
There ARE native 64 bit drivers for the WG311v3. I happen to be using them. I don't remember exactly where I got them, but I do recall you have to search for 64 bit drivers for the Marvell chip onboard. You have to install them with ndiswrapper, in the normal way you'd install the 32 bit version.

EDIT: Nevermind. I misread. Thought you had the 311, when you have the 111, which is a completely different product. Installing the provided drivers probably won't do anything good.

---

### Post by BHrxs on 2009-03-14
I tried x32 and still the same issue with the ping and inet. So i will go to the network threads. If solved at x32 i will try x64 again.

Thanks for your tips and hints. Regarding initial question x32 could be installed without problems over 64 ;)

cya,
BHrxs

---

### Post by Swani on 2009-03-18
I have a problem too, i would like to install 64bit over 32 without losing anything. Is it even possible to replace them easily.

---

