---
title: "multiple disply.."
date: 2009-07-30
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by lego126 on 2009-07-30
I am a new Linux user and I love it so far, but I can't figure out how to set up multiple disply devices on here. I am using Ubuntu 9.04 amd64. And my card is a nvidia 9800GTX+
1GB. I have it hooked up correctly cause I always have it set up that way in Vista ultimate 64. After I go to Nvidia X Server Settings, it shows where the TV is there, but it is disabled.
I tried to enable the TV by selecting configure but it will not turn work for some reason. Don't really know what I need to post soi am sure there is more info you need, just let me know what else you need to know and maybe what else i need to do. Thanks. Oh and I attached my xorg.conf file below

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by pestypest on 2009-07-31
i too am having a similar problem.

---

