---
title: "8.10 Lack of Sound"
date: 2009-03-13
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by XPomJon on 2009-03-13
I've just installed 8.10 and can get virtually no sound. I've read the Howto ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)) and have got a little bit stumped in understanding Part C section 3
 viz:- alsamixer -Dhw. The Howto states that you must explicitly specify the hardware device here and I'm not sure how to do this.
The audio chip on the motherboard (Asus P6T) is a Realtek ALC 1200 8-channel HD audio and the result of aplay -l is:-
List of Playback Hardware Devices
card0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC888 Analog [ALC888 Analog]
       Subdevices 1/1
       Subdevice #0 : subdevice #0
card0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: ALC888 Digital [ALC888 Digital]
       Subdevices 1/1
       Subdevice #0 : subdevice #0

So, in a terminal do I type:- alsamixer -01hw for both devices listed in the output of aplay or alsamixer -0hw for the card?
Thanks.......

---

### Post by Reeman on 2009-03-13
You might need to get ahead of the Ubuntu curve with this one. The latest [[COLOR="Blue"]Realtek[/COLOR]]("http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=24&PFid=24&Level=4&Conn=3&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false") alsa driver is dated 2009/3/6! Of course you will need to recompile alsa with the new module...the link that I provided has access to the newest linux driver after you accept realtek's download terms of use. I have found that the supplied realtek linux drivers are quite good and have had no problems getting a working linux audio driver with their chipsets. The standard of realtek's linux driver software seems to be better than most and you can expect that all the sub devices will be available in alsamixer...which is usually not the case if you use the driver that Ubuntu installs by default![-o<

---

### Post by XPomJon on 2009-03-14
Thanks for your tip Reeman. I've been fiddling around with the system and and some of the code in the Howto just to see what effect each had. I installed pavucontrol with ```
$pulseaudio & pavucontrol
``` and can now control the volume  enough to listen easily to streamtuner. It may not be as loud as it could be but I'm content to wait and see what 9.04 has to offer.
Thanks again......

---

