---
title: "64 bit,... is 8GB RAM silly?"
date: 2009-02-07
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by Mugzilla on 2009-02-07
I am running ubuntu 8.10 64 bit with 4 gig of RAM. The processor is an AMD 5000.  

I use the system for everything, except for playing STEAM games (For that I use my XP partition...)

Would I gain anything by ditching my 4, 1 gig sticks of ram for FOUR, two gig sticks? Other than bragging rights and the ability to say, "LOOK AT ME!!! I have EIGHT FRIGGING GIGS OF RAM!!!!!"

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-02-07
It's largely unnecessary but not at all silly

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-02-07
> **Mugzilla said:**
> 
.........
Would I gain anything by ditching my 4, 1 gig sticks of ram for FOUR, two gig sticks? Other than bragging rights and the ability to say, "LOOK AT ME!!! I have EIGHT FRIGGING GIGS OF RAM!!!!!"

If your MB doesn't support more than 4GB, then you may not gain that....

---

### Post by cb951303 on 2009-02-07
8GB can be easily filled if you need to have a couple of instances of gimp, inkscape (A3 images) and firefox at the same time I don't think it's silly. But other than that, I can't think of a case where 8GB would come handy. 4GB is enough for everyday use.

---

### Post by Regnulify on 2009-02-07
I have 6GB in mine (came preinstalled with Vista) and it allows me to dedicate more ram to VMs without slowing down the host.

---

### Post by Jive Turkey on 2009-02-07
I've got 8GB, its good for running VMs with large allocations of mem.  I didn't really notice a performance increase after upgrading from 4GB but I know I don't have to worry about having too many apps open at the same time.

Using Vista 64bit I did notice a large improvement in performance though it never seems to use more than 3GB according to my monitor widget.  If you have a purpose for that much memory go for it, the prices are great right now.

---

### Post by Spr0k3t on 2009-02-08
8GB is fine.  I use quite a bit with my rig with the multiple VMs I run for software/hardware dev.  I'm getting ready to add another three VMs for n-tier regression testing.

---

### Post by ÜbuntuMensch on 2009-02-08
If you don't have a use for it in your mind already, then yes, it is silly.

Not to say you shouldn't do it...

---

### Post by emshains on 2009-02-08
If you can use all of it, yes, that is ok. 

But even if you got rid of your swap, chances are, you wouldn't fill 8 gigs of ram any time soon.

---

### Post by impact on 2009-02-08
I have 4 gigs of RAM and Gimp still chokes on very large images. If my computer supported 8 gigs, I'd definitely try it.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-02-08
Yes, DDR2 RAM is cheap right now, but if you don't make use of the RAM, then I would recommend saving the money for a solid-state drive.

---

### Post by simtaalo on 2009-02-08
if you got the money then go for it.

---

### Post by movieman on 2009-02-08
Depends on what you're doing; my Linux development and test machine at work has 4GB of RAM and normally has 1-2GB of swap in use as well, so I'd certainly like to have 8GB there :). Whereas my telecommuting system at home has 4GB and rarely goes over 1GB in use.

---

### Post by evilempire on 2009-02-08
It might very well be silly, but I did it. I needed to build a new machine, and DDR2 800 is at the cheapest it will likely ever be. The system will probably be booted into Ubuntu 90% of the time, with 10% into Windows for the occasional Blizzard game (ratio subject to change when Starcraft 2 comes out). 

I want any system I get to last me at least 3 years, so it might be more useful later on in life. The extra 4GB was only 39$ from Newegg, plus I get to tell my boss I have twice as much ram as he does.

---

### Post by Mugzilla on 2009-02-08
Yes, my mobo supports 8 gb of ram.

No, I really don't have a use for it.

My "other" partition is a Win XP Pro 32 bit, which I only use for a few games.

It would be cool to have bragging rights though...:guitar:

---

### Post by 4pr1l on 2009-02-09
hm I've got 4 gig in the box, to
but i understand your need..
if you have the money and your motherboard supports it, then BUY !-)
(assuming you want to WORK with the machine)

---

### Post by Mikecore on 2009-02-09
I have a custom built system AMD Athlon 64x2 6000+ with a BIOStar mobo, a Geforce 9800GT, with a 500 gig HD and 6 gigs of ram PC5300.

I noticed that I never seem to use more then 600-800mb of ram according to my system monitor. So I tried to load it up to see what would happen. I started dvd::rip and started ripping a video, started firefox and loaded a website, opened file browser, started a movie in mplayer, started listening to a song in Rhythmbox, Opened a picture with gimp, opened a pdf with acroread, opened my system monitor and finally started Urban Terror and started playing at which point I checked how much ram my system monitor said I was using. 1.4gib

I am just simply impressed and amazed with Ubuntu 64 bit 

More to topic since Ram is cheap I would certainly install as much as you can afford. Do have to probably not but it can hurt

---

### Post by ethoxyethaan on 2009-02-09
rather Insufficient for some servers.

---

### Post by WillieMaysHayes on 2009-02-09
Not silly at all.  Like several people on this thread, I'm using 8GB to simply take advantage of the opportunity to run several VM's at once.  I just finished my first build and installed Ubuntu 8.10 (64 bit of course).  I decided that I wanted a computer that would last me a long time.  I figure this will do the trick.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-02-09
> Not silly at all.
.. unless you're never going to use that much RAM and are wasting money for "bragging rights". Like I said, save that money for something that will actually make your computer faster (like a solid-state drive) or donate it to charity, but don't waste money on something you have no use for.

---

### Post by bumper@comcast.net on 2009-02-09
A waste of money at this point. I have 4 GB 2x2 Corsair 240 pin. Only $53/set, so $106 for 8GB 4x2. Also NewEgg offers $30 mail in rebate for each 2x2

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2009-02-09
Having more ram then you use is never a bargain as its not going to improve anything if you don't use it.

---

### Post by jdong on 2009-02-10
If you do any virtualization or intend on doing any virtualization, you'll go through 8GB of RAM like water. Otherwise if you are a single-OS user and leave your system up running without reboots, you'll enjoy dramatically increased IO performance (faster app load times) as your system stays up and the cache is populated.

At any rate, at the prices you mentioned, I'd say go for it.

---

### Post by livello on 2009-02-10
> 
If you do any virtualization or intend on doing any virtualization, you'll go through 8GB of RAM like water. Otherwise if you are a single-OS user and leave your system up running without reboots, you'll enjoy dramatically increased IO performance (faster app load times) as your system stays up and the cache is populated.

At any rate, at the prices you mentioned, I'd say go for it. 


This is what I want to say. 
A had 2GiB of RAM for 6 months on my notebook. One month ago I have upgraded my notebook with 4 GiB RAM and performance improvement was dramatical. 

Free RAM is used by Linux for cache needs. So every GiB of RAM is useful.

---

