---
title: "Is 9.04 64-bit stable yet?"
date: 2009-07-24
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by daygan on 2009-07-24
I abandoned my install of 9.04 64-bit a month or so ago because it was causing too many problems with my computer. I'm not sure if it, in fact, was more a system problem or a hardware problem, but in any case, I haven't had any major problems with 8.10 64-bit since I installed it.. so, I'm wondering - have there been any improvements to the 9.04 version that have increased it's stability? Is it safe to upgrade now? I'm still a bit wary, because I know that once I do upgrade, I can't downgrade, except to wipe my partition and reinstall 8.10.


... on further thought I suppose one solution would be to devote an extra partition to the 9.04 version and see how it works before making the decision to upgrade my main partition's operating system. .. but in any case, can anyone give me some insight regarding 9.04's progress?

---

### Post by 9170 on 2009-07-24
It depends on your hardware but it works fine for me so far. You might check your graphic card driver first. 

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.2&product=2.4.2.3.8&lang=English]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.2&product=2.4.2.3.8&lang=English")

---

### Post by regala on 2009-07-24
> **daygan said:**
> 
... on further thought I suppose one solution would be to devote an extra partition to the 9.04 version and see how it works before making the decision to upgrade my main partition's operating system. .. but in any case, can anyone give me some insight regarding 9.04's progress?

there's one real issue with 9.04: it's a screw-up on the front of Intel Graphics chipsets. If you have one of them, recent enough, you are likely to experience these very problems.

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-07-24
> **daygan said:**
> I abandoned my install of 9.04 64-bit a month or so ago because it was causing too many problems with my computer. 

Since you dont say what exactly the "too many problems were" it's a bit hard to give an answer. 

However, I've been running it from the alpha's into the full release and not had any problems here. (nvidia).  I did do a reinstall after the full release just to clear the decks from messing with the testing.

---

### Post by roypk on 2009-07-24
It also appears to have problems with dual monitor configuration on my system.  I couldn't install the 9.04 until I disconnected the second monitor.  Thanks for the advice of a member here.  After the installation, I had to struggle with setting up the dual screens.  I ended up using something called gedit to edit xorg.conf to get it working as Nvidia X Server Setting couldn't save the required information to the file but don't be discouraged by this.  I'm a complete linux noob and have only 4 days experience on it.  If I can make it this far, you can.

Best regards,
Roy

---

### Post by LinuxGold on 2009-07-24
Ok, I am planning to deploy 64 bit into my server (PowerEdge 1750) with the technical specifications below.  Did anyone have problem with Ubuntu 64 bit running on any of hardware listed below?


Processor Dual Intel® Xeon™ (up to 3.2GHz) supporting Hyper-Threading Technology
Front side bus 533MHz
Cache 512KB Level 2 ECC cache (full speed), 1MB and 2MB L3 (selected processors)
Chipset ServerWorks® GC LE w/ five peer PCI buses for maximum I/O throughput
Memory (min/max) 256MB/8GB of 266MHz DDR SDRAM
I/O slots Two slots on separate buses: 2 x 64-bit/133MHz PCI-X or 1 x 64-bit/133MHz
PCI-X and 1 x 64-bit/33MHz PCI
Embedded NIC Dual Gigabit1 Broadcom NICs
Embedded controller Integrated dual channel Ultra 320 SCI
Hard drive bays Three 1" hot-plug SCSI
Maximum internal storage 438GB U320 SCSI
Video On-board
RAID Dual channel ROMB (PERC 4/Di) with battery backup and 128MB cache
powered by the Intel 10P321 I/O processor (400MHz) based on
Intel® XScale™ technology; Optional PERC4/SC and PERC4/DC RAID adapters.
Remote management Embedded Remote Access Option (ERA/O)
Availability Hot-plug hard drives
ECC memory, Spare Row Memory, Chip Kill
Hot-plug, redundant power (optional)
Embedded RAID w/ battery backed cache (optional)

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-07-24
I am running it in a Phenom, a dual quad core and now a i7, not a single issue faced and I am using ext4 on all of them.

---

### Post by daygan on 2009-07-24
> **philinux said:**
> Since you dont say what exactly the "too many problems were" it's a bit hard to give an answer. 

However, I've been running it from the alpha's into the full release and not had any problems here. (nvidia).  I did do a reinstall after the full release just to clear the decks from messing with the testing.

I don't remember clearly to be honest, but I believe I had a problem with a number of applications crashing unexpectedly and/or the system itself frequently crashing unexpectedly... I opened a thread about it around that time.. let me see if I can find it.. and I do have an Intel chip - Intel Pentium dual processor, to be specific, so perhaps that's a source of some of my problems, as regala hinted at..

---

### Post by NekoMaster on 2009-07-24
> **daygan said:**
> I don't remember clearly to be honest, but I believe I had a problem with a number of applications crashing unexpectedly and/or the system itself frequently crashing unexpectedly... I opened a thread about it around that time.. let me see if I can find it.. and I do have an Intel chip - Intel Pentium dual processor, to be specific, so perhaps that's a source of some of my problems, as regala hinted at..

Regala meant intels "Intel Graphics" not the proccesor, Intell makes **** graphics, and most intel laptops have that, thats why I prefer AMD for Laptops :3

If you do have Intel Graphics, save up some money and get your self a new video card, a decent one aint to expesive now, maybe around 100-200 bucks depending on where you get it

---

### Post by daygan on 2009-07-24
well, here's my original post about my 9.04 problems a month ago: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1186997](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1186997)

The main problem was that everything would freeze up except the mouse.

---

### Post by stmiller on 2009-07-24
yes.

:)

---

### Post by lance UNI on 2009-08-02
linux noob here:

i have a whitebox FL92+ asus laptop, core2duo intel chipset, blah blah

it ran 8.10 64 with no problems at all

installed 9.04 64 and about through my laptop out of the window.

it would crash the filesystem (ext3) after every reboot, update manager would give errors OUT OF THE BOX with package information problems.

after 4 reinstalls and the fact that i couldn't do anything without it screwing up, i went back to 8.10 64, and am back to no problems again.

hopefully this will be resolved at some point, as i'm looking to not only recommend linux to my customers for fileserving needs, i want to become more proficient at it myself, but when it crashes out of the box, it takes me back to the ME days....

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2009-08-02
I have been using 8.10 - 64bit on a laptop (Intel) and desktop (AMD) for over a year. No i am running 9.04 on the desktop. No problems for me.

---

### Post by optimus2861 on 2009-08-02
It is very stable for me, with the caveat that I do not use the proprietary ATI drivers. When I tried those, I had problems logging multiple users in. The first user could log in fine, but trying to log in a second user in a new session would frequently lock up the display and force me to hard reset.

So I switched back to the free drivers, forgoing the 3D acceleration (no loss; I don't care for compiz), and everything works very well.

---

### Post by movieman on 2009-08-02
No real problems here: Atom 330 on the Intel motherboard.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-08-02
> **9170 said:**
> It depends on your hardware but it works fine for me so far. You might check your graphic card driver first. 

[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.2&product=2.4.2.3.8&lang=English]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Legacy/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.2&product=2.4.2.3.8&lang=English")

I've been using 64-bit 9.04 pretty much ever since it was "officially" released, no major hassles to report.

---

### Post by cybrsaylr on 2009-08-02
Yes.
Been using 64 bit 9.04 for a few months now on my 15 month old Toshiba AMD dual core laptop with no issues at all.

---

### Post by wayward4now on 2009-08-03
> **daygan said:**
> well, here's my original post about my 9.04 problems a month ago: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1186997](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1186997)

The main problem was that everything would freeze up except the mouse.

I had some problems when I upgraded to Karmic while still running 32bit. I decided to finally bite the bullet and go with the 64-bit Karmic and the only problem I'm having is with sound in games that utilize libsdl. Then the sound stutters. That is maddening, but otherwise everything else is pretty rock solid. I have both Gnome2 and KDE installed. Gnome was a nice surprise, it's MUCH improved to the point that I might de-install KDE. It is REALLLLY NICE! Enjoy, Ric
:P

---

