---
title: "Monitor cannot detect Ubuntu?"
date: 2009-03-22
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by itscurbe on 2009-03-22
I have fully installed Ubuntu 8.10 64 bit desktop version

I load up the system, boot Ubuntu, and wait for the loading bar to reach full capacity.  As soon as it loads completely, my monitor brings up a box that says "No Signal Detected", with nothing but a black screen behind it.  if I press ESC I can hear bongo drums, which I assume is an Ubuntu OS sound

If I manually turn off the computer by pressing the power button, the same loading bar from before comes back and depletes, and then the system shuts down

please help!

thanks in advance,
Curbe

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2009-03-22
I think its a graphics driver problem.
What kind of video card do you have?

--------------------------------------------------

My suggestion to you is this.

When you hear the drums, press "alt" + "Crtl" + F1 ; (All at the same time)
This opens up a text only input.

then log in by typing your username and password.

Then type this
```

sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
it will ask for your password; type it.



----------------------------
** What does this command do?**
It opens up a text editor called nano, and you are going to modify the file called xorg.conf.
xorg.conf is the configuration file for the "xserver" - - basically the program that controlls whats put on the screen.


** Yours will likely look like this **
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


What I suggest is adding this to the end of your xorg.conf file

> 
Section "Device"
    Driver         "vesa"
EndSection


Vesa is basically the failsafe driver, you could also type "vga" there if vesa doesn't work.

[b][i] If you don't know how nano works, here are some simple steps.
Your arrow keys move the position where you type (you cannot use the mouse)
and pressing ctrl + "o" (that is an "ooh", not zero), asks where you want to save; just press enter.

crtl + "x" closes nano.[/i][/b]

Hope that helps.

If you want to try something different, let me know what your graphics card is.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by kevmitch on 2009-03-22
If you just add that vesa section to the end it will be ignored by xorg since the screen section says


```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Default Screen"
    Monitor "Configured Monitor"
    Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection 

```
 
meaning it uses the "Configured Video Device", not the new device section you have added.  

I would suggest instead making the section

```

Section "Device"
    Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

read 

```

Section "Device"
    Identifier "Configured Video Device"
    Driver "vesa"
EndSection

```

Note however, that this is only a stopgap measure to get your xserver running at all. The vesa driver really sucks so we should try and get the proper driver for your card running. In order to do that however, we need to know what your card is. You can find this out by running

```
sudo lshw -C video
```

and posting the output here.

All of this said, this SHOULD NOT be necessary. This is a bug and you should ultimately report it as such on launchpad [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+filebug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+filebug") as a bug in the package **xserver-xorg**. But first lets see if we can't find the solution. Bug reports that include solutions are certainly the most useful for developers.

---

### Post by itscurbe on 2009-03-23
> **cc7gir said:**
> 

If you want to try something different, let me know what your graphics card is.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

ATI Radeon HD 3200 Graphics card, built in to my motherboard.
I'll give that stuff a try

---

### Post by kevmitch on 2009-03-23
Ok, perhaps an expert on the multitude of ATI drivers can chime in here, but with any luck, once you have gotten into the desktop with the "vesa" setting, you can go to System->Administration->Hardware Drivers and you'll see the binary driver for your card. 

If that doesn't work, you could try substituting either "ati" or "radeon" for "vesa" in your xorg.conf. 

It might be useful to take a look at /var/log/Xorg.0.log immediately after you have experienced the blank screen. In particular, you can search it for errors with

```

grep EE /var/log/Xorg.0.log

```

This will be of interest if you want to submit a bug report.

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-03-23
I had this same issue with an Radeon Xpress 200. I never did get it worked out and ended up installing a different Radeon Card (I got one from ebay for $12)to get a working system.

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2009-03-25
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.5&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.5&lang=English)

That is the driver you need to get your system working properly.

If you are connected to the Internet with your computer follow these steps to get your display working properly.

/** PLEASE NOTE
> 
The drivers above support English only.
The display driver requires POSIX shared memory to be enabled on the system.
Kernal Sources package is no longer required if Kernel Header package is installed.
32-Bit packages must be installed for 64-Bit Linux drivers to install or work.


**1.) Turn on your computer and when you hear the drums, press Alt+Ctrl+F1**
**2.) Log in with your username and password.**
**3.) Type: sudo apt-get update**
**4.) Type: sudo apt-get upgrade**

This might take a while since the 3rd command checks if there updates for your system, and the 4th downloads and installs any updates found.

(This might actually fix your problem, but I doubt it)

**5.)Type: sudo halt **
(unless your computer restarts by itself, it needs to be restarted after the upgrade.)

**6.) Turn on your computer and when you hear the drums, press Alt+Ctrl+F1**
**7.) Type: sudo apt-get install wine**
(wine is a windows compatibility layer, if will automatically install the 32-Bit packages.)
**8.) Type: cd**
(Just to make sure you are in your "home" directory.)
**9) Type: wget "https://a248.e.akamai.net/f/674/9206/0/www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-9.2-x86.x86_64.run"**

!!! Remove the " quotes "

(let it finish the download)

**10) Type: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop**
**11) Type: sudo sh ati-driver-installer-9.2-x86.x86_64.run**
**12) Follow the instructions given by the installer.**

restart your computer. Your display should now be working.

Cheers - CC7

---

### Post by kevmitch on 2009-03-25
The above instructions directly install the upstream AMD drivers for your card. If you always want to have the latest drivers, this is the way to go. However the above method is very non-Ubunutu. Specifically, you will have to repeat those steps whenever your kernel gets an upgrade which is more often than you might think. There may also be other subtle points of ubuntu specific system integration that this ignores.

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2009-04-06
kevmitch is correct, but I still recommend this method.
Having the latest drivers for your system is usually a good thing.

Cheers - CC7

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-04-06
```
ubuntu-bug -p xserver-xorg-video-ati
```

---

