---
title: "8.04 Crashing..."
date: 2008-10-20
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by purefan on 2008-10-20
Hello guys!

For some reason my ubuntu has been crashing randomly for the last couple of weeks, here are my system specs:

kernel is 2.6.24-19-generic
Gnome: 2.22.3
General system: Laptop Toshiba L300D
Ram: 2GB
Processor: AMD Athlon 64 X2 (tk-57)
Video: ATI X1200

Running with proprietary drivers from ATI (but problem happened before installing it)

Ive monitored the cpu usage and it makes no difference, be it under 10% or above it crashes just the same. 
- By crash I mean complete computer freeze, have to leave the power button pressed until it turns off.

Funny thing is when it freezes, the tab led blinks endlessly, this may be important.

I have VirtualBox installed and it compiled a new kernel but booting directly to this kernel crashes before showing the login screen.

Im attaching the logs I found after booting from a crash, could not find anything weird but you may have a better insight. there is a 5 minute delay between the power off and the new try.

It is very random, I usually have Firefox (not using the flash plugin or java applets), gedit with < 8 documents open. It happens just the same if VirtualBox is not open.

I do have a local server (Apache 2, Php 5 and Mysql); disabled blootooth and CUPS from the services.

Generally, the freezing only delays me, I do save often and it rarely has posed a problem to me, more over it does not seem to respond to a series of events (say open this program and then this other one...)


I just really dont want it to freeze, or at least understand why it does it... its just over my head right now...

any help please?

---

### Post by smo0th on 2008-10-20
have you tried upgrading your kernel to 2.6.24-21?

---

### Post by ennob on 2008-10-21
> **purefan said:**
> Funny thing is when it freezes, the tab led blinks endlessly, this may be important.


I have experienced the exact same thing lately, except for me it's the caps-lock led and I have slightly different specs:

Kernel: 2.6.27-7
Ubuntu: 8.10
Gnome: 2.24.0

My machine is a ThinkPad x301 with 2GB ram.

I have not been able to find any correlation between running programs and the crash. Sometimes it crashes while 10+ programs are running and sometimes the machine is idle when it happens.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by purefan on 2008-10-21
Actually it was the caps led, not the tab led, my bad there. So I think ennob's problem and mine are related.

I do have the kernel 2.6.24-21-generic which came right after installing VirtualBox but booting it freezes (led blinking and all) when reaching about 95% in the progress bar before showing the login window, which is why I boot the -19 instead.

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2008-10-21
yea i had the same problem however after some of the lastest updates where installed its been behaving itself.

---

### Post by purefan on 2008-10-22
Guess I'll have to wait for a new kernel to show up... anyways thank you guys! :)

---

