---
title: "I've just had about enough of Ubuntu on 64 bit systems."
date: 2008-05-14
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-14
I keep having problems especially with Nvidia support. I am limited to 640x480 using the god damn graphics acceleration and when I disable it now I can't go over 800x600. My monitor supports 1280x1024 and it was working until I installed the stupid Nvidia proprietary drivers. WTF do I do to get this working I'm about to install Zenwalk over this crap.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-05-14
You are barking at the wrong tree, it has nothing to do with 64-bit vs 32-bit.

I presumed you are running Hardy 8.04.  I presume you did a fresh install rather than upgrade from Gutsy.

(btw it will be easier to help with less ranting and more helpful info about your set-up; then we wouldn't need to presume anything).

If my presumption is correct:
1. install nvidia-settings: [apt://nvidia-settings](apt://nvidia-settings)
2. run it with sudo:
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

3. click "Detect screen"
4. set-up your resolutions
5. click "Save to X configuration file"
6. Reboot

.

---

### Post by Linder on 2008-05-14
I suggest you also go get [ENVY-NG]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html"). It might help with the Nvidia driver installation.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-05-14
> **AstalaVista said:**
> You are barking at the wrong tree, it has nothing to do with 64-bit vs 32-bit.



Exactly, even if the original poster replaces the 64bit install with 32bit they are still going to have this error because its the lack of nvidia video drivers.

---

### Post by CREEPING DEATH on 2008-05-14
It's an Xorg issue, not a 64-bit or Ubuntu issue, and it's being worked on.  There are fixes though!  Follow the Nvidia-settings advice.

CD

---

### Post by Kernel_Krunch on 2008-05-14
> **sargonious said:**
> I keep having problems especially with Nvidia support.

I only installed the nvidia drivers through the standard install and it works alright... but for sure Hardy64 is barely charlie ware, numerous problems so if your using it roll back to Gutsy for about a month or so.

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-05-14
> **Kernel_Krunch said:**
> I only installed the nvidia drivers through the standard install and it works alright... but for sure Hardy64 is barely charlie ware, numerous problems so if your using it roll back to Gutsy for about a month or so.

Hardware issues do not always affect others. Going backwards isn't a good idea imho.

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-14
Ok I got the nvdia-settings installed and the resolution is now correct but the log in screen is oversized though when it logs in it looks fine. How do I fix the resolution on the log in screen now?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-14
You'll likely need to manually edit your [FONT="Courier New"]/etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT] file and change the default resolution.

Please post the contents of said file here.

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-14
Which part? Below is the file.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:0:13:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Princeton"
	Modelname	"Princeton 17"
	Horizsync	30.0-64.0
	Vertrefresh	50.0-100.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@85" 36.0 640 696 752 832 480 481 484 509 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@85" 56.3 800 832 896 1048 600 601 604 631 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@43" 44.9 1024 1032 1208 1264 768 768 776 817 +hsync interlace +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1280	1024
		Modes		"800x600@72"	"800x600@75"	"800x600@56"	"800x600@85"	"640x480@85"	"800x600@60"	"640x480@75"	"832x624@75"	"640x480@72"	"1024x768@75"	"640x480@60"	"1024x768@70"	"1024x768@60"	"1024x768@43"	"1280x960@60"	"1280x1024@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-14
The lines we're interested in are these:
```
Virtual 1280 1024
Modes "800x600@72" "800x600@75" "800x600@56" "800x600@85" "640x480@85" "800x600@60" "640x480@75" "832x624@75" "640x480@72" "1024x768@75" "640x480@60" "1024x768@70" "1024x768@60" "1024x768@43" "1280x960@60" "1280x1024@60"
```
Comment or remove the Virtual one. It's bad and evil.

On the modes line, the *first* entry will be the default resolution. Read: at login. So sort it as you please.

---

### Post by esunday on 2008-05-14
> **sargonious said:**
> Ok I got the nvdia-settings installed and the resolution is now correct but the log in screen is oversized though when it logs in it looks fine. How do I fix the resolution on the log in screen now?

Well, unless the log-in screen resolution is totally nonfunctional (i.e., prevents you from seeing something important) I respectfully suggest that if your desktop resolution is now good, don't worry, be happy.

I also assume that you have done the right thing and installed and used EnvyNG.  This will, thanks to the wonderful person who has provided this utility, solve most problems to do with nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-14
Ok the log in screen is fixed but the loading bar with the "ubuntu" screen are still out of range on my monitor. How do I get the loading bars both open and exit screens back in the right resolution?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-05-14
Play with the /etc/usplash.conf file, or better yet (IMHO), change the boot option to nosplash.
```
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

---

### Post by | MM | on 2008-05-14
> **sargonious said:**
> Ok the log in screen is fixed but the loading bar with the "ubuntu" screen are still out of range on my monitor. How do I get the loading bars both open and exit screens back in the right resolution?

Edit your xres and yres in /etc/usplash.conf:
```
sudo gedit /etc/usplash.conf
```
...then:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure usplash
```

That should do it.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-05-15
> Comment or remove the Virtual one. 

Note to those not familiar with the term 'comment out.' That is when a # is put before a line, so the machine does not read it.

Example:

```
# Virtual 1280 1024
```  The machine will now skip that line.

---

### Post by ogregore on 2008-05-15
For your usplash screen on start-up/shutdown you also (after setting the correct X,Y in usplash.conf) might want to install Start Up Manager (SUM) and then try using some of the usplash options  on gnome-look.org that are specifically  designed to be used with  wide screen monitors.  

I had gotten frustrated myself with not having usplash "just right" (can you say  anal retentive) on start-up and shut down, and this was the one way that I finally got it to come up with the correct resolution every time.  YMMV since I don't have an NV card.

Cheers,
Ogre

---

### Post by saru411 on 2008-05-15
> **sargonious said:**
> I keep having problems especially with Nvidia support. I am limited to 640x480 using the god damn graphics acceleration and when I disable it now I can't go over 800x600. My monitor supports 1280x1024 and it was working until I installed the stupid Nvidia proprietary drivers. WTF do I do to get this working I'm about to install Zenwalk over this crap.

I absolutely love how he rants and curses up a storm and when someone helps him he gives 0 thanks.

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-05-15
```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
``` 

to change resolution. If you haven't tried it yet. This is driver related for sure. It's the same with my ATI X700 card. I've given up for the time being. Waiting for another release. Nothing is working for me. Besides the ATI driver hell I'm running smoother than ever. Hard 64 rules at my end.

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-15
This forum is what makes Ubuntu my choice it certainly isn't instant usibility. I have two other problems remaining. Grub for some reason after upgrading from 7.04 altered the Grub Menu and for some annoying reason Ubuntu is listed twice as is Recovery mode. I would like to remove that. The other issue is I want to stretch my Linux Partition yet Gnome Partition editor will not work for some reason and I can't boot with Live CD because the standard resolution is out of my monitor's capability.

---

### Post by peakshysteria on 2008-05-16
Did you try:

```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
```

- There is no problem in adjusting to your GRUB menu. I've not done it myself. But there are post in the forums about it.

- Try Gparted for your partitioning.

- Try the alternate cd (if there is one) instead of the ordinary live cd/dvd.

Or simply reinstall the OS (which only take half an hour to an hour).

---

### Post by jp_coll2003 on 2008-05-16
I agree. He rants like a trooper then when he gets it all working, no thanks but by the way how do you do the next problem. Im glad he isn't in the Debian forum as they would throw the RTFM book at him. What a pleb !!!

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-16
I was hoping to avoid Super Grub but I can do it that way as far as the partition problem is concerned I don't want to go through another install. I just don't understand why my monitor video card combination don't work on live cd. I could have easily done it using gparted on the live cd. Back to one of the first guys I think there are many more problems with the 64 bit version of Ubuntu. I have noticed many problems with programs that worked fine under 32 bit. That's a whole 'nother story but my main concerns now are the Grub menu and the disk partitions.

---

### Post by seamuso on 2008-05-16
> **sargonious said:**
> ... after upgrading from 7.04 altered the Grub Menu and for some annoying reason Ubuntu is listed twice as is Recovery mode. I would like to remove that ...

```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst 
```or```
 sudo nano /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

make sure you haven't listed any kernels before or after the automagic kernels section (makes those kernel entries static).

see what this section is set at .. 
```

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=2

```

That gives 2 kernels to choose from + 2 recovery mode to choose from.

After you set it (you should keep it at 2 in case a new kernel release causes breakage and you need to boot from the previous kernel), regenerate your menu.lst so the changes take effect

```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-18
Worked great. Thank you. The last thing is I need to expand my partition. I don't want to just create another partition but stretch the current one. The problem is the Live CD doesn't work on my monitor and Windows can't stretch anything but it's partitions. Gparted doesn't even work properly I installed it nor does QTParted.

---

### Post by Cap'n Skyler on 2008-05-18
> **Sef said:**
> Note to those not familiar with the term 'comment out.' That is when a # is put before a line, so the machine does not read it.

Example:

```
# Virtual 1280 1024
```  The machine will now skip that line.

us newbs thank you for the explanation :)

---

### Post by Cap'n Skyler on 2008-05-18
> **jp_coll2003 said:**
> I agree. He rants like a trooper then when he gets it all working, no thanks but by the way how do you do the next problem. Im glad he isn't in the Debian forum as they would throw the RTFM book at him. What a pleb !!!
hahahhaha
but i feel for the guy-- i have so been there.sometimes linux is too geeked out--IE made way too complicated then it needs to be.hence my occasional rants with the linux geek/dorks who think we are dumb because we dont have computer science degree to install and do minor computer stuff.it is partly because we dont know as much as some others,and partly because the culture of the linux Gods makes things too hard for us.and we get belittled as windows lazy idiots.
  FORTUNATELY Ubuntu has closed that gap considerably!!:popcorn:

---

### Post by Kilz on 2008-05-18
> **jp_coll2003 said:**
> I agree. He rants like a trooper then when he gets it all working, no thanks but by the way how do you do the next problem. Im glad he isn't in the Debian forum as they would throw the RTFM book at him. What a pleb !!!

LOL I had to look up what a pleb was, the Urban dicrunray helped.

1.  	pleb 	
	
2)one who has had their brain replaced with a small cucumber whilst visiting the doctor for a routine check up

---

### Post by jocko on 2008-05-18
> **sargonious said:**
> Worked great. Thank you. The last thing is I need to expand my partition. I don't want to just create another partition but stretch the current one. The problem is the Live CD doesn't work on my monitor and Windows can't stretch anything but it's partitions. Gparted doesn't even work properly I installed it nor does QTParted.

The reason it doesn't work is because you can't edit a mounted partition, so you will have to get a livecd that works.
Have you tried an older ubuntu live cd or a [gparted live cd or usb]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/download.php")?
I have the same problem with my desktop, the hardy live cd just puts my monitor to sleep instead of starting x.
I think it's because the autodetection in xorg 7.3 fails to detect my monitor and tries to use a refresh rate that is lower than what my monitor can handle, so it works fine with older xorg versions that doesn't try to autodetect too much.

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-18
I tried the last few versions down to 6.06. Nope.

---

### Post by NEUR0M4NCER on 2008-05-18
[gparted live cd](http://gparted-livecd.tuxfamily.org/)

This should help. Works great for me. Took about ten hours to resize my two cluttered 80gb partitions, but leave it on overnight and it'll be fine.

Regards

---

### Post by sargonious on 2008-05-18
I'll try that. Thanks. I'll post as soon as I do and see how everything goes.


...It worked great. Thanks! Even with 2GB of RAM I decided a 500MB swap couldn't hurt so I created one. How do I activate it? Is there a difference in creating an extended partition with a swap on top of it? Does that do anything?

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-05-19
> ...It worked great. Thanks! Even with 2GB of RAM I decided a 500MB swap couldn't hurt so I created one. How do I activate it? Is there a difference in creating an extended partition with a swap on top of it? Does that do anything?

It should be activated upon boot up.  Having it on an extended partition should not make a difference.

---

### Post by mspaul on 2008-05-25
On behalf of (grateful) newbs reading this... (and obviously on behalf of the not so grateful one) 

thanks!!!

lots of usefull information here

---

