---
title: "bad resolution and nvidia crash"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by jonnyrab on 2008-04-27
Alright I know this is a pretty common problem, but I cant get my nvidia card to work... When I install the driver(i tried restricted drivers manager and i tried envy) the display crashes on reboot...

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-27
Hi , post the output from terminal

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

and

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by jonnyrab on 2008-04-27
ok, thanks for responding. here are the outputs of the commands.

jonny@jonny-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G70 [GeForce 7300 GT] (rev a1)
jonny@jonny-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-27
ok lets try this?

if (restricted drivers) is checked in apps/system/hardware drivers then un-check

remove the following from synaptic (search for "nvidia" ;-))
nvidia-glx-common
nvidia-kernel-common
xserver-xorg-video-nv
nvidia settings

shutdown and cold boot your pc

any restart probs then go recovery mode (vesa)

login and goto apps/system/hardware and enable restricted drivers - what happens?

---

### Post by jonnyrab on 2008-04-27
it crashed when i rebooted... im running ubuntu 8.04. i forgot to say that. im using my other computer to reply to this right now because when i reboot the screen just flickers.

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-27
When the PC boots and you see the grub menu ,hold down the "esc" key ,select your kernel (recovery mode).

---

### Post by jonnyrab on 2008-04-27
it did the same thing. the screen just flickers. i dont get it??

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-27
Hmmm ,i'm surprised too ,it *should* have picked up the "vesa" from your xorg.conf ?

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "[COLOR="Red"]vesa[/COLOR]"
EndSection
```

anyhow lets try this

cold boot and at grub menu
hit "esc"
select your kernel "recovery mode" hit return
at root prompt...

```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

you can accept most of the defaults but ensure you select the driver for your card and 24 depth

---

### Post by jonnyrab on 2008-04-27
Actually, since I'm using ubuntu 8.04  I cant use dpkg-reconfigure because they changed it so that when you type dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg it gives you a prompt that only refers to your keyboard, mouse, framebuffer, etc. 

I don't know that much code.. but this is really annoying. 

Thanks for helping me out i really appreciate it.

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-27
Hmmmm ,I see what you mean.....but anyhow ,if you go thru the "dpkg" bit does it allow you to get to desktop ?

edit: just a thought ,please check in synaptic that "build-essential" is installed before proceeding to enable restricted drivers.

---

### Post by jonnyrab on 2008-04-27
no, thats the problem. i cant get to my desktop. that means i cant get to synaptic either.

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-27
Sheeesh this is being tricky......try this

boot pc ,hit "esc" at grub, select your kernel (recovery) hit return
at recovery GUI window drop to root console.

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx nvidia-glx-new nvidia-settings nvidia-kernel-common
```

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential xserver-xorg-dev
```

```
shutdown -r
```
this will reboot the pc ,should get it back on track

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2008-04-27
I have the same problem.
I can only get 480x640 using the Restricted driver, I have a Nvidia 6600 le, works fine in 7.10
Gave up with Nvidia-setting as the buttons are off the screen so you can't click on them?
I had a go at editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but was unable to change the res above 480x640.

I'm going to try upgrading from 7.10 this time, rather than the downloaded CD, maybe it will retain the screen settings.
At least I can get a print of the xorg.conf file, assuming they still use it?

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-27
> **AlecJ said:**
> I have the same problem.
I can only get 480x640 using the Restricted driver, I have a Nvidia 6600 le, works fine in 7.10
Gave up with Nvidia-setting as the buttons are off the screen so you can't click on them?
I had a go at editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but was unable to change the res above 480x640.

I'm going to try upgrading from 7.10 this time, rather than the downloaded CD, maybe it will retain the screen settings.
At least I can get a print of the xorg.conf file, assuming they still use it?

Yes ,they still use the file "xorg.conf" in 8.04 ,the big difference is that dpkg-reconfigure now doesnt include display settings when it did in 7.10 - hence we cant use this option at the moment. Good luck with the upgrade.

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2008-04-27
I have to report that it worked!

I'm on Hardy now with a screen res of 1024x768
I installed 7.10 64bit, did the update then the upgrade.

---

### Post by phlembob on 2008-04-27
Hi all, as I read through this thread's problems, in my opinion nvidia is still the best video, and I use nvidia too.  I haven't had video problems with either the ubuntu or nvidia drivers.  I had to check both, but that is me.  I tend to look at the second number in nvidia gui chip set, because the drivers change a bit as does the video response.  I suggest - you too try to install the other driver.  Nvidia is not open, but don't be scared about the warning.  You're current condition isn't doing you any good.  If you have an older model computer with a different video card, with a quick card swap might let you see the point to make your nvida work.  Video cards default to the most basic operation.

---

### Post by lornie on 2008-04-28
I have the same problem... with 8.04 amd64, nvidia 7600gt, and dual 20" lcd monitors.....

I have spent four hours a day each of the last three days trying everyone's advice, including that listed here.... I still get nothing better than 800x600....

Why wont Hardy detect my video card????

Everything worked perfectly in Gutsy....

I am so very frustrated....

Lornie

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-28
> **lornie said:**
> 

Why wont Hardy detect my video card????

Lornie

I found this last night ...

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2)

"  xorg.conf

Recent versions of xorg.conf intended for use with xrandr 1.2 considerably simplify the video section of the configuration. If you upgrading from an earlier version you may find your existing xorg.conf works **against** the effective deployment of xrandr. So it is best to start with a new Xorg configuration. "

---

### Post by Mgiacchetti on 2008-04-28
I had some probs with my geforce 6150 as well, tried envy first, then the other way(through package manager) then i uninstalled envy, and my settings worked.

this was of course after I chose the settings in envy to make my display go up to 1280x1024

---

### Post by lornie on 2008-04-28
SnakeHips.... thank you for your reply....
 
I have been studying the pages you linked to, and it has provided some help...

I learned that I had to unplug my two DVI monitors and plug in an older VGA monitor.... I was then able to configure the screen resolution, and rebuild a leaner xorg.conf file (something that seemed to be impossible with the DVI monitors connected...I also learned that the Screen and Graphics tool provided by Hardy corrupts the xorg.conf file, so I stopped using it and removed it...)

Upon reconnecting the two DVI monitors,Hardy now recognises that I have an nvidia 7600gt card, and will let me use the System/Screen Resolution tool to change screen resolutions (after some careful editing of the new xorg.conf file).

However, I am still unable to get it to recognise a proprietary or restricted driver for it.

Nor does Hardy recognise my second monitor.

I have spent over 5 hours working on it today.

Most of the advice on these forums was applicable to Gutsy, but didn't take into consideration the changes brought by xorg 7.3.

Again, SnakeHips.... Thank you for your help... if you have any other ideas for me to try, I would love to hear them... Thank You.. Lornie

////loves me some elipses
///////and slashies
/olde school

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-29
> **lornie said:**
> ... if you have any other ideas for me to try, I would love to hear them... Thank You.. Lornie


Just a few basic's

from menu/apps/system/software sources
,ensure the following are all checked main:restricted:multivers:universe
then to make sure all updates are in
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

ok ,lets get some info ,after the above would you post the output of the following:

kernel
```
uname -a
```
card
```
lspci | grep VGA
```
driver
```
cat /proc/driver/nvidia/version
```
are the restricted modules installed?
```
ls -la /lib/linux-restricted-modules/
```
and your xorg.conf (you've got a backup right?)
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

