---
title: "9.04 doesn't load"
date: 2009-05-23
forum: x86 64-bit Users
---

### Post by MPython9 on 2009-05-23
I have an Intel E6550 Core 2 Duo with 2GB RAM & an ATI Radeon X1650 video card.  9.04 64-bit seemed to install fine with 4GB of swap space.  After it installed and I rebooted & logged in, it worked well (except no sound... worry about that later).  I was able to see my NTFS partitions.  Ethernet worked right away.  The graphics looked good.  The first thing I noticed was that when I went to shut down, it never was able to.  The video just disappeared, but the computer stayed on.  So when I manually hit the reset button & got back into Ubuntu, I could see the Ubuntu splash screen with the progress bar, but then the graphics went haywire.  It showed mainly garbage, no real pattern, but not random, not one color... just stuff.  I think the view changed a few times before it locked up.  Even the keyboard caps lock was unusable.  I powered down, rebooted, and it did the same thing.  So I reinstalled it.  The demo of Ubuntu from the CD works fine.  The reinstall did exactly the same thing - seemed to work right after install, rebooted, got back in, worked well, shut down, rebooted, saw splash screen, then bad graphics & lock up.

My next step was to try the 32-bit version.  But I'm asking for help before I try that.  I did a few search with various keywords, but didn't find much on this situation.

I am not that savvy with Linux, although I have worked with Unix systems (Solaris) & a little Linux in the past (Suse & MontaVista).

Any ideas what the problem is?  I thought maybe it was the graphics card (thus the graphics garbage), but when it first installed, it worked well.

---

### Post by dabl on 2009-05-23
It's all about that Radeon card, unfortunately, in combination with the new X.org system.  Probably the Live CD was running in VESA mode.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2009-05-23
I also have a X1650 card and runs fine on open souse stack with Jaunty 64, including 3D.  Do not install fglrx drivers they are not compatible in Jaunty with that card. I also do a complete update after install but before I add any packages.

---

### Post by bford16 on 2009-05-23
> **MPython9 said:**
> ...when I manually hit the reset button & got back into Ubuntu, I could see the Ubuntu splash screen with the progress bar, but then the graphics went haywire...
I think the key to your troubles may be the splash screen itself.  I also have a machine with a Radeon card (Radeon Xpress 200M).  Graphics are OK with the open-source driver, but the machine hangs on shutdown with usplash enabled on boot.  I fixed this problem by removing "splash" from the boot options.  (I also set VGA=791, but I don't think this is necessary.)  Now the computer boots faster and shuts down easily.  The graphics are a bit buggy, but they work OK for everyday use.  Sometimes when I switch users, the screen goes all funny, but switching away from X and back does the trick.

---

### Post by MPython9 on 2009-05-23
> **dabl said:**
> It's all about that Radeon card, unfortunately, in combination with the new X.org system.

I was afraid of that.  I read about the incompatibility of "legacy" ATI cards in Jaunty, but was hoping there was a workaround.  It sounds like there is...

> **clhsharky said:**
> I also have a X1650 card and runs fine on open souse stack with Jaunty 64, including 3D. Do not install fglrx drivers they are not compatible in Jaunty with that card. I also do a complete update after install but before I add any packages.

Great, a workaround!  I wish I knew how to do what you are talking about.  But I did do a complete update first.  That was obvious enough (I think it prompted me).

Thanks for the replies.

---

