---
title: "9.04 no sound."
date: 2009-01-28
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-01-28
ok, upgraded to 9.04 ( I like to live on the edge) 

everything looks great, the only issue i have is no sound

lspci output:

```

00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.5 PIC: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 I/O APIC Interrupt Controller
00:00.6 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Security Device
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237/VX700 PCI Bridge
00:02.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 PCI to PCI Bridge Controller (rev 80)
00:03.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 PCI to PCI Bridge Controller (rev 80)
00:09.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. 88w8335 [Libertas] 802.11b/g Wireless (rev 03)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. Device 5372
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 07)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 90)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237S PCI to ISA Bridge
00:11.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8251 Ultra VLINK Controller
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 7c)
00:13.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237A Host Bridge
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 [Chrome 9 HC] (rev 01)
80:01.0 Audio device: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT1708/A [Azalia HDAC] (VIA High Definition Audio Controller) (rev 10)

```
lspci -n outputs:
```

00:00.0 0600: 1106:0364
00:00.1 0600: 1106:1364
00:00.2 0600: 1106:2364
00:00.3 0600: 1106:3364
00:00.4 0600: 1106:4364
00:00.5 0800: 1106:5364
00:00.6 0600: 1106:6364
00:00.7 0600: 1106:7364
00:01.0 0604: 1106:b198
00:02.0 0604: 1106:a364 (rev 80)
00:03.0 0604: 1106:c364 (rev 80)
00:09.0 0200: 11ab:1faa (rev 03)
00:0f.0 0101: 1106:5372
00:0f.1 0101: 1106:0571 (rev 07)
00:10.0 0c03: 1106:3038 (rev b0)
00:10.1 0c03: 1106:3038 (rev b0)
00:10.2 0c03: 1106:3038 (rev b0)
00:10.3 0c03: 1106:3038 (rev b0)
00:10.4 0c03: 1106:3104 (rev 90)
00:11.0 0601: 1106:3372
00:11.7 0600: 1106:287e
00:12.0 0200: 1106:3065 (rev 7c)
00:13.0 0600: 1106:337b
01:00.0 0300: 1106:3371 (rev 01)
80:01.0 0403: 1106:3288 (rev 10)

```

any ideas?

---

### Post by plun on 2009-01-28
More commands....;)

Check sound card

```
aplay -l
```

Restart pulseaudio

```
pkill pulseaudio; sleep 2; pulseaudio -vv
```


Check mixer

```
alsamixer -Dhw
```


Ref:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)



Double click on volume control (systray) and check output


PulseAudio also got a new version this morning....

---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-01-28
so far, its working now. ill keep a eye on it and see if it drops again

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2009-01-28
alsamixer -Dhw
did it for me.

lots of volume settings at zero.  Set them all at max.

Shakira ojos asi FULL BLAST!

Jerry

---

### Post by plun on 2009-01-28
Yup... noticed the same after reboot.

---

### Post by techdude3177 on 2009-01-28
still no sound for myself... if you just under the new sound preferences menu there is no output device for me to choose.  any ideas on how to get a device for that?  i am sure that is the issue.

however i am getting sound for login and other system sounds. just none that i try to make through my mp3 player

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2009-01-28
I have to do the 2 codes in terminal to get the sound back after I boot or reboot.  

pkill pulseaudio; sleep 2; pulseaudio -vv

alsamixer -Dhw


I have login sounds and nothing after that without issuing the commands.

---

### Post by gspat on 2009-01-28
If alsamixer is not saving your settings, try the alsactl store 0 command to save the settings you just finished playing with, hopefully at least that much will stay proper for you then.

---

### Post by techdude3177 on 2009-01-29
When i run the alsactl store 0 i get an error saying 
"E: core-util.c: Home directory /home/mine not ours"
so the settings arnt saved. the commands works before running the pkill pulseaudio; sleep 2; pulseaudio -vv command but not after when its needed.

---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-01-29
well, after turning the box off, and turning it on today guess what.

I got no sound. and now the above commands are not working.

im starting to think bugs lol

---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-01-29
> **techdude3177 said:**
> When i run the alsactl store 0 i get an error saying 
"E: core-util.c: Home directory /home/mine not ours"
so the settings arnt saved. the commands works before running the pkill pulseaudio; sleep 2; pulseaudio -vv command but not after when its needed.

i believe u need to use the sudo with it

> 
sudo alsactl store 0


---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-01-29
update:

noticed i have no output device in "sound" (there is a input,just no output)

alsamixer is saving all my settings (everything 100% full volume)

pkill pulseaudio; sleep 2; pulseaudio -vv
^dose nothing for me anymore (the 1st time it did bring sound back untill the reboot)

aplay -l
```

ddog@nsa-43523:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: VT82xx [HDA VIA VT82xx], device 0: VT1708 Analog [VT1708 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: VT82xx [HDA VIA VT82xx], device 1: VT1708 Digital [VT1708 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
ddog@nsa-43523:~$ 

```

---

### Post by RaZoR1394 on 2009-01-29
> **KD8HHO said:**
> update:

noticed i have no output device in "sound" (there is a input,just no output)

alsamixer is saving all my settings (everything 100% full volume)

pkill pulseaudio; sleep 2; pulseaudio -vv
^dose nothing for me anymore (the 1st time it did bring sound back untill the reboot)

aplay -l
```

ddog@nsa-43523:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: VT82xx [HDA VIA VT82xx], device 0: VT1708 Analog [VT1708 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: VT82xx [HDA VIA VT82xx], device 1: VT1708 Digital [VT1708 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
ddog@nsa-43523:~$ 

```

I've just updated my Jaunty installation on my nforce4 board and I have the same problem with CK804. I only have one sound card in my fulltower.

> 
razor1394@leonis:~$ aplay -l
**** Lista över PLAYBACK hårdvaruenheter ****
kort 0: CK804 [NVidia CK804], enhet 0: Intel ICH [NVidia CK804]
  Underordnade enheter: 1/1
  Underordnad enhet nr. 0: subdevice #0
kort 0: CK804 [NVidia CK804], enhet 2: Intel ICH - IEC958 [NVidia CK804 - IEC958]
  Underordnade enheter: 1/1
  Underordnad enhet nr. 0: subdevice #0


This is the command I use the get sound working on a new installation. It doesn't work anymore.

> 
sudo amixer sset 'IEC958 Playback AC97-SPSA' 0


alsamixer also leads directly to the mixer of Alsa and not to the one-slider pulseaudio mixer.

[http://razor1394.wippiespace.com/images/screenshots/leonis_razor1394_screenshot_desktop_gnome-terminal_alsamixer-20090129.png](http://razor1394.wippiespace.com/images/screenshots/leonis_razor1394_screenshot_desktop_gnome-terminal_alsamixer-20090129.png)

Maybe It's 2.6.28-6?

---

### Post by RaZoR1394 on 2009-01-29
It's like the same problem I have with the touchpad. When I login sound/touchpad works then some seconds later it stops working. Previous version of Linux (2.6.28-5) did not help me.

---

### Post by techdude3177 on 2009-01-29
> **KD8HHO said:**
> i believe u need to use the sudo with it

Woops had a typo, sudo was part of the command that i was using.

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-01-29
> **techdude3177 said:**
> still no sound for myself... If you just under the new sound preferences menu there is no output device for me to choose.+1 . . AMD64 running 64bit system.

---

### Post by linux6994 on 2009-01-30
The forum workaround is killall pulseaudio. This needs to be done each time you boot until the next round of upates that will eventually fix it.

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-30
It might be that my pulseaudio is being started while the login sounds are playing and then fails because alsa is obviously busy. Disabling the login sounds seems to work around that. 

Can anybody confirm that setting the sound theme to 'No Sounds' brings pulseaudio back?

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-01-30
Good thought :)  I'm leaving PA on in Jaunty - I'm testing.

---

### Post by portis on 2009-01-30
I can confirm this workaround.

> **marmuta said:**
> It might be that my pulseaudio is being started while the login sounds are playing and then fails because alsa is obviously busy. Disabling the login sounds seems to work around that. 

Can anybody confirm that setting the sound theme to 'No Sounds' brings pulseaudio back?

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-30
Found a bug report that comes close. [[jaunty regression] Pulse Audio finds no card for output]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/322374") and there is [somebody]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/322374/comments/5") suggesting a race condition already.

---

### Post by gspat on 2009-01-30
trying to run run gnome-volume-control to test this, but get this error?

** (gnome-volume-control:6216): WARNING **: Failed to acquire org.gnome.VolumeControl

** (gnome-volume-control:6216): WARNING **: Could not acquire name on session bus

kinda tough to turn it off!

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-01-30
Confirmed setting sound theme to "No sounds" fixes sound for apps whilst disabling the post-login tune.  (System > Preferences > Sound)

---

### Post by techdude3177 on 2009-01-30
> **Gina said:**
> Confirmed setting sound theme to "No sounds" fixes sound for apps whilst disabling the post-login tune.  (System > Preferences > Sound)

When i upgraded it removed my Sound link in preferences which is gnome-sound-properties. to turn off the themes i must go into the new gnome-volume-control.

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-01-30
Ah yes - you can access it there too :)  And that's fewer mouse clicks :lol:

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-30
lol, from the bug report > Another workaround would be to remove pulseaudio from the distribution ...

[QUOTE=gspat]trying to run run gnome-volume-control to test this, but get this error?

** (gnome-volume-control:6216): WARNING **: Failed to acquire org.gnome.VolumeControl

** (gnome-volume-control:6216): WARNING **: Could not acquire name on session bus
[/QUOTE]
I've seen that too. It wouldn't go away until I logged out and in again and started pulseaudio in a terminal.

---

### Post by gspat on 2009-01-30
OK, The previous error went away after a reboot (or two)...

I changed the sound setting to none in system > properties > sound and took the checkmark from the "system sounds" below it as well.

I also unchecked the "audible bell" in compiz as well (general tab)

I restarted the server with 
pkill pulseaudio; sleep 2; pulseaudio -vv in terminal and played a song in rhythmbox with this result: (it does work!)

```
I: caps.c: Limited capabilities successfully to CAP_SYS_NICE.
I: caps.c: Dropping root privileges.
I: caps.c: Limited capabilities successfully to CAP_SYS_NICE.
D: main.c: Started as real root: no, suid root: yes
I: main.c: We're in the group 'pulse-rt', allowing high-priority scheduling.
I: main.c: setrlimit(RLIMIT_NICE, (31, 31)) failed: Operation not permitted
I: main.c: setrlimit(RLIMIT_RTPRIO, (9, 9)) failed: Operation not permitted
I: core-util.c: Successfully gained nice level -11.
D: main.c: Can realtime: yes, can high-priority: yes
I: main.c: Giving up CAP_NICE
D: main.c: Can realtime: no, can high-priority: no
I: main.c: This is PulseAudio 0.9.14
D: main.c: Compilation host: i486-pc-linux-gnu
D: main.c: Compilation CFLAGS: -g -O2 -g -Wall -O2 -Wall -W -Wextra -pedantic -pipe -Wno-long-long -Wvla -Wno-overlength-strings -Wconversion -Wundef -Wformat -Wlogical-op -Wpacked -Wformat-security -Wmissing-include-dirs -Wformat-nonliteral -Wold-style-definition -Wdeclaration-after-statement -Wfloat-equal -Wmissing-declarations -Wmissing-prototypes -Wstrict-prototypes -Wredundant-decls -Wmissing-noreturn -Wshadow -Wendif-labels -Wpointer-arith -Wcast-align -Wwrite-strings -Wno-unused-parameter -ffast-math
D: main.c: Running on host: Linux i686 2.6.28-6-generic #16-Ubuntu SMP Mon Jan 26 20:16:00 UTC 2009
I: main.c: Page size is 4096 bytes
D: main.c: Compiled with Valgrind support: no
D: main.c: Running in valgrind mode: no
D: main.c: Optimized build: yes
I: main.c: Machine ID is 19d0e115472352c734bbe0d949385be1.
I: main.c: Using runtime directory /home/gspat/.pulse/19d0e115472352c734bbe0d949385be1:runtime.
I: main.c: Using state directory /home/gspat/.pulse.
I: main.c: Running in system mode: no
W: pid.c: Stale PID file, overwriting.
I: main.c: Fresh high-resolution timers available! Bon appetit!
D: memblock.c: Using shared memory pool with 1024 slots of size 64.0 KiB each, total size is 64.0 MiB, maximum usable slot size is 65496
D: cli-command.c: Checking for existance of '/usr/lib/pulse-0.9/modules/module-gconf.so': success
D: module-gconf.c: Loading module 'module-combine' with args '' due to GConf configuration.
I: sink.c: Created sink 0 "combined" with sample spec s16le 6ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,side-left,front-center,front-right,side-right,lfe
I: source.c: Created source 0 "combined.monitor" with sample spec s16le 6ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,side-left,front-center,front-right,side-right,lfe
D: module-combine.c: Thread starting up
D: rtpoll.c: Acquired POSIX realtime signal SIGRTMIN+29
I: module.c: Loaded "module-combine" (index: #0; argument: "").
I: module.c: Loaded "module-gconf" (index: #1; argument: "").
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink combined becomes idle.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Source combined.monitor becomes idle.
I: module.c: Loaded "module-suspend-on-idle" (index: #2; argument: "").
I: module-device-restore.c: Sucessfully opened database file '/home/gspat/.pulse/19d0e115472352c734bbe0d949385be1:device-volumes.i486-pc-linux-gnu.gdbm'.
I: module.c: Loaded "module-device-restore" (index: #3; argument: "").
I: module-stream-restore.c: Sucessfully opened database file '/home/gspat/.pulse/19d0e115472352c734bbe0d949385be1:stream-volumes.i486-pc-linux-gnu.gdbm'.
I: module.c: Loaded "module-stream-restore" (index: #4; argument: "").
D: cli-command.c: Checking for existance of '/usr/lib/pulse-0.9/modules/module-hal-detect.so': success
I: module-hal-detect.c: Trying capability alsa
D: module-hal-detect.c: Not loaded device /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/computer_alsa_timer
D: module-hal-detect.c: Not loaded device /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/computer_alsa_sequencer
D: module-hal-detect.c: Not loaded device /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_1
D: module-hal-detect.c: Loading module-alsa-sink with arguments 'device_id=0 sink_name=alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 tsched=0'
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround51:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround51:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround51:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround51:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround51:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround71:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)conf.c: Unknown parameters 0
I: (alsa-lib)pcm.c: Unknown PCM surround71:0
I: alsa-util.c: Couldn't open PCM device surround71:0: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround50:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround50:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround50:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround50:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround50:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround41:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround41:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround41:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround41:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround41:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround40:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround40:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround40:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround40:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround40:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying front:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Successfully opened device front:0.
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Successfully enabled mmap() mode.
I: (alsa-lib)control.c: Invalid CTL front:0
I: alsa-util.c: Unable to attach to mixer front:0: No such file or directory
I: alsa-util.c: Successfully attached to mixer 'hw:0'
I: alsa-util.c: Using mixer control "Master".
I: module-device-restore.c: Restoring volume for sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
I: module-device-restore.c: Restoring mute state for sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
I: sink.c: Created sink 1 "alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0" with sample spec s16le 2ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,front-right
I: module-device-restore.c: Restoring volume for source alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.monitor.
I: module-device-restore.c: Restoring mute state for source alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.monitor.
I: source.c: Created source 1 "alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.monitor" with sample spec s16le 2ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,front-right
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Using 8 fragments of size 1764 bytes, buffer time is 80.00ms
D: module-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Volume ranges from 0 to 31.
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Volume ranges from -46.50 dB to 0.00 dB.
I: alsa-util.c: All 2 channels can be mapped to mixer channels.
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Using hardware volume control. Hardware dB scale supported.
D: alsa-util.c: snd_pcm_dump():
D: alsa-util.c: Hardware PCM card 0 'Intel 82801BA-ICH2' device 0 subdevice 0
D: alsa-util.c: Its setup is:
D: alsa-util.c:   stream       : PLAYBACK
D: alsa-util.c:   access       : MMAP_INTERLEAVED
D: alsa-util.c:   format       : S16_LE
D: alsa-util.c:   subformat    : STD
D: alsa-util.c:   channels     : 2
D: alsa-util.c:   rate         : 44100
D: alsa-util.c:   exact rate   : 44100 (44100/1)
D: alsa-util.c:   msbits       : 16
D: alsa-util.c:   buffer_size  : 3528
D: alsa-util.c:   period_size  : 441
D: alsa-util.c:   period_time  : 10000
D: alsa-util.c:   tstamp_mode  : NONE
D: alsa-util.c:   period_step  : 1
D: alsa-util.c:   avail_min    : 441
D: alsa-util.c:   period_event : 0
D: alsa-util.c:   start_threshold  : -1
D: alsa-util.c:   stop_threshold   : -1
D: alsa-util.c:   silence_threshold: 0
D: alsa-util.c:   silence_size : 0
D: alsa-util.c:   boundary     : 1849688064
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Thread starting up
D: rtpoll.c: Acquired POSIX realtime signal SIGRTMIN+28
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Requested volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Got hardware volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Calculated software volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Starting playback.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Source alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.monitor becomes idle.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes idle.
I: module-combine.c: Configuring new sink: alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq requested: maxlength=16777216, tlength=16777216, base=12, prebuf=1, minreq=0 maxrewind=0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq sanitized: maxlength=16777224, tlength=16777224, base=12, prebuf=12, minreq=12 maxrewind=0
I: module-stream-restore.c: Not restore device for stream sink-input-by-media-role:filter, because already set.
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring volume for sink input sink-input-by-media-role:filter.
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring mute state for sink input sink-input-by-media-role:filter.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes busy.
D: resampler.c: Channel matrix:
D: resampler.c:        I00   I01   I02   I03   I04   I05 
D: resampler.c:     +------------------------------------
D: resampler.c: O00 | 0.675 0.100 0.375 0.000 0.000 0.000
D: resampler.c: O01 | 0.000 0.000 0.375 0.675 0.100 0.000
I: resampler.c: Using resampler 'trivial'
I: resampler.c: Using s16le as working format.
D: memblockq.c: memblockq requested: maxlength=33554432, tlength=0, base=4, prebuf=0, minreq=1 maxrewind=0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq sanitized: maxlength=33554432, tlength=33554432, base=4, prebuf=0, minreq=4 maxrewind=0
I: sink-input.c: Created input 0 "Simultaneous output on Intel 82801BA-ICH2 - Intel 82801BA-ICH2" on alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 with sample spec s16le 6ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,side-left,front-center,front-right,side-right,lfe
D: module-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
I: module.c: Loaded "module-alsa-sink" (index: #5; argument: "device_id=0 sink_name=alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 tsched=0").
D: module-hal-detect.c: Loading module-alsa-source with arguments 'device_id=0 source_name=alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0 tsched=0'
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround51:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround51:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround51:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround51:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround51:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround71:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)conf.c: Unknown parameters 0
I: (alsa-lib)pcm.c: Unknown PCM surround71:0
I: alsa-util.c: Couldn't open PCM device surround71:0: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround50:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround50:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround50:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround50:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround50:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround41:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround41:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround41:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround41:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround41:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround40:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying surround40:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround40:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
D: alsa-util.c: Trying plug:surround40:0 without SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: (alsa-lib)pcm_params.c: Slave PCM not usable
I: alsa-util.c: PCM device plug:surround40:0 refused our hw parameters: Invalid argument
D: alsa-util.c: Trying front:0 with SND_PCM_NO_AUTO_FORMAT ...
I: module-alsa-source.c: Successfully opened device front:0.
I: module-alsa-source.c: Successfully enabled mmap() mode.
I: (alsa-lib)control.c: Invalid CTL front:0
I: alsa-util.c: Unable to attach to mixer front:0: No such file or directory
I: alsa-util.c: Successfully attached to mixer 'hw:0'
I: alsa-util.c: Using mixer control "Capture".
I: module-device-restore.c: Restoring volume for source alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0.
I: module-device-restore.c: Restoring mute state for source alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0.
I: source.c: Created source 2 "alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0" with sample spec s16le 2ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,front-right
I: module-alsa-source.c: Using 8 fragments of size 1764 bytes, buffer time is 80.00ms
D: module-alsa-source.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-source.c: setting avail_min=1
I: module-alsa-source.c: Volume ranges from 0 to 15.
I: module-alsa-source.c: Volume ranges from 0.00 dB to 22.50 dB.
I: alsa-util.c: All 2 channels can be mapped to mixer channels.
I: module-alsa-source.c: Using hardware volume control. Hardware dB scale supported.
D: alsa-util.c: snd_pcm_dump():
D: alsa-util.c: Hardware PCM card 0 'Intel 82801BA-ICH2' device 0 subdevice 0
D: alsa-util.c: Its setup is:
D: alsa-util.c:   stream       : CAPTURE
D: alsa-util.c:   access       : MMAP_INTERLEAVED
D: alsa-util.c:   format       : S16_LE
D: alsa-util.c:   subformat    : STD
D: alsa-util.c:   channels     : 2
D: alsa-util.c:   rate         : 44100
D: alsa-util.c:   exact rate   : 44100 (44100/1)
D: alsa-util.c:   msbits       : 16
D: alsa-util.c:   buffer_size  : 3528
D: alsa-util.c:   period_size  : 441
D: alsa-util.c:   period_time  : 10000
D: alsa-util.c:   tstamp_mode  : NONE
D: alsa-util.c:   period_step  : 1
D: alsa-util.c:   avail_min    : 441
D: alsa-util.c:   period_event : 0
D: alsa-util.c:   start_threshold  : -1
D: alsa-util.c:   stop_threshold   : -1
D: alsa-util.c:   silence_threshold: 0
D: alsa-util.c:   silence_size : 0
D: alsa-util.c:   boundary     : 1849688064
D: module-alsa-source.c: Thread starting up
D: rtpoll.c: Acquired POSIX realtime signal SIGRTMIN+27
D: module-alsa-source.c: Requested volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
D: module-alsa-source.c: Got hardware volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
D: module-alsa-source.c: Calculated software volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Source alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0 becomes idle.
I: module.c: Loaded "module-alsa-source" (index: #6; argument: "device_id=0 source_name=alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0 tsched=0").
D: module-hal-detect.c: Not loaded device /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_control__1
I: module-hal-detect.c: Loaded 2 modules.
I: module.c: Loaded "module-hal-detect" (index: #7; argument: "tsched=0").
D: cli-command.c: Checking for existance of '/usr/lib/pulse-0.9/modules/module-esound-protocol-unix.so': success
I: module.c: Loaded "module-esound-protocol-unix" (index: #8; argument: "").
I: module.c: Loaded "module-native-protocol-unix" (index: #9; argument: "").
I: module-default-device-restore.c: Restored default sink 'combined'.
D: core-subscribe.c: Dropped redundant event due to change event.
I: module-default-device-restore.c: Restored default source 'alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0'.
I: module.c: Loaded "module-default-device-restore" (index: #10; argument: "").
I: module.c: Loaded "module-rescue-streams" (index: #11; argument: "").
I: module.c: Loaded "module-always-sink" (index: #12; argument: "").
I: client.c: Created 0 "ConsoleKit Session /org/freedesktop/ConsoleKit/Session31"
D: module-console-kit.c: Added new session /org/freedesktop/ConsoleKit/Session31
I: module.c: Loaded "module-console-kit" (index: #13; argument: "").
I: module.c: Loaded "module-position-event-sounds" (index: #14; argument: "").
I: main.c: Daemon startup complete.
D: module-hal-detect.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.DBus, path=/org/freedesktop/DBus, member=NameAcquired
D: module-console-kit.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.DBus, path=/org/freedesktop/DBus, member=NameAcquired
I: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Source combined.monitor idle for too long, suspending ...
I: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink combined idle for too long, suspending ...
D: module-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes idle.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes idle.
I: sink-input.c: Freeing input 0 "Simultaneous output on Intel 82801BA-ICH2 - Intel 82801BA-ICH2"
I: module-combine.c: Device suspended...
I: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Source alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.monitor idle for too long, suspending ...
I: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Source alsa_input.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_capture_0 idle for too long, suspending ...
I: module-alsa-source.c: Device suspended...
I: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 idle for too long, suspending ...
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Device suspended...
I: client.c: Created 1 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
D: protocol-native.c: Protocol version: remote 14, local 14
I: protocol-native.c: Got credentials: uid=1000 gid=1000 success=1
D: protocol-native.c: SHM possible: yes
D: protocol-native.c: Negotiated SHM: yes
I: client.c: Freed 1 "Rhythmbox"
I: protocol-native.c: Connection died.
I: client.c: Created 2 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
D: protocol-native.c: Protocol version: remote 14, local 14
I: protocol-native.c: Got credentials: uid=1000 gid=1000 success=1
D: protocol-native.c: SHM possible: yes
D: protocol-native.c: Negotiated SHM: yes
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring device for stream sink-input-by-application-name:Rhythmbox.
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring volume for sink input sink-input-by-application-name:Rhythmbox.
D: module-stream-restore.c: Not restoring mute state for sink input sink-input-by-application-name:Rhythmbox, because already set.
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Trying resume...
D: module-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Resumed successfully...
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes idle.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes busy.
D: memblockq.c: memblockq requested: maxlength=33554432, tlength=0, base=4, prebuf=0, minreq=1 maxrewind=0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq sanitized: maxlength=33554432, tlength=33554432, base=4, prebuf=0, minreq=4 maxrewind=0
I: sink-input.c: Created input 1 "Playback Stream" on alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 with sample spec s16le 2ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,front-right
I: protocol-native.c: Requested tlength=200.00 ms, minreq=10.00 ms
D: protocol-native.c: Traditional mode enabled, modifying sink usec only for compat with minreq.
D: memblockq.c: memblockq requested: maxlength=70560, tlength=35280, base=4, prebuf=33516, minreq=1764 maxrewind=0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq sanitized: maxlength=70560, tlength=35280, base=4, prebuf=33516, minreq=1764 maxrewind=0
I: protocol-native.c: Final latency 380.00 ms = 180.00 ms + 2*10.00 ms + 180.00 ms
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Starting playback.
D: module-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
E: module-alsa-sink.c: ALSA woke us up to write new data to the device, but there was actually nothing to write! Most likely this is an ALSA driver bug. Please report this issue to the ALSA developers. We were woken up with POLLOUT set -- however a subsequent snd_pcm_avail_update() returned 0.
E: module-alsa-sink.c: ALSA woke us up to write new data to the device, but there was actually nothing to write! Most likely this is an ALSA driver bug. Please report this issue to the ALSA developers. We were woken up with POLLOUT set -- however a subsequent snd_pcm_avail_update() returned 0.
D: protocol-native.c: Requesting rewind due to end of underrun.
```

The last few lines (the ones that start with E:) disturb me though... they are written in red and are being added to as I type.. The same message repeating with references to "Underrun!" (just a few that I can see by scrolling through it) and:

```
D: module-hal-detect.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-console-kit.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-hal-detect.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-console-kit.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
I: client.c: Created 4 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
I: client.c: Freed 4 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
I: protocol-native.c: Connection died.
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Read hardware volume: 0:  94% 1: 100%
I: module-device-restore.c: Storing volume/mute for device sink:alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Read hardware volume: 0:  94% 1:  94%
I: module-device-restore.c: Storing volume/mute for device sink:alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
D: module-hal-detect.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-console-kit.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-hal-detect.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-console-kit.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Read hardware volume: 0:  89% 1:  89%
I: module-device-restore.c: Storing volume/mute for device sink:alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Read hardware volume: 0:  85% 1:  85%
I: module-device-restore.c: Storing volume/mute for device sink:alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Read hardware volume: 0:  80% 1:  80%
I: module-device-restore.c: Storing volume/mute for device sink:alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
D: module-hal-detect.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-console-kit.c: dbus: interface=org.freedesktop.Hal.Device, path=/org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/usb_device_1532_200_noserial_if1_logicaldev_input, member=Condition
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Read hardware volume: 0:  75% 1:  80%
I: module-device-restore.c: Storing volume/mute for device sink:alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
D: module-alsa-sink.c: Read hardware volume: 0:  75% 1:  75%
I: module-device-restore.c: Storing volume/mute for device sink:alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0.
I: module-device-restore.c: Synced.
```

Is this the normal behavior? I certainly hope not!

I stopped the song I was playing and tried to play a test mp3 off the desktop by hovering over it, no joy to that, so I tried playing another song in rhythmbox and then paused and restarted it again... Pulseaudio actually quit!

```
le-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes idle.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes idle.
I: sink-input.c: Freeing input 1 "'Daftendirekt' by 'Daft Punk'"
I: client.c: Freed 2 "Rhythmbox"
I: protocol-native.c: Connection died.
I: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 idle for too long, suspending ...
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Device suspended...
I: client.c: Created 5 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
D: protocol-native.c: Protocol version: remote 14, local 14
I: protocol-native.c: Got credentials: uid=1000 gid=1000 success=1
D: protocol-native.c: SHM possible: yes
D: protocol-native.c: Negotiated SHM: yes
I: client.c: Freed 5 "totem-audio-preview"
I: protocol-native.c: Connection died.
I: client.c: Created 6 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
D: protocol-native.c: Protocol version: remote 14, local 14
I: protocol-native.c: Got credentials: uid=1000 gid=1000 success=1
D: protocol-native.c: SHM possible: yes
D: protocol-native.c: Negotiated SHM: yes
I: client.c: Freed 6 "totem-audio-preview"
I: protocol-native.c: Connection died.
I: client.c: Created 7 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
D: protocol-native.c: Protocol version: remote 14, local 14
I: protocol-native.c: Got credentials: uid=1000 gid=1000 success=1
D: protocol-native.c: SHM possible: yes
D: protocol-native.c: Negotiated SHM: yes
I: client.c: Freed 7 "totem-audio-preview"
I: protocol-native.c: Connection died.
I: client.c: Created 8 "Native client (UNIX socket client)"
D: protocol-native.c: Protocol version: remote 14, local 14
I: protocol-native.c: Got credentials: uid=1000 gid=1000 success=1
D: protocol-native.c: SHM possible: yes
D: protocol-native.c: Negotiated SHM: yes
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring device for stream sink-input-by-application-name:totem-audio-preview.
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring volume for sink input sink-input-by-application-name:totem-audio-preview.
D: module-stream-restore.c: Not restoring mute state for sink input sink-input-by-application-name:totem-audio-preview, because already set.
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Trying resume...
D: module-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Resumed successfully...
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes idle.
I: module-stream-restore.c: Not restore device for stream sink-input-by-media-role:filter, because already set.
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring volume for sink input sink-input-by-media-role:filter.
I: module-stream-restore.c: Restoring mute state for sink input sink-input-by-media-role:filter.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 becomes busy.
D: resampler.c: Channel matrix:
D: resampler.c:        I00   I01   I02   I03   I04   I05 
D: resampler.c:     +------------------------------------
D: resampler.c: O00 | 0.675 0.100 0.375 0.000 0.000 0.000
D: resampler.c: O01 | 0.000 0.000 0.375 0.675 0.100 0.000
I: resampler.c: Using resampler 'trivial'
I: resampler.c: Using s16le as working format.
D: memblockq.c: memblockq requested: maxlength=33554432, tlength=0, base=4, prebuf=0, minreq=1 maxrewind=0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq sanitized: maxlength=33554432, tlength=33554432, base=4, prebuf=0, minreq=4 maxrewind=0
I: sink-input.c: Created input 2 "Simultaneous output on Intel 82801BA-ICH2 - Intel 82801BA-ICH2" on alsa_output.pci_8086_2445_sound_card_0_alsa_playback_0 with sample spec s16le 6ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,side-left,front-center,front-right,side-right,lfe
I: module-alsa-sink.c: Starting playback.
D: module-alsa-sink.c: hwbuf_unused_frames=0
D: module-alsa-sink.c: setting avail_min=1
I: module-combine.c: Resumed successfully...
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink combined becomes idle.
D: module-suspend-on-idle.c: Sink combined becomes busy.
I: resampler.c: Forcing resampler 'copy', because of fixed, identical sample rates.
D: resampler.c: Channel matrix:
D: resampler.c:        I00   I01 
D: resampler.c:     +------------
D: resampler.c: O00 | 1.000 0.000
D: resampler.c: O01 | 1.000 0.000
D: resampler.c: O02 | 0.500 0.500
D: resampler.c: O03 | 0.000 1.000
D: resampler.c: O04 | 0.000 1.000
D: resampler.c: O05 | 0.000 0.000
I: resampler.c: Using resampler 'copy'
I: resampler.c: Using float32le as working format.
D: memblockq.c: memblockq requested: maxlength=33554432, tlength=0, base=12, prebuf=0, minreq=1 maxrewind=0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq sanitized: maxlength=33554436, tlength=33554436, base=12, prebuf=0, minreq=12 maxrewind=0
I: sink-input.c: Created input 3 "Playback Stream" on combined with sample spec float32le 2ch 44100Hz and channel map front-left,front-right
I: protocol-native.c: Requested tlength=200.00 ms, minreq=10.00 ms
D: protocol-native.c: Traditional mode enabled, modifying sink usec only for compat with minreq.
D: memblockq.c: memblockq requested: maxlength=141120, tlength=70560, base=8, prebuf=67032, minreq=3528 maxrewind=0
D: memblockq.c: memblockq sanitized: maxlength=141120, tlength=70560, base=8, prebuf=67032, minreq=3528 maxrewind=0
I: protocol-native.c: Final latency 380.00 ms = 180.00 ms + 2*10.00 ms + 180.00 ms
Soft CPU time limit exhausted, terminating.
Hard CPU time limit exhausted, terminating forcibly.
```

I'm not too sure what's all going on though, hard to follow through the text output.

---

### Post by blfgomes on 2009-01-30
I don't know if it's the same problem you are having, but my sound stopped working after I updated my kernel to 2.6.27-11. Booting the old kernel (2.6.27-9) fixes the problem for me. Note that I'm using Intrepid.

---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-01-30
ddog@nsa-43523:~$ killall pulseaudio
then
ddog@nsa-43523:~$ alsamixer -Dhw
max the volume settings there, got sound back for me

---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-01-30
i got a bit bored, installed kubuntu-desktop (i still have gnome also) and with KDE i have sound perfectly. 

what version of kde is in the repos for 9.04?

---

### Post by vi3dr0 on 2009-02-14
Well, i'd never thought it could be so trivial :guitar:

1. I removed pulseaudio - it's crap :popcorn:
2. Open gnome-volume-control > 3rd tab - switches? (got no idea how it's called in english version) > tick "Speaker"

For no reason i had it unset, after that everything works! :lolflag:

Cheers
vi3dr0

---

### Post by Daeluin on 2009-02-14
> **blfgomes said:**
> I don't know if it's the same problem you are having, but my sound stopped working after I updated my kernel to 2.6.27-11. Booting the old kernel (2.6.27-9) fixes the problem for me. Note that I'm using Intrepid.

I did upgrade to jaunty, but sound worked with 2.6.27-9-generic, and not not with 2.6.28-7 or 2.6.28-8. 

Pulseaudio seems to be running great, the volume control shows the volume levels when things are playing, I just can't hear them. Nothin is muted in the mixers, and pulseaudio -k doesn't help, nor does killing pulseaudio manually.

lsmod/lspci show sound drivers and all that like I would expect, so I'm not sure what's up.

Guess I need to go back to the 2.6.27-9 kernel, only aptitude/apt won't let me install it any more. It shows up in an aptitude search, but when I tell it to install it says no packages found. What gives?

---

### Post by W2IBC on 2009-02-14
> **vi3dr0 said:**
> Well, i'd never thought it could be so trivial :guitar:

1. I removed pulseaudio - it's crap :popcorn:
2. Open gnome-volume-control > 3rd tab - switches? (got no idea how it's called in english version) > tick "Speaker"

For no reason i had it unset, after that everything works! :lolflag:

Cheers
vi3dr0

idk about "removing pulseaudio" from what i can tell sound has been working great for a few days now. i do believe the issue was fixed (at least it is on my end)

---

### Post by techdude3177 on 2009-02-14
> **vi3dr0 said:**
> Well, i'd never thought it could be so trivial :guitar:

1. I removed pulseaudio - it's crap :popcorn:
2. Open gnome-volume-control > 3rd tab - switches? (got no idea how it's called in english version) > tick "Speaker"

For no reason i had it unset, after that everything works! :lolflag:

Cheers
vi3dr0

its called front. and its set on my laptop and so it works through the laptop speakers

sounds works fine now but it seems that unless i use the killall pulseaudio then i cannot play any audio on firefox such as youtube.

---

