---
title: "9.04 doesn't recognize SATA on MCP61 motherboard"
date: 2009-04-04
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Kadin2048 on 2009-04-04
I'm trying to install the 9.04 (Jaunty) beta on a dual Athlon 64 3800+ machine with an NVidia NForce MCP61 motherboard and having a devil of a time getting the internal SATA to work.  I've been Googling and fiddling with it all day but haven't gotten anywhere.

The machine has a MCP61PM-AM motherboard, which has 4 onboard SATA ports plus one PATA that's used for the optical drive.  Basically, I can't get Linux to do anything with the onboard SATA. 

lspci reports the SATA controller as:
nVidia Corporation MCP61 SATA Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master Sec0 Pri0]).

When I boot the 9.04 livecd without any special options, I can't access the drive that I've attached to the first SATA port.  There's just no device created in /dev/ for it, and using fdisk doesn't show anything ("sudo fdisk -l /dev/sda").  When I look in dmesg there are a lot of messages saying: "failed to read native max address."

I did some Googling on that error and turned up a couple of [old threads]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=788856&highlight=failed+to+read+native+max+address") that recommended using various boot options.  I ran it with the options "acpi=off noapic nolapic" and during the boot saw an error:

BIOS bug, local APIC #0 not detected!...
... forcing use of dummy APIC emulation.(tell your hw vendor)

I googled that but the latest reference to it in Ubuntu that I could find was from 2005...so I don't know what it means or what to do about it.  Once the system booted up, I checked dmesg and saw the same set of errors again:

ata1.00: qc timeout (cmd 0x27)
ata1.00: failed to read native max address (err_mask=0x4)
ata1.00: revalidation failed (errno=-5)

This repeats a couple of times in the log.  There weren't any block devices created in /dev/ for the drive, and fdisk didn't find anything again either.  (Although I noticed when I ran fdisk, it made the drive spin up, so something is getting through...)

After that I added the "irqpoll" option and tried again; this time after the "BIOS big, local APIC #0 not detected" message, I got a lot of messages that seemed to contain strings of hex digits (mostly zeros), and the repeated line:

ata1.00: status: { DRDY }

There is a thread on that message [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5691406"), but it doesn't have any solutions; I know in this case that the disk is fine.

After that, I gave the "all_generic_ide" and "pci=nomsi" options a try as well, but they didn't seem to do anything.

I'm totally beside myself at this point; I haven't had this much trouble getting Linux working on a standard desktop PC since I installed in from a 6" thick stack of floppies ... and it's not like this is exotic hardware or anything.  Any and all suggestions are welcome.  At this point unless someone has some ideas the only thing I can think of is sacrifice one of my PCI slots and get an aftermarket SATA card, but I think it's absolutely ridiculous that the onboard SATA isn't supported.

Attached is output from "sudo lspci -vvv" (with some irrelevant sections removed) and output from dmesg after one of my later tries (with boot options acpi=off noapic nolapic all_generic_ide pci=nomsi).

---

### Post by Kadin2048 on 2009-04-04
I spent another good half-day messing with this, to no avail at all.  I think that it is some sort of kernel bug in the sata_nv driver.  Some LKML posts suggest that this component has had defects on and off for the last few years.

I am going to go get a PCI or PCIe SATA controller and I guess just not use the onboard SATA ... I think this is a pretty sorry state of affairs but I don't see any alternative at this point.

All I can say is a warning to others: avoid the MCP61 series chipsets like the plague if you possibly can.  (And, frankly, avoid SATA; the whole thing seems like a mess right now.  I wish I had just stuck with PATA.)

---

### Post by aceat64 on 2009-04-09
Have you tried using Ubuntu 8.10? I'm currently running 8.10 on my evga motherboard with an nForce 680i chipset (MCP55 SATA Controller). However, if I try to use Ubuntu 9.04, it detects every drive except my new Intel X25-M.

I haven't narrowed it down to any particular kernel version just yet, but things are running fine on 2.6.27-11-generic.

---

### Post by Kadin2048 on 2009-04-10
No, haven't tried 8.10.  I went with 9.04 because I figured that'd be the most likely to work ... I think I may try to file a bug and see if that gets anywhere.

Right now I've got the system working using a PCI card (which uses a different driver than sata_nv) and I think I'll probably keep it set up that way for the immediate future.

---

