---
title: "[9.04] ext4 drive showing as ext3 ?"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by zackiv31 on 2009-04-01
I formatted a software RAID 5 array as ext4, but when I right click on the mounted folder, and click properties, it tells me the filesystem type is ext3.

How can I tell if I formatted it correctly (as ext4)?  What command can I run?

It doesn't show up in gparted because it is a software RAID (using mdadm), so I have no idea if I formatted it correctly... :-/

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2009-04-01
Well, ext4 is so new, I've never used it yet. Why not simply do it again, add the filesystem to the array again... unless you have already put lots of data on it without having a backup.

---

### Post by zackiv31 on 2009-04-01
I could, but im just wondering the command to tell?

I'm going to format a disk I have lieing around through gparted and see if it shows up differently

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-04-01
```
sudo blkid
*if it's mounted, also:*
df -T
```
That will give you the format. My Jaunty shows the system partition as ext4. Gparted also shows it correctly as ext4.

---

### Post by zackiv31 on 2009-04-01
Well did just that, formatted ext4 with gparted... checked out the properties in gnome and it says ext3... this a bug I should report or what?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-04-01
> **zackiv31 said:**
> Well did just that, formatted ext4 with gparted... checked out the properties in gnome and it says ext3... this a bug I should report or what?

Yes, and if using a development release, please use the development section as well ;)

---

### Post by zackiv31 on 2009-04-01
oh just saw this drs, thanks... they showup as ext4 under those two commands so I think I'm ok... still have my question from above about reporting it ^ very trivial and it might already be fixed in dailys

---

