---
title: "9.0.4 Sound Issues"
date: 2009-03-30
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Tyler S on 2009-03-30
In the 9.0.4 beta:

The login sound will play over my speakers, so I know that sound can play; however, sounds through firefox will not play, nor will mp3, avi, or ogg files.

System-->Preferences-->Sound   seems to attempt to open a window ("Starting Sound" appears in the lower application bar) but the window will not open.

Any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-03-31
I've asked the mods to move this to the proper section. As to your sound  problems, it sounds like your sound system is working, but you may not have the proper codecs to play the different media type. I would suggest you install the ubuntu-restricted-extras meta package. THis will install ost of the codecs youe will need to play most audio/video media.

Ubuntu-restricted-extras can be installed using Add/Remove Programs, Synaptic Package Manager and of course the command line.

Jim

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2009-03-31
i dont think thatll be the issue if his sound preferences wont open, if you open a terminal and type gnome-sound-preferences does it give any errors about why it wont run?

---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2009-04-16
Come on guys, this is a real issue, I have the same-ish problem. My sound is fine in all applications except Firefox. On a fresh boot I can play a Youtube video etc, but I think its when firefox closes flash that there is a problem. On a second launch, there is no sound. I have done a lot of googling on this topic - I am not alone. There is a problem, and I have done the usual stuff, no solution found... so far.


PS the SD ram card is only recognized if present on boot, on my Acer One Aspire. Any info on that problem would also be appreciated.

---

