---
title: "9.04 Alpha - It's faster!  Why?"
date: 2009-03-21
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by InlawBiker on 2009-03-21
Ever since installing 8.10 on my Thinkpad T61 I've thought it was slow.  I've been using Ubuntu since 7.04 on my desktop, which was considerably hardware faster than the laptop.  So I figured it was the hardware, even though it's pretty modern (Core2Duo 2.0ghz, plenty of RAM).

Anyway I munged the sound on 8.10 and couldn't get it fixed, so I chose to upgrade to 9.04 Alpha rather than reinstall.  The difference is enormous!  Everything is faster.  Most improved is browsing.  Firefox opens, closes and scrolls very quickly.  It's like a whole new computer.

So now I'm wondering if improvements were made in 9.04, or was my 8.10 install flawed?  What would account for such a speed increase?  My first thought would be the nvidia drivers.  I was using the latest nvidia drivers before though.  Any ideas?  

The only noticeably slow thing now is initiating the Compiz cube rotate.  There's a slight delay before it zooms out.  After that it's as smooth as glass.  I have to say that the upgrade process was nearly flawless.  It kept my settings perfectly, except for some strange font size increases.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-03-21
Are you using ext4? It's been noticeably faster for me than ext3.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2009-03-21
Moved to Jaunty.

---

### Post by linuxisevolution on 2009-03-21
Thats great. I'm to scared to upgrade here because hardy just works on this system. Ubuntu 8.10 seems to run very fast on the family pc (AMD ATHLON BLACK EDITION 2.6ghz 2gb ram). Boots 20 seconds with 8.10 and 45 seconds with 8.04.

But I might stick with hardy for a while longer.


[I'm scared to post on the threads bapoumba has been on...]

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-03-21
I just upgrade one of ours to jaunty and it is working very well.

---

### Post by rockin_goliath on 2009-03-21
I think the speed increases have to do with the fact that a lot of the kernel bits that are usually external modules are now built directly into the kernel. Please, someone correct me if I am wrong, because I might have no idea what I'm talking about; I'm not really a kernel expert.

---

### Post by pferraro on 2009-03-21
> **InlawBiker said:**
> The only noticeably slow thing now is initiating the Compiz cube rotate.  There's a slight delay before it zooms out.  After that it's as smooth as glass.

This is due to GPU scaling (aka nvidia's "powermizer").   Before you initiate the cube, the GPU is running at a low clock speed, and only after it realizes that more power is needed does it ramp up to the higher levels.  I have the same machine (T61) and experienced the same behavior.  To solve this, I configured the nvidia driver to run at full speed on AC, and revert back to "on demand" on battery.  The only down side is this will raise your core temperature slightly when on AC - not enough to worry though.  To do this, add the following to the nvidia section of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

Option "RegistryDwords" "PowerMizerEnable=0x1; PerfLevelSrc=0x3322; PowerMizerDefaultAC=0x1"

After restarting, verify the behavior using the PowerMizer section of nvidia-settings (note that the launching of nvidia-settings itself forces the GPU to max power level for ~30 sec) and monitor your GPU temps.  Enjoy your smooth cube...

---

