---
title: "9.04 jaunty live CD on Macbook Pro Virtualbox installation"
date: 2009-04-04
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by MarnixV on 2009-04-04
Hi,

I'm trying to install the jaunty beta in a virtualbox on a macbook pro. When I point the virtualbox to the .iso file to use as CD, and I boot it, I get the ubuntu screen that should say "Try out or install ubuntu" or something like that. But instead I only get the ubuntu logo and name, without the option to go any further. Pressing enter doesn't work, so the options are really not there.

I had this problem with the last alpha as well, but I thought it would be better in beta. Does anyone else have this problem?

By the way, burning the cd and trying to boot from there gave the same result (with the alpha, didn't try with beta).

Any ideas?

Thanks

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-04
You may want to try some of the boot options by pressing F4 or F6

Jim

---

### Post by MarnixV on 2009-04-05
Hi,

I solved the problem. After playing around with the settings of the virtualbox, I found out that in Settings -> General -> Advanced tab, there is an 'Extended Feature' called 'Enable VT-x/AMD-V' which was enabled by default.

Unticking this feature solved the problem. One thing I noticed though was that I had to use the i386 version, since the amd64 version said it detected i686. I assume this is related to this extended feature, since I should be able to run the 64 bit version on this Core 2 Duo processor. Anyway, 32 bit it is then...

Cheers

---

