---
title: "NV 180.29 is now available"
date: 2009-02-09
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by xebian on 2009-02-09
For the brave, NV 180.29 is out:guitar:

---

### Post by mempf on 2009-02-09
Is there a changelog available anywhere?

I looked but couldn't find one.
:confused:

---

### Post by David Tomic on 2009-02-09
> **mempf said:**
> Is there a changelog available anywhere?

I looked but couldn't find one.
:confused:

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=127873](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=127873)

---

### Post by xebian on 2009-02-09
> **mempf said:**
> Is there a changelog available anywhere?

I looked but couldn't find one.
:confused:

Have you tried Nvidia.com ?

Or try the above link from @david

---

### Post by mempf on 2009-02-09
Thanks guys

---

### Post by mgsfan on 2009-02-10
heres hoping those fixes fix some of my videos crashing using vdpau

---

### Post by IanW on 2009-02-10
Nvidia forum reports 180.29 is a STABLE release (not Beta)!
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122606]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122606")

---

### Post by David Tomic on 2009-02-10
Hmmmm ... well I've just tried updating from 180.27, and it looks like X server is refusing to start up at all now?

Excerpt from Xorg.0.log ... the full file & xorg.conf attached below:

Any ideas/suggestions?

> [    0.175491] (EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module! Please ensure
[    0.175529] (EE) NVIDIA(0):     that there is a supported NVIDIA GPU in this system, and
[    0.175553] (EE) NVIDIA(0):     that the NVIDIA device files have been created properly. 
[    0.175576] (EE) NVIDIA(0):     Please consult the NVIDIA README for details.
[    0.175614] (EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
[    0.175655] (II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
[    0.175670] (II) UnloadModule: "wfb"
[    0.175684] (II) UnloadModule: "fb"
[    0.175702] (EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

Fatal server error:
no screens found


---

### Post by Nullack on 2009-02-10
Not much is different from .27 by the looks of it

---

### Post by maciu on 2009-02-10
works like a charm :)

---

### Post by meborc on 2009-02-10
full opengl 3.0 support for geforce 8 cards (and up)

weeeeeeeeeeee :)

---

### Post by xebian on 2009-02-10
> **David Tomic said:**
> Hmmmm ... well I've just tried updating from 180.27, and it looks like X server is refusing to start up at all now?

Excerpt from Xorg.0.log ... the full file & xorg.conf attached below:

Any ideas/suggestions?

There has been several kernel updates, and I suspect you just need to boot to a terminal, and then rebuild (reinstall) the NV kernel module.

---

### Post by kde4-core-user on 2009-02-11
I'm running 180.29 on Kubuntu Jaunty now. I must say ...WOW... this driver is really, really fast. I can feel no difference anymore, between activated and deactivated desktop effects with my low-end 7300GT!

Awesome release!

---

### Post by orduek on 2009-02-11
how do you install the new driver?

---

### Post by plun on 2009-02-11
> **orduek said:**
> how do you install the new driver?

The usual way works now

**Meny System > Administration > Hardware Drivers**


The 180 driver for 6XXX GPUs and above

173 for 5XXX GPUs

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-02-11
Driver now in the repos and it works well...

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2009-02-12
> **kde4-core-user said:**
> I'm running 180.29 on Kubuntu Jaunty now. I must say ...WOW... this driver is really, really fast. I can feel no difference anymore, between activated and deactivated desktop effects with my low-end 7300GT!

Awesome release!

Having just installed it on my Hardy machine, I can say it seems to be MUCH faster than the previous 177.ish I had before. If so, two thumbs up for Nvidia!

---

### Post by conehead77 on 2009-02-12
180.29 works fine here. The last version of 180 didnt let me use compiz, so im happy :) This is on a 8600GT.

---

### Post by airbornemist6 on 2009-02-13
I have 9600 GTs in SLI. After installing this one, I can't start GDM, it just sits there and tries (and fails). Also, yes, I did already put the SLI configuration thingy in my xorg.conf

---

### Post by orduek on 2009-02-13
did anyone tried it with 9400GT?
I wonder if it solves its problems.

---

### Post by -jay- on 2009-02-13
> **Kevbert said:**
> Driver now in the repos and it works well...

you sure i dont see it

---

### Post by simtaalo on 2009-02-13
> **-jay- said:**
> you sure i dont see it

do you have the right repo added?

---

### Post by -jay- on 2009-02-13
> **simtaalo said:**
> do you have the right repo added?

yes i do only latest driver is 180.11

---

### Post by cmccauley on 2009-02-13
I'm feeling left out. My 8700M GT works perfectly with the 173 driver but the 180.x won't give the full laptop resolution of 1920x1200. It falls back to 1400x1050. Even adding specific modelines fails to make a difference. 

Wouldn't be a problem except Gnome-do with Docky looks great on other machines.

---

### Post by orduek on 2009-02-13
does it updates in Itrepid also? or only jaunty.

---

### Post by kde4-core-user on 2009-02-13
> **orduek said:**
> does it updates in Itrepid also? or only jaunty.

Only Jaunty!

To update Nvidia-Driver to 180.29 in Intrepid, simply add this PPA:
[https://launchpad.net/~anders-kaseorg/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~anders-kaseorg/+archive/ppa)

---

### Post by nanog on 2009-02-13
I've been running it in both intrepid (via the ppa) and jaunty. So far its rock solid and the speed improvements over 177 are stunning.

~$ dpkg -l | grep nvidia-glx-180
ii  nvidia-glx-180                             180.29-0ubuntu1~andersk1~intrepid1       NVIDIA binary Xorg driver

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-02-13
> **nanog said:**
> I've been running it in both intrepid (via the ppa) and jaunty. So far its rock solid and the speed improvements over 177 are stunning.

~$ dpkg -l | grep nvidia-glx-180
ii  nvidia-glx-180                             180.29-0ubuntu1~andersk1~intrepid1       NVIDIA binary Xorg driver

Would adding this PPA also update a Hardy install by chance? Just wondering before I bork something.

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-02-13
I hope someone can give me a clue before I go home and try this :)

---

### Post by darco on 2009-02-14
I installed it thru the repos for my Mint x64 but it didnt seem to take hold. Downloaded it from Nvidia website and ran it from a terminal after exiting X. Borked my xorg file. Uninstalled then reinstalled and it now is fine. Under Menu/Admins/HW Drivers its says I have no proprietary drives in use on this system.

darco

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-02-14
I installed to Intrepid using the jaunty repos and it works great.

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-02-14
I'm using 180.29 in Jaunty too :)  No problems.

---

### Post by analogue on 2009-02-15
For anyone installing 180.29 on Hardy (no PPA support), I had to 

sudo apt-get remove linux-restricted-module*

before the 180.29 drivers would load (otherwise the 96.XX drivers in the restricted modules (a guess on my part) would conflict and stop the 180.29 drivers from working).

---

