---
title: "9.04 video problem - Inspiron 6000"
date: 2009-04-13
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by 40-Dan on 2009-04-13
Hello.  I'm pretty much a complete noob, so please be patient w/ me.

I had 8.10 running just fine on an Inspiron 6000 w/ ATI MobilityRadeon X300 video.  I attempted the upgrade using "update-manager -d" and all seemed well until the reboot.  When it starts the GUI, all I get are some colored "smears" at the top of the screen.

I can boot into 'recovery mode' and get to a command prompt, but I have no idea how to fix this.  I tried the option to automagically fix X errors, but it did not help.  I downloaded the proprietary ATI drivers and burned the file to a CD, but I can't read the CD on the Inspiron (like I said above, total noob).

Any advice on how I can fix this would be greatly appreciated.  This is not a 'life-or-death' machine, it lives in the kitchen and is used pretty much only for internet browsing, but Windows drivers make it blue-screen and it gives me a platform to try to learn new things on.  If I need to post any sort of configuration info in order to diagnose the problem, please provide explicit instructions on what I need to do.

Thanks,
Dan

---

### Post by Onesimus on 2009-04-14
Have you thought about going back to 8.10 where everything was 'running just fine' ?

---

### Post by 40-Dan on 2009-04-14
reverting to 8.10 is definitely an option.  Is there a way to "undo" the upgrade?  Or would I have to redo the install?  Like I said, there is nothing mission critical on this machine, but, by the same token, I'd prefer not to wipe it if I don't have to.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-04-14
I'd suggest download the livecd and see if that works good, or if you still get screen problem. If no screen problem that is good news.

9.04 RC will be released Thursday/Friday. Either wait for that, or download [Daily Live cd](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/) that is not oversized.

If 9.04 livecd works fine, then maybe it was just a problem upgrading that caused a problem. 9.04 should be better than 8.10.

Dunno how to downgrade to a previous release.

---

