---
title: "9.04 on acer one aspire, brilliant"
date: 2009-04-13
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2009-04-13
I just installed 9.04 remix beta on my acer one aspire. I was a bit paranoid so I made a dual boot installation. 45 gigs for Linpus and 115 for Ubuntu. 

Up Side:
9.04 works perfectly out of the box as far as I can determine. I have installed Skype, GoogleEarth (4.2 the best version for low powered platforms), VLC, Picasa, and all the codecs I need. I am able to remote print to my HP 6800, no problem. I can access my windows network drive and play movies in bed ! The system boots up as fast as Linpus Lite. The user interface is simply awesome, brilliant, makes Linpu look like its name suggests.
Down side:
I had a small problem with acer-wmi module. This module is now in my blacklist.
It seems to eat my 5.2 Amp/Hour battery rather fast. I only get about 5 Hours out of a full charge.
The network drive connection is delicate and sometimes hangs and will only come back after a reboot. For example when I scroll forward in a movie on the network drive. 

Question: I have a mounted file system /media/BACKUP I can see linpus which is not automatically mounted. Can anyone tell me what BACKUP is ?

---

### Post by jbeiter on 2009-04-13
What method did you use to install the OS?  I've been trying to install 8.10 on this same notebook using a Flash USB but once I select the option to install, it lands me into the busybox prompt (initramfs) and I'm done.

---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2009-04-13
I mad a USB key installation. Very simple there is a utility to do it see the Ubuntu utility see [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Mobile/HowTo/ImageWriting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MobileTeam/Mobile/HowTo/ImageWriting) very simple and straight forward.

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-13
The current snapshot for Netbook Remix 9.04 fixes the acer_wmi issue, so I assume this'll make it to Jaunty too.

---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2009-04-13
Thats great news, when I check out the update manager there is not far off 300Mb of updates. What is the best thing to do wait till after the 23rd, or install updates along the way. I am very slightly apprehensive about breaking such a great installation that works perfectly. I just put a bluetooth dongle in a USB port and downloaded my photos off my phone. It just worked straight away ... 

So if it works don't fix it,
or install as we go towards the 23rd,
or wait till the official release.

What a dilema. 

What exactly dose acer-wmi do, apart from breaking the wlan. Has it any other functions ?

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-13
People will tell you that distribution upgrades cause more problems than they solve but in my experience static updates are just as likely to cause problems. If it works then why rock the boat? Keep an eye open for security advisories though.

As for the module, quite a [bit]("http://www.mjmwired.net/kernel/Documentation/laptops/acer-wmi.txt") but the backlight and turning on the WiFi are the main ones.

---

### Post by Julian Lewis on 2009-04-13
Thanks for the info, well from what it says I think I am better off without acer-wmi, it claims to interfere with services such as bluetooth that work just fine without it. At some point I guess I will need launch update manager, already crash perports (I ran out of memory) say that I need to install the latest modules. Thanks a lot for your help.

---

