---
title: "doesn't detect display"
date: 2009-03-05
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by justborn on 2009-03-05
i upgraded to jaunty two weeks ago and the os doesn't detect my display.i had the same problem with ibex,and i then forced my config file to use intel driver and i became alright,not i have the same problem again.

i alread checked the xorg cofig file ....
should i past some log?

---

### Post by nyarnon on 2009-03-05
Well with this kind of problem you usualy better off adding some hardware info to your request. What card what monitor?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-03-05
I would suggest copying your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file from your Intrepid install to your Jaunty install. The problem is with your monitor, not the software.

Jim

---

### Post by justborn on 2009-03-06
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I would suggest copying your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file from your Intrepid install to your Jaunty install. The problem is with your monitor, not the software.

Jim

here it is[HTML]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/HTML]

---

### Post by nyarnon on 2009-03-06
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I would suggest copying your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file from your Intrepid install to your Jaunty install. The problem is with your monitor, not the software.

Jim

By de default these settings are not stored there anymore, but you still can write your own config for it and it will respond. Hence once again the same question,

What graphic card do you use,

What is the brand/model of your monitor.

---

### Post by justborn on 2009-03-06
> **nyarnon said:**
> By de default these settings are not stored there anymore, but you still can write your own config for it and it will respond. Hence once again the same question,

What graphic card do you use,

What is the brand/model of your monitor.

i think my comp is already made my config file(xorg.config.new)


but how to i assign the com to access it? 
/root/xorg.conf.new
[HTML]Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "X.org Configured"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
#	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
#	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	ModulePath   "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "xtrap"
	Load  "record"
	Load  "dbe"
        Load  "evdev"
EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Keyboard0"
#	Driver      "kbd"
#EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Mouse0"
#	Driver      "mouse"
#	Option	    "Protocol" "auto"
#	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
#	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5 6 7"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	#DisplaySize	  280   210	# mm
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	VendorName   "SAM"
	ModelName    "SAMTRON 55V"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 55.0
	VertRefresh  50.0 - 120.0
	Option	    "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        ### Available Driver options are:-
        ### Values: <i>: integer, <f>: float, <bool>: "True"/"False",
        ### <string>: "String", <freq>: "<f> Hz/kHz/MHz"
        ### [arg]: arg optional
        #Option     "NoAccel"            	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "SWcursor"           	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ColorKey"           	# <i>
        #Option     "CacheLines"         	# <i>
        #Option     "Dac6Bit"            	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "DRI"                	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "NoDDC"              	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ShowCache"          	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "XvMCSurfaces"       	# <i>
        #Option     "PageFlip"           	# [<bool>]
	Identifier  "Card0"
	Driver      "intel"
	VendorName  "Intel Corporation"
	BoardName   "82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	BusID       "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Card0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     1
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     4
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     8
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     15
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     16
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection
[/HTML]

---

### Post by nyarnon on 2009-03-06
backup your old xorg.conf and rename xorg.conf.new to xorg.conf.

---

### Post by orethrius on 2009-03-06
> **nyarnon said:**
> backup your old xorg.conf and rename xorg.conf.new to xorg.conf.

Uh, if the "correct" config is in /root/xorg.conf.new, then shouldn't this work?

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak; sudo mv /root/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2009-03-06
Firstly I would suggest running
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
then restarting. X /should/ detect everything automatically.

Secondly, at what point does the monitor turn off? I assume you can view the boot-up process but then when X starts the monitor turns off. This is likely down to X trying to run at too high a resolution/refresh rate. If this is the case you will need to add the Monitor section to xorg.conf. It also means your monitor is quite old - you could probably do with a new one. Get yourself a nice TFT rather than hanging on to that old CRT. ;)

---

### Post by nyarnon on 2009-03-06
> **orethrius said:**
> Uh, if the "correct" config is in /root/xorg.conf.new, then shouldn't this work?

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak; sudo mv /root/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

You might consider replacing mv and cp and a a -f flag :-) But as you said IF.

---

### Post by justborn on 2009-03-06
> **orethrius said:**
> Uh, if the "correct" config is in /root/xorg.conf.new, then shouldn't this work?

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak; sudo mv /root/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

i tried doing all that,but when i restarted ,the display was better ,but my desktop got stuck ,i tried rebooting again and the same thing happened

the first time it got stuck after 2-3 seconds and the second time as soon as the desktop appeared.


can any one check my xorg.conf.new,that i have pasted i a post above?i think there is problem with it.



should i give u some hadware info by some command?

---

### Post by justborn on 2009-03-07
can someone help me make a new supporting config file for Xorg....?

---

