---
title: "9.04 crashes upon ANY interaction with the system"
date: 2009-03-30
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Joey762 on 2009-03-30
I'm a Linux greenhorn and this is my very first post, so bear with me.

I installed 9.04 along side XP Pro on an IBM Thinkcentre S50.  When I was setting up the machine in my room everything worked great, not a single problem.  Then I moved the PC to my dads office (the intended purpose) and Ubuntu locks on any interaction with the system. I click the applications menu, lock up.  I click the system menu, lock up. I open Firefox, lock up. Wi-Fi connects, lock up. I think you get the picture.

What's troubling is that everything worked fine while I was setting it up in my room.  I'm using the same keyboard, mouse, USB wi-fi adapter, even the power cord for the pc.  The only difference is the monitor and the electrical outlet it's being plugged in to.

Any ideas of how I could fix this?
Forgive me for the lack of technical details, I'm not sure what would be pertinent. Let me know what details you need.

---

### Post by Joey762 on 2009-03-30
Oh, one detail I forgot.  I did attempt to install a display driver for the Intel Extreme 2 chipset, but that was unsuccessful (probably due to my inexperience with Linux...).  I'm not sure if that helps at all.

---

### Post by Joey762 on 2009-03-31
Bump?

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-03-31
Does the CD/installer work in the office?

---

### Post by Dan_Dranath999 on 2009-03-31
9.04 is still beta (it's not suppose to be entirely stable yet)

Maybe you should try the last stable version 8.10---

Anyway, if the system was running fine before trying to install the video driver, maybe (this is far far from being an expert's opinion) your xorg.conf has been incorrectly modified.

---

### Post by Dan_Dranath999 on 2009-03-31
there seems to be some issues regarding video drivers in Jaunty:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1112039]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1112039")

---

### Post by Joey762 on 2009-03-31
> **inportb said:**
> Does the CD/installer work in the office?
Yes, I was able to boot from the 8.1 CD I made a few weeks ago.

On a hunch, at the GRUB boot screen I selected kernel 2.6.27-7 instead of kernel 2.6.28-11 and the system worked fine.  While some might say "problem solved!" it's actually not that easy to expect my Dad to know which kernel he has to run when the system boots.

Is there any way I can fix the problem in the 2.6.28-11 kernel while running the 2.6.27-7 kernel?

---

### Post by Dan_Dranath999 on 2009-04-01
> **Joey762 said:**
> Yes, I was able to boot from the 8.1 CD I made a few weeks ago.

On a hunch, at the GRUB boot screen I selected kernel 2.6.27-7 instead of kernel 2.6.28-11 and the system worked fine.  While some might say "problem solved!" it's actually not that easy to expect my Dad to know which kernel he has to run when the system boots.

Is there any way I can fix the problem in the 2.6.28-11 kernel while running the 2.6.27-7 kernel?

well, a quick fix then would be to edit your menu.lst so the 2.6.28-11 kernel is hidden and the 2.6.27-7 kernel becomes THE DEFAULT OPTION.

(a new kernel might have some bugs, you'll do fine with the previous one)

---

