---
title: "9.04  locks up after 15 seconds after boot...."
date: 2009-04-02
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Committed on 2009-04-02
Upgraded to Jaunty Jackalope earlier today and all was fine for hours until I tried to use DeVeDe to burn a dvd and it locked.  Had to power down, reboot and now it locks after 15 seconds no matter what. 

FWIW, I've had trouble with 8.10 also locking up anytime I tried to burn a DVD, regardless what program but if I rebooted, I was ok.  I'm booted on Windows right now.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-04-02
DeVeDe works fine in Jaunty for me, so this is not a general problem with DeVeDe.

But, you talk about burning a DVD with DeVeDe in Jaunty and then burning a DVD with several programs in 8.10. What exactly do you mean? You don't burn DVDs with DeVeDe - you create iso images (and/or DVD folder structures) to be burnt by another app. Do you mean you're having problems burning DVDs (with Brasero, GnomeBaker, k3b and the like), or are you having problems with the app DeVeDe?

And if you were having problems burning DVDs in 8.10 with locking up, there must have been an issue in the system somewhere. So if you upgraded this system to Jaunty, that may be why you're still getting problems.

You may be better off with a fesh install of Jaunty.

---

### Post by Committed on 2009-04-02
I mean just opening up DeVeDe or Brasero and making a selectioin in eithr program would lock it.  Now it locks regardless in precisely 15 seconds no matter what.  And yes, I was going to create an ISO image.

I suppose I could reinstall Jaunty, I've been wanting to give it more room anyways. Might as well start fresh but man it takes time. Got my Myth all setup now and everything.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-04-02
> **Committed said:**
> Might as well start fresh but man it takes time.

True - but probably quicker than trying to fix a misbehaving system.

Good luck!

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-04-02
moved to jaunty

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2009-04-02
> **Committed said:**
> I mean just opening up DeVeDe or Brasero and making a selectioin in eithr program would lock it.  Now it locks regardless in precisely 15 seconds no matter what.  And yes, I was going to create an ISO image.

I suppose I could reinstall Jaunty, I've been wanting to give it more room anyways. Might as well start fresh but man it takes time. Got my Myth all setup now and everything.

Perhaps a silly question, but did you remove the optical disc from the drive that you had originally inserted, when Brasero initially caused a systen crash?

---

### Post by bennachie on 2009-04-03
> **coffeecat said:**
> True - but probably quicker than trying to fix a misbehaving system.

Good luck!

A fresh install really does look like the best way ahead - I can confirm that both DeVeDe and Brasero work just fine for me in Jaunty. I must admit that I have a long-standing distaste for upgrading systems in place (it's caused heaps of problems on Linux and Mac installations over the years - and the less said about Windows "upgrades" the better).

---

### Post by Committed on 2009-04-03
I did a fresh install of Jaunty and it worked fine for the afternoon.  Later in the day it locked up.  Same thing, could boot up and would freeze after 15 seconds????  Jaunty wouldn't print on my Canon MP830 either.

Did a fresh install of 8.10 today and so far all is well.  Waiting for my 22" Viewsonic lcd monitor to get back from warranty repair.  Using an old Gateway crt that ubuntu says is not supported.

---

