---
title: "enabling compiz makes jaunty unusable"
date: 2009-03-26
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by duanedesign on 2009-03-26
I just installed the Jaunty Beta. Whenever I enable Compiz and then try and access a directory my computer goes black and freezes. Without  Compiz everything works fine. I have tried fixes related to the bug reports below, but nothing works. Anyone else experiencing this?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/326344](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/326344)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/269904?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/269904?comments=all)

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-03-26
Are you using proprietary video drivers or open source drivers?  What versions of the drivers? What is your xorg.conf?  What video card do you have?

---

### Post by duanedesign on 2009-03-26
Jaunty AMD64 - 2.6.28-11-generic
I am using NVIDIA 180.37
my video card is NVIDIA GeForce 8200
Here is my xorg.conf

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by krazyd on 2009-03-26
From those bugs, I assume you're using then proprietary nvidia driver?
From one of the comments: > "[the cause of the problem] is a race condition between the X server and compiz that's the result of a fundamental design problem in the way the Damage extension works." and "[fixing it] will require more changes to the Damage and GLX extensions, the X server, Compiz, and the NVIDIA X driver."
So basically just a buggy nvidia driver.
This thread appears to have a workaround: [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=129711&page=3](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=129711&page=3)

..but you might have to compile it yourself (unless it gets included in jaunty)

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-03-27
try the 185.13 drivers here
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=1957328](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=1957328)
they work well on my system.  the 180.xx drivers are notoriously buggy on linux systems. I would also make a backup of your current xorg.conf then let nvidia modify your xorg.conf during the install.  I had a problem with a custom xorg.conf the only thing that fixed it was letting nvidia make the changes to my conf.  I have no idea why that worked and my custom didn't, but it did.

also your xorg.conf has no composite enabled.  that is probably the main reason your compiz is not working.

here is my xorg.conf as an example.
```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig            
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Fri Mar 13 03:18:18 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"    
EndSection                                   

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1" 
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"     
EndSection                   

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard" 
EndSection                    

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0" 
    Driver         "mouse"  
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"  
EndSection                               

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown" 
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "true"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by gmc on 2009-03-27
I'm interested in trying the 185.13 drivers but which one? pkg0 or pkg1?

Thanks
G.

---

### Post by Nullack on 2009-03-27
gmc read the nvidia readme

---

### Post by duanedesign on 2009-03-27
I tried the NVIDIA 185 driver and adding composite "enable" to my Xorg.conf file and still no luck. It has gotten better. Instead of going black it just freezes.

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-03-27
If all you changed in your xorg.conf was the composite. It looks like you are missing some other options.
Did you let NVIDIA modify your config?  If not I would let NVIDIA install modify your xorg.conf

I usually seem to have the best luck with pkg2 personally.

---

### Post by duanedesign on 2009-03-27
I used NVIDIA X Server Settings to create the xorg.conf below.

Oh, and by the way thank you for taking the time to help:)

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LGD LP156WH1-TLA1"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8200M G"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-03-28
that config looks like it should work.  Are you still having problems?

---

### Post by duanedesign on 2009-03-28
Yes. Compiz still eludes me. It is strange that I can enable Compiz, use Firefox and the Terminal. But when I try to access any directory it freezes. I can type gksudo nautilus ~/downloads for example and it works fine to access the HD. If I try and navigate to that directory through the Places menu it is a no go.

I got Metacity to a point where it is working nicely so it is not as big an emergency. I have tried everything I can think of so I guess I just wait for an update. 

If you have any suggestions let me know:)

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-04-05
Hello,

I do not think that it is a big deal, yet while I was trying to fix my own compiz I came accross this post. I have to tell you that:

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection 

does not work at all to me. In order to be able to select compiz, even though it seems to be buggy is:

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "on"
EndSection  

I do not think that it will take you more than two seconds to check this out if it is working. Yet, I'm not so optimistic though...

Regards!

---

### Post by duanedesign on 2009-04-13
It looks like an update has fixed my buggy Compiz.

However while my Compiz was broken I used Metacity. Metacity wont give you the wobbly windows or other mega 3D effect. But if you dont use these, like me, you might like Metacity its much faster and less resource intensive. Metacity does not have compositing enabled by default. This gives most users the impression Metacity is slow and "laggy". Turning on compositing in Metacity, type in Terminal:
```
gconftool-2 -s '/apps/metacity/general/compositing_manager' --type bool true
```
With compositing enabled in Metacity I did not even miss Compiz.

---

