---
title: "9.04 beta - Notifications don't move after system tray is moved"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by hotweiss on 2009-04-01
A problem with the new notification system that is bothering me is the fact that the notifications don't move to the same area that the system tray is in. It would be nice if this could be fixed by the final release.

---

### Post by TrueTom on 2009-04-01
This is by design and won't be fixed.

---

### Post by hotweiss on 2009-04-01
> **TrueTom said:**
> This is by design and won't be fixed.

Why would this not be fixed?

---

### Post by Amaranth on 2009-04-01
The top right corner of your screen is usually the area least likely to have something important thus the notifications always go in the top right corner.

---

### Post by Yashiro on 2009-04-01
Following the position of the tray notify seems logical to most users.

---

### Post by mc4100 on 2009-04-01
> **Amaranth said:**
> The top right corner of your screen is usually the area least likely to have something important thus the notifications always go in the top right corner.

Not quite true: window controls, the calendar applet and shutdown, etc., are all in top right. As are other "important" things, like the volume controls in Rhythmbox, the next/previous buttons in F-Spot and Search in Firefox -- when they're maximized at least. And, perhaps most importantly, those are all by default.

---

### Post by mpt on 2009-04-01
(Hi, I’m one of the designers of the new notification system, and I wrote [the design spec]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NotifyOSD").)

> **hotweiss said:**
> A problem with the new notification system that is bothering me is the fact that the notifications don't move to the same area that the system tray is in. It would be nice if this could be fixed by the final release.

The old notification system doesn’t move bubbles to the area that the “system tray” is in, either. They appear in the bottom right by default, while the notification area is in the top right by default.

Some programs (such as Gnome Power Manager or Rhythmbox) ask for their notification bubbles to point at particular icons in the notification area, so some bubbles did appear in that corner with the old system. However, we think pointing a bubble at a tiny icon is not a polite way of notifying people of things, and we’re working to reduce the number of icons in the notification area.

Having said all that, in Karmic we *might* change where notification bubbles appear, because of the reasons mc4100 mentions. We’ll consider that over the next few months.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-04-01
> **mpt said:**
> 
Having said all that, in Karmic we *might* change where notification bubbles appear, because of the reasons mc4100 mentions. We’ll consider that over the next few months.
It would be more convenient to just add the option of allowing user to decide what corner (or even center) where to put notifications. That would get rid of most complaints that have been expressed in the numerous threads. Then we (users) can find better things to complain about :)

---

### Post by mpt on 2009-04-01
> **andrewabc said:**
> It would be more convenient to just add the option of allowing user to decide what corner (or even center) where to put notifications. That would get rid of most complaints that have been expressed in the numerous threads. Then we (users) can find better things to complain about :)

Maybe it would indeed solve the problem, for most of the sort of people who post in the Ubuntu Forums. But that doesn’t mean it would solve the problem for anywhere near a majority of Ubuntu users in general. For most of them, it wouldn’t even occur to them that the position was configurable.

To make it configurable we would need to be confident that the benefit people experienced from tweaking it, multiplied by the proportion of people willing and able to tweak it, was greater than the cost of more complex testing and code maintenance.

---

### Post by phenest on 2009-04-01
> **mpt said:**
> ... and we’re working to reduce the number of icons in the notification area....

Do I get the feeling the notification area is becoming redundant?

---

### Post by TrueTom on 2009-04-01
> **mpt said:**
> To make it configurable we would need to be confident that the benefit people experienced from tweaking it, multiplied by the proportion of people willing and able to tweak it, was greater than the cost of more complex testing and code maintenance.

Sorry, but if someone isn't able to write code that displays a rectangle in a certain corner on the screen based on some variable without screwing up so much, that "testing and code maintenance" becomes an issue, you should really let doing it someone else.

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-04-01
> **mpt said:**
> Maybe it would indeed solve the problem, for most of the sort of people who post in the Ubuntu Forums. But that doesn’t mean it would solve the problem for anywhere near a majority of Ubuntu users in general. For most of them, it wouldn’t even occur to them that the position was configurable.

To make it configurable we would need to be confident that the benefit people experienced from tweaking it, multiplied by the proportion of people willing and able to tweak it, was greater than the cost of more complex testing and code maintenance.

That's a lot of words, so I'll throw a few back for your consideration. 

Choose a default position YOU as the developer think is best for most. Give users the ability to change that default. When dealing with corporate IT environments, it’s quite normal to find a multitude of custom in-house applications installed that MIGHT be hindered somehow. The end users of hundreds of these cloned machines could be affected in a negative way if the Desktop Support guy can’t move this bubble out of the way on the master image, or on the end users machine as needed. Please consider that…

---

### Post by ktp on 2009-04-01
my favorite response on the bug was you can always modify and build it yourself.

---

### Post by Eestlane on 2009-04-01
> **phenest said:**
> Do I get the feeling the notification area is becoming redundant?

No, it's comfortable to have some background apps there, like irc client or torrent client.

---

### Post by ktp on 2009-04-01
> **Eestlane said:**
> No, it's comfortable to have some background apps there, like irc client or torrent client.

I agree!!

---

### Post by Polygon on 2009-04-02
> **ktp said:**
> my favorite response on the bug was you can always modify and build it yourself.

its the standard answer which basically means "we are going to force our ideas about usability on you and if you don't like it tough tooties"

seriously, you can't assume that EVERYONE is going to like everything, especially when it comes to things you see frequently, like the pop up bubbles. I have yet to see any evidence or research saying that the top right is the end all be all best place to have my notification bubbles, yet every ubuntu developer says that 'its the best place to have it' and close any bug report filed on it as invalid. 

what if i move my notification area to the bottom of my screen? To the side?  why is it so bad that i customize where my bubble appears? Its our system, let us configure it.

like the person said, put a sane default, and then just let the user configure it. 

and honestly, the code to customize where the bubble appears would not be that complex to implement. If i was more experienced at programming i bet i could do it easily.

---

### Post by shafin on 2009-04-02
> **mc4100 said:**
> Not quite true: window controls, the calendar applet and shutdown, etc., are all in top right. As are other "important" things, like the volume controls in Rhythmbox, the next/previous buttons in F-Spot and Search in Firefox -- when they're maximized at least. And, perhaps most importantly, those are all by default.
But arren't the bubbles see through and click through?
That solves the problem for me.

---

### Post by mpt on 2009-04-02
> **TrueTom said:**
> Sorry, but if someone isn't able to write code that displays a rectangle in a certain corner on the screen based on some variable without screwing up so much, that "testing and code maintenance" becomes an issue, you should really let doing it someone else.

Sure, [go right ahead]("https://code.launchpad.net/notify-osd"). But first remember to specify (and write test cases for) what should happen to that setting if I change from an LTR language to an RTL one. Should the position setting flip to the other side automatically, like the position does now? Or should the setting stay as it is? Or should it flip only if you haven’t customized it already?

Also, what should happen if a bubble is being shown at the moment I change the setting? Should it move immediately, or stay where it is? If it stays where it is, what should happen if the application modifies the bubble? Should it move then? And what should happen if a confirmation bubble (*e.g.* volume change) comes in while that first bubble is still up? Should it appear below the previous bubble as usual? Or appear at the new position immediately? Or wait extra long for the previous bubble to disappear before appearing at the new position?

Even apparently simple settings have corner cases that need to be designed, tested, and maintained. That’s why we’d prefer to have actual evidence that a setting would be used by a non-trivial number of people.

> **crjackson said:**
> Choose a default position YOU as the developer think is best for most. Give users the ability to change that default. When dealing with corporate IT environments, it’s quite normal to find a multitude of custom in-house applications installed that MIGHT be hindered somehow. The end users of hundreds of these cloned machines could be affected in a negative way if the Desktop Support guy can’t move this bubble out of the way on the master image, or on the end users machine as needed.

Can you be more specific? The reason Notify OSD has fallback alert boxes (rather than just ignoring actions entirely) is because of those custom in-house applications, so it’s not as if we’re ignoring them. But how would the bubble *position* affect those applications? Could you perhaps provide a screenshot of an application that would be affected?

---

### Post by Yashiro on 2009-04-02
There's two choices.

Get this whole notify thing into standard gnome desktops.
You will have to change stuff then anyway.

Accept it's Ubuntu only. 
In which case you will need to make it more robust, meet more use cases and annoy your only audience less.

Granted, people are very quick to jump on the wagon to complain but asking people to validate your choices here will only result in conflict.

---

### Post by Remaille on 2009-04-02
):P I would also really like to be able to move it on whatever corner suits me the best.

One really cool thing for a future release would be to have the possibility to disable certain "groups" of notifications (let's say messenging or, audio, network). Some notifications tend to be annoying , for example I really don't need a notification saying I hit next to play the next song. I already DO know that, my hand is on the remote ! :tongue:

---

### Post by jackocleebrown on 2009-04-02
Did anyone else notice the "notification-properties" menu (hidden in preferences by default) which has a "position" setting for the notifications. Don't get too excited it does not seem to work.

Seriously though, I think that the new notifications are great and it does not detract from their greatness that I cannot move them to the corner I may or may not want them to be in... yet :D

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-04-02
> **mpt said:**
> 
Can you be more specific? The reason Notify OSD has fallback alert boxes (rather than just ignoring actions entirely) is because of those custom in-house applications, so it&#8217;s not as if we&#8217;re ignoring them. But how would the bubble *position* affect those applications? Could you perhaps provide a screenshot of an application that would be affected?


**Please read the PM I sent to you...**

---

### Post by betrunkenaffe on 2009-04-02
> **mpt said:**
> Sure, [go right ahead]("https://code.launchpad.net/notify-osd"). But first remember to specify (and write test cases for) what should happen to that setting if I change from an LTR language to an RTL one. Should the position setting flip to the other side automatically, like the position does now? Or should the setting stay as it is? Or should it flip only if you haven&#8217;t customized it already?
hat should happen if a confirmation bubble (*e.g.* volume change) comes in while that first bubble is still up? Should it appear below the previous bubble as usual? Or appear at the new position immediately? Or wait extra long for the previous bubble to disappear before appearing at the new position?

Even apparently simple settings have corner cases that need to be designed, tested, and maintained. That&#8217;s why we&#8217;d prefer to have actual evidence that a setting would be used by a non-trivial number of people.


I'm just curious as to why this was not originally looked at and dealt with in early design (not to say the design is flawed, just wanted to know why it wasn't looked at)? 

While I'll agree there are a number of ways to deal with it, the simplest to me would be to redraw the notifications that are present in the new corner (as selected) as if they were just received by the notification system, that deals with all timing issues as well as possible "multiple notifications in multiple places" issues. This to me doesn't seem like a monumental issue considering a user will move it once, not every 5 minutes.

I'd have to look at how the LTR/RTL language cases are treated differently but not sure why this would even factor in as a problem. Are you saying the notification area is not an independent space which overlays existing windows (albeit with transparency)? Unless you mean to say that LTR shows up on the right side of screen and RTL would show up on left side, in which case this almost seems a redundant point.

This option to me would seem almost natural given the Linux userbase (tending towards those that want to customize their layouts). I know most of the people that use Linux (that I know personally) have widgets in the top right corner of screen and the (only) bar on the bottom of screen. I'm guessing they'd want it down at the bottom to not interfere with the widgets (I personally run my laptop with bar at bottom and desktop with bar at top)

---

### Post by ktp on 2009-04-02
> **mpt said:**
> Sure, [go right ahead]("https://code.launchpad.net/notify-osd"). But first remember to specify (and write test cases for) what should happen to that setting if I change from an LTR language to an RTL one. Should the position setting flip to the other side automatically, like the position does now? Or should the setting stay as it is? Or should it flip only if you haven’t customized it already?

Also, what should happen if a bubble is being shown at the moment I change the setting? Should it move immediately, or stay where it is? If it stays where it is, what should happen if the application modifies the bubble? Should it move then? And what should happen if a confirmation bubble (*e.g.* volume change) comes in while that first bubble is still up? Should it appear below the previous bubble as usual? Or appear at the new position immediately? Or wait extra long for the previous bubble to disappear before appearing at the new position?

To me, and most likely be different for someone else, I would expect the notification to move to its new location after I have changed the setting.  Hack I set the setting so I would expect it to be used.

For all the different cases you bring up, I don't think anyone is going to say oh wait why didn't notification came up where I wanted while I was clicking the apply button.  Besides I know you guys don't take all these edge cases into consider when deciding if you want to provide option or feature.  If you didn't, you would never make any changes.  

Lets look at the Update Notification icon issue.  You guys decided to remove it and open the window.  There are so many case and most of them you will never get right.  Here are few: what if the user is type something; what if he can't or doesn't want to update right now; what if the user just want to close the window because in middle of presentation or already have no many windows to manage; what if the user is in the middle of switching workspace; what happens if the user has to closes the window without updating, will he be notified again seven days later; should we provide option to notify user in x minutes/days.....

---

### Post by Polygon on 2009-04-02
> **jackocleebrown said:**
> Did anyone else notice the "notification-properties" menu (hidden in preferences by default) which has a "position" setting for the notifications. Don't get too excited it does not seem to work.

Seriously though, I think that the new notifications are great and it does not detract from their greatness that I cannot move them to the corner I may or may not want them to be in... yet :D

they shipped notification-properties which modified the properties to the old notifications, they have since removed it from the alpha/beta builds.

---

### Post by tbone7 on 2009-04-03
Since the notification messages also stays fixed on the secondary small laptop monitor when using a larger external monitor in a dual screen set-up, this will simply have to be fixed. There's no use in notification messages in the far right corner on the right-placed secondary monitor without desktop panels :)

---

### Post by scaine on 2009-04-03
notify-osd vrs lib-notify
gnome-screensaver vrs x-screensaver
gnome-chat vrs xchat

The new boy always wins, despite what's said in these forums (and regardless of how utterly functionless and stepbackwards they are).  I expect that if more people flooded launchpad with carefully worded argument, the developers may take more action, but in fact, even then, I suspect that this is one decision that's been made by the benevolent dictator, so there would seem to be little point arguing it.

The same "justify your use case" defence has already been made for a use case based on accessbility for goodness sake.  If the developers aren't being given freedom to change this to accommodate well argued disabilities, then you're certainly not going to see any changes instigated just because nearly everyone has complained about it.

Lots of notify bugs:
[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/notify-osd/+bugs](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/notify-osd/+bugs) (and that doesn't the ones swept under the "invalid" carpet)

My favourite thread about notify-osd:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/346095](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notify-osd/+bug/346095) (show casing both how strongly joe-punter cares about the little details, and how little the developers care about making any changes regarding the little details)

Still, notify-osd isn't really that bad and let's not forget that :
a) it's early days and will get better
b) it's only a notification system - no need to raise your blood pressure over it and
c) there's always gnome-scratticelli (or whatever it's called) to get the old notification back...

But jeez... [Gnome-screensaver]("http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=323745").  [What a joke.]("http://live.gnome.org/GnomeScreensaver/FrequentlyAskedQuestions#head-64ef29e28226e09a3b849d8f00726cc004625c62")

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-04-04
Does anyone know how to disable it?  Stop it from starting up with gnome?  Cause I find it kind of useless and annoying.  Especially when I am playing music.  Every time a new song starts I get distracted by the big black bubble in the upper right of my screen.  And it just looks really out of place with my desktop theme.

I was going to remove it via synaptic but it wants to also remove the ubuntu-desktop package.

---

### Post by Incognito-Here on 2009-04-04
Yeah, but I found it both annoying and, hm, not quite good designed. You can remove new notifications using
```
sudo aptitude purge notify-osd
```
In this case the upstream notification system returns, and I find it much more usable and really good looking, better suited to the desktop.

---

### Post by Incognito-Here on 2009-04-04
And this this first ubuntu which I customize myself since 8.04. I'm lazy and don't like that, but these bubbles, as well as vacuous wallpapers are really need to be customized. I don't like this situation. Hope the team will draw a right conclusion and refuse from this hopeless osd and this so called "enterprise", but the in fact just ugly design.

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-04-04
Hmm that doesn't want to work either.  It still wants to remove ubuntu-desktop

```
sudo aptitude purge notify-osd
Reading package lists... Done                      
Building dependency tree                           
Reading state information... Done                  
Reading extended state information                 
Initializing package states... Done                
Writing extended state information... Done         
The following packages are BROKEN:                 
  ubuntu-desktop                                   
The following packages will be REMOVED:            
  notify-osd{p}                                    
0 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 1 not upgraded.
Need to get 0B of archives. After unpacking 823kB will be freed.       
The following packages have unmet dependencies:                        
  ubuntu-desktop: Depends: notify-osd but it is not installable        
The following actions will resolve these dependencies:                 

Remove the following packages:
ubuntu-desktop                

Score is 119

Accept this solution? [Y/n/q/?] n

*** No more solutions available ***
```

---

### Post by Incognito-Here on 2009-04-04
Of course it wants - dependencies. But what's the problem? It's metapackage. Confirm the solution.

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-04-04
Ok, I thought ubuntu-desktop was going to uninstall a lot of other packages.  I didn't realize it was just a meta package.  thank you.

---

### Post by scaine on 2009-04-04
Removing ubuntu-desktop is never a good idea.  If you do, then you'll lose added/removed packages from the development processes.

Check out this post for a better solution.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6950972&postcount=20](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6950972&postcount=20)

---

### Post by kodiakmax on 2009-04-04
Well that bubble looks better but it's just as annoying when playing music.  I now get 3 different message bubbles notifying me on track changes.
1 for the music applet in my panel
1 for the music client tray icon
1 for the music client's OSD
I realize i could disable the music client's OSD but, I prefer to just use the music client's OSD It looks better, has better info, and depending on the client it is positionable on screen.

I guess I'll just have to try to write a script to kill the notification proccess on startup, or deal with the package dependancy issues with the ubuntu-desktop metapackage when they occur.

---

### Post by Incognito-Here on 2009-04-04
> Removing ubuntu-desktop is never a good idea. If you do, then you'll lose added/removed packages from the development processes.
Lol, newer versions of notify-osd? No, thanks ;)

---

### Post by groggyboy on 2009-04-04
I for one quite like notify-osd.  I think it provides a bit of neat eye-candy, and the way it fades out when moused over is quite thoughtful.

I do have some issues with notify-osd, such as how it handles notifications that require user interaction.  Popping up a dialog window? Really?  I'm sure the ubuntu devs can find a more elegant solution.

I also dislike how the notifications are always black.  It would be nice if notify-osd took a hint from the user's current theme, and changed colours accordingly.

As for changing the placement of the notifications, it would certainly be nice to customize that aspect.  With the old notification-daemon system, there was (still is) an option in gconf-editor that lets you choose where on the screen you wanted notifications to appear (I'm referring to those pop-ups that weren't tied to the system tray, such as when you eject a portable media player).  I don't see why a similar option for notify-osd would be a big deal.  It would be unobtrusive and in keeping with Gnome's HIG, yet would still allow for some customization.

---

### Post by mpt on 2009-04-06
> **Yashiro said:**
> There's two choices.

Get this whole notify thing into standard gnome desktops.
You will have to change stuff then anyway.

Accept it's Ubuntu only. 
In which case you will need to make it more robust, meet more use cases and annoy your only audience less.

That’s a false choice, for two reasons. First, that something is in Gnome does not mean it has to be configurable; for example, the Evince developers have worked hard to ensure that Evince doesn’t need a Preferences dialog. Second, that something is in Ubuntu but not in Gnome does not mean it’s Ubuntu-only; for example, see Firefox, OpenOffice.org, and Upstart. Other distributions have expressed interest in adopting Notify OSD, regardless of whether it’s in Gnome.

> **betrunkenaffe said:**
> I'm just curious as to why this was not originally looked at and dealt with in early design (not to say the design is flawed, just wanted to know why it wasn't looked at)?

We did look at it, and came to the conclusion that a fixed position was good enough at least for now. And I think that was the right choice, given how busy we’ve been designing and implementing all the other details. As I’ve said, we’ll reconsider the position for Karmic (and specific examples of applications or disabilities for which the current position doesn’t work are welcome).

> **betrunkenaffe said:**
> I'd have to look at how the LTR/RTL language cases are treated differently but not sure why this would even factor in as a problem. Are you saying the notification area is not an independent space which overlays existing windows (albeit with transparency)?

That particular discussion didn’t have anything to do with the notification area, it was [asking for the position to be configurable]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6995965#post6995965") regardless of where the notification area is.

> **betrunkenaffe said:**
> Unless you mean to say that LTR shows up on the right side of screen and RTL would show up on left side, in which case this almost seems a redundant point.

Notify OSD does go on the left if you’re using an RTL language, but Gnome requires you to log out and log in again to see a change in the language setting, so we don’t need to worry about changing the layout during a session. If Gnome ever starts letting you change the setting on the fly, we’ll need to design those details I listed.

> **ktp said:**
> Lets look at the Update Notification icon issue.  You guys decided to remove it and open the window.  There are so many case and most of them you will never get right.  Here are few: what if the user is type something; what if he can't or doesn't want to update right now; what if the user just want to close the window because in middle of presentation or already have no many windows to manage; what if the user is in the middle of switching workspace; what happens if the user has to closes the window without updating, will he be notified again seven days later; should we provide option to notify user in x minutes/days.....

As of a couple of days ago, we handle all of those cases — except for the last one, because [I messed up]("http://launchpad.net/bugs/351484") and forgot to redesign the Updates settings. I’m glad I didn’t have to design notification bubble position settings for 9.04 too. ;)

---

### Post by cc8balla on 2009-04-06
So far, my ONLY problem with notify-osd is the notifications for Pidgin. I dont care about the other ones, they don't really bother me. BUT I use Guifications, cause they show me a ton more of what I want to see(after all, this is MY computer I want it to work the way I want) so is there a way to stop Pidgin from triggering Notify-osd? 

This alone may force me to go back to Intrepid, and I really don't want to, as Jaunty is brilliant so far.

---

### Post by mpt on 2009-04-06
> **cc8balla said:**
> So far, my ONLY problem with notify-osd is the notifications for Pidgin. I dont care about the other ones, they don't really bother me. BUT I use Guifications, cause they show me a ton more of what I want to see(after all, this is MY computer I want it to work the way I want) so is there a way to stop Pidgin from triggering Notify-osd?

Yes, “Tools” &#8594; “Plugins” &#8594; turn off “Libnotify Popups”.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2009-04-06
> **groggyboy said:**
> I for one quite like notify-osd.  I think it provides a bit of neat eye-candy, and the way it fades out when moused over is quite thoughtful.

I do have some issues with notify-osd, such as how it handles notifications that require user interaction.  Popping up a dialog window? Really?  I'm sure the ubuntu devs can find a more elegant solution.

I also dislike how the notifications are always black.  It would be nice if notify-osd took a hint from the user's current theme, and changed colours accordingly.

As for changing the placement of the notifications, it would certainly be nice to customize that aspect.  With the old notification-daemon system, there was (still is) an option in gconf-editor that lets you choose where on the screen you wanted notifications to appear (I'm referring to those pop-ups that weren't tied to the system tray, such as when you eject a portable media player).  I don't see why a similar option for notify-osd would be a big deal.  It would be unobtrusive and in keeping with Gnome's HIG, yet would still allow for some customization.

I quite agree. Especially about the fade click-through feature. I love that. The old notifications were always getting in my way, now I can click right through these things. Quite innovative if you ask me.

---

### Post by cc8balla on 2009-04-06
> **mpt said:**
> Yes, “Tools” &#8594; “Plugins” &#8594; turn off “Libnotify Popups”.

Christ, now you made me feel like an idiot for not thinking of that :D

Thank you sir, truly made things a whooooolllle lot better. 

(and a side note, i wouldn't be opposed to being able to move the bubbles around, but its not a game breaker for me)

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-04-07
> **Eestlane said:**
> No, it's comfortable to have some background apps there, like irc client or torrent client.
Which are notifications...how?  Isn't this why Microsoft invented the Land of Minimized Windows a meter up and to the left of the screen's visible area?

---

### Post by macogw on 2009-04-07
> **mpt said:**
>  First, that something is in Gnome does not mean it has to be configurable
Usually, it means exactly the opposite.
> **cc8balla said:**
> So far, my ONLY problem with notify-osd is the notifications for Pidgin. I dont care about the other ones, they don't really bother me. BUT I use Guifications, cause they show me a ton more of what I want to see
Wait, what?  I've used Guifications.  It shows, in size 20 font, instead of "JaneySmith is online":
Jan...
has
sig...

The full text of "JaneySmith has signed on" is horribly mangled.  And it doesn't show what message is being said either.

---

### Post by Polygon on 2009-04-07
> **macogw said:**
> Which are notifications...how?  Isn't this why Microsoft invented the Land of Minimized Windows a meter up and to the left of the screen's visible area?

yes i agree. But currently we are stuck between what we had before and where we WANT to be, which is worse then where we have started.


At least the way i understand it, ubuntu wants all apps that  used to minimize to tray to not to occupy a icon in the notification area, but have a entry in 'indicator-applet', and then you can right click and do everything you want to there, and if it wants to notify you about something, then the fancy new notification pop ups show and then it minimizes to the indicator applet where you can click on the appropriate program and deal with it however you want

except now, almost nothing uses indicator applet, so we still have the program 'minimized to tray' spam, and the indicator applet still takes up a spot, and the new notifications seem too 'simple' (for example, banshee has a button that says 'skip this song' in the old libnotify pop ups, now that is no longer possible, which leads me to right click the banshee icon and hit next....two extra steps)

I'm sure this will all be great when its finally worked out, but for now we are stuck inbetween  ideas, which makes it highly inconvenient and annoying for the users

---

### Post by tbone7 on 2009-04-07
I second that; well put.

---

### Post by 16sinker on 2009-04-07
Am I missing something here? Since upgrading to Jaunty Beta I haven't been getting update notifications(update icon)in the notifications area in the upper right taskbar, however I know that there are lots of updates occurring, so I run the update manager every twelve hours or so and take my updates. At the same time I don't get the icon that lets me know a package manager is still working-also in the upper right corner of my laptop where I have located the notification area. Am I looking in the wrong place? Sorry to be so uninformed about the new notification OSD.I should also add that my experience with Jaunty so far been trouble free and seems to work fine on this old Dell Inspiron 8000.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2009-04-07
> **16sinker said:**
> Am I missing something here? Since upgrading to Jaunty Beta I haven't been getting update notifications(update icon)in the notifications area in the upper right taskbar, however I know that there are lots of updates occurring, so I run the update manager every twelve hours or so and take my updates. At the same time I don't get the icon that lets me know a package manager is still working-also in the upper right corner of my laptop where I have located the notification area. Am I looking in the wrong place? Sorry to be so uninformed about the new notification OSD.I should also add that my experience with Jaunty so far been trouble free and seems to work fine on this old Dell Inspiron 8000.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6999651&postcount=18]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6999651&postcount=18")

---

### Post by 16sinker on 2009-04-07
bofus66@ubuntudell:~$ gconftool -s --type bool /apps/update-notifier/auto_launch false
bofus66@ubuntudell:~$ killall update-notifier
bofus66@ubuntudell:~$ update-notifier &
[1] 12655
bofus66@ubuntudell:~$ disown
bofus66@ubuntudell:~$ sudo apt-get update
[sudo] password for bofus66: 
Hit [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid-backports Release.gpg
Get:1 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty Release.gpg [189B]                      
Hit [http://archive.canonical.com](http://archive.canonical.com) jaunty Release.gpg                            
Ign [http://archive.canonical.com](http://archive.canonical.com) jaunty/partner Translation-en_US              
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/main Translation-en_US                    
Hit [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) jaunty Release.gpg                                
Ign [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) jaunty/main Translation-en_US           
Hit [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid-backports Release          
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/restricted Translation-en_US   
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/universe Translation-en_US     
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/multiverse Translation-en_US   
Hit [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) jaunty Release.gpg                
Hit [http://archive.canonical.com](http://archive.canonical.com) jaunty Release                     
Ign [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) jaunty/free Translation-en_US
Hit [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) jaunty Release
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates Release.gpg
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/main Translation-en_US
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/restricted Translation-en_US
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/universe Translation-en_US
Ign [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) jaunty/non-free Translation-en_US
Hit [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) jaunty Release                   
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/multiverse Translation-en_US      
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security Release.gpg                      
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/main Translation-en_US           
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/restricted Translation-en_US     
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/universe Translation-en_US       
Hit [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid-backports/main Sources               
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/multiverse Translation-en_US
Hit [http://archive.canonical.com](http://archive.canonical.com) jaunty/partner Packages                       
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed Release.gpg                      
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/restricted Translation-en_US     
Hit [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid-backports/restricted Sources         
Hit [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid-backports/universe Sources           
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/main Translation-en_US           
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/multiverse Translation-en_US     
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/universe Translation-en_US       
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports Release.gpg                     
Ign [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) jaunty/main Packages                              
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/restricted Translation-en_US    
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/main Translation-en_US          
Hit [http://archive.canonical.com](http://archive.canonical.com) jaunty/partner Sources                        
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/multiverse Translation-en_US    
Ign [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/universe Translation-en_US      
Hit [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid-backports/multiverse Sources
Get:2 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty Release [74.6kB]              
Hit [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) jaunty/free Packages                
Ign [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) jaunty/main Sources                      
Hit [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) jaunty/main Packages  
Hit [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) jaunty/non-free Packages
Hit [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) jaunty/main Sources      
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates Release
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security Release
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed Release
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports Release
Get:3 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/main Packages [1257kB]
9% [3 Packages 46889/1257kB 3%]** (update-notifier:12655): DEBUG: /usr/lib/update-notifier/apt-check returned 0 (security: 0)
12% [3 Packages 94049/1257kB 7%]Fontconfig error: "~/.fonts.conf", line 2: no element found
14% [3 Packages 119201/1257kB 9%]** (update-notifier:12655): DEBUG: crashreport_check

Get:4 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/restricted Packages [8653B]             
Get:5 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/main Sources [543kB]                    
Get:6 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/restricted Sources [3156B]              
Get:7 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/universe Packages [4756kB]              
Get:8 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/universe Sources [2373kB]                                                                         
Get:9 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/multiverse Packages [197kB]                                                                       
Get:10 [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/multiverse Sources [107kB]                                                                       
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/main Packages                                                                               
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/restricted Packages                                                                         
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/main Sources                                                                                
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/restricted Sources                                                                          
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/universe Packages                                                                           
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/universe Sources                                                                            
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/multiverse Packages                                                                         
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-updates/multiverse Sources                                                                          
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/main Packages                                                                              
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/restricted Packages                                                                        
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/main Sources                                                                               
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/restricted Sources                                                                         
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/universe Packages                                                                          
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/universe Sources                                                                           
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/multiverse Packages                                                                        
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-security/multiverse Sources                                                                         
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/restricted Packages                                                                        
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/main Packages                                                                              
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/multiverse Packages                                                                        
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-proposed/universe Packages                                                                          
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/restricted Packages                                                                       
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/main Packages                                                                             
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/multiverse Packages                                                                       
Hit [http://archive.ubuntu.com](http://archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty-backports/universe Packages                                   [SIZE="1"][/SIZE]                                      
Fetched 9321kB in 4min 2s (38.5kB/s)                                                                                                     
Reading package lists... Done
bofus66@ubuntudell:~$ ** (update-notifier:12655): DEBUG: /usr/lib/update-notifier/apt-check returned 1 (security: 0)

---

### Post by 16sinker on 2009-04-07
The suggested code did work for me, as my update icon and the package manager have returned to their usual place on my taskbar, so thanks for the tip. However the output of the code in the above post seems to suggest errors. Does it look out of whack to anyone? Everything seems to be running great and I am very happy to have my icons back. Thanks again.

---

### Post by Remaille on 2009-04-17
> **mpt said:**
> Sure, [go right ahead]("https://code.launchpad.net/notify-osd"). But first remember to specify (and write test cases for) what should happen to that setting if I change from an LTR language to an RTL one. Should the position setting flip to the other side automatically, like the position does now? Or should the setting stay as it is? Or should it flip only if you haven&#8217;t customized it already?


hu ? _USER SPECIFIED_... if a I am writing LTR or RTL and I want it to be on the left-top corner no matter what ?... text orientation has nothing to do with user choice on a window position (that's a differrent matter on default position... a left/right choice... wow).

> **mpt said:**
> 
Also, what should happen if a bubble is being shown at the moment I change the setting? Should it move immediately, or stay where it is? If it stays where it is, what should happen if the application modifies the bubble? Should it move then? And what should happen if a confirmation bubble (*e.g.* volume change) comes in while that first bubble is still up? Should it appear below the previous bubble as usual? Or appear at the new position immediately? Or wait extra long for the previous bubble to disappear before appearing at the new position?


notifications should remain in queue while configuring and show up when config is done, or warning user that is it disabled when configuring (a simple choice of corner doesn't take hours).

> **mpt said:**
> 
Even apparently simple settings have corner cases that need to be designed, tested, and maintained. That&#8217;s why we&#8217;d prefer to have actual evidence that a setting would be used by a non-trivial number of people.


Sure, as a developer, I agree that even simple settings needs a fair amount of testing, but pretending that a simple position/orientation setting can't be modified, if wanted, with more than a few variables is BS or a flawed design!

Why not implement this settings in a text file ? So basic users don't even know it exists and others have the possibility  to do what they want. Gnome is great for that, great simplicity in the UI, but extensive customisation for the power-users.

---

### Post by eponymous on 2009-04-20
Is it possible to force notifications to one display or the other in nVidia TwinView? It seems they appear on whatever screen has the rightmost absolute location.

---

### Post by ktp on 2009-04-20
> **eponymous said:**
> Is it possible to force notifications to one display or the other in nVidia TwinView? It seems they appear on whatever screen has the rightmost absolute location.

This was changed to display on primary display now:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/notify-osd/+bug/331369](https://bugs.launchpad.net/notify-osd/+bug/331369)

---

