---
title: "9.04 Beta has application crash problems"
date: 2009-03-27
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Sunstrider on 2009-03-27
Hi guys. I installed 9.04 Beta fresh from iso. There were some problems such as inability to boot if Ext4 is selected as filesystem, but Ext3 boots fine. Once booted however, it immediately notifies me that an application has crashed. Trying to install updates is broken too, so i can't upgrade either.

The sticky in this forum says Python version 2.6.1-1ubuntu5.1 is the 'fixed' version, this is the one i'm using currently however. So what is causing this problem, how can i fix it, would installing a nightly version of Ubuntu 9.04 fix the problem?

dmesg output is:

[ 4672.030022] apt-check[9444]: segfault at 7f347dea5014 ip 00007f333fc1686d sp 00007fff491005c0 error 4 in libapt-pkg-libc6.9-6.so.4.7.0[7f333fbcb000+bc000]
[ 4697.431081] synaptic[9495]: segfault at 7f1eabcdee72 ip 00007f1ea6ef2d96 sp 00007fffaf339010 error 4 in libapt-pkg-libc6.9-6.so.4.7.0[7f1ea6e5b000+bc000]
[ 4702.828421] apt-check[9558]: segfault at 7fe2dfd16014 ip 00007fe1a1a763ca sp 00007fffaaf71aa0 error 4 in libapt-pkg-libc6.9-6.so.4.7.0[7fe1a1a3c000+bc000]

I have tried "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" in terminal, but it failed:

$ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Segmentation fault (core dumped)

When i did it earlier it went about downloading packages but failed at some point. Now its failing straight away. Any hints?

---

### Post by crjackson on 2009-03-27
> **Sunstrider said:**
> Hi guys. I installed 9.04 Beta fresh from iso. There were some problems such as inability to boot if Ext4 is selected as filesystem, but Ext3 boots fine. Once booted however, it immediately notifies me that an application has crashed. Trying to install updates is broken too, so i can't upgrade either.

The sticky in this forum says Python version 2.6.1-1ubuntu5.1 is the 'fixed' version, this is the one i'm using currently however. So what is causing this problem, how can i fix it, would installing a nightly version of Ubuntu 9.04 fix the problem?

dmesg output is:

[ 4672.030022] apt-check[9444]: segfault at 7f347dea5014 ip 00007f333fc1686d sp 00007fff491005c0 error 4 in libapt-pkg-libc6.9-6.so.4.7.0[7f333fbcb000+bc000]
[ 4697.431081] synaptic[9495]: segfault at 7f1eabcdee72 ip 00007f1ea6ef2d96 sp 00007fffaf339010 error 4 in libapt-pkg-libc6.9-6.so.4.7.0[7f1ea6e5b000+bc000]
[ 4702.828421] apt-check[9558]: segfault at 7fe2dfd16014 ip 00007fe1a1a763ca sp 00007fffaaf71aa0 error 4 in libapt-pkg-libc6.9-6.so.4.7.0[7fe1a1a3c000+bc000]

I have tried "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" in terminal, but it failed:

$ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Segmentation fault (core dumped)

When i did it earlier it went about downloading packages but failed at some point. Now its failing straight away. Any hints?

It was caused by a faulty Python update (according to the sticky link below) which also affects the update manager gui.

Seems you already updated from the terminal. The sticky on this seems to indicate that a terminal update is the way to go.

[Sticky posted on this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1107854").

---

### Post by Gramps on 2009-03-27
I had a like problem when installing one of the Alpha versions. NOthing worked right and from the froums I should not have been having the problems. I re-burnt the iso using Brasero instead of Gnome and then reinstalled and all was fine. Might want to check the MD5 on your iso too.  

I just updated from A6 to B1 today and am not experiencing the problems that you are.

When working with the Alpha and Beta versions I always use the command line to do my updates. Seems like I have much less trouble.

```
sudo apt-get update
```
This downloads the latest package list
```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
This will install any new updates

---

### Post by Eclipse. on 2009-03-27
Did you report a bug on the EXT4 problem?

If not, then please do.

---

### Post by Sunstrider on 2009-03-27
I had used the apt-get update and dist-upgrade commands in the terminal, but they fail. They don't work.

Also, i'm getting a different error on my 8th try for running "sudo apt-get dist-upgrade", dmesg says:

[ 8471.188616] EXT3-fs error (device sda1): ext3_free_blocks: Freeing blocks not in datazone - block = 268435456, count = 1
[ 8471.188632] Aborting journal on device sda1.
[ 8471.189109] Remounting filesystem read-only
[ 8471.189603] EXT3-fs error (device sda1) in ext3_reserve_inode_write: Journal has aborted
[ 8471.189609] EXT3-fs error (device sda1) in ext3_truncate: Journal has aborted
[ 8471.189615] EXT3-fs error (device sda1) in ext3_reserve_inode_write: Journal has aborted
[ 8471.189619] EXT3-fs error (device sda1) in ext3_orphan_del: Journal has aborted
[ 8471.189625] EXT3-fs error (device sda1) in ext3_reserve_inode_write: Journal has aborted

Something with my HDD? This is my df -h output:
$ df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1              28G  2.5G   24G  10% /
tmpfs                 868M     0  868M   0% /lib/init/rw
varrun                868M  108K  868M   1% /var/run
varlock               868M     0  868M   0% /var/lock
udev                  868M   92K  868M   1% /dev
tmpfs                 868M  516K  868M   1% /dev/shm
lrm                   868M  2.4M  866M   1% /lib/modules/2.6.28-11-generic/volatile
/dev/sda5             187G   31M  187G   1% /home

$ sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=/root/testfile bs=1M count=1
[sudo] password for chaos: 
dd: opening `/root/testfile': Read-only file system
chaos@chaos-desktop:~$ mount
/dev/sda1 on / type ext3 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)

It is showing as Read/Write, but still read-only. I'm just hoping this is all part of some b0rked software in Ubuntu. The drive i'm using is new, i'm using AHCI (not "SATA" or "IDE") mode in the BIOS.

Any suggestions where i should look? I did a surface-test of the cd i used to install, it passed two times. I also used memtest for about half an hour without problems -- the hardware should be stable! Reading from my HDD also seem to work without problems, but its in read-only mode now so i'll reboot. :)

---

### Post by loomsen on 2009-03-27
Try grabbing update-manager-text.

For help u may always and for every app use <command> --help to see available options.

---

### Post by Sunstrider on 2009-03-27
I'm reinstalling right now. I found that after rebooting it found severe filesystem errors, i used Ext3. Something went totally wrong. I'm trying to figure out if this is an isolated incident or a reproduceable issue.

I'm installing the 9.04 amd64 beta which contains the 'bad' version of python. What do you suggest i do to fix this? Open up a terminal and do "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" should work you say?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2009-03-27
Version ubuntu6 is the bad one.

[[img]http://www.ubuntu-pics.de/thumb/11627/screenshot_021_tS0CZ3.png[/img]](http://www.ubuntu-pics.de/bild/11627/screenshot_021_tS0CZ3.png)

Look at the shot, I had to remove python-doc and lock version for examples to ubuntu5.1

Working till the missing pkges get updatet/removed, currently there's no other version avilable for the doc, but I can live without it for the moment.

Generally I'd suggest using aptitude rather than apt-get from a terminal.

---

### Post by BGFG on 2009-03-27
only app crash I've had was packagekit,(bug alrady reported) which I installed and is still in development. Also been using apt-get update/upgrade with no issues. My usg ext4 for / and /home with no problems either.

Thats a beta for you :)

---

### Post by Bert Mariën on 2009-03-27
In the beta I had crashes with, tilda, KompoZer, Root terminal...
The installer is not completely okay neither (window does not fit the screen (28 partitions)).
Filed bugs to all of them.

The "tilda bug" I might have resolved myself just by deleting the .tilda folder and made new config files. Till now it works okay anyway.

The other bugs... I don't know.

---

### Post by Zillode on 2009-03-28
> **Sunstrider said:**
> I'm reinstalling right now. I found that after rebooting it found severe filesystem errors, i used Ext3. Something went totally wrong. I'm trying to figure out if this is an isolated incident or a reproduceable issue.

I'm installing the 9.04 amd64 beta which contains the 'bad' version of python. What do you suggest i do to fix this? Open up a terminal and do "sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade" should work you say?

I'm having the same issue here, my filesystem keeps failing. Using ext3 - acer 8920g laptop.
This also happens when working in eclipse, everything stops working and when I reboot the filesystem is broken.

---

### Post by Sunstrider on 2009-03-31
Hmm i solved my issue. It turns out that my memory was defect - but not in an ordinary fashion.

After i built the box, i ran Memtest for an extended period of time, and found no errors. So i assumed the memory was ok. But i later discovered the motherboard 'trains' the memory upon boot, like an automatic overclock feature. The voltage however would not be increased, and this likely caused very sporadic memory corruption.

In other words, the memory timings and even frequency could be different upon boot; making memory errors obscured by my first memory test.

So this explains the number of errors i was having. I recommend everyone with the same symptoms to check everything twice - make sure the hardware is stable and check with an older Ubuntu version - etc.

Ofcourse, i thought all the crashes were related to Python being broken about the same time i installed ubuntu 9.04b. Fixing computer problems can be frustrating at times. Anyway, thanks all; ubuntu 9.04 beta now runs great; and it does boot off Ext4.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2009-04-01
> **Sunstrider said:**
> and it does boot off Ext4.

So did mine too. Until my laptop powered off from one moment to the next. Switching it back on then caused some minor troubles, as the disks, whysoever, had totally different uids afterwards.

So I decided to switch back to ext3 for boot, hence ext4 basically just fills the hole until [btrfs finally grows up to sth like testing...](http://kernelnewbies.org/Linux_2_6_29)

---

