---
title: "9.04 beta on Asus eeepc 1000he"
date: 2009-04-05
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Guffles on 2009-04-05
On my recently purchased netbook, I've installed Ubuntu 9.04, and am using the xfce environment.  So far, most everything's okay.  The hotkeys for screen brightness and speaker volume are working (the latter worked out of the box in Gnome, but had to be configured in xfce).
Problem: I can't figure out how to actually cut power to the wireless, which I would like to do to preserve battery life every once in a while.  The two relevant utilities for the eee models that are in the repositories do not work.  eee-applet is poking around in places that don't exist (/proc/acpi/asus/), and eeepc-acpi-scripts won't install as it depends on acpi-support-base, which does not exist.  Any other power management advice would also be greatly appreciated.

Thanks all.

---

### Post by carl689 on 2009-04-11
Just logged in to post almost the exact same post ;-).  Any luck on this?

---

### Post by Guffles on 2009-04-13
> **carl689 said:**
> Just logged in to post almost the exact same post ;-).  Any luck on this?

Not much, no.  There are several scripts packages out there for eee power management/hotkeys/etc. but none seemed to work.  Best I got was one that did enable the hotkey to turn off the wireless, but didn't want to turn it back on.  And I'm not sure if that was actually cutting power to the wireless, either.  Unchecking the box in NetworkManager doesn't seem to.

---

### Post by KhaaL on 2009-04-13
i thought that there was a eeepc package in the repositories that would enable this, or am i mistaken...?

---

### Post by IanW on 2009-04-14
Try Fewt's script from [EeeUser.com's Forums](http://forum.eeeuser.com/viewforum.php?id=43).

---

