---
title: "No 2.6.29 for Jaunty..."
date: 2009-02-13
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2009-02-13
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzA1OA]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=NzA1OA")

> Ubuntu 9.04, the next Linux operating system release due out by Canonical in April, will not be shipping with the Linux 2.6.29 kernel like many had hoped for. The feature freeze for the Jaunty Jackalope is not until next week and the Linux 2.6.29 kernel will certainly be released by April (right now it's at -rc4 stage), but Canonical's kernel team has decided to stick with using the current Linux 2.6.28 stable series.

The Linux 2.6.28 kernel was released back in December, but the 2.6.29 kernel is introducing mainline support for Btrfs, Intel kernel mode-setting support, and various other new features. Numerous Linux drivers have also been either added or updated within the Linux 2.6,29 tree.

Canonical's Tim Gardner had said on the kernel team's list, "Jaunty will absolutely, positively, and without a doubt, release with a
2.6.28 kernel." Many Ubuntu users -- including us -- would have liked to see the Linux 2.6.29 kernel inside Ubuntu 9.04, but that simply will not happen. Unless you are interested in building your own kernel, users will simply need to wait until Ubuntu 9.10 when it will ship with the Linux 2.6.30 or 2.6.31 kernels.

With Ubuntu 8.10 there was a similar kernel debate about using the 2.6.26 or 2.6.27 kernel, but in that case they ended up choosing the newer version.

Thoughts?

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-02-13
Please refer to the [other thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1037439") for information about this issue.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-13
I saw this on Ubuntu Planet, as to why 2.6.29 will not be included in Juanty:

> Kernel Version

The Jaunty Kernel version will be 2.6.28. We considered 2.6.29, it was not selected however due to all of the major changes. The primary reasons were due to the large number new features that are scheduled to land in it. Regression of functionality is a large concern and there would be a good chance of that happening given when estimated date that Linus will declare it baked. Unfortunately it just doesn't line up with the Jaunty release cycle. On the bright side... for Jaunty+1 we will have time to shake out any issues and are looking towards 2.6.30 or .31

Jim

---

### Post by denzilla on 2009-02-13
Is it just me or is something always just slightly out of reach for every release of Ubuntu?

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-02-13
KDE, always... as Ubuntu's release cycle is based on Gnome's release cycle.

---

### Post by chuckyp on 2009-02-13
Yeah something is always out of reach. It would be cool to have a more up to date version unsupported like. Debians current structure stable unstable testing. This may confuse people and create distractions though.

---

### Post by vishalrao on 2009-02-13
i believe they've backported hand selected fixes from .29 into .28 so im not too disappointed...

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-02-14
What I would really like is the rolling unstable version (take snapshots at 6 month intervals for stable releases)--There has been talk about it, but I fear that it will be only talk.....

---

### Post by inportb on 2009-02-14
I guess that would be similar to switching to the development release of Ubuntu as soon as it's available. I believe you do that already, right? ;p

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-02-14
Yes---sort of....the talk is about creating a on-going unstable branch--what we do now is start & stop in 6 month time intervals. Yes, there would still be feature freeze & debug time---but at the same time, the unstable branch would keep going--this would allow those that like testing to keep moving the distro leading edge forward.

In this example--one group would freeze/debug the upcoming release, while the other group would simply keep syncing & testing for the next release--that would "add" 2 months of lead time to the next one. The way we currently do it is 4 months testing--2 months stabilizing/debug up to the release & then start all over again.


And---Yes....I'm one of the "crazies" that start up as soon as the repos open again--I like testing work & believe that we could "gain" 4 months testing work per year by changing that way ;)

---

### Post by Kow on 2009-02-14
I don't really see how this is such a big problem. Almost all of the mainstream Ubuntu users just want Ubuntu to work with no glitch and 2.6.29 would surely cause regression-related issues which could not be resolved in time for the April release of jaunty. If you want 2.6.29 then simply compile it yourself.... it's ridiculously easy. I use 2.6.28 on a beefed-up intrepid install.

---

