---
title: "How to manually change Monitor resolution."
date: 2009-04-11
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by dasme on 2009-04-11
Hi

I have Samsung 19"widescreen minitor with intel 845 onboard graphics.

Currently i get maximum resolution of 1024x768 in ubuntu (5:4) ratio
and in windows i used to get full resolution of 1400x900

Is thr anyway to manually change desktop resolution?

Thx

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2009-04-11
I used to know how to do this - there was a time when I had an ATI graphics card that would not behave and I got WAY into this but fortunately put all that behind me.

In order to get you a graphical screen, Linux uses XWindows - when the machine first starts up, it fires up an XServer and that is what paints Windows and icons on your monitor.

The configuration file for this is in /etc/X11/xorg.conf

If you Google "Ubuntu xorg.conf" you will be off and running

One last question which I should have asked first, are you certain there is not a better driver you can be using for your graphics chip?  You don't want to start playing with xorg.conf unless there is no other way.

If you do change that file, always make a backup so if XServer will not start, you can use recovery mode in a terminal session to restore your backup file.

---

### Post by dasme on 2009-04-11
> **pbpersson said:**
> I used to know how to do this - there was a time when I had an ATI graphics card that would not behave and I got WAY into this but fortunately put all that behind me.

In order to get you a graphical screen, Linux uses XWindows - when the machine first starts up, it fires up an XServer and that is what paints Windows and icons on your monitor.

The configuration file for this is in /etc/X11/xorg.conf

If you Google "Ubuntu xorg.conf" you will be off and running

One last question which I should have asked first, are you certain there is not a better driver you can be using for your graphics chip?  You don't want to start playing with xorg.conf unless there is no other way.

If you do change that file, always make a backup so if XServer will not start, you can use recovery mode in a terminal session to restore your backup file.

Hi thx for quick reply. 
I already checked Hardware Drivers it doesn't give me any driver for my card.
Is thr any other way to find out graphics driver?

And what exactly should i change in xorg.conf to get 1400x900 resolution.
My xorg.conf file
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

Thx

---

### Post by tom56 on 2009-04-11
I'm guessing you already tried System->Preferences->Display

---

### Post by dasme on 2009-04-11
> **tom56 said:**
> I'm guessing you already tried System->Preferences->Display

Yes buddy i already did that :)

but it doesn't recognise my monitor and max resolution supported is 1024x768, which looks very bad on 19" widescreen monitor. :(

---

### Post by phenest on 2009-04-11
> **dasme said:**
> ...but it doesn't recognise my monitor and max resolution supported is 1024x768, which looks very bad on 19" widescreen monitor. :(

This is because the driver you are currently using doesn't support anything else. No amount of tweaking the xorg.conf will change that. You need to setup the correct driver first.
What brand of graphics card do you have? nVidia, ATI, Intel?

---

### Post by dasme on 2009-04-11
> **phenest said:**
> This is because the driver you are currently using doesn't support anything else. No amount of tweaking the xorg.conf will change that. You need to setup the correct driver first.
What brand of graphics card do you have? nVidia, ATI, Intel?

Buddy if u read the first post it's mentioned thr (intel 845 onboard graphics)
;)

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-12
Hi dasme,

I don't think there is a proprietary Intel driver for your chipset.  You'll need to use Xorg's "Intel" in your video device section rather than "vesa".  Might want some other tweaks too.  See post #8 here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108732](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108732)

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-04-12
Hi dasme,

I don't think there is a proprietary Intel driver for your chipset.  You'll need to use Xorg's "Intel" in your video device section rather than "vesa".  Might want some other tweaks too.  See post #8 here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108732](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1108732)  And there have been problems with your motherboard chipset as the thread discusses.

---

### Post by Axess_Denied on 2009-04-12
I was experiencing some resolution issues when installing Intrepid on my PS3. Don't know if it will help at all but I tried this:

Exit 'X' using Ctrl+Alt+F1

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo apt-get install fbset
sudo fbset -a -xres xxxx -yres xxxx

```

Using the xres and yres targets you think will match most with your display, you can continue to adjust the resolution down (NOT UP). When you see changes give startx a shot and see how it looks.

Again, since I did this with PS3 not sure it will work for you, but it may just do the trick.;)

If it works I may be able to help with a few tips on dropping it into your boot.conf and make it executable on boot-up!

---

