---
title: "ATI Radeon HD 3200 Problems"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Neondog82 on 2009-04-18
Hello all. I installed 9.04 beta on a new system that has onboard video ATI Radeon HD 3200 graphics chip. I can't for the life of me get the video to work. I installed 9.04 beta with the alternative CD. I have searched the forums and come up with a couple of confusing solutions

-Install fglrx
-wait for *.30 Kernel
-something else about ATI releasing something

Can someone please help me to get my video working?

Xorg.conf

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
Driver          "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier	"Default Screen"
Monitor	 "Configured Monitor"
Device	 "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by MALEADt on 2009-04-18
Be more specific, what exactly doesn't work? I presume X doesn't start up, which is quite normal if you have your X configured to load fglrx, but at the same time ask whether you need to install fglrx...

Configure your X to load -ati of vesa (change the fglrx to ati), reboot your computer and you'll have a working 2D environment. You want 3D? Fire up jockey-gtk (restricted drivers thingie), and let it install fglrx for you.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-04-18
```
Hello all. I installed 9.04 beta on a new system that has onboard video ATI Radeon HD 3200 graphics chip. I can't for the life of me get the video to work. I installed 9.04 beta with the alternative CD. I have searched the forums and come up with a couple of confusing solutions

-Install fglrx
-wait for *.30 Kernel
-something else about ATI releasing something
```

'fglrx' wil work with .28 kernel.
I also have the  ATI Radeon HD 3200
Do not try 'fglrx' with the .30 kernel, as you will 'bork' your machine, as I have found trying it.

---

### Post by Neondog82 on 2009-04-18
All, thank you for the help.

The problem is that X will not start. I have all ready tried to change my Xorg.conf to say "ati" where it now says "fgrlx". That does not fix the problem. I have also tried the "vesa" driver. I installed fgrlx through the command line all ready. I did not install Jockey-GTK, should I do that even though I have installed the fgrlx drivers? Can you install and run Jockey-GTK from the command line?

@DougieFresh4U are you saying that the onboard ATI HD3200 chipset will work as advertised with the .30 kernel? If so what do I need to type in the command line to just upgrade my kernel to the .30?

Thank you in advance for everyones help, I appreciate it.

Error: this is the error I get when I try to startx with the fgrlx 

```
Fatal Server Error:
no screens found

 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log
giving up. 
xinit: No such file or derectory (errno 2): unable to connect to X server
xinit: No such process (errno 3): Server error.
xinit: error in locking authority file /home/Neondog82/.Xauthority
```

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-04-18
```
.@DougieFresh4U are you saying that the onboard ATI HD3200 chipset will work as advertised with the .30 kernel? If so what do I need to type in the command line to just upgrade my kernel to the .30?
```
No, 'fglrx' does NOT work with the .30 kernel. It worked with the .28 kernel without a problem. There is a thread some where deep in here about installing 'fglrx' and a couple of other things that need to be installed with it.
**DO NOT TRY 'fglrx' WITH .30 kernel**

---

### Post by MALEADt on 2009-04-18
Have you installed fglrx? I guess not, replace fglrx with "ati" or "vesa" so you get a working ubuntu, fire up "jockey-gtk", and let it install and configure fglrx (no need to edit xorg.conf yourself)

---

### Post by naveensn on 2009-04-18
Type "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" and configure xserver. (The default settings should normally work).

Reboot.

This will install the mesa drivers and you should be able to login using the main GUI.

Now browse to "System->Administration->Hardware drivers" and activate the fglrx driver.

If you don't see the fglrx driver in the 'hardware drivers' box, download the latest Catalyst control center (version 9.4) and install it.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-04-18
When I go into 'Synaptic' I see alot of xserver-org ati stuff installed. Having the 'ATI Radeon HD 3200' onboard, which driver should be installed? ATI Catalyst Control Center tells me no ATI driveer installed and will not launch. I am a bit confused with all this ATI 5xx and 6xx etc. What would my card be considered with all these different names?
Thanks to any one who can clear this up for me

---

### Post by naveensn on 2009-04-18
1. In a terminal window, navigate to the /usr/share/ati
2. Enter "sudo sh ./fglrx-uninstall.sh"

This should remove any installed ati drivers. Follow the instructions in my earlier post.

---

### Post by Neondog82 on 2009-04-18
from the /usr/share/ati directory I entered the command "sudo sh ./fglrx-uninstall.sh" and recieved this error:

sh: Can't open .fglrx-uninstall.sh

Next I ran "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg"
Note: it did not ask me a single questions about video, just stuff about the keyboard

Following this rebooted, then at the command prompt I ran "startx"
All get is a 1 inch thick line of random colors at the top of my screen.

@MALEADt I stated in the post previous to yours that I have all ready tried to replace fglrx with "ati" or "vesa", neither of which work. I installed jockey-gtk but it kicks out some error when being run.

---

### Post by naveensn on 2009-04-18
One last thing. Try "sudo dexconf" and reboot. 

Also, what version are you trying to install?

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2009-04-18
> **naveensn said:**
> One last thing. Try "sudo dexconf" and reboot. 

Also, what version are you trying to install?

Although your post was not meant for me, could you explain what the command you posted 'kills'.
Stupid me ran the command and terminal said 'killed' after command ran. I rebooted and can no longer get to login screen. System is now 'borked' (my own fault) trying to get this stupid ATI Radeon 3200 to cooperate

**EDIT** Am now using live-cd

---

### Post by Neondog82 on 2009-04-18
I ran "sudo dexconf" and rebooted. 
There is no change, startx still fails

I am not sure what software you are refering to when asking what version I am trying to install. If its Ubuntu then I have installed 9.04. If its FGLRX I believe I saw the start up say it was version 8.6.

Thank you so much for your help naveensn

---

### Post by diebels on 2009-04-18
The easiest way to make your card work is clicking the "System" menu on the panel. Go to "Administration" and "Hardware Drivers".

You are now in the "jockey-gtk" program, and can enable proprietary drivers for your card. I think this driver should work with your card. As a test you can try to do it from the live-cd, maybe the RC one.

If the Ubuntu supplied driver has a problem with your card, ATI has recently released Catalyst 9.4 which is newer and might work better with your card. Catalyst/fglrx 9.4 is the first release from ATI that works with xserver 1.6 in Jaunty. The fglrx included in Jaunty is a prerelease that was provided exclusively to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by krazyd on 2009-04-18
Having fglrx installed interferes with the open source radeon and radeonhd drivers - thus changing xorg.conf driver to "ati" will not work.

Instead, I would suggest a clean install of 9.04 and try the newly released 9.4 fglrx, downloadable from the AMD website.

---

### Post by Neondog82 on 2009-04-19
ALL, thank you for your help. The first time I installed 9.04 I used the alternate CD. This time I used the desktop CD. I have re installed 9.04 and everything graphical wise is working good. Again, thank you so much for your help. I was trying to accomplish a minimal install per this guide [http://forum.boxee.tv/showthread.php?t=2046&highlight=ubuntu+minimal+install](http://forum.boxee.tv/showthread.php?t=2046&highlight=ubuntu+minimal+install)

---

