---
title: "9.04 beta to stable"
date: 2009-04-08
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by wes.crockett on 2009-04-08
Hello,

I am going to install 9.04 beta using the ext4 structure and have 1 questions. If I upgrade now (slightly early,) will the normal updates bring it to the stable version on the 23rd or 24th when it is released or will it only do beta updates?

Thanks,
Wes

---

### Post by OrangeCrate on 2009-04-08
> **wes.crockett said:**
> Hello,

I am going to install 9.04 beta using the ext4 structure and have 1 questions. If I upgrade now (slightly early,) **will the normal updates bring it to the stable version on the 23rd or 24th when it is released** or will it only do beta updates?

Thanks,
Wes

Yes, just keep updating, and you'll end up with the final.

---

### Post by TomB19 on 2009-04-08
As someone who played with early alphas, I would recommend against viewing the beta as an early release candidate.  I wanted to go with Jaunty for the advantages of EXT4 and ended up having problems with the filesystem as well as having distribution issues.

There is a reason for the alpha and beta designations.

I hope I have more time this fall to help with the 9.10 project.  It would be great to do some actual testing and provide feedback to the team.  These guys do a ton of really terrific work and I'd rather be a positive part of the project.

As for using the beta and EXT4 in production, I would caution against doing that with any data you care about.

---

### Post by LoloftheRings on 2009-04-08
Just backup every week (or every day if you process a lot of precious data) and Jaunty is stable :D
I've been running Jaunty since the second alpha. It was a real minefield, but now it's perfectly stable (encountered 2 non-relevant bugs)

If you want to jump into the deep, go ahead;)

---

