---
title: "9.04 GRUB problem."
date: 2009-02-02
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ubusira on 2009-02-02
while experimenting whith some stuff in jaunty i damaged GRUB.
when i rebooted it started whith grub for 8.10.
I mean the options were :
ubuntu 8.10
recovery mode
and so on.
No problem ,it started all ok, and the version remains jaunty.
I've tried some things to recover 9.04 GRUB but nothing

Anyone help!:(

---

### Post by antiram on 2009-02-02
grub-install /dev/sdX installs also the grub bootsector
update-grub updates the /boot/grub/menu.lst with the menu entries
update /boot/grub/device.map if you have new drive or something changed in BIOS

in boot menu press "e" to edit the entry for the kernel and initrd and change root=UUID=123 to root=/dev/sda2 if your jaunty is on /dev/sda2 (and not ext4). Boot and make grub-install and update-grub.

---

### Post by ubusira on 2009-02-03
> **antiram said:**
> grub-install /dev/sdX installs also the grub bootsector
update-grub updates the /boot/grub/menu.lst with the menu entries
update /boot/grub/device.map if you have new drive or something changed in BIOS

in boot menu press "e" to edit the entry for the kernel and initrd and change root=UUID=123 to root=/dev/sda2 if your jaunty is on /dev/sda2 (and not ext4). Boot and make grub-install and update-grub.



thank you my friend 
works ok now
:p

---

### Post by VastOne on 2009-02-21
> **antiram said:**
> 

in boot menu press "e" to edit the entry for the kernel and initrd and change root=UUID=123 to root=/dev/sda2 if your jaunty is on /dev/sda2 (and not ext4). Boot and make grub-install and update-grub.

Are you implying here that Hardy grub will not boot a jaunty install if it is ext4?

I installed Jaunty and got it's grub which was ok, but I wanted to go back to my Hardy grub and paste the Jaunty lines from the it's menu.lst  to the Hardy grub.

Hardy and XP boot sections are fine now, but I cannot access Jaunty from this grub and get a 15 error...

Shed any light on this for me?

Thanks

---

