---
title: "9.04 beta works quite well on Acer Aspire One AOD150"
date: 2009-04-07
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by donovan1983 on 2009-04-07
A few days ago I had wiped Windows XP from my recently purchased Acer Aspire One 10" (model AOD150-1165) and installed the beta of 9.04. Overall results are quite good.

_What works:_
[LIST]
[*]Suspend and hibernate
[*]Card reader (it's standard USB, though, so no surprise that it works)
[*]WiFi
[*]Sound (speakers and headphone jack)
[*]The various Fn key combos
[*]External monitor detection
[*]Trackpad vertical scrolling
[/LIST]

_What doesn't:_
[LIST]
[*]Suspend when closing lid
[*]Brightness on-screen indicator is wonky
[*]Brightness settings are reset on reboot, waking, or when plugging or unplugging power adapter
[*]WiFi kill switch
[*]The current Intel graphics drivers have serious performance issues for 3D
[/LIST]

_Not tested:_
[LIST]
[*]Internal mic
[*]Webcam (it is detected by the system)
[*]Wired ethernet (shows up as a usable network interface)
[/LIST]

I'd have to say that overall I'm quite impressed. The stuff that doesn't work is relatively minor stuff, at least to me. Even the graphics issues are minor since I don't use games much and the issues I'm experiencing aren't specific to this computer anyway. Battery life is noticably shorter than in Windows XP by about 20% but that's no big deal since this thing has the 5800mAh beast of a battery. The system is quite stable overall, too, despite the beta label. I'm very much looking forward to the final release.

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2009-04-07
using the aspire one documentation jaunty works great on my A150 320gb 1.5gb ram. have upgraded from intrepid and wifi switch and light work fine after disabling acer module

---

### Post by bobnutfield on 2009-04-07
> Not tested:

    * Internal mic
    * Webcam (it is detected by the system)
    * Wired ethernet (shows up as a usable network interface)


I can confirm that all of these work with a stock install of Jaunty, no tweaking necessary.  Acer Aspire 150, 120GB HD, 1.0GB mem  Hopefully, at some point, the kernel upgrades will include support for the card readers, which no one seems to have solved satisfactorily yet

---

### Post by ali.ezad on 2009-04-09
Hey

I've installed 9.04 beta on my aspire one AOD150. After installation it did detect my wireless card and gave me an option to activate some driver which i did. But after rebooting the system it no longer detects my wireless card. When I do an ifconfig there is no wlan0 interface. The wireless kill switch has no effect. Any ideas?

---

### Post by teaker1s on 2009-04-09
no problem, come join us on this thread, 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1106155]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1106155")
if you look through it I have explained how to get wifi working and we are discussing various aspire related things including custom aspire one kernel

---

### Post by nightalon on 2009-04-22
I could not get hibernate to work with all the latest updates.  That said, I am using a swap file and not a swap partition.  Maybe I needed to reboot after setting that up, then trying hibernate.  Will try again.

Also, power lamp turned red after my failed hibernation attempt.  I am on BIOS 1.05.  Wireless kill switch works for me, but I have upgraded to an AR5008X from the stock AR5007EG.

Yes, 3D performance is awful.  No redirection, and Google Earth chokes big time.  I know work is being done on this front, but I hope it gets done fast.

---

