---
title: "8.10 &gt; 9.04 Big Problems"
date: 2009-01-27
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-27
I recently upgrade to Jaunty and now have lots of problems.  I can only boot into single mode.  I'm gtting a "return: 24: Illegal number: Starting" on many key startup programs like hal, dbus, etc.  I'm not quite sure where to really start trying to get this working.  Tried to apt upgrade but avahi-daemon returns error above.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by go7Ul1ai on 2009-01-27
> **grash said:**
> I recently upgrade to Jaunty and now have lots of problems.  I can only boot into single mode.  I'm gtting a "return: 24: Illegal number: Starting" on many key startup programs like hal, dbus, etc.  I'm not quite sure where to really start trying to get this working.  Tried to apt upgrade but avahi-daemon returns error above.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

You must have accidentally clicked "download" for Alpha 3 of Jaunty Jackalope.. I'm pretty sure you wanted to click on 8.10, the current version..

---

### Post by Twitch6000 on 2009-01-27
I am just hoping you realize 9.04 is in alpha still and is meant for testing :).

---

### Post by zekopeko on 2009-01-27
why are so many people bad at semantics? grash had to make many deliberate steps to download jaunty alpha3 cd since it isn't default download on ubuntu.com and since he/she say explicitly mentions upgrade i would think that it was through update-manager -d.
not to mention that the post wasn't moved to this subforum but posted on purpose.

now grash could you post the output from this two commands:

```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

and 

```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-27
~# apt-get upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
The following packages have been kept back:
  giver gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg libpostproc-unstripped-51 mozilla-plugin-vlc
  tasque tor tor-geoipdb transcode vlc vlc-nox
The following packages will be upgraded:
  avahi-daemon
1 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 10 not upgraded
5 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/63.1kB of archives.
After this operation, 0B of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? Y
(Reading database ... 266653 fils and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace avahi-daemon 0.6.23-2ubuntu3 (using .../avahi-daemon_0.6.23-4ubuntu1_i386.deb ...
 * Stopping Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD Daemon avahi-daemon
return: 24: Illegal number: Stopping
invoke-rc.d: initscript avahi-daemon, action "stop" failed.
dpkg: warning - old pre-removal script returned error exit staus 2
dpkg - trying script from the new package instead ...
 * Stopping Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD Daemon avahi-daemon
return: 24: Illegal number: Stopping
invoke-rc.d: initscript avahi-daemon, action "stop" failed.
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/avahi-daemon_0.6.23-4ubuntu1_i386.deb (--unpack):
 subprocess new pre-removal script returned error exit status 2
 * Starting Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD Daemon avahi-daemon
return: 24: Illegal number: Starting
invoke-rc.d: initscript avahi-daemon, action "start" failed.
dpkg: error while cleaning up:
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered whilw processing:
var/cache/apt/archives/avahi-daemon_0.6.23-4ubuntu1_i386.deb
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
~#

Apt-get dist-upgrade returned the same.

I have to type this in as I'm using a different PC.  I checked it carefully.  

Thanks for your help zekopeko

Gary

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2009-01-27
I wonder if the upgrade failed and you've got some essential packages that haven't yet configured properly. You're probably best off opening a bug report and attaching the contents of /var/log/dist-upgrade to it as separate attachments.

---

### Post by zekopeko on 2009-01-27
hmmm.... i have to agree with chrisccoulson. open a bug report at [www.launchpad.net/ubuntu](www.launchpad.net/ubuntu) and attach the /var/log/dist-upgrade.

it looks like the package isn't getting configured properly or it can't stop the avahi-daemon before replacing it.

try 

```
/etc/init.d/avahi-daemon stop
```

you can start it again with "start" at the end instead of stop.
if gives error post it here and don't forget to attach it to the bug report.

---

### Post by Gina on 2009-01-27
I've noticed that today and yesterday only a partial update of Jaunty was available.  This indicates that some dependencies are not satisfied due to some packages not being ready.  Doing a partial update wil result in the removal of one or more installed packages which might render the system inoperable.  For that reason I never do a Partial Upgrade.  This situation is reported by Update Manager and shows in Synaptic (if you use that) as package(s) to remove.  apt-get will provide the same information but it may not be as clear.  So using apt-get to upgarde could result in a user upgrading to a non-working system if they are not very careful.  I think this is what may have happened.

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-27
Well actually you're probably both right.  I see there are 5 packages not fully installed or removed.  I have no idea what these packages are.  Again, the main problem is that certain startup programs get the error described above (return: 24: Illegal number).  When manually trying to start/stop dbus or avahi-daemon I get the error.  I don't know what the error means but possibly it's because those packages aren't installed.  Evidently they're not needed for single mode operation.  One other thing I forgot to mention which is pretty important.  I upgraded from 8.10 but I was already using kernel 2.6.28-4 with ny root being ext4.  Single mode only works with this kernel (still in menu.lst).  The -5 kernel boots but for some reason the root filesystem is read-only.  Could be because of the fstab option errors=remount-ro although the -4 kernel uses the same fstab.  When starting either kernel I need to adjust the kernel parameters and remove "ro" and add "rootfstype=ext4".  This only works for the -4 kernel.  It seems to make no difference on the -5 kernel.  Anyway, thanks for the replies.  I have to take my son to the store and will be back in an hour or so.  Then I will keep hacking away.
Thanks again - Gary

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-27
Just saw your post Gina.  Thanks!  I'll keep that in mind.  Possibly later when the repos are back/full/whatever I'll try again.  It certainly makes sense to me. Oh, I have to use apt-get because I can only get to single mode console only.  Thanks again.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2009-01-27
Other drastic thing I've done when ubuntu isn't running right is:

boot in recovery mode
root prompt
dhclient
exit
fix broken packages
root prompt
reboot

I've got dual/triple/quad boot on my test systems so if one upgrade or install fails there's usually another which will work.

Jerry

---

### Post by nanog on 2009-01-27
Boot live disk or usb.

Mount filesystem.
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mount
#replace a with appropriate drive designation

Chroot in
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chroot /mount

Upgrade
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade



Why don't we have a sticky for this anymore?

_ _ _

Other relevant commands:

Repair broken upgrade

dpkg --configure -a

Repair broken package

sudo dpkg-reconfigure <package name>

Force install

sudo apt-get -f install <package name>

if the above does not work then you probably need to hack /var/lib/dpkg.  


hacking dpkg leads to madness like converting ubuntu to debian and back again...

---

### Post by nanog on 2009-01-27
> apt-get will provide the same information but it may not be as clear. So using apt-get to upgarde could result in a user upgrading to a non-working system if they are not very careful. I think this is what may have happened.

actually this prevents partial upgrades from the cli:

sudo apt-get update ; sudo apt-get upgrade 

but imo its like taking the bunny slope.

---

### Post by gspat on 2009-01-27
you should probably start with dpkg --configure -a and see where that gets you.

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-27
OK...Thanks for the replies.

The avahi-daemon package was stopping some others from installing/updating.  I couldn't remove or reinstall it because of it's stop/stop function failing in /etc/init.d.  I inserted an "exit 0" in the avahi-daemon startup file (/etc/init.d/avahi-daemon) to get past the error and remove the package.  Where I'm at now is I can boot the -5 kernel in multiuser or single mode and login as root or user if I add "rw" to the kernel parameters.  I've already updated, upgraded, and reconfigured my butt off.  Thanks for all the tips but been there done that.  I really don't know why it wants to boot into a read only filesytem but I bet it has something to do with my original post which is the various starup programs erroring out with "return: 24: Illegal number: Starting" on just about every startup program ie; cron, network manager, ntpd, anacron, system-tools-backend, etc. etc.  It scrolls pretty fast so I can't see them all, but I bet it's all of them.  At the begining I think there's something about the filesystem but I can't tell for sure.  This would explain perhaps about the mounting of / as read only.

This is a difficult one.  Even Google isn't much help.  Keep the suggestions coming.  I'll try them all.  At least I made some headway.  I just need to find out what's causing the errors and/or the startup programs not to load.  Let me know if you come up with anything.

Gary

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-27
Oh I forgot to mention that the "dpkg --configure -a" command just returns with a command prompt.  I think that's the correct response for no errors/nothing to do.  If not let me know.

Gary

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-28
> **grash said:**
> It scrolls pretty fast so I can't see them all
Try pressing the Scroll Lock key on the keyboard (next to Print Screen). It toggles console scrolling on/off.

> **grash said:**
>  At the begining I think there's something about the filesystem but I can't tell for sure.  This would explain perhaps about the mounting of / as read only.

Does fsck run from a live cd report anything unusual? I think it's
sudo umount /dev/sda1
sudo fsck /dev/sda1   
(replace sda1 with your root partition)

> **grash said:**
> I really don't know why it wants to boot into a read only filesytem but I bet it has something to do with my original post which is the various starup programs erroring out with "return: 24: Illegal number:
You could try to track down where the error comes from by running the script in debug mode. The script runs as usual but you get to see every executed line and where it fails. e.g.
sudo bash -x /etc/init.d/avahi-daemon stop

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-28
Thanks Marmuta.  Thanks everyone for that matter.  Been working and had to quit trying to get it to work.  I was able to check a few things.  For one if I try to start or restart programs in /etc/init.d I get the same error.
The error "return: 24: Illegal number: Starting" changes depending on whether you start, stop, etc. i.e; "return: 24: Illegal number: Stopping" or "return: 24: Illegal number: Enabling" or "return: 24: Illegal number: Restarting".  For Marmuta the scroll lock tip doesn't work.  The debug stuff does.  From what I can tell it's something to do with "splashy".  However, I can't install splashy to remove it completely.  It's currently not install.  I uninstalled it prior to upgrading.  I did have some problems uninstalling it.  I don't remember what they were though.  I did finally get it uninstalled though and it's currenlty uninstalled.  I believe it has something to to with the initrd file but I really can't update-initramfs as I'm just creating or updating it with the same garbage.  I need to find a way I think to install splashy, update-initramfs, uninstall splashy, then update-initramfs again.  Or something similar...Still trying.  I'll keep you posted.  Any more ideas ...please chime in.  Thanks again everyone.

Gary

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-29
Ok, making progress. I know nothing about splashy but perhaps that's a hint:
[http://splashy.alioth.debian.org/wiki/tips]("http://splashy.alioth.debian.org/wiki/tips")
> But first you must edit  /etc/default/splashy and set ENABLE_INITRAMFS=1 so that Splashy will integrate itself into future initramfs images. 

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-29
Thanks Marmuta.  I got rid of the splashy stuff in /etc and /etc/default.  Unfortunately this didn't help.  Prior to reading your post I was able to update and upgrade to the -6 kernel.  This didn't help much either.  I am able to login using only the rw kernel parameter but I still need to remount / as rw and manually mount /boot (separate partition).  Network doesn't work unless I go to single mode (still have to remount / and mount /boot as stated above).  Once I've done that I can upgrade but I need to add "exit 0" to the corresponding programs that cause upgrade not to complete (I edit them back when done of course).  The errors have changed in that instead of "return: 24: Illegal number: xxx" (xxx meaning whether I use start, stop, restart etc.) the 24 changes to various other numbers such as 50 etc.  I've also notice that when I manually start/restart udev say, I don't get ant errors.  It's almost like it's starting in read-only mode and the startup programs don't like that.  It's definitely after the kernel loads and the startup scripts start.  I'm really baffled.  I thought thee "splashy" idea or th upgraded kernel would fix it.  I was wrong...  Anyway, I'm back right where I started; these error messages popping up at the beginning of the start-up scripts and having to remount the filesystem to r/w and mounting boot.  I am now at a total loss.  If you or anyone else can come up with something please let me know.

Gary

---

### Post by xerosis on 2009-01-29
have you tried 'apt-get -f install'?

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-29
Yeah.  Tried "apt-get -f install".  I don't have any broken packages (as far as apt-get is concerned).  My problem is as stated earlier.  Lots of errors on boot up.  Can only boot into single mode (to have networking anyway).  Plus the errors mentioned.  Thanks for trying to help.

Gary

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-29
I have no specific idea, but maybe somebody sees something with more info. Could you please post, or better attach as a txt file, let say the output of
```
sudo bash -x /etc/init.d/avahi-daemon stop  # or any other producing the error
cat /etc/fstab
blkid
mount
sudo dumpe2fs -h /dev/sda1     # replace with your root partition
dmesg|grep sda

```
Booting a readonly filesystem shouldn't be the cause of all this though. Last time I tried that only X errored out and even that could be worked around.

The scroll lock key still works here btw. I can pause the boot at almost any time (assuming no 'splash' in the kernel cmd line).

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-29
Here's some attachments...

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-29
Here's some more...

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-29
What's strange is if I ru the scripts in /etc/rcS.d by themselves I get the error.  If I run them using bash -x I don't.  Also if ran by themselves they don't seem to work.  But if ran with bash -x they do work.  Something to do with the shell?  I just don't know.  I just tried /etc/rcS.d/udev to get my flash drive working so I could copy the text files to post here and couldn't get it working.  I then tried the same script prefixed with bash - x and it did work.  Strange to say the least.  Very strange.  Well, if anyone spots anything in the uploaded text files please let me know.  I'll be working away on it as well.

Gary

---

### Post by qtwre on 2009-01-29
This is interesting timing.  I seem to be having the exact same problem as you.  Unfortunately I'm nowhere near as proficient in Linux as you seem to be.

Today I updated my kernel to the latest that was just released, rebooted and things were fine.  I had previously tried Splashy but didn't like it so while I didn't remove it (must have forgot) I reinstalled usplash to get the regular ubuntu splash showing again.  Well when I rebooted I noticed a splashy error popped up during boot so I made sure to remove it.  After rebooting again I'm having this problem.

It seems like there's a strong correlation between our problems and splashy.

Let me know if there's anything you want me to try or if you get somewhere with this.  Worst case I figure I'll end up reinstalling Ubuntu tomorrow.

---

### Post by qtwre on 2009-01-29
What?!

Well good news or bad news.  I reinstalled splashy from single user mode, rebooted, and the system booted just fine.  No filesystem errors.  I hope you find the same thing.  This isn't an ideal solution as splashy is still there but at least my system boots.

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-30
> **grash said:**
> What's strange is if I ru the scripts in /etc/rcS.d by themselves I get the error.  If I run them using bash -x I don't.

Hmm...here is an idea. I remember some months ago there was a switch from bash to dash, which is faster to load but stripped down featurewise. Now /bin/sh is symbolic link to dash but your old splashy might still be using some no more supported bashisms.  

Try ```
sudo sh -x /etc/init.d/avahi-daemon stop
```
that should trigger the error.

The only file splashy installs that affects all init scripts is /etc/lsb-base-logging.sh. So my suggestion would be to get splashy out of there. Please make a copy of the old file and run
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall lsb-base

```This should install a splashy-free version of the file. Let's see if that helps.

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-30
Oops didn't see qtwres fix. If you want to keep splashy better do that first.

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-30
SOLVED!  SOLVED!  SOLVED!

WHOLLY CRAP!!!!!!!!!!!!!

qtrwe - I just reinstalled splashy and although it didn't work, my system boots properly via text mode!!!!!!  I hope you read this marmuta as to save you some trouble.  Right now I get an error stating that it can't read /etc/splashy/config.xml.  I deleted that dirctory while trying to fix my problem.  Who would have thought (well obviously you did)???  I did indeed try to reinstall splashy at one time but had no luck.  I guess that was prior to finding out I had a ro filesystem, had to remount / rw, and then mount boot before I could update/install anything. I may have even posted that above but for right now I'm too excited to check!  Thanks everyone for your help.  I will keep you all posted as soon as I fix my config.xml problem.  Also I have some serious nvidia problems.  I'll get it going first with the regular nv driver.  THANKS AGAIN I'll let you know!

Gary

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-30
qtwre or anyone for that matter...

Could someone post their /etc/splashy/config.xml file for me?  I've reinstall splashy several times but that file is never restord.  That's kind of strange.  When you install a program all config files are usually there or create for you.  Or a least they tell you you hvae to create one.  Anyway I'll continue on.  Please post /etc/splashy/config.xml if you have it.

Thanks again - Gary

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-30
Never mind the config.xml.  After doing a purge and reinstall of splashy I finally got the config.xml.  I still don't boot into graphics yet but I working on it.  I believe the problem with uninstalling splashy is that when you instal it, it runs update-initramfs.  When you uninstall it, it doesn't.  It may be a simple matter of running update-initramfs after purging it.  I don't know and I'm not gonna try right now...

I'll keep you posted.

Gary

---

### Post by grash on 2009-01-30
OK.  All done.  System back to 100% normal.  Got the nvidia driver going and everything.  I just wanted to thank everyone that replied to help me get this going.  True Ubuntu help at its best.

THANK-YOU EVERYONE!!!

Gary

---

### Post by marmuta on 2009-01-30
You're welcome. Good to see you got it fixed eventually.

---

### Post by blazemore on 2009-01-30
The reason you had issues is because it's Alpha.

---

### Post by qtwre on 2009-01-30
I'm glad it worked out for you even with the few extra steps you needed.  I'm running 8.10 for the record.

---

### Post by panaggio on 2009-04-13
grash,

What have you done to bring system back to normal?

I have the same problem here, and the cause seems to be the removal of splashy (after I've done it, I've got the same error messages you did.

I'm trying to reinstall splashy (with / remounted in rw), but I only get errors. I can install some other packages though. =/

---

