---
title: "9.04 And WUSB300N"
date: 2009-04-04
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Flamemonkey on 2009-04-04
I've got the rather amazing wireless card of WUSB300N, but unfortunately for the life of me I can't get it to work in Ubuntu. Like, at all. I decided to use the 9.04 version (Jaunty whatever) to try and come back to Ubuntu, since a while back, I tried to use 8.x and failed many times to get my Wireless card to work.

I'm using the right drivers, and I'm using NDISwrapper and the graphical front-end, but Ubuntu seems to have a problem with actually having the wireless adapter plugged in. After I've plugged the device in, I get the little "Green ball with the blue swirly thing" that I'm assuming means that it's trying to connect. I can change my network settings, see networks, but it doesn't actually connect. Worse yet, it actually bugs the OS from there! I can't access the HDD's (They freeze), I can't load up Firefox (It freezes), and I can't open up many "Administrative Programs" (They close before opening). The only way I can fix this is if I shut down and restart, which of course even this needs me to remove the USB Card, because then that causes problems with that. >_<*

---
I'd REALLY like to get this working, if it's even possible. And before you just throw a topic at me, I've read about a thousand of those, and probably the one you're thinking of showing me.

EDIT: It seems as though the reason why a lot of stuff just stops working is because it can't read the HDD for some reason? Under properties, it says 155,080 items, totalling 3.5 GB
(some contents unreadable)
It also can't see the permissions or anything... Wierd.

---

### Post by Flamemonkey on 2009-04-05
No one has any ideas at all? :/ Darn. I'm trying to "see the light" and come to Ubuntu, and away from Windows, but it's gonna be pretty hard if I can't connect to the internet.

---

### Post by Mr Henderson on 2009-04-05
Have you looked at the instructions here?:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsLinksys#USB](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsLinksys#USB)
Your card is listed in the grey box at the top.

(I probably know less about Ubuntu than you do, but I'm also having wireless problems so I've looked around for help quite a bit. If I come across anything else I'll let you know, but don't hold your breath....)

---

### Post by Flamemonkey on 2009-04-11
I tried exactly what the post a few below that, being for WUSB300N, said, but unfortunately the exact entry you linked me to was the WUSB*600*N, which uses a completely different Chipset than mine.

---

