---
title: "2.6.30rc2 seems to have fixed my webcam"
date: 2009-04-19
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-04-19
Interesting.  This is an acer aspire 5100 series laptop.  I am unsure of the camera model as it does not seem to be in lspci.  However previously the green light was always on, however it never worked. 

Cheese now finds it after upgrading.

Just a short message for anyone (I'm sure there will be many) searching for answers to this problem.
If I find the model # and make of the camera I will update this.

---

### Post by aamukahvi on 2009-04-19
Try "lsusb"?

---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-04-19
> **aamukahvi said:**
> Try "lsusb"?

Bingo.  Thanks!

Bus 001 Device 003: ID 0402:5602 ALi Corp. Video Camera Controller

This is the stock on board camera on my Acer Aspire 5100 series laptop.

Works perfectly under 2.6.30rc2 now but not working under the old stock kernel for Jaunty as of this date.

---

### Post by doorman on 2009-04-21
i have a msi notebook with the same webcam and thought of upgrading to 2.6.30rc2 but unfortunately the nvidia driver won't load with that kernel :(

---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-04-21
> **doorman said:**
> i have a msi notebook with the same webcam and thought of upgrading to 2.6.30rc2 but unfortunately the nvidia driver won't load with that kernel :(


Maybe it has been fixed in another earlier release where the nvidia driver is also working for you?  You might want to research one of the newer 2.6.29.xxx branches in the kernel mainline.  I don't know if it will work or not...

---

