---
title: "9.04???"
date: 2009-03-31
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-03-31
hello all 23 more days till 9.04 is out.My question 
is will 9.04 be a long support version or a regular
version.

---

### Post by Sarai the Geek on 2009-03-31
It will be a regular release- the last LTS was hardy (8.04) so it will be a while before we get a new one. :)

---

### Post by binbash on 2009-03-31
It will be regular like intrepid

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-03-31
Jaunty will still have 18 months of support, so that's enough support to take you up to the next LTS release. You can also purchase paid support from Canonical for Jaunty, no problems at all (of course, only for 18 months...)

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-03-31
Thank you all i was just needing to know if i should upgrade ir not
i thank for now i'll go with upgrading from 8.04 to 8.10.

thank you all

---

### Post by fballem on 2009-03-31
Actually, I'm finding the 9.04 Beta to be very stable. If you don't want to install Beta, and 8.04 is working for you now, then I'd like to suggest that you hold off until 9.04 is released, and upgrade to that.

Just a thought.

---

### Post by amauk on 2009-03-31
Long term support releases are every 2 years
so next one will be 10.04

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2009-03-31
> **andrea000 said:**
> Thank you all i was just needing to know if i should upgrade ir not
i thank for now i'll go with upgrading from 8.04 to 8.10.

thank you all

If you're upgrading, I'd wait the 23 days until 9.04 released and update to that one.

If you are doing a format/install, then I'd recommend the 9.04 beta.

---

