---
title: "9.04 Jaunty Jackalope, whos ready?"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Slug71 on 2008-10-30
So i'm curious. Now with Intrepid Ibex here, who's ready for JJ? 

I might wait till final release i think or maybe even the next LTS.



Poll is multiple choice.
Should have included Beta, but since i havent it falls into the Alpha choice

---

### Post by DC@DR on 2008-10-30
I'll wait for next LTS, for me LTS is the best of Ubuntu family :-)

---

### Post by jomiolto on 2008-10-30
I always *try* to resist the temptation, but most likely I'll be running the alphas by Christmas :)

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-10-30
I usually jump on between Alpha 6 and the Beta.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2008-10-30
I'm bored and ready to edit sources list, as I usually am :)

---

### Post by vishzilla on 2008-10-30
I jump on with the Beta! You should have included Beta in the poll too

---

### Post by Giant Speck on 2008-10-30
I think it's a little too early too be excited about 9.04.  I mean, 8.10 *just came out.*

That would be like getting excited about Windows 8 when Windows 7 hasn't even gotten into beta stage yet.

Or like being excited about the fifth season of *Heroes*, when we aren't even halfway through the third season.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-10-30
> **Giant Speck said:**
> I think it's a little too early too be excited about 9.04.  I mean, 8.10 *just came out.*

That would be like getting excited about Windows 8 when Windows 7 hasn't even gotten into beta stage yet.

Or like being excited about the fifth season of *Heroes*, when we aren't even halfway through the third season.

Believe it or not, there's quite a few people here that do not like to stay on the stable release. :)

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-10-30
Ready and waiting. Hopefully Jaunty will address the speed of the kernel when comparing 8.10,8.04, 7.10, to 7.04.  In saying that Intrepid has improved with wireless and detecting multiple DVD drives (at least for me).

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2008-10-30
> **FuturePilot said:**
> Believe it or not, there's quite a few people here that do not like to stay on the stable release. :)

Oh, how true that is!!

---

### Post by jhackett on 2008-10-30
it's really going to be called Jaunty Jackalop?!?

that's my favorite animal! (well, right behind the Terrorpin)

---

### Post by Changturkey on 2008-10-30
If they actually do something with the interface change they promised, then alphas for me.

---

### Post by klange on 2008-10-30
As a Compiz dev, I need to jump onto the new-X-server train as soon as possible. I'll be pumping my laptop through the alphas, as I did with Intrepid and Hardy.

DRI2, GEM, XInput2 from the X server, possibly Plymouth for a bootsplash...

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2008-10-30
I used to be so slow on upgrading (heck, the desktop at home still has Edubuntu Feisty! ) but I'm speeding it up this time. I'm hoping to upgrade to II before December.

The Server, though, I'm hoping to go LTS to LTS.

My bigger problem, though, is sticking with only one distro! :lolflag:

---

### Post by Slug71 on 2008-10-30
> **vishzilla said:**
> I jump on with the Beta! You should have included Beta in the poll too

Yeh i should have, just figured it could apply with the Alpha choice.

---

### Post by jimi_hendrix on 2008-10-30
if its new with a shiny user interface that i will change after i get it im in :)

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-10-30
alphas :)

---

### Post by jimi_hendrix on 2008-10-30
where can you get the alpha?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-30
I'm ready now, I've been using Intrepid since the repositories opened up. It's time for something new. :)

You didn't have a poll item for really early adopters, so I didn't vote.

Jim

---

### Post by mc4100 on 2008-10-30
> **WindowsSucks said:**
> As a Compiz dev, I need to jump onto the new-X-server train as soon as possible. I'll be pumping my laptop through the alphas, as I did with Intrepid and Hardy.

DRI2, GEM, XInput2 from the X server, possibly Plymouth for a bootsplash...

Yep, should be quite an improvement with anyone using Intel hardware, or any other compliant driver. I'll be on board pre-alpha :)

---

### Post by plun on 2008-10-30
Alphas..   :popcorn:

PulseAudio must be challenged....](*,):-k:^o

---

### Post by Stetzen on 2008-11-05
Definitely alphas, probably beginning from the first one (it'll be available on 20th November, hope it'll be a convenient way to upgrade). My Intel video card is an absolute garbage, so I'm waiting for DRI2, but Amarok2 may be also interesting... I'm actually considering moving to the KDE4 after the release.

---

### Post by *g!t5^_)*(H on 2008-11-05
Alphas just for testing purposes, but Intrepid to enjoy live & fun.

---

### Post by mgangav on 2008-11-05
I hastily updating to 8.10. From now on, I'll wait for a stable release.

---

### Post by Tux Aubrey on 2008-11-05
I voted "yes, sort of".  I'll run alphas/beta and rcs in VMs (probably Xubuntu) for testing purposes.  But I have changed my mind about new releases on my "real" machines - I haven't even gone to Intrepid yet on those.  Hardy was pain for me until 8.04.1 and I don't want to that again.  I don't find LTS releases any more stable that the intermediate ones on first release.

---

### Post by super.rad on 2008-11-05
Sources.list already points to jaunty so just waiting for some updates ;)
I use Arch as my main OS and just tend to use Ubuntu for testing/messing around with

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-05
I've only just started playing with Ibex:-({|=

---

### Post by theApokalypsis on 2008-11-25
Im checking out the alpha right now. Im definitly hoping to finally have flicker free accelerated video with ATI cards and Compiz. i.e. DRI2 support.

Linux Dream Scene once again :D

---

### Post by Bölvaður on 2008-11-25
I'll consider it later depending on if I have spare partitions, Im atm downloading fedora 10 so I will check that out before going to betatest ubuntu 9.04.

---

### Post by eragon100 on 2008-11-25
> **Bölvaður said:**
> I'll consider it later depending on if I have spare partitions, Im atm downloading fedora 10 so I will check that out before going to betatest ubuntu 9.04.

Could you please post a general impression about fedora 10 here when you're done with it? (Or PM it to me?)

I am curious about fedora 10, but I don't want to install it just yet :)

---

### Post by cmay on 2008-11-25
i could very much so like to beta test as soon its out.

---

### Post by piousp on 2008-11-25
I guess its time for another distro-trying-marathon. Distrowatch, anyone? :lolflag:

---

### Post by Dragonbite on 2008-11-25
> **eragon100 said:**
> Could you please post a general impression about fedora 10 here when you're done with it? (Or PM it to me?)

I am curious about fedora 10, but I don't want to install it just yet :)

Same here.  I can't download anything until tonight and with the holiday it's going to be a while before I can try it out.

BTW, are you downloading the DVD?

---

### Post by theApokalypsis on 2008-11-29
Regarding extra installations....

Check out VirtualBox. pretty much run anything in a VM. great for testing out new releases etc. Even XP, vista and such.

although of course this is not so useful for running on your native Proc or utilizing graphics and such :).

cheers

---

### Post by ghindo on 2008-11-29
I'll probably jump on before the Beta.

---

