---
title: "9.04 / 2.6.28-3 Wireless perminantly dissabled...."
date: 2008-12-20
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by NRW2001 on 2008-12-20
I just did a test upgrade from 8.10 / 2.6.27-9 to 9.04 / 2.6.28-3 on my spare laptop. after the upgrade, no matter what wireless card (atheros 5007 int, ra-link ex, or bcm ex) i tried to get set up the NetworkManager displays wireless is disabled.  I rebooted back into 2.6.27-9 kernel and it works perfectly again.  I cant believe this is a kernel issue cause there are no others that i have seen that has this problem.  I am running this on my acer aspire one.  any help in this issue would be much appreciated.  I am an IT admin but not a pro at linux yet so I can get what you would need to help but i just dont know 100% of the commands yet.  Im workin on it. thanks so much in advance!!!

Nick

---

### Post by bpl07 on 2008-12-21
> **NRW2001 said:**
> I just did a test upgrade from 8.10 / 2.6.27-9 to 9.04 / 2.6.28-3 on my spare laptop.

Nick

Did you make sure restricted and backports modules were installed when you upgraded?  I believe the wireless driver is in one of them... it's in the backports one for intrepid.

---

### Post by NRW2001 on 2008-12-21
very true.... for the atheros card... but i must have misspoke. the drivers are installed... net. man, recognizes the cards... but under the card name where the APs would be it says wireless dissabled. when i rt click on the manager there is an option to activate wireless just as there is one to activate networking... but the wireless option is greyed out. I cannot enable it.  thanks for you input but unfortunately i have already tried that.

---

### Post by erkiha on 2008-12-21
You should follow this: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne)

I have had issue with atheros card which did not work with ath5k module (card was recognized but was not able to connect). I downloaded source from madwifi.org and it did work fine with that. 

To see which kernel module is used: lspci -k

> **NRW2001 said:**
> very true.... for the atheros card... but i must have misspoke. the drivers are installed... net. man, recognizes the cards... but under the card name where the APs would be it says wireless dissabled. when i rt click on the manager there is an option to activate wireless just as there is one to activate networking... but the wireless option is greyed out. I cannot enable it.  thanks for you input but unfortunately i have already tried that.

---

### Post by NRW2001 on 2008-12-21
understand... already tried that and i know i have the right driver... but as i mentioned in my first post I also tried other cards as well... different chipsets (bcm43xx, and realtek)... to no avail.  the same thing happens.  all three do the same thing and not work in the new kernel... and all three work perfectly in 2.6.27-9. it is just not on one card that i am having this issue. it is a global wireless issue. the only changes between when the wireless drivers are working and not is rebooting into a different kernel. i dont understand.  yes.  to answer the real obvious question. the drivers are built for the new kernel. thanks again for the help.

---

### Post by NRW2001 on 2008-12-25
ok... so here is an update... I was playing around in the term.  ifconfig and iwconfig show the device as up and working. still cant use firefox and Net.Man. shows wireless dissabled.  I have used my airodump and aircrack successfuly even tho the nm says it is dissabled. so it appears to be an X issue. mabye the nm is broken... im gonna attempt to reinstall it but I am not hopefull cause it works in the 2.5.27 kernel.  all packages are upgraded as well. I am confiused.  i would love to be able to use this new kernel but so far i can only use it for my terminal commands.  i cant wait to be able to use this as my default boot.  realy aggrivating... will update here in a few.

---

### Post by NRW2001 on 2008-12-27
everything i have tried has unfortunately resulted in nothing.  the wireless card in the new kernel works great. in the command shel.  I can use it to hack my wifi access point just fine using aircrack. this works great on any one of my wireless cards. now if i try to use the NetworkManager or any web browser in X then I am denied internet.  I cant use apt-get or aptitude in the command shell. I am confused. I can use the card to hack a wifi signal but have to reboot to an older kernel to browse the internet.  I sooooo dont understand this.  I wish someone could spark a glimmer of an idea into my small brain.  the help I have recieved has been great but unfortunately not quite exactly what I need.  I know someone in the community will be able to help me.... pleasee!!!!!!

---

### Post by Tux541 on 2009-01-19
I am also experience the same issue.  I have tried with both the ath_pci module from MadWifi and the backports ath5k module.  I also have an Acer Aspire One.  Everything worked fine with 8.10.

I believe it is some issue with the networkmanager.  If I open a terminal and do everything manually my internet works fine.  Just do a 'iwconfig ath0 essid *youressid*' then run 'sudo dhclient ath0'.  I get an IP and I can use Firefox.

Could it be something to do with networkmanager and the newer 2.6.28 kernel series?  I'm not a Linux newbie but I am finally getting back into after years of using only a Mac desktop so my knowledge of all this new networkmanger stuff is a little rough.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-01-19
network manager has been acting bizzarely since recent updates , I have 2 wireless networks 1 of which is also wired , that one I can no longer connect to wirelessly even with eth the cable unplugged although the other one connects fine, both were working until recent updates to the kernel and NM .

---

### Post by calrogman on 2009-04-13
The b in 9.04b stands for beta, it means stuff might not work. ;)

I connected to my unprotected router using,
```
sudo su
iwconfig wlan1 essid $essid
dhclient wlan1
```

BAM!
Connected!

NM-applet still says wireless is disabled, if firefox complains use File > Work Offline and uncheck it.

Good enough for now and it should be fixed in 10 days time (when I install 9.04 (I'm running 9.04b from a CD right now))

For more wifi CLI techno-wizardry click [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=571188")!

---

