---
title: "9.04 Almost here"
date: 2009-04-10
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by accooper on 2009-04-10
OK, I see that Ubuntu 9.04 is almost here.  So I have three questions.

1.  Will I be able to upgrade 8.10 to 9.04 without a clean install.  And if so will I lose my files.

2.  Will I have to do a clean install, and how would I do that?

3. Would there be any benefit to doing a total reinstall.

:guitar:

Andrew

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-04-10
hi accooper,



[LIST]
[*]**Jaunty Upgrade**: You can uprgade via the update manager. Have a look at these two guides: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/JauntyUpgrades) and [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades)
[*]**Clean Install**: If you wish to do a clean install, then do a back-up of your important data and just let Ubuntu format the drives. This will result in a complete new system, so be sure your data is saved externally. However if you have a separate /home partition your personal data won't be affected by the fresh install. If you wish so...
[*]**Benefits Clean Install**: Well a fresh start is not a bad thing. You will have a smoothly, de-cluttered system. But I would suggest to keep with the system which is working best. I know the temptation is big to always have the newest system installed.
[/LIST]
So you are able to upgrade from Intrepid to Jaunty without loosing your data.

---

### Post by fuser312 on 2009-04-10
you coud udate ubuntu without any hassle.

just go to software sources > update and choose norma release.

and when 9.04 will be out, you will be automatically prompted to upgrade your system.

---

