---
title: "8.10 &gt; - 9.04 Issues"
date: 2009-04-08
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Roofle on 2009-04-08
For starters, I'm a relatively novice Linux user, so bear with me.  I upgraded to 8.10 from 9.04 recently and for the most part it turned out quite nicely.  Once booted, I have all the new packages included in 9.04 and whatnot.  However, when I boot, 8.10 is still listed in GRUB rather than 9.04.  I booted into 8.10 and ran update-grub, but to no avail.  I ran uname -a, and the result was the 2.6.27 kernel rather than the 2.6.28.  In addition, although this isn't a huge problem, I still have the old 8.10 boot screen rather than the new sexy 9.04 one.  Any ideas as to why all of this is happening?

Thanks,
Sean

---

### Post by kazulk on 2009-04-08
hmm im updating as i speak, hope i dont get the same problem

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2009-04-08
It's best to do a clean install of Jaunty.

---

### Post by Roofle on 2009-04-09
> **Pumalite said:**
> It's best to do a clean install of Jaunty.I'm leaning towards that, but I was hoping there was some sort of remedy before I make the jump.  I figure I'm not the only one suffering from this issue.

---

### Post by sansa dude on 2009-04-09
you may have to do all of this via live cd to make the suitable changes

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2009-04-09
> **Roofle said:**
> I'm leaning towards that, but I was hoping there was some sort of remedy before I make the jump.  I figure I'm not the only one suffering from this issue.

There are many Virtualisation Technologies available in Linux: VMWare, VirtualBox and KVM to name a few.

I recommend that you leave all testing to those environments until Jaunty is officially released in a fornight.

For your information:
When the Jaunty is finally released at the end of this month:
```
sudo update-manager -d
```
and you should see a new option to upgrade.

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by jayanramesh on 2009-04-09
Dear roofle,
I faced the same prob. but it was set right after I had run grub update for the second time.
bye.

---

### Post by frodon on 2009-04-09
Moved to jaunty testing and discussion forum.

---

