---
title: "2.6.28-6-generic unsupported executable format"
date: 2009-01-31
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by mullens101 on 2009-01-31
Hi,
   I've been updating jaunty regularly.  The other day I installed the 2.6.28-6-generic kernel update and get "Error 13: invalid or unsupported executable format" from grub every time I try to boot.  When I choose 2.6.28-4 things work well.

   I'm running Jaunty 64 bit.  Below is the entry from menu.lst:

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), kernel 2.6.28-6-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-6-generic root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a037-8fd20cd2c0ae ro quiet nosplash vga=769 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-6-generic
quiet

   I downloaded the latest update today and it's still happening.

Thoughts?

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-01-31
boot 2.6.28-4 and try reinstalling the packages for 2.6.28-6  , linux-headers-2.6.28-6 ,linux-headers-2.6.28-6-generic , linux-image-2.6.28-6 and linux-restricted-modules-2.6.28-6 -generic  .

---

### Post by plun on 2009-01-31
Maybe a grub update is enough  ?

```
sudo update-grub
```

The menu.lst conf during install was somehow strange with this kernel, maybe a bug ?

---

### Post by mullens101 on 2009-01-31
reinstalled and ran update-grub ... still no go

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-01-31
how did you do the update that started the problem ? you can try reinstalling every package that came with that update . if you used apt-get the log will be in /var/log/apt if you used synaptic it will be in synaptic>file>history .

Edit : did you happen to notice when you reinstalled the kernel if it ran update-initramfs ? I think that is probably where the fault lies .

---

### Post by mullens101 on 2009-01-31
I've done a complete removal of all of the .28-6 packages, deleted them from cache, re-downloaded, re-installed, updated grub, and still no love.  I did not re-do all packages from the update since it's 300 Meg and I'm on a very slow DSL connection.  I guess I'll keep working on it tomorrow as time permits.

---

### Post by plun on 2009-02-01
Fwiw.... found an older thread with this error and in this case its a Windows partition which is the troublemaker

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282545](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=282545)


I manually added my Windows partition and  I got no errors.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-02-01
post your whole menu.list , mabye we can see something there .

---

### Post by mullens101 on 2009-02-01
Here's my entire menu.lst.  I've checked md5sums on the .deb files and they are ok.  Both 2.6.28-6 entries fail with the error, The 2.6.28-4 works.

I appreciate any input.  I've been using Ubuntu a long time and have never had this problem before.

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not use 'savedefault' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default         0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		3

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
## password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below
## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a037-8fd20cd2c0ae ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=(hd0,0)

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash vga=769

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## specify if running in Xen domU or have grub detect automatically
## update-grub will ignore non-xen kernels when running in domU and vice versa
## e.g. indomU=detect
##      indomU=true
##      indomU=false
# indomU=detect

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), kernel 2.6.28-6-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-6-generic root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a037
-8fd20cd2c0ae ro quiet nosplash vga=769 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-6-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), kernel 2.6.28-6-generic (rec
overy mode)
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-6-generic root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a037
-8fd20cd2c0ae ro  single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-6-generic

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), kernel 2.6.28-4-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-4-generic root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a037
-8fd20cd2c0ae ro quiet nosplash vga=769 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-4-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), kernel 2.6.28-4-generic (rec
overy mode)
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-4-generic root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a037
-8fd20cd2c0ae ro  single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-4-generic

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), kernel 2.6.24-21-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-21-generic root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a03
7-8fd20cd2c0ae ro quiet nosplash vga=769 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-21-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), kernel 2.6.24-21-generic (re
covery mode)
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-21-generic root=UUID=007ff6aa-d40d-4b38-a03
7-8fd20cd2c0ae ro  single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-21-generic

title		Chainload into GRUB 2
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/grub/core.img

title		Ubuntu jaunty (development branch), memtest86+
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

title Windoze XP USB Drive
root (hd0,1)
map (hd0) (hd1)
map (hd1) (hd0)
makeactive
chainloader +1

---

### Post by ronacc on 2009-02-02
your menu.list looks ok . Can you boot into recovery mode with 2.6.28-6 or is that trashed too ? also try removing quiet from the boot entry for 2.6.28-6  (2 places) to see if it says anything before it fails.Since you can boot 2.6.28-4 ok we are sure your partition is alright so it is probably either the -6 initrd or vmlinuz that is the problem , why the reinstall didin't fix it I don't know , mabye try booting into -4 and using synaptic to COMPLETELY remove everything 2.6.28-6 and then look in /boot to make sure that nothing saying 2.6.28-6 is left and then update again , if that don't work the only thing I can think of is continue to use 2.6.28-4 until the next kernel update comes along .

opps didn't see the part about both -6 entries the first time I read it , ignore my question about recovery mode .

---

### Post by mullens101 on 2009-02-02
Ronacc, I really appreciate the input.  I have removed all -6 entries (complete removal) from synaptic and verified the apt cache was clear of them ... I hadn't checked the /boot at that point, I can try that.  If it does not work, I'll just wait for the next release.

---

### Post by cantas on 2009-02-02
It happened to me, too. I guess your filesystem is formatted with ext4.
If that is the case, reboot in recovery mode, get a root console, unmount your / (in my case, /dev/sda5) and type

tune2fs -O extents,uninit_bg,dir_index /dev/sda5
fsck -pf /dev/sda5

Do not worry if you see plenty of errors being corrected, type all the steps above and things will work. I found that online in some other forum.
If you don't have ext4, then I do not know what to tell you

---

