---
title: "[9.04 beta] no ehci_hcd?"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by ninotsmindelivar on 2009-04-01
Hi all, looking to solve a mystery. 

I recently updated to the jaunty beta and discovered some problems that I hadn't seen in intrepid with my sandisk sansa mp3 player -- it was mounting exclusively via usb 1.1 (or so the transfer speeds and lsusb reported).

Now, I know I can get usb 2.0 speeds, as my various pendrives, my girlfriend's ipod nano, and my WD Passport drive all mount via usb 2.0, according to the perceived speed and lsusb's report. Still, the sansa will only connect over usb 1.1. 

BUT... 

This, as google, sandisk's, and these forums indicate, is a problem that has happened often with the sansa for one reason or another, but there was a workaround of unloading and reloading the usb 2.0 ehci_hcd module (sudo rmmod ehci-hcd; sudo modprobe ehci-hcd). 

So I tried this as I used to do on intrepid and seem to find that although my various non-sansa devices connect via 2.0 and get those speeds, ehci-hcd isn't present on my system....?

this is the terminal output if I try to unload/reload the module:

> rodya@rodya-laptop:~$ sudo rmmod ehci_hcd
[sudo] password for rodya: 
ERROR: Module ehci_hcd does not exist in /proc/modules

rodya@rodya-laptop:~$ sudo modprobe ehci_hcd
FATAL: Module ehci_hcd not found.


Where did ehci_hcd go, and if it's no longer managing usb 2.0, what is?

Any help? Let me know if you need more info to figure this out. 

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by DLGandalf on 2009-04-06
I wondered too, I usually reset my logitech illuminated when coming out of suspend by assigning uhci_hcd in some pm-related file. But this doesn't work anymore. Someone please?

---

### Post by ninotsmindelivar on 2009-04-06
Okay, thank god at least someone else has this issue coming up. So the module doesn't show up for you in lsmod, and you get the same error that it's not found in that /proc directory? 

Perhaps we should consider filing a bug report. Unless someone knows a fix, under what component should we file? Is this a kernel thing?

---

### Post by Lexicon101 on 2009-04-06
I'm getting the same message trying to reload ehci_hcd. 9.04 x64...
You are not alone!
I'm also very curious as to what IS managing USB2.0 connections if ehci isn't... My webcam is detected, but useless.. If they removed this in jaunty, they removed my only means of getting it to work...
>.O
(consider rolling back? not likely, but if I end up actually needing it for something, perhaps inevitable.. (as it stands, it's mostly for the fun of getting things to work on a Linux based OS.. occasionally quite an adventure!))

---

### Post by burns1111 on 2009-04-06
I realized this problem too. My AcomDATA USB2 harddrive would only recognize as 1.1 until I rebooted with it still plugged in.  Then it came up as 2.0.  If I unplugged it and then re-plugged it, 1.1 again.

Strange little issue.

I also did the rmmod trick back in 8.10 which seemed to fix the problem A-OK.


Cheers.

---

### Post by CTenorman on 2009-04-16
Anyone having any luck on this front? I'm trying to get a Sansa Fuze going at full speed, and I have to do a re-boot to do it. Has anyone reported this to Launchpad yet?

Also, ninotsmindelivar, have you managed to get your Sansa player working on anything other than MTP mode in Jaunty? My Fuze seems to only work in MTP. Thanks!

---

