---
title: "9.04 beta 1, sound with Live CD, but not after installation"
date: 2009-03-27
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2009-03-27
I have a HP Pavillion HDX laptop. I tried the Ubuntu 9.04 Beta 1 Live CD, and verified I had sound when connecting headphones (no sound without them).

As it turns out I haven't been able to hear sound at all on this laptop when running Ubuntu 8.04 or 8.10, despite numerous attempts and suggestions in this (and other) forum.

When I heard sound through my headphones with this new beta, I jumped at it. And immediately installed it. But now I can't seem to get any sound at all - again :s

I've been playing with the various settings under Volume Control and Preferences. Selecting Master and/or Headphone/PCM/Front/Surround as they are (amongst others) available to choose from.

Does anyone have any suggestions?

Using headphones from the Live CD, I played a .wav-file in the Movie Player.
After I installed I have tried both .wav, .mp3 and .avi in both the Movie Player and VLC - but no sound.

Sincerely
Robert Leithe

---

### Post by HumanUSB on 2009-03-27
How odd.   When you are in the live CD, does your ALSA config look different from when installed?

---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2009-03-27
Where can I find the ALSA config file (for comparison)?

---

### Post by HumanUSB on 2009-03-27
Howdy



You can find it in:

```
/etc/modules.d/alsa
```



I am doing this from memory because I'm at work,  but I will be home soon.

---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2009-03-27
I can't find that folder structure in my installation, the closest one is

```
/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
```

could this be the one?

---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2009-03-27
I ran a diff on these two files (the file from the installation, and the file from the Live CD) and came up with nothing. I found no difference, that is.

And what's more, this time around, I can't seem to be able to get sound when running Live CD either :confused:

---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2009-03-27
:D

Now I'm getting sound through headphones on my installation!

I have checked/enabled the following under Volume Control|Preferences:

Master
Headphone
PCM
Front
Surround

Now it only remains to figure out how I can get sound through internal speakers as well...

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-03-27
These problems are very hardware specific, especially for laptops

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1043568](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1043568)

---

### Post by c/Kr3t on 2009-03-28
ah ha ha, i am godly.

here's the fix chums.

firstly, go to system > admin > system testing
if that crashes, do this


```
sudo nano /etc/checkbox.d/checkbox.ini
```

And add
blacklist = backend_manager

to [checkbox/plugins]

then run the system testing again and go through all the test.
*be sure to click the test button, especially on the sound portion*
if all goes well it should set your sound to what works

then go to your pulse audio applet (if you don't have that, go to add/remove applications, sound&video, find all the pulse audio things and install those.)--see 1 

once in the applet go to 'volume control'  in the 'playback tab click on the little arrow pointing down next to the shield looking thing. then hover 'move stream' and choose one of those options. the second one worked for me, it could be different for everyone. then go to the 'output devices' tab, find your device and clicky on the little arrow that points down and select 'default'.

cheers fellas

1-once you have pulse audio things installed, go to applications > sound & video > pulse audio device chooser.  then in your tray, click on the pulse aduio applet and choose volume control, make sure everything is turned up, especially in the 'output devices' tab. close that and choose 'configure local sound server' and in the network access tab check the first 3 boxes. close and finally go to 'preferences' and check the very last box. close and you're done.

---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2009-03-28
I added
```
options snd-hda-intel model=5stack
```

to the /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf

Then I enteret Volume Control|Preferences and checked the following
Master
PCM
Front
Surround
Center
LFE
Side

And voilà! I have sound :D

Thanks you your help!

---

### Post by Robert Leithe on 2009-03-30
I shut down my PC last night, for the first time since I installed 9.04 on Friday. Upon power on today, there is no sound again :S

Every setting from Friday is still as I left it yesterday. But no sound... Any ideas on this?

Edit: No sound either in headphones or internal speakers.

Edit2: Upon starting Amarok, I get this message at the top of my screen: "**Phonon: KDE's Multimedia Library**
The audio playback device **HDA Intel (STAC92xx Analog)** does not work.
Falling back to **PulseAudio**."

Edit3: Under System|Preferences|Sound the Sound Playback is set to Autodetect. If I select the HDA Intel STAC92xx Analog (ALSA) I get this message:
> audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink: Could not open audio device for playback.

Edit4: Moved question to here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6983511#post6983511](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6983511#post6983511)

---

