---
title: "[9.04 Jaunty Beta] No proprietary/restricted driver for Intel GMA 950?"
date: 2009-04-02
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-02
Hi,

I have a laptop [Sony Vaio TX3]("http://crave.cnet.co.uk/laptops/0,39029450,49281462,00.htm") with a WXGA 1366x768 panel mounted on a [Intel GMA 950]("http://www.intel.com/products/chipsets/gma950/index.htm") with up to 224MB of system memory allocated to video (from 1.5GB) which is part of the [Intel 945GM Express]("http://www.intel.com/products/chipsets/945gm/index.htm") system chipset. I connect a WSXGA+ 1680x1050 external monitor ([Dell 2007FPW]("http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/monitors/2007WFP/en/index.htm")) on the VGA port. I used the new GNOME display properties tool to configure the panels.

The graphic performances are _very bad_. Even more when using my external monitor in vertical position. I know the hardware is enough, because it used to work great with earlier Ubuntu versions, and also with Windows XP. 224MB should be enough to display 2.8 MP!

I've upgraded from Ubuntu Desktop 8.10 Intrepid to 9.04 Jaunty Beta. I remember 8.04 Hardy offered me a proprietary/restricted driver for the GMA 950, which 8.10 and 9.04 did not. The *System* > *Administration* > *Hardware drivers* list is empty.

Is there a way (preferably graphical) to get the proprietary driver for Intel GPU?

---

### Post by Dark_Stang on 2009-04-02
I know you don't want to hear this but, you're probably better off dropping back to 8.04. That being said, I don't use 9.04 or 8.10 because of the problems I've had with it with my laptop. But if you're up to it, here is how you can get the source code for the drivers.

[http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/download.html)

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-02
Thank you for your quick answer Dark_Stang.

> **Dark_Stang said:**
> I know you don't want to hear this

I don't 8-[

> **Dark_Stang said:**
> I don't use 9.04 or 8.10 because of the problems I've had with it with my laptop.

Related with the GMA 950?

> **Dark_Stang said:**
> But if you're up to it, here is how you can get the source code for the drivers.

Do you mean I really can't find precompiled packages compatible with Ubuntu 9.04 to add proprietary driver for the GMA 950? Even the i810 driver is not available? :shock:

I just updated **xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.6.3-0ubuntu2** to **xserver-xorg-video-intel 2:2.6.3-0ubuntu4**. Isn't it the package supposed to offer proprietary driver for Intel GPU? Why is not list in the *System* > *Administration* > *Hardware drivers* list as it used to in Ubuntu 8.04?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Dark_Stang on 2009-04-02
> **Jonathan Métillon said:**
> Related with the GMA 950?
Actually, related to my motherboard and GPU combo (nVidia). 8.04LTS runs great. 8.10 and 9.04 are down right terrible on this machine. If you can find the package and get it set up, then more power to you. However, I'd really just recommend trying out 8.04. It runs much smoother.

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-03
> **Dark_Stang said:**
> I'd really just recommend trying out 8.04.

Not an option for me, I don't want to regress. This issue needs to be fixed: the Intel GMA 950 GPU is still widely used in entry-level computers like netbooks.

I tried editing /etc/X11/xorg.conf using some advices from [EXA is balls-achingly slow]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/177492"). I added the following lines to the "Device" section:

```
       Option "AccelMethod" "exa"
       Option "MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
       Option "ExaNoComposite" "false"
       Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
       Option "CacheLines" "8192"
       BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
       VideoRam 262144
```And it did not help. I also tried this line:

```
       Driver "i810"
```Which prevents the xserver to run. Ubuntu offers me the low-graphics mode because of the following error:

```
(EE) No devices detected
```Why forcing the i810 driver crashes the xserver?

glxgears runs at less than 100 fps on each screen. But if I set the external screen to portrait mode, the fps falls to 30, but only on the external screen ; the main screen keeps 100 fps.

My main issue being scrolling web pages in Firefox...

I also noticed that if I disable the external screen, I don't gain any performance on my main screen. It's really bad. Any idea someone? Why cab't  *System* > *Administration* > *Hardware drivers* list as it used to in Ubuntu 8.04?

---

### Post by ukchucktown on 2009-04-03
I'm not running your exact chip combination but I am running with the new intel driver and Jaunty 9.04, KDE in my case. My hardware is IBM T61 with an Intel 965 and the intel driver. Performance is fine with or without desktop effects. My tendency is to keep it turned off but performance is acceptable on my dual monitor configuration. I also have a Dell 2007WFP plugged into my laptop. I'm not a gnome user so I can't help with gnome specific configuration or update issues.

My configuration:
Qt: 4.5.0
KDE: 4.2.2 (KDE 4.2.2)

My xorg.conf file:
```
Section "Module"
        Load    "extmod"
EndSection              

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Dell 2007WFP"
        Option          "DPMS"        
        Option          "RightOf" "LVDS"
        HorizSync       30-83           
        VertRefresh     56-76           
EndSection                              

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Laptop Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-80
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "VGA Screen"
        Device          "VGA"
        Monitor         "Dell 2007WFP"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1680x1050"
#               Virtual         2960 1050
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "LVDS Screen"
        Device          "LVDS"
        Monitor         "Laptop Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "VGA"
        Driver          "intel"
        BusId           "PCI:0:2:0"
        Option          "monitor-VGA" "Dell 2007WFP"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "LVDS"
        Driver          "intel"
        BusId           "PCI:0:2:1"
        Option          "monitor-LVDS" "Laptop Monitor"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by densou on 2009-04-03
):P

I didn't still realize why editing xorg.conf is nearly useless on Jaunty (I mean: editing in the same way as I did with Gusty/Hardy/Intrepid).
Wanna look at my previous configs ? Check them out:
[http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf) 
[http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.ibex](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.ibex)
[http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new](http://spazioinwind.libero.it/densou/xorg.conf.new)

Note: my GMA950 has 8mb of Shared VRAM :lolflag:

however I read you connected a Dell as secondary display .... there have annoying issues with Intel Graphics. Advice: try with another TFT (useful URL: [http://launchpad.net](http://launchpad.net) )

Today, mesa 7.4 is available on repositories, it includes a huge amount of intel related fixes. Please update Jaunty as soon as possible.


As last resort, you can edit your xorg.conf for activating UXA rendering (I'd not recommend 'cause it was very unstable when I tested that). E.g.
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AccelMethod"			"exa" #or 'uxa'
	Option		"EXAOptimizeMigration"		"true"
EndSection
```

Plus, read this:
[http://intellinuxgraphics.org/dualhead.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/dualhead.html)
('grandr' is the one and only GUI available for xrandr)

A personal advice ? Try also Fedora 11 Beta, it runs very well with my laptop out-of-the-box booting from an USB pendrive (Amilo Pi 2530). I'd recommend it to users (not noobs anyway) who are looking for mere performance rather than other stuff.


P.S. Glxgears isn't a worthwhile bench, imo. Try /usr/lib/xscreensaver/glblur -window -fps instead .... (I get 3-4 FPS, lol)

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-04-03
Definitely give UXA a try.

Intel 8xx series were also SOL for a little while during the Alpha, and a couple days into the Beta, until devs worked up a fix for it. It runs fine now without UXA.

(It's hit and miss, some people experience improvements, some not so much.)

---

### Post by CyberMando on 2009-04-03
I have seen situations where uninstalling xserver-xorg-video-i740 causes the 950 to perform much better. It seems that maybe the incorrect driver gets loaded if they are both available.

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-03
Thank you very much for your xconf, ukchucktown. It's running really smoother, and I can run desktop effects with no performance decrease. I wonder what lines from the xconf made a change.

I'm not at the office so I cannot try on dual monitor. I'll tell you.

Still Flash video playback is not as smooth as with Windows XP...

Thank you very much densou, Kareeser and CyberMando for your suggestions. I'll try them if I'm not satisfied with the dual monitor perfomances. Or if I can have a smoother Flash video playback.

This community rocks :guitar:

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-03
> **densou said:**
> P.S. Glxgears isn't a worthwhile bench, imo. Try /usr/lib/xscreensaver/glblur -window -fps instead .... (I get 3-4 FPS, lol)

750 fps at glxgears. Much better than the previous 100!!!

27 fps with glblur \\:D/

---

### Post by Amaranth on 2009-04-03
Flash video works better on my intel laptop running Windows than my more powerful nvidia laptop running Ubuntu. Flash on Linux (and OS X) is simply terrible and it is up to Adobe to fix it.

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-04
> **Jonathan Métillon said:**
> I'm not at the office so I cannot try on dual monitor. I'll tell you.

The GNOME display manager offered me a resolution for my external monitor that is not correct. When applying it told me it must write the virtual resolution to the xorg.conf. Then I logged out, edited the xorg.conf and read a wrong virtual res. I set the one I had before (4726 2110) and logged in.

Too bad. Poor performances are back. 100 fps one both screens. Windows move not smoothly, and scrolling in Firefox is very unpleasant. :icon_frown:

Desktop effects refuse to run.

---

### Post by FFuser on 2009-04-04
With exa or the default:

xscreensaver program: 2.5 FPS, glxgears 200-300.

With uxa:
xscreensaver test: 30 FPS, glxgears 300-400
Also opengl programs do not appear on top anymore with (metacity) composting enabled...

Intel GMA 950...

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-04
Definitely this is the Virtual option that makes my GMA 950 slow down. When I comment the line, performances are back and I can run desktop effects. But no dual screen then.

Also the GNOME display manager does not remove the Virtual instruction when deactivating the external panel, even if the it's useless. So I got to manually comment the line before login, each time I disconnect my secondary screen.

](*,)

I don't remember having such bad performance with dual screen using previous Ubuntu release.

---

### Post by Amaranth on 2009-04-04
If you set a Virtual size too large all acceleration gets disabled. This is why everything goes so slowly. The hardware has a limit on the size of the coordinates it can deal with and the driver does not have the large amount of complicated code needed to workaround this limitation.

---

### Post by Jonathan Métillon on 2009-04-05
I understand that. And I'm pretty sure the driver handled that better in previous Ubuntu.

So what's the solution. Getting a smaller external display? :roll:

---

### Post by densou on 2009-04-18
Extract from [Intel website]("http://intellinuxgraphics.org") under driver's known issues:

-* No support for DRI if screen wider/higher than 2048 px on pre-i965*: [bug#10479]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=10479"), *to be fixed*.

It seems it occurs with virtual screens as well :(

---

