---
title: "ctl-alt-backspace in alpha 5 ?"
date: 2009-02-28
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by sweleys on 2009-02-28
Does ctl-alt-backspace still work in alpha 5.  I tried using dontzap --disable to enable it, but it doesn't seem to work anymore. I just get an error.

---

### Post by vishalrao on 2009-02-28
maybe its "sudo dontzap --disable" ? or need to install the package which has the "dontzap" command?

---

### Post by sweleys on 2009-02-28
I tried that and that didn't work.  I tried reinstalling and that didn't work.

This is what I get when I use sudo dontzap --disable

sweleys@sweleys-desktop:~$ sudo dontzap --disable
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/dontzap", line 25, in <module>
    from DontZap import dontzap
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/DontZap/dontzap.py", line 23, in <module>
    from XKit import xutils, xorgparser
ImportError: No module named XKit
Error in sys.excepthook:
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/apport_python_hook.py", line 85, in apport_excepthook
    os.O_WRONLY|os.O_CREAT|os.O_EXCL), 'w')
OSError: [Errno 17] File exists: '/var/crash/_usr_bin_dontzap.0.crash'

Original exception was:
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/dontzap", line 25, in <module>
    from DontZap import dontzap
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/DontZap/dontzap.py", line 23, in <module>
    from XKit import xutils, xorgparser
ImportError: No module named XKit

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-02-28
Add it to xorg.conf - it works fine


> Section "ServerFlags"
        Option          "DontZap"               "false"
EndSection

---

### Post by olskar on 2009-02-28
Yes, dontzap --disable does not work for me either but adding to xorg does.

---

### Post by dentaku65 on 2009-02-28
In my xorg.conf is a little bit different:

> Section "ServerFlags"
	Option 		"DontZap"	"off"	
EndSection

probably should be the same, but works here.

---

### Post by Kow on 2009-02-28
Section "ServerFlags"
Option "DontZap" 0
EndSection 

should work too. ;)

---

### Post by Starks on 2009-02-28
sudo dontzap --disable works... you just need to restart X first.

---

### Post by zekopeko on 2009-02-28
probably linked to the whole python 2.6 migration.

---

### Post by Starks on 2009-02-28
> **zekopeko said:**
> probably linked to the whole python 2.6 migration.

Unlikely, dontzap was acting up last week as well.

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2009-02-28
By the way: wasn't a simple GUI configuration tool promised? :popcorn:

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-28
I just installed the dontzap package yesterday and it worked as expected, after restarting X.

Jim

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-02-28
I've found editing xorg.conf to give me what I want. Look:

> lance@lance-desktop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

[B]Section "ServerFlags"
        Option          "DontZap" "false"
EndSection [/B]


The section in **bold** print is what I added!

Easily done by running in terminal:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Just be careful! And remember to click Save, then File > Quit!

If you should somehow hose things you can always revert by running:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-02-28
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I just installed the dontzap package yesterday and it worked as expected, after restarting X.

Jim

Thanks! Didn't know it existed so I'd manually edited xorg.conf.

---

### Post by Starks on 2009-02-28
sudo dontzap --disable + Restarting X = Same as manually editing xorg.conf + Restarting X

---

### Post by sweleys on 2009-02-28
Thanks. Editing xorg.conf worked.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2009-02-28
I was following the dev-discuss list when that happened & it's one of those "save the poor fool users from themselves" dumb moves:confused:

From what I read, some dumb bunnies were hitting that key combo by accident (beats me how--sounds like keyboard spazmotics) & they "reasoned" that if your are a advanced enough user, you can figure how to go back to the old keycombo---- Another dumb-down for us to work-around.......

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2009-03-01
I heard it was exactly one dumb bunny who happened to be a suit at SuSE and who carries enough weight to push the change back into the server upstream on the strength of his "Because I said so." 

There was a brief rant about it on the radeonhd IRC from one of the devs working on the radeonhd driver project.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-03-01
I have to say that is better than any other excuse I've heard so far. It was probably some vp of marketing. :)

Jim

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-03-02
At the moment none of these options work!

Of course it's still in Alpha stage, but I hope they're not trying to make this option impossible!

At the moment it would be a very nice time saving option for me because I'm working on integrating Enlightenment with the new Gnome (2.25.91).

I still can't imagine how someone could "typo" Crtl > Alt > Backspace:confused:

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-03-02
Before anyone offers me cheese with my whine it's working again after several more updates!

BTW this is a pretty good place to start if you're interested in E-17:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=97199&highlight=E17+cvs](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=97199&highlight=E17+cvs)

Ignore that link and look at the next post!

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2009-03-02
Wrong link - sorry:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=546746&page=98](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=546746&page=98)

---

### Post by mc4100 on 2009-03-02
> **MacUntu said:**
> By the way: wasn't a simple GUI configuration tool promised? :popcorn:

It's in the repos, xorg-options-editor-gtk ... but it doesn't seem to be installable (python dep. problems).

---

