---
title: "HP 2133 and Jaunty"
date: 2009-04-03
forum: Jaunty Jackalope Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by OliW on 2009-04-03
Anybody else using (or trying to use) Jaunty on an HP 2133 netbook?

There are two major issues I'm running into that were fine under Intrepid:

[LIST=1]
[*]Openchrome doesn't appear to work (gives an ABI version mismatch error)
[*]The scrollbar on the trackpad doesn't work consistently or predictably
[/LIST]

The first is the real deal-blocker. The unit ships with a Via Chrome9 graphics chipset. The closed Via driver I used in II doesn't work. I've tried compiling the driver myself, I've tried asking in a dedicated forum and I'm getting nowhere. Most vexing.

The trackpad-scroller is pretty weird. Sometimes it scrolls. Sometimes it only scrolls on a double-tap. And sometimes it just doesn't work at all.

So yeah... Any/all tips/ideas are all extremely welcome.

---

### Post by holtman on 2009-04-04
I have jaunty running on my hp2133.  The tracker pad seems to work OK.
Some while ago I reflashed the bios from F05 to F04.  The xorg.conf is unchanged from original install:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Frances on 2009-04-20
Also have problems with external monitor in Jaunty (downloaded 19 apr 2009) hp2133 - internal display appears fine (8.04 didn't work out of box and it seemed a lot of hack work to get it going) - but external monitor fails after suspend (ok after hibernate) - monitor states frequencies out of range.

Not 100% sure that internal keypad is 100% stable - however prefer to use external mouse.

Also problem in that I need cursor shown on external monitor (preferably switchable on for ease of development on a larger monitor + keyboard but off for its intended purpose of a music server (cheap compatible 250Gdrives rescued from Iomega prestige usb portable drives)- can't see a way of enabling the cursor - any idea what needs fixing here ? - etc/X11/xorg.conf exists but is an empty file

---

