---
title: "Dansguardian GUI Gone!"
date: 2007-08-31
forum: Ubuntu Christian Edition
---

### Post by kscott121 on 2007-08-31
I have a fresh xubuntu 7.04 install to which I applied the CE script without issue.   At first I had the Dansguardian GUI because I went in and looked at it and changed to medium filtering. 
Later I rebooted and now the GUI is not in the Xfce4 Applications > System menu as it was?  I'm not sure how to get it back or even what program is running when the GUI is active. 
BTW,  xubuntu+CE works well performance-wise on a 730 Mhz PIII with 320 Mb ram (an old Dell Dimension L733). 
I'm not very familiar with Xfce4 window manager but I think I read the menus are autogenerated somehow.  Anybody can recommend how to get the GUI back (or at least what  appname it is so maybe I could add back to the menus manually?
Thansk in advance.
Ken

---

### Post by pbcartwright on 2007-09-01
try running dansguardian from a terminal window ( open a terminal from the menus, konsole, Xterm, one of those) and see if you get any error messages.
you might also try reinstalling it, bring up your synaptic menu, or from the terminal try:
sudo apt-get install dansguardian. or maybe reinstall the entie CE script. I don't think that will hurt anything. 
Last resort, since it is a "fresh" install of 7.04, just reinstall.
if you create a separate /home partition, reinstalling linux ( ubuntu/kubuntu..) will leave all of your personal settings as they are. All of your mail, bookmarks, etc reside in /home, so it is always a good idea to create a separate /home.

---

### Post by kscott121 on 2007-09-02
I tried resinstalling the CE script and things  - how shall I say - deteriorated.
After that , the tan-colored login appears, I login in as normal, then generic xfce wallpaper appears [the one with black mouse and xfce4 logo] (but there are no panels or icons).  Right click does work and I can open and runs apps (including the parental controls icon which has been restrored) unless I choose anything related to the xfce4 desktop.  Upon choosing any of those, the wallpaper changes to the swirly blue one (the xubuntu choice, I think), the desktop icons appear briefly then disappera and no further desktop interaction is possible.   I can Ctrl-Alt-F2 login and kill X and the whole loop repeats.  My unfamiliarity with how to troubleshoot proper window manager functioning is croping up.

I think I must reload xubuntu and start over; BUT if you can tell me how to verify/repair a xfce4 desktop configuration that would be handy.
Ken

---

