---
title: "12.10 and beyond"
date: 2012-09-25
forum: Ubuntu Christian Edition
---

### Post by stlsaint on 2012-09-25
Hello folks,

With the release of our latest 12.04.1 we have already started receiving feedback and requests added into our OS. So I wanted to start this thread here so we can start getting community direct feedback and transparency as to what you all would like to see in future release.

Some already annotated items include:
More bible software
GUI to control dansguardian
More artwork
Maybe dansguardian customized out the box to not be as strict (this is a major MAYBE as I feel it is not the developers job to build your firewall but to merely provide a default one!)

Lets start building this list with possibly projects to make the next release better!!:popcorn:

---

### Post by marks_linux on 2012-09-25
For me:
Improved battery life,
Improve battery life,
And finally improve battery life.

Next version should be around efficiency in power use and usability tweaks in the ui.

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2012-09-27
Mark,

Thanks for the reply but battery life falls in the realm of ubuntu itself. There is not tweaking done on the UCE team that will improve battery life due to this being a upstream function to be effective.

---

### Post by nixblog on 2012-10-01
> **stlsaint said:**
> Hello folks,

With the release of our latest 12.04.1 we have already started receiving feedback and requests added into our OS. So I wanted to start this thread here so we can start getting community direct feedback and transparency as to what you all would like to see in future release.

One thing UCE needs to look at is[ this issue]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-lens-shopping/+bug/1054282") else it may make a mockery out of all your effort.

---

### Post by andrew5859 on 2012-10-02
I tried the link for the new version download and got this page while attemping to do so;

**Not Found**

 The requested URL /iso/uce/download64.php was not found on this server.
  Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) Server at thesii.org Port 80


Can anyone please explain this, or direct me to a link that actually works?  Thank you and Shalom

---

### Post by stlsaint on 2012-10-18
> **nixblog said:**
> One thing UCE needs to look at is[ this issue]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity-lens-shopping/+bug/1054282") else it may make a mockery out of all your effort.

Thank you very much for the post nixblog. I have been following this since it was first brought to light mainly with info being sent plain text and the lack of filter capabilities. Worse case scenario if this is not properly dealt with than we will remove the package all together.

---

