---
title: "how to install epsxe on Ubuntu 12.04?"
date: 2012-05-07
forum: Emulators
---

### Post by renatolxdeuser on 2012-05-07
please dudes i need help


someone have deb package with Epsxe 1.6 working on Ubuntu 12.04?

because pcsxr sucks, and psx 1.13 have allot problems

---

### Post by thatguruguy on 2012-05-08
Can you explain the whole "pcsx-r sucks" thing?

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2012-05-24
epsxe is closed-source and it hasn't been updated in more than 4 years... even if you could get it to run, it would surely have lots of problems.

PCSX-r is really what we have to use. ):P

---

### Post by amirzaim on 2012-10-12
To run the ePSXe, you will need a special app called WINE that lets you run the Windows apps in it. ePSXe have 2 versions which is Windows versions and Linux version, but the Linux version is kinda obsolete, so I'm using windows version instead. Runs smoothly, but it depends on what kind of plugins that you used and also your specs.

---

### Post by Jessec0626 on 2012-11-07
enough with which one sucks or not. i just want to know how to get ePSXe running on 12.04. i know its possible. i've seen its glory. Lol

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-11-11
ePSXe has a Linux version. Download it, extract and run the script found inside to use.

---

### Post by LillyDragon on 2012-11-12
You're really better off with PCSX from the Software Center. epsxe is dirt old, flaky, and like everyone else said, hasn't been updated in nearly a decade. PCSX is more polished, doesn't require a BIOS file to successfully to run most games, (Yay!) and with the XVideo plugin for graphics, games look almost like they did back in the 90's! (It blew me away to see the screen transitions and loading screens in Rayman 2 just like they were when I was a kid, for one, which don't even show up on the best plugins for epsxe.)

It's better polished all around and just works out of the box; only dump a game and run it! Half the time I don't even need the cue file to boot games unless a title used Redbook Audio format, i.e CD quality audio, for music. ISO format is better anyway since everything is tracked all in one file instead of two, I just wish IMGBurn (Which works beautifully under WINE, and supports it to boot.) would actually support dumping discs to ISO. ;__;

---

### Post by valroadie on 2012-11-12
Like everyone has said PCSX is the way to go. 
Don't mess around with the default settings unless you want to change the resolution.
ALSO! Don't, I repeat DON'T! change the file name of the games you DL, it messes with the sounds and the frame rate, at least on mine it does.

---

### Post by LillyDragon on 2012-11-20
> **valroadie said:**
> ALSO! Don't, I repeat DON'T! change the file name of the games you DL, it messes with the sounds and the frame rate, at least on mine it does.

Er, just renaming the file should *not* impact performance. Renaming the file is only bad if your image dump came with a CUE sheet or TOC file, because then you would have to manually change the binary's filename inside the sheet for each track too, to reflect the new filename. Otherwise you'll have problems with audio playback on games that rely on raw CD audio for playing the game's soundtrack. It's much akin to breaking your whole playlist by moving around OST folders.

The same's true of any image file you dump to a binary + cue combination. That's why I prefer ISOs, far fewer things to keep up with. XD

EDIT : Also, I stand corrected on ePSXe's obsoleteness, because a new version was released just this month on its main website! :#

---

### Post by ntzrmtthihu777 on 2012-12-26
I am also interested in running ePSXe under ubuntu 12.04, and for my purpose PCSX simply will not do as I need savestates generated by ePSXe. I have been running ePSXe in a WinXP VBox and copying the save-states to outside the VBox, but this is cumbersome and awkward.

When you create a savestate with ePSXe, change the extension to .gz and extract it you get a vram dump, very useful for sprite-ripping :D

The same procedure with a PCSX savestate only yields pixelated (not the good kind) digital gibberish which is useless for my purposes.

[EDIT]Running under wine the savestates produced work just fine.

---

