---
title: "[15.04] Retroarch PPA has no Retroarch!"
date: 2015-04-25
forum: Emulators
---

### Post by BigSilly on 2015-04-25
Anyone have any ideas? I've recently installed Ubuntu 15.04, which is now running alongside Mint 17.1 (based on 14.04). On the latter system I have installed the mighty Retroarch via their PPA, which is of course awesome. However, when installing the same PPA but for Vivid, there's no actual Retroarch package, meaning I can't use it.

Has anyone here perhaps installed the 14.10 package with any success? Many thanks. :)

---

### Post by adec2 on 2015-04-27
The PPA may need updating to support 15.04. Talk to the PPA maintainer to update it to support 15.04

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-04-27
> **BigSilly said:**
> Anyone have any ideas? I've recently installed Ubuntu 15.04, which is now running alongside Mint 17.1 (based on 14.04). On the latter system I have installed the mighty Retroarch via their PPA, which is of course awesome. However, when installing the same PPA but for Vivid, there's no actual Retroarch package, meaning I can't use it.

Has anyone here perhaps installed the 14.10 package with any success? Many thanks. :)

This PPA appears to have stable packages for Vivid

[https://launchpad.net/~libretro/+archive/ubuntu/stable/+index?field.series_filter=vivid](https://launchpad.net/~libretro/+archive/ubuntu/stable/+index?field.series_filter=vivid)

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2015-04-28
> **Elfy said:**
> This PPA appears to have stable packages for Vivid

[https://launchpad.net/~libretro/+archive/ubuntu/stable/+index?field.series_filter=vivid](https://launchpad.net/~libretro/+archive/ubuntu/stable/+index?field.series_filter=vivid)

That wasn't there before! It's been updated! Thanks for the heads up. :)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-04-28
Don't you just hate that :p

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2015-04-28
> **Elfy said:**
> Don't you just hate that :p

Nah, I love it! Put a proper big smile on my face!

Thanks again. Amazing program. Working great on 15.04. :)

---

