---
title: "Ubuntu Server 12.04.4 NIC installation"
date: 2014-02-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-02-21
Backstory: I recently installed a new 1Gb NIC to replace the onboard 100Mb NIC because I was experiencing some strange network behavior and wanted to rule out hardware.  I needed an excuse to by all new CAT6 cabling and a new router anyway!  So I replaced all cabling, router, and NIC.  Got everything up and running after a few hiccups, but now I'm back online and loving life.  This is where my question comes in.

```
mrblue@Windoge:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:12:3f:70:a7:1c
          inet addr:192.168.1.102  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 10:fe:ed:03:d7:f2
          inet addr:192.168.1.101  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:232430 errors:0 dropped:32 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:207535 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:216058937 (216.0 MB)  TX bytes:61256273 (61.2 MB)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1
          RX packets:89005 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:89005 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:261323714 (261.3 MB)  TX bytes:261323714 (261.3 MB)
```

Everything looks good.

```

mrblue@Windoge:/etc/udev/rules.d$ cat 70-persistent-net.rules
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0/0000:05:08.0 (e100)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:12:3f:70:a7:1c", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

```
How come eth1 doesn't show up there?  Will this cause me any issues?  I'm not really sure what this file is used for, but I came across it when troubleshooting why my eth1 wasn't able to communicate outbound but could ping the gateway and I could SSH from my laptop to the private IP that is assigned to eth1.

I'm not having any issues currently, but I want to avoid anything possibly popping up down the road that I can fix before it becomes an issue.  Most of the posts I have found are for either removing an existing NIC and installing a new one, or adding a new NIC and using both.  I simply want to leave eth0 alone and not even use it, making eth1 my primary.  Any issue with my current setup?

Thanks in advance. I can provide more detail if necessary.

---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-02-21
also this is a little concerning:

```
mrblue@Windoge:~$ dmesg | grep eth
[    1.568626] r8169 0000:05:02.0 **eth0**: RTL8169sb/8110sb at 0xf840af00, **10:fe:ed:03:d7:f2**, XID 10000000 IRQ 18
[    1.568649] r8169 0000:05:02.0 eth0: jumbo features [frames: 7152 bytes, tx checksumming: ok]
[    1.597294] e100 0000:05:08.0 **eth1**: addr 0xefaff000, irq 20, MAC addr **00:12:3f:70:a7:1c**
[   11.633059] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
[   11.633074] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth1: link is not ready
[   15.064547] r8169 0000:05:02.0 eth1: link down
[   15.064562] r8169 0000:05:02.0 eth1: link down
[   15.064645] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth1: link is not ready
[   15.081851] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
[   17.637798] r8169 0000:05:02.0 eth1: link up
[   17.637813] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth1: link becomes ready

```

The MAC addresses for eth1 and eth0 are incorrect here.

---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-02-24
anyone?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-02-24
How do those cards get their IP addresses? Having both cards in the same subnet doesn't seem right...

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-02-24
I think what is happening is that the cards are enumerated according to the order on the PCI bus.  Post the output of:

```
lspci
```

But then the udev rules (how the kernel sets up and uses the hardware) swaps the eth0 and eth1 assignments.  This results in the links going down for a few seconds until they reset.  You can modify the udev rules or swap the order of the cards in the chassis and reboot.

---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-02-25
> **tgalati4 said:**
> I think what is happening is that the cards are enumerated according to the order on the PCI bus.  Post the output of:

```
lspci
```

But then the udev rules (how the kernel sets up and uses the hardware) swaps the eth0 and eth1 assignments.  This results in the links going down for a few seconds until they reset.  You can modify the udev rules or swap the order of the cards in the chassis and reboot.


You mean to physically swap the order of the cards right?  I think the original one is onboard, but I could take a closer look.  I wanted to modify the UDEV rules but the new NIC never showed up there unfortunately.  Do I have to create that entry?


I'll have to paste the results of *lspci* when I get home.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-02-25
Is there a BIOS setting to disable the motherboard NIC?  Do you want to keep both interfaces, or just switch eth0 to the gigabit card?  If the latter, then I'd just turn off the motherboard NIC if possible.

As Iowan says, having both cards in the same subnet can cause problems.  My guess is you have a DHCP server running somewhere, and both NICs are connected to the same physical network and get their addresses from that server.

---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-02-25
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Is there a BIOS setting to disable the motherboard NIC?  Do you want to keep both interfaces, or just switch eth0 to the gigabit card?  If the latter, then I'd just turn off the motherboard NIC if possible.

As Iowan says, having both cards in the same subnet can cause problems.  My guess is you have a DHCP server running somewhere, and both NICs are connected to the same physical network and get their addresses from that server.

I'm not using DHCP on either one.  It's got static IP's and only eth1 is plugged in currently.  I'll work on it some more tonight and post whatever results I find for sure.  

side note: As I was leaving this morning for work, I rebooted it to see if it would come up successfully, and sure enough..it did not.:(

---

### Post by brokenhachi on 2014-02-25
maybe try taking a backup of 70-persistent-net.rules, then edit and comment out all lines and reboot the server. udev may regenerate the network config then.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2014-02-25
> **kosmokramer314 said:**
> I'm not using DHCP on either one.  It's got static IP's and only eth1 is plugged in currently.  I'll work on it some more tonight and post whatever results I find for sure.  

side note: As I was leaving this morning for work, I rebooted it to see if it would come up successfully, and sure enough..it did not.:(

can you pot the output of
```

cat /etc/network/interfaces
```

Note that when you have two network interfaces
you _have_ to specify the mac address of the interface in /etc/network/interfaces
or else, Ubuntu will mix them up

---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-02-25
> **sandyd said:**
> can you pot the output of
```

cat /etc/network/interfaces
```

Note that when you have two network interfaces
you _have_ to specify the mac address of the interface in /etc/network/interfaces
or else, Ubuntu will mix them up

I've never seen that done before, what's the layout look like for that?  

I ended up fixing it just now.  First I attempted to comment out the lines in the 70-persistent-net.rules but that didn't do anything unfortunately.  I figured since I'm not planning on using the on-board NIC any longer, I'd just disable it in the bios to remove any possible boot sequence issues or whatever.  Before I did that though, I edited the 70-persistent-net.rules with the MAC address of the new NIC in place of the old eth0.  I then edited /etc/networking/interfaces to only have eth0 with the static IP.  Finally, I rebooted the machine.....it came back up successfully with everything configured as I had hoped.  

Long story short...I gave up trying to keep both active..didn't need it anyway!

---

