---
title: "10.04 - /proc/cpuinfo - reports CPU incorrectly"
date: 2011-05-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by SwitchLink on 2011-05-25
Installed the latest firmware on my HP ProLiant DL365 (2009.7.17A) the version of Ubuntu is 10.04.2 LTS.

The /proc/cpuinfo shows each of the 2 cores at 1000 MHz, but I know they should be running at close to 2.6 GHz.  The BIOS does report the CPUs correctly.

I've run diagnostics from HP and everything comes back clean.

What is the best way to see if what is being reported is the actual speed the OS is using?

I'm still searching around for answers, but haven't found anything yet, so all help is greatly appreciated.  :)

---

### Post by squaregoldfish on 2011-05-26
If I remember correctly, /proc/cpuinfo will report the current clock speed of the processor. Most processors don't run at full speed unless they've got work to do, so the chances are that when you're looking at cpuinfo your machine isn't doing anything else.

Try getting your machine to do something CPU intensive and check again - you'll probably find that the speed increases.

Steve.

---

### Post by SwitchLink on 2011-05-26
Nope, still says 1000.  Something interesting I found, installing ubuntu 9.04 amd64 on the same box, the processor reports the 2600 per core correctly in the /proc/cpuinfo file.  Gonna try 11.04 and maybe 10.10.  I already know 7.10 works and likely 8.04 and 8.10 work fine as well.  

I think that either the info is being mis-reported or is getting stepped down for some reason, but I don't know what setting in the BIOS that could cause that and why this version of ubuntu has the problem.

---

### Post by SwitchLink on 2011-05-26
11.04 works as expected.  I guess I'll just use 11.04, though it is a bit concerning that the LTS version had a problem with it.  Oh well.  :)

---

### Post by deconstrained on 2011-05-26
Hah, I've a 3 GHz /proc/cpuinfo says 800 MHz (idle). Gotta love AMD Cool'n'Quiet. My beast of burden draws less than 110 W thanks to automatic ondemand throttling.

---

