---
title: "14.04LTS, WP, and permissions issues"
date: 2015-04-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rob129 on 2015-04-10
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=sans-serif]Hi Everyone,[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=sans-serif]I've installed Wordpress on Ubuntu 14.04LTS running the latest versions of Mysql, php, and Apache2 and just can't seem to get the permissions set correctly.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=sans-serif]I found quite a few ansers to this question by Googling - here and on Stackoverflow and Wordpress forums - and have tried them all, but none seem to be "exactly correct".[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=sans-serif]For instance (and everything runs great - so far!) my theme folder and subdirectories are all 775 but my files are all set to 664….I thought that was correct but when I'm in the admin panel of WP and try to edit a file - the functions.php within my theme - I have no "update" button to select because it says it's not writable.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=sans-serif]Does anybody know the default permissions settings for WP 4.1.1 running on Ubuntu 14.04LTS with Apache2 and how the commands to implement that config?[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=sans-serif]Thanks!
Rob[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by sandyd on 2015-04-10
Moved to Server Platforms

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2015-04-11
755 for folders and 644 for files is the default permissions of files and is quite good for starters. I think you need to look not permissions but the ownership of the wordpress folder.

For example, webpages and folders should be owned by the www-data user. Try:
```
chown -R www-data:www-data /var/folder/of/wordpress 
```

---

### Post by rob129 on 2015-04-11
Hello Nerdtron - and thanks!
That's exactly what it was&#8230;I ran the command you gave me, logged into the WP admin, and was able to see the "update file" button - meaning it's now writable.

Is there a good link you can recommend regarding permissions and ownership? This not something I want to get wrong in the future! For instance when I ftp in to my site
I'm in my /home/username folder&#8230;.but I can navigate through the entire system. I think I want to be in the /var/www/html folder or maybe iin the /var/www folder.

Again, thanks for your time it worked perfectly!
Rob

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2015-04-11
> Is there a good link you can recommend regarding permissions and ownership?

Hhmm.. this can get a bit complicated to read but you can see these links. Permissions and ownership work hand in hand.
[http://www.grymoire.com/Unix/Permissions.html](http://www.grymoire.com/Unix/Permissions.html)
[https://www.linode.com/docs/tools-reference/linux-users-and-groups](https://www.linode.com/docs/tools-reference/linux-users-and-groups)

Also you can watch youtube videos teaching "Linux Permissions".

> For instance when I ftp in to my site
I'm in my /home/username folder….but I can navigate through the entire  system. I think I want to be in the /var/www/html folder or maybe iin  the /var/www folder.
I would not recommend that. Although there are options too, I think best way to do it is just to upload the files on your home folder, move them to the www folder (using sudo mv) and then use chown again to change the ownership of files.

---

