---
title: "10.04 fsck at boot - partitions already mounted?"
date: 2011-09-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by codon1 on 2011-09-07
Hi,

I have a rather curious error I can't seem to figure out.  I've installed Ubuntu 10.04 server with the following partitioning scheme:

/ = 17GB ext4
/opt = 45 GB ext4
/spare = 16GB ext4
swap = 2GB

The system boots and runs fine, however, after a couple reboots, the normal fsck craps out with messages like:

/dev/sda4 is mounted.
WARNING!! The filesystem is mounted.  If you continue you will cause ***SEVERE*** filesystem damage.

Hitting ctrl-alt-del bypasses this and system boots fine.  However the system needs to survive remote unnattended reboots.

How can it be possible that the partitions are mounted BEFORE fsck runs?

Any help you can provide would be most welcome.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-09-08
How are you running fsck?

---

### Post by codon1 on 2011-09-08
Just the standard default fsck that ubuntu runs at boot on all partitions.
We are doing nothing special.

We are several experienced Ubuntu admins here and are literally at a loss as to how a filesystem could already be mounted before fsck runs.

Thanks in advance for any assistance you can provide.

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-08
Maybe ureadahead is causing this?  I disabled that.

---

### Post by codon1 on 2011-09-08
That's a pretty good idea, it seems logical too that ureadahead would need to briefly mount a partition to check if it needs to load any boot files from it.

I did see "ureadahead-other terminated with status code 4" in the upstart messages.

I will try to disable it, and will report back.

Again, thanks so much for the reply!

---

### Post by codon1 on 2011-09-08
Entilza: disabling ureadahead actually made the problem worse.  Now the problem occurs on every reboot instead of intermittently.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-09-08
Run fsck manually off a livecd and see what happens.

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-08
It's ok it's happening each time now you can really fix it.

Can we see /etc/fstab  

Also df -h  please

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-08
Also try actually removing ureadahead not just disabling it.  You don't need it it.

apt-get purge ureadahead

---

### Post by codon1 on 2011-09-08
My fstab:

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=fdde5005-eb22-4699-b11f-74167e6be5bd /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /opt was on /dev/sda2 during installation
UUID=97cb7e24-9a41-4aa7-b1e4-a309af8c9e73 /opt            ext4    defaults        0       2
# /spare was on /dev/sda4 during installation
UUID=ffa76f4b-4232-4e35-af9a-c2fd8211efc0 /spare          ext4    defaults        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=42c6ad27-d6a0-4a52-8e50-ea966f7f6621 none            swap    sw              0       0

```


My fdisk:

```

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00051991

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        2067    16600064   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            2067        7538    43944960   83  Linux
/dev/sda3            7538        7781     1952768   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda4            7781        9730    15651840   83  Linux

```

All pretty standard stuff.

After purging ureadahead, it still hangs on every boot, same error as originally reported: fdisk bails because partition is mounted already.

I'll try fsck from a LiveCD next, although I'm not expecting much because the fs is not corrupted... It's just being prematurely mounted by someone before fsck runs.

---

### Post by codon1 on 2011-09-08
I think I figured it out guys... thanks for all your help, seriously.

It turns out there was an application that was installing a udev auto-mount rule which was mounting the USB peripherals as /dev/sda2 before anything else ran.

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-08
Is it only /dev/sda4 that comes with this message?  That would mean your operating system is fine because your OS looks to be on /dev/sda1

So what's on /spare perhaps that can give you a clue as to what is trying to mount it.

I'd also check /var/log/syslog
/var/log/boot.log (will be just what was in boot)
dmesg

maybe verify the UUID in /etc/fstab  by using blkid ?

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-08
Ok hope you got it, good luck :)  atleast the ureadahead errors won't show anymore though so if you want you can leave ureadahead off.

---

### Post by codon1 on 2011-09-08
Once again thank you Entilza.  As soon as I did df -h I saw duplicate entries for /dev/sda2 and /dev/sda4 and the rest was solved in a minute.

---

