---
title: "HTML PHP Email Problem / Postfix Mail Server Configuration / Squirrelmail Setup"
date: 2011-08-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by own3mall on 2011-08-19
I'm having problems with emails containing HTML  content.  When Google downloads the email messages via POP3 from my  squirrelmail server, the message does not display using HTML.  I'm not  sure if this is Google's fault or Squirrelmail's fault, but I've never  had problems before on other servers running the same script and using  squirrelmail.  If I login to squirrelmail, I have the option to download  the email message as an attachment.   The attachment, if opened by my  local browser, shows up  as HTML content, and it is properly formatted.  However, I'm using  Google to download my emails and file them under my Gmail account.   After Gmail downloads the messages, it shows up like this:

 
[SIZE=1][I]from    
to    [EMAIL="admin@domainRemoved.com"]admin@domainRemoved.com[/EMAIL]
date    Sat, Jul 30, 2011 at 6:07 PM
subject    Pending Registration
    
Content-type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1

From: Name Removed <admin@domainRemoved.com>
  Message-Id: <20110730234302.6B6FEDC08BA@eric-desktop>
Date: Sat, 30 Jul 2011 17:43:02 -0600 (MDT)

<p><b>After  registering your client via your server, please visit the following URL  to send them confirmation:</b></p>

[/I][/SIZE]  Any ideas?  I really need it to show up properly once Gmail downloads  the messages, as it takes a long time to login to Squirrel mail and  download each message as an attachment. 



  My PHP Code Headers Look like this:


 $headers  = 'MIME-Version: 1.0' . "\r\n";
$headers .= 'Content-type: text/html; charset=iso-8859-1' . "\r\n";
$headers .= "From: $uname <$email>";

  
Someone suggested that I remove the \r\n from my script.  I did, and now the email shows a from sender as www-data [EMAIL="www-data@domain.com"]www-data@domain.com[/EMAIL].  Before, the from field showed up as empty.  However, my PHP script is designed to change the sender's information to the clients that contact me.  Thus, if customer A contacts me, the email should be from customer A <custa@whatever.com>.  However, it's not being changed by the PHP script.  Any ideas why?  It works on every other server but mine.  I think my postfix configuration isn't setup properly?  What needs to be configured on it?

 Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-08-19
Short reply: Try removing the "\r" and just use "\n".  Any better?

If you're creating HTML messages from PHP, you should be using MIME.  That's a lot more complicated than simply adding a single Content-Type header, but it's a lot more reliable.

If you have a decent standards-compliant email client like Thunderbird available, try composing an HTML message to yourself, then. after receiving it, use View > Source to display the complete message text.  You'll see a plain-text part and an HTML part and "Content-Type: multipart/alternative" headers.  That's really the way to go if you want to create standards-compliant messages with HTML content.  You can use the message created by Thunderbird as a template for the messages generated by your script.

---

### Post by own3mall on 2011-08-19
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Short reply: Try removing the "\r" and just use "\n".  Any better?

If you're creating HTML messages from PHP, you should be using MIME.  That's a lot more complicated than simply adding a single Content-Type header, but it's a lot more reliable.

If you have a decent standards-compliant email client like Thunderbird available, try composing an HTML message to yourself, then. after receiving it, use View > Source to display the complete message text.  You'll see a plain-text part and an HTML part and "Content-Type: multipart/alternative" headers.  That's really the way to go if you want to create standards-compliant messages with HTML content.  You can use the message created by Thunderbird as a template for the messages generated by your script.

Works great!  Thanks.  This must be an Ubuntu feature, as \r\n has always worked before on other servers.

Thanks!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-08-20
> **own3mall said:**
> Works great!  Thanks.  This must be an Ubuntu feature, as \r\n has always worked before on other servers.

Thanks!

When MS-DOS was released, it used both the "carriage return" character (\r) and the "line feed" character (\n) to denote the end of lines.  Unix only uses the \n.  Those other servers didn't happen to be Windows machines, did they?

All of this harkens back to the olden days when people used "[teletypewriter]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:ASR-33_1.jpg")" consoles to communicate with computers.  There was a character that moved the print head back to the beginning of the line (\r) and another that advanced the cylindrical carriage up a line (\n).

---

