---
title: "Help! My Linode was used in a badbot attack"
date: 2015-08-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
Last time my Linode was abused, I rebuilt it. I'd like to avoid that.

I'm not sure how to pursue resolving this either. I may just need some clues on where to look.

Can anyone offer some suggestions?

Here are some details that Linode support gave me:

[COLOR=#333333][FONT=arial]your Server/Customer with the IP: *xx.xx.xx.xx* has attacked one of our servers/partners.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=arial]The attackers used the method/service: *badbot* on: *Sun, 23 Aug 2015 05:07:06 +0200*.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=arial]The time listed is from the server-time of the Blocklist-user who submitted the report.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=arial]The attack was reported to the Blocklist.de-System on: *Sun, 23 Aug 2015 05:07:03 +0200*

[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#333333][FONT=arial]The IP has been automatically blocked for a period of time. For an IP to be blocked, it needs 
to have made several failed logins (ssh, imap....), tried to log in for an "invalid user", or have
triggered several 5xx-Error-Codes (eg. Blacklist on email...), all during a short period of time.
The Server-Owner configures the number of failed attempts, and the time period they have 
to occur in, in order to trigger a ban and report. Blocklist has no control over these settings.

The IP has send a SPAM-Comment on a Honeypot-Forum or Honeypot-Wiki with URLs to e.g. buy ****** 
or link to other spamvertised sites. He used xrumer or other Tools or had a false configured mod_rewrite/mod_proxy who is abused:
[http://blog.blocklist.de/2011/03/14/erlauterung-der-einzelnen-dienste-badbots-apacheddos-postfix/#badbots](http://blog.blocklist.de/2011/03/14/erlauterung-der-einzelnen-dienste-badbots-apacheddos-postfix/#badbots)

If the IP is a Tor-Server: [http://blog.blocklist.de/tor-server-owner/](http://blog.blocklist.de/tor-server-owner/)

Please check the machine behind the IP xx.xx.xx.xx (xxx.members.linode.com) and fix the problem.
To search for AS-Number/IPs that you control, to see if any others have been infected/blocked, please go to: 
[http://www.blocklist.de/en/search.html?as=6939](http://www.blocklist.de/en/search.html?as=6939)

If you need the logs in another format (rather than an attachment), please let us know.
You can see the Logfiles online again: [https://www.blocklist.de/en/logs.html?rid=703400398&ip=xx.xx.xx.xx](https://www.blocklist.de/en/logs.html?rid=703400398&ip=xx.xx.xx.xx)


You can parse this abuse report mail with X-ARF-Tools from [http://www.x-arf.org/tools.html](http://www.x-arf.org/tools.html) e.g. validatexarf-php.tar.gz.
You can find more information about X-Arf V0.2 at [http://www.x-arf.org/specification.html](http://www.x-arf.org/specification.html)

This message will be sent again in one day if more attacks are reported to Blocklist.
In the attachment of this message you can find the original logs from the attacked system.

To pause this message for one week, you can use our "Stop Reports" feature on Blocklist.de to submit
the IP you want to stop recieving emails about, and the email you want to stop receiving them on.
If more attacks from your network are recognized after the seven day grace period, the reports will start
being sent again.

To pause these reports for one week:
[http://www.blocklist.de/en/insert.html?ip=xx.xx.xx.xx&email=abuse@linode.com](http://www.blocklist.de/en/insert.html?ip=xx.xx.xx.xx&email=abuse@linode.com)


We found this abuse email address in the Contact-Database abusix.org. This is because we could not parse
an abuse/security-Address (e.g. abuse-mailbox, abuse@....) in the Whois, or the Whois request has been
rejected (usually because of a registrar's limits on the number of Whois requests we can perform in a day).
If this is not the right address to send abuse reports to, please contact [email]info@abusix.org[/email]: [http://abusix.org/services/abuse-contact-db](http://abusix.org/services/abuse-contact-db)

Reply to this message to let us know if you want us to send future reports to a different email. (e.g. to abuse-quiet or a special address)



------------------------------
blocklist.de Abuse-Team
This message was sent automatically. For questions please use our Contact-Form (autogenerated@/abuse-team@ is not monitored!):
[https://www.blocklist.de/en/contact.html?RID=703400398](https://www.blocklist.de/en/contact.html?RID=703400398)
Logfiles: [https://www.blocklist.de/en/logs.html?rid=703400398&ip=xx.xx.xx.xx](https://www.blocklist.de/en/logs.html?rid=703400398&ip=xx.xx.xx.xx)
------------------------------


report.txt

Reported-From: [email]abuse-team@blocklist.de[/email]
Category: info
Report-Type: info
Service: badbot
Version: 0.2
User-Agent: Fail2BanFeedBackScript blocklist.de V0.2
Date: Sun, 23 Aug 2015 05:07:06 +0200
Source-Type: ip-address
Source: xx.xx.xx.xx
Port: 80
Report-ID: [email]703400398@blocklist.de[/email]
Schema-URL: [http://www.blocklist.de/downloads/schema/info_0.1.2.json](http://www.blocklist.de/downloads/schema/info_0.1.2.json)
Attachment: text/plain


logfile.log

Here more information about xx.xx.xx.xx
Time: 2015-08-22 22:06:44
Ip: [/FONT][/COLOR]

<snip>

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-08-30
Please show us your firewall ruleset with the results of 
```

sudo iptables -L -nv

```

What services are you running?  HTTP? SMTP? IMAP?   How do you connect to the server?  Via SSH?  Do you use shared keys?  Do you allow remote SSH logins, or are they restricted to only those specific IP addresses that you need to use?

Do you offer services with insecure logins like FTP or, gasp, telnet?

Are you offering web services using a CMS like Wordpress, Drupal, or Joomla?  Do you apply security updates as soon as they are offered?  What kind of permissions do you have on any directories these programs use?  I've encountered Drupal developers who have left the entire web tree with write permissions rather than carefully auditing the installation to limit the server-writable directories to as few as possible.  For instance, I use WordPress on Apache.  The Apache user on my server can only write to the wp-content/uploads/2015 directory and nowhere else.  When I need to update the WP software, I change the permissions, run the upgrader, then change the permissions back again.

If you're running some type of gaming server, I'd suggest you stop doing that.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
Thank you, SeijiSensei!

I'm running HTTP via Nginx, and SSH. No ftp, and I shut down sendmail a few weeks ago (though I want to restore that more securely).

I connect to SSH via iTerm on my Mac, and SFTP via Transmit.

I do not believe I've allowed any insecure services, but this gets back to my current problem.

I'll have to check on your other questions.

I am running several Wordpress sites, and stay as up-to-date as I can.

I'll have to review permissions, but thanks for sharing your procedures.

I'm not running a gaming server.

The badbot account was executed on port 80. Can I look further somewhere specific based on that clue?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-08-30
a) secure the node.
b) describe the system architecture so we might be able to help - is there a DBMS, webapp, remote access setup, VPN, proxy, ftp, apache, php anything?   What is running?  Is there a reason for email to be allowed at all?

We can't help without knowing how they broke in and what daemons are running.

Whenever I see abuse on my web servers, I block that entire subnet with the firewall. Sometimes I block the entire country. Running a strong reverse proxy allows non-standard user-agents to be blocked before the web server is ever touched.  For example, many websites have decided to block Windows10 visitors over privacy concerns. There are security modules for most proxy servers that will recognize and block these type of attacks - just add them to the blocked types.  

Security plugins that run inside the same webapp might be helpful, but I wouldn't trust them too much.

Wordpress and sendmail are issues.  Sendmail should probably be converted to postfix. For wordpress - I don't have any good option except to be highly selective about any themes and add-ons. There are over 1M wordpress sites hacked right now. Happy that you are doing something about it.  That is the cost of running the most popular CMS - lots of attacks, just like running Windows. Market share.

If you use ssh/sftp with passwords, that is an issue too. Keys should be used only over the internet. Be certain to block brute-force password attempts too - fail2ban or if you can, just block all outside access that isn't from your normal static IP at home.

As always, 
* stay patched
* maintain 60-120 days of backups so you can see what changed, on which date, in what directory.

When you post requested commands, please, please, please
1) show the exact command used
2) show the output generated - copy/paste
3) use "code tags" so the output looks like it would in a terminal - we read that stuff easily.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
Here's the output of your suggested command:

```
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT 135K packets, 70M bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination


Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination


Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 144K packets, 121M bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-08-30
No firewall rules - not good.
[http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-iptables-examples.html](http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-iptables-examples.html) will get you started.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
Thank you, TheFu. I'll have to review things to respond clearly. Some of these actions you mention are unfamiliar to me, but I'm eager to learn.

As I mentioned to SeijiSensei, I'm running Wordpress sites.

For all my directories, I at least grant permissions to www-data:www-data, with as little write access as possible. I will be reviewing that, though.

No VPN, no proxy that I'm aware of, no ftp, no apache. PHP is running, but I'm not sure if there are specifics that I can respond to.

I'll look at blocking the subnet/country that attacked me. Can you point me to any clear resources, otherwise I'm googling...?

Since I'm not running a proxy server (that I know of), is that suggested? Would that make it easier to add security modules for protection?

For your backups, do you keep daily snapshots? I've never had such an extensive archive policy.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
I'll configure my firewall. Thanks for that link.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-08-30
Well, you don't have any rules at all!  You should have, at a minimum, a generic rule that denies all inbound traffic and rules that permit traffic only on the ports where services are offered. I know that Ubuntu doesn't have any services running by default, but I wouldn't ever run a server without an explicit set of firewalling rules that permits only legitimate traffic and blocks everything else.

I'd also make sure you have rules that permit SSH access only from specific known IP addresses, or use a VPN.  I have a server in my office that maintains a shared-key OpenVPN tunnel to my Linode server.  All traffic from here to the server goes over the VPN.  No SSH access is permitted from any unknown remote IPs.  You can access Linodes remotely over the web by launching the "LISH" shell from the dashboard.

I'd wager it was a WordPress exploit. There were two security updates to WP in just the past month.  Did you update both times? The latest version is 4.3; is that what you're running?

I've run sendmail for twenty years.  I can't ever recall it being exploited on one of my machines.  I do use an "access" database, but mostly to block spammers.

I use rsync to take daily snapshots of key directories like /etc and /home and send them to my office server.  I also pay for Linode's snapshot backup service.  It costs only a few dollars per month and provides peace of mind.

I'd review the documents here if you have not done so already: [https://www.linode.com/docs/security](https://www.linode.com/docs/security)

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
Thank you, SeijiSensei. All of that seems doable by me right now.

I am running the latest Wordpress, and plugins. I'm usually pretty on top of that.

I'll keep you posted on my progress with the firewall.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
Better?

```
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT 33 packets, 6220 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
   29  5294 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:3306
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:3306
   64  3740 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:80
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:80
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:22
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:22
    0     0 DROP       udp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            udp dpt:631
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:631
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW udp dpt:123
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:25
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW udp dpt:53
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:53
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:80
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:443
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:110
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:143
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:137
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:138
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:139
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:445
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:3128
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:22
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:22
    0     0 DROP       udp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            udp dpt:631
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            tcp dpt:631
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW udp dpt:123
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:25
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW udp dpt:53
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:53
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:80
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:443
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:110
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:143
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:137
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:138
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:139
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:445
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       192.168.1.0/24       0.0.0.0/0            state NEW tcp dpt:3128


Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination


Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 61 packets, 11578 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-08-30
I am not a linode customer, but have lots of their swag from conferences.

Also, I do not run any php webapps on the internet, cannot help there. 

I use rdiff-backup for daily, automatic, system backups.

Based on some of the common things you are missing, it appears you came from a web-app background, not either systems admin or security.  Running a server on the internet is a dangerous thing and gaps in your skills will hurt until closed.

Ubuntu is a little too friendly for internet-facing servers.  CentOS has SElinux and firewall rules enabled by default which you would have to open for any service to work.  Get into that habit of thinking.  Block everything and explicitly allow only what you want and only for the end-users you want.

Lastly - please secure your ssh/sftp connections. [http://blog.jdpfu.com/2011/08/23/securing-ssh-connections-and-blocking-failures](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2011/08/23/securing-ssh-connections-and-blocking-failures)  Locking it down to a few IPs can work, but a compromise is to block all countries except yours and prevent too many brute force attacks. NEVER use passwords over the internet - ok - 1 time you have to, then immediately install some keys and NEVER use passwords again. ;)  Disable passwords except from the management LAN and never allow remote root to ssh in.

  please - **use code tags**.  Don't ask us to look at ugly output.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
TheFu -- understood, about all of that. Thanks for your patience. I aim to improve.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-08-30
Thanks for the code tags. Helps much, yes?

I doubt the 192.168.1.0 rules are what you want.  That subnet is unroutable over the internet.  I suspect you really should use **ufw** to manage firewall rules. Pick one UI into netfilter and use only that, ufw in this case. Most people would just set a default drop policy, then add the specific rules needed.  It is a good idea to have a 5 minute timeout when testing new rules - so you don't lock yourself out forever.  I suppose linode has console access methods, which get around any network issues? If not, be very careful.

There are books written about using and designing iptables rules. Usually I use ufw for systems with simple needs and only go to iptables when I need to do strange things - like connection tracking and slowing down abuse from DDoS attacks. I don't think you are there yet.

We were all new at some point and we all have gaps in our knowledge based on what we needed to know along the way. It just takes time and the learning never ends.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-08-30
Thanks again, for the tips _and_ the encouragement! I'll check out ufw asap.

---

### Post by Burton_Lo on 2015-09-05
Just to follow up, I've implemented basic firewall rules as I learn more about those. I've also implemented some nginx configurations, in particular fail2ban.

At this time, I'm (more) secure.

Thanks for all your support!

---

### Post by Habitual on 2015-09-06
> **Burton_Lo said:**
> At this time, I'm (more) secure.Don't be lulled into a sense of false confidence here.
Security is not a package.
You have yet to figure out *how* this happened?
> **Burton_Lo said:**
> [COLOR=#333333][FONT=arial]
The IP has send a SPAM-Comment on a Honeypot-Forum or Honeypot-Wiki with URLs to e.g. buy ****** 
or link to other spamvertised sites. He used xrumer or other Tools or  had a false configured mod_rewrite/mod_proxy who is abused:[/FONT][/COLOR]
I'd be all over grep'ing mode_{rewrite,proxy} from the logs.
I'd also enable rewrite logging, in case it happens again and nothing is in the logs to say what/how and when.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2015-09-07
for wordpress - wordfence and sucuri - install both and they will compliment eachother.

then use something like updraft backup or something like that to backup the wordpress site. I too got hacked via wordpress on my host. I get many attempts but so far wordfence and sucuri blocked it or pointed out to any suspicious activity.

---

