---
title: "9.04 server - No common CD-ROM drive was detected"
date: 2009-06-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by red_foxx777 on 2009-06-06
Upon instillation I get the error "No common CD-ROM drive was detected". Ive stumbled upon a few threads telling me to do this:

-Ctrl+Alt+F2
-Enter
- type in: modprobe ide-scsi
-Crtl+Alt+F1
-Retry to detect the CD drive
-Select drive (cdrom or cdrom0)

The process doesnt fix this for my situation, any help?

---

### Post by Arcturus691 on 2009-07-28
I am also having the same problem with 9.04 desktop alternate & live installs.  Modprobe cdrom returns FATAL: Module cdrom not found.  There is no /dev/hd* or /dev/sd* directories either.  I cant even get it to boot the livecd.  The cd is ok I used it to install another system with no problems. The cdrom is a IDE liteon drive. What brand cd drive are you using and how is it connected?

---

### Post by Arcturus691 on 2009-07-29
I just downloaded the 8.04.x version of ubuntu and the installer booted right up and is installing.   I suspect that something has been changed with 9.04 or there is a bug.   I would try installing the 8.04 server, if that works then you can upgrade to 9.04.

---

### Post by AdaMich on 2009-08-02
I also have the same problem with a liteon cdrom. Boots, but then gives the no common cdrom detected with xubuntu 9.04. Any workarounds?
Thanks

---

### Post by Arcturus691 on 2009-08-28
The only workaround that I know of is to install version 8.10 and upgrade to 9.04 via the updates.  To do this you need to go to  System/Software Sources/Updates tab  and on the bottom go to **Release Upgrade** and change the pull down from "Never" to "Normal or "Long Term Release".  This will allow you to see OS upgrades when you run updates.

---

### Post by munchkin on 2010-03-05
Had the same problem with 9.10. It turned out the problem was in the BIOS configurations. I had 2 IDE HDDs and a CD-ROM, one IDE was primary master, the CD-ROM was primary slave and the second IDE was secondary master. 
After unplugging the second IDE and making the CD-ROM secondary **master**, it all worked !!! - seems like the installer does not recognise the CD-ROM if it is a slave... 

Hope this helps, guys..
Cheers
Pav

---

