---
title: ".htaccess being ignored by Apache"
date: 2010-06-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kidsil on 2010-06-10
I've been trying to make an .htaccess file with my Apache2 server on Ubuntu Lucid Lynx.

For some reason it won't worked, I checked with my webmin and it said "rewrite" module works.

it also appears in the /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/rewrite.load ..

Any ideas to why my .htaccess files are being ignored?

---

### Post by t3r0 on 2010-06-10
HI,

Few thinks you could check:

- can apache read the .htaccess file? (file permissions)
- Do you "AllowOverride None" or "AllowOverride <something>" inside your virtualhost? try to change it to "AllowOverride All". you should only change the allowoverride inside the <directory /your/web/root/> -block.

If this doesn't help, check apaches error log. There might be some hints about a possible error.



- Tero


> **kidsil said:**
> I've been trying to make an .htaccess file with my Apache2 server on Ubuntu Lucid Lynx.

For some reason it won't worked, I checked with my webmin and it said "rewrite" module works.

it also appears in the /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/rewrite.load ..

Any ideas to why my .htaccess files are being ignored?

---

### Post by kidsil on 2010-06-10
Where exactly is the AllowOverride All thingy suppose to be?
Which file?

---

### Post by kidsil on 2010-06-10
Solved! It was in /etc/apache2/sites-available, changed whatever there to

```

    <Directory /var/www/>
        Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
        AllowOverride All
        Order allow,deny
        allow from all
    </Directory>

```

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-06-10
Glad to hear it's fixed.  Please use the thread tools drop down to mark this thread [SOLVED]! :D

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-07-10
Thank you, this helped me as well.

---

### Post by crafter on 2010-10-11
This wont work until the rewrite mod is enabled

```

sudo a2enmod rewrite
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

```

---

### Post by M1GEO on 2011-09-12
Helped me too :)

---

### Post by vbachev on 2012-10-06
Thank you! 
Had the same problem after enabling mod_rewrite and now it all works like a charm!

---

