---
title: "13.10 server partition and directory advice"
date: 2014-01-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Lou_Kitz on 2014-01-29
Hello, my first post...

I was given a Super Workstation server and an MS SBS 2008 disk.  I've installed SBS '08 on RAID1 Volume0 2-500Gig SATA drives.  It's my intention to have that and a RAID1 Volume1 set with Ubuntu 13.10 server on it dual booting with the Ubuntu as default boot system using grub.

I removed the SBS raid set and built a RAID1 set with 2-500Gig drives and I'm getting ready to install Ubuntu Server.  I plan to use LVM so I can grow my file server.  I plan to use the server like an NAS for my home network, host a dedicated game server and a Teamspeak 3 server and just tinker to learn more about Linux and servers.  In the past I've done this with old desktop PCs and just did the default partition scheme.

I could use some recommendations on what would work best for my purposes.  I've read I need a separate partition for /var but the stuff I find with Google all have different opinions and are sometimes a few years and kernels old with 40Gig HDDs for examples.  How should I divide up my 500 Gig RAID set?  I'll only have 1 or 2 local users and 5 PCs and 5 laptops using file shares on my LAN.  I'm not sure where SAMBA stores file shares as I'm still reading up on using SAMBA.

Thanks for any advice or links to good reading.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-01-29
It would probably be easier to just install Ubuntu on the machine and run 2008 SBS in KVM.

I have always put everything except /boot in the same partition, but I'm also lazy and I have plenty of disk space.

As far as Samba goes, if you don't need anything fancy, you can check this one:
[http://charlesauer.net/tutorials/ubuntu/samba3-ubuntu.php](http://charlesauer.net/tutorials/ubuntu/samba3-ubuntu.php)

---

### Post by Lou_Kitz on 2014-01-29
Thanks.  The SAMBA link was great.  Very helpful.  I looked up KVM for Linux and saved several links.  It looks like I'll need to read a lot more on that and save it for the "tinkering" I was talking about.  I don't plan to use the SMS '08 for anything but learning how to work with it so re installing it later for KVM won't be a big deal.

So, there is no major performance benefit of having /root  and /var in their own partitions?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-01-29
I'm with Charles on the virtual machine idea. 

Nowadays there is rarely a need for a separate /var partition because disks have become so large.  I do maintain a separate /home partition in case I want to upgrade the OS or try a different distribution without losing my personal files.  I also have a small separate /boot of 512 MB formatted with ext2.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-01-29
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Nowadays there is rarely a need for a separate /var partition because disks have become so large.  I do maintain a separate /home partition in case I want to upgrade the OS or try a different distribution without losing my personal files.  I also have a small separate /boot of 512 MB formatted with ext2.

The only way I can see it is if you wanted to run /var or /tmp as tmpfs or didn't want them taking up space on an SSD boot drive.

---

### Post by Lou_Kitz on 2014-01-29
Thanks for the replies.  That pretty much answers my questions.  Real quick, where would SAMBA store file shares?  I mean what directory tree or partition as that's the one I'd need the most space, or is it a matter of pointing it to any partition?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-01-29
You can point Samba anywhere.  You define shares in /etc/samba/smb.conf like this:

```

[myshare]
path = /path/to/some/directory
guest ok = yes
writable = yes
browseable = yes

```

That creates a shared directory accessible as \\server\myshare and permits anyone to browse and write into that directory.  You'll still have to worry about proper permissions on that directory so that all the accepted users can read and write to it.  For more security you can set "guest ok = no" and define a list of permitted login names that may access the share using the "valid users" directive.

The default smb.conf that Ubuntu creates during installation has a number of useful examples for different types of sharing situations.

---

### Post by Lou_Kitz on 2014-01-29
Awesome!  You guys are great. I'm ready to go ahead with my install as soon as I get off work. :)

Thanks again

---

