---
title: "16.04 on Dell poweredge 2800"
date: 2017-01-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by turtles on 2017-01-06
Greetings all I am attempting to reawaken a old Dell power edge server.
I am doing a fresh install on some new drives.
I got errors attempting to use home made live USB's I made so i purchased a Ubuntu one from the Ubuntu store.
Both live usb deices work on other boxes/laptops but fail randomly during the install on this Dell 2800.
Since booting from USB seems problematic and or impossible with this server I gave up.
I came across a old 14.04 live cd and popped it in the server to find it works. 
I stress tested the system, ran bad blocks, tested the hardware and it all checks out, however the Linux kernel just does not like the bios on this thing.
```
[    7.069043] pcieport 0000:00:02.0: device [8086:3595] has invalid IRQ; check vendor BIOS
[    7.069260] pcieport 0000:00:03.0: device [8086:3596] has invalid IRQ; check vendor BIOS

```
Full paste of kernel [dmesg errors ]("http://pastebin.com/pcHK2dq1")

I went ahead and installed sshd in the live cd environment and left the server running in the rack.
Over ssh I started following this guide here [https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/powerpc/apds04.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/powerpc/apds04.html)
minus the power-pc part
and got my hardware raid array formatted with cfdisk (The graphical installer front end for parted would fail here)
anyway I am a old time Gentoo user so don't mind the long manual setup process.

However now that I am chrooted in I need some help with 
[LIST]
[*]creating the correct /etc/fstab  /etc/crypttab and or /etc/dmtab
[*]making a initrd or initramfs to unlock the root filesystem on boot
[*]configuring grub2
[/LIST]
I noticed all the guides I can find for that on installing an encrypted root like the [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedFilesystemHowto4](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EncryptedFilesystemHowto4)
are plastered in outdated and slated for removal banners. 
So I am chrooted into my simple new Ubuntu server on an encrypted disk that I formatted and mounted.
I set up a volume called rootfs on /dev/mapper/rootfs that I would like auto mounted  as / by an initrd or intiramfs
I have at least 16Gigs of ram so I don't think it will need encrypted swap but it could not hurt.

I attempted to ```
apt-get install cryptsetup
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
cryptsetup is already the newest version (2:1.6.6-5ubuntu2).
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 72 not upgraded.
2 not fully installed or removed.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
E: Can not write log (Is /dev/pts mounted?) - posix_openpt (2: No such file or directory)
Setting up grub-pc (2.02~beta2-36ubuntu3.6) ...
grub-probe: error: failed to get canonical path of `/dev/mapper/rootfs'.
Installing for i386-pc platform.
Installation finished. No error reported.
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: failed to get canonical path of `/dev/mapper/rootfs'.
dpkg: error processing package grub-pc (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of grub2:
 grub2 depends on grub-pc (= 2.02~beta2-36ubuntu3.6); however:
  Package grub-pc is not configured yet.

dpkg: error processing package grub2 (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 grub-pc
 grub2
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)

```

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-01-06
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms**.* which is more appropriate for the problem and should be a better fit.

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-01-06
Just to make things clear, did you do the encryption first or the installation? Because you say you "formatted the hardware raid array with cfdisk" but when using an encryption you should luksFormat the HDD partition first and you format with ext4 the actual encrypted volume.

And sorry, but this looks to me like too much hassle even if you don't mind doing it. Especially since you still have no clear installation manual so something mihgt get forgotten to be set up. Are you sure you have exhausted all options to boot the server with ubuntu server cd somehow? Maybe usb dvd drive? I usually don't have issues with those...

Plus using the ubuntu desktop live cd wouldn't that install ubuntu desktop and not ubuntu server?

PS. If I understand correctly after giving up on usb boot you only tried the 14.04 desktop cd you had, right? And it reports that IRQ message. Have you tried to boot and install with ubuntu server 16.04 cd? Maybe that message got fixed since 14.04...

PPS. In fact it seems there was similar bug in Arch Linux (based on Debian too) in 2014 and probably resolved by now. So I would really try 16.04. I don't understand why are you trying 14.04 really... [https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=181660](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=181660)

---

### Post by turtles on 2017-01-15
Sorry for the delayed response I have not had time to work on this till now.  My goal is to install a encrypted server system using the current debootstrap over ssh (running on outdated live cd).
> **darkod said:**
> Just to make things clear, did you do the encryption first or the installation? 
I did the encryption first... I used cfdisk to partition the 'disk' (presented to the OS by the hardware [PREC 4e raid]("http://www.dell.com/support/home/us/en/04/product-support/product/dell-perc-4e-di/research") array) into 3 partitions. Then I checked the partitions on the drive
```
badblocks -c 10240 -s -w -t random -v ....
```
Encrypted the one I wanted for my root (/), then opened it with 
```
cryptsetup luksOpen ...
```
then formatted ```
mkfs.ext4 -O dir_index,filetype /dev/mapper/ ....
```

> **darkod said:**
> Plus using the ubuntu desktop live cd wouldn't that install ubuntu desktop and not ubuntu server?
I only needed the live cd to access the server remotely, format then mount the partitions, download debootstrap_1.0.81ubuntu2.1_all.deb with wget then chroot. I used  debootstrap as the basis of the install.
Like the [ppc guide here ]("http://https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/installation-guide/powerpc/apds04.html")
I followed that up to the yaboot part.
What I did not realize is that I needed to do some tweaking to the chroot and install more tools to make the initramfs.
In the livecd I created a mountpoint for the install at ```
/mnt/ubuntu
```
> **darkod said:**
> PS. If I understand correctly after giving up on usb boot you only tried the 14.04 desktop cd you had, right? And it reports that IRQ message. Have you tried to boot and install with ubuntu server 16.04 cd? Maybe that message got fixed since 14.04...

PPS. In fact it seems there was similar bug in Arch Linux (based on Debian too) in 2014 and probably resolved by now. So I would really try 16.04. I don't understand why are you trying 14.04 really... [https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=181660](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=181660)
I don't have easy access to the server itself. My choices were either the bootable usb sticks (both failed, one got to the installer and it froze) or the old ubuntu cd I found on the floor (worked), or leave it off. Since the cd worked I used it, i was able to install sshd and a few other tools before I had to leave.

I think I solved the issue by uninstalling the failed  grub2 with ```
apt-get remove --purge grub2
```exiting the chroot
then from the live cd shell
```
mount --bind /dev /mnt/ubuntu/dev
mount --bind /proc /mnt/ubuntu/proc
mount --bind /sys /mnt/ubuntu/sys

```
As well as mounted the /boot  under the /mnt/ubuntu/boot 
and encrypted root on /mnt/ubuntu
Then I found this bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bug/430224]("http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bug/430224")
And inside the chroot did a 
```

dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl
```

Next back in the chroot I figured out I needed an /etc/crypttab and an /etc/fstab pointing to the root filesystem
Installed tools ```
apt-get install cryptsetup hashalot initramfs-tools
```
tried ```
update-initramfs -cvk all
```
lastly installed grub2 with success
Hopefully this is useful for someone else

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-01-16
I didn't understand half of it but glad you got it sorted out. :)

Please mark the thread as Solved. You can do that in Thread Tools above the first post.

---

