---
title: "9.10 server running, but x ?"
date: 2009-12-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jleaman on 2009-12-10
Ok i fixed the problem with ubuntu not installing, now i would like to know where i can get some info about installing the graphical gui, i am a ssh person ( kinda ) but i like my mouse and menue's :) 

Can any one help me with installing the gui for the desktop and such, so i can setup my server via mouse and keyboard and remote desktop ( kinda like vnc )

---

### Post by JonRohan on 2009-12-10
You can install the full ubuntu desktop via:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop (I'm fairly sure this is correct but don't have a ubuntu system to test on). 

You can also install vnc. I tend to use vnc4server.

---

### Post by jleaman on 2009-12-10
> **JonRohan said:**
> You can install the full ubuntu desktop via:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop (I'm fairly sure this is correct but don't have a ubuntu system to test on). 

You can also install vnc. I tend to use vnc4server.

Got it all installed, now i can vnc into it from my ubuntu desktop works awesome.

So now i need to get a few other things working,

1) my apple hfs drive is detected and i can see it but i can't view it because permission is denied :( how do i change the permissions so i can see it ? It says permission 501, i think that's the number. It has all my iso's and dmg files so i would like to NOT format it or loose all the information.

2) id like to setup a network share for this drive, and my main one for files so i can access them from my other computer's ie both laptops and my desktop.

3) how do i turn on the http server so i can setup my internal website. I know how to make it public after it's running, but where do i go to do that ? Is there a application i can install for this ? 

Jase

---

### Post by Queue29 on 2009-12-11
If you installed Apache during the UbuntuServer install apache2 should already be running.. but if it isn't:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 **start**
```

or **restart** or **stop** depending on what you want to do.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-11
If you want a graphical front end for your server, rather then gnome / X / VNC (vnc servers are the most common crack on the UF), you might consider something like webmin.

[http://www.webmin.com/deb.html](http://www.webmin.com/deb.html)

---

### Post by jleaman on 2009-12-11
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> If you want a graphical front end for your server, rather then gnome / X / VNC (vnc servers are the most common crack on the UF), you might consider something like webmin.

[http://www.webmin.com/deb.html](http://www.webmin.com/deb.html)



I totally Forgot about webmin, DAM! i used to run this on my Mandrivia server long time ago, loved it.


Can anyone help me with my hard drive mounting / permissions problem ?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-11
> **jleaman said:**
> Can anyone help me with my hard drive mounting / permissions problem ?

[How to fstab - Ubuntu Forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131")

---

### Post by jleaman on 2009-12-12
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> [How to fstab - Ubuntu Forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131")

Thank you :( totally lost with this fstab thing, 


So i logged in as root copied my 60gig folder to my desktop, then formated the 160gig drive to fat now i can manually mount it and access it from either user's, however i have to mount it after logging in every time i reboot. How do i make it so it auto mounts, then make it a hard drive thats shared.

---

### Post by Queue29 on 2009-12-12
> **jleaman said:**
> Thank you :( totally lost with this fstab thing, 


So i logged in as root copied my 60gig folder to my desktop, then formated the 160gig drive to fat now i can manually mount it and access it from either user's, however i have to mount it after logging in every time i reboot. How do i make it so it auto mounts, then make it a hard drive thats shared.

If you made an entry in your fstab, it should be accessible upon boot.

For example, in my fstab here, the bottom entry is a compact flash card that gets mounted automatically:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sdb1
UUID=0b3e13c2-f790-4285-9d8b-7c5ad1004513 /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sdb5
UUID=e12d9307-ce30-4237-877b-c8dc169116f6 none            swap    sw              0       0
# my own CF card in mobo
UUID=60b74a51-fd52-4c64-a7a1-624e89910f43       /storage        ext3    relatime        0       0

```

It mounts to /storage , which I have chmod'd to 777 so everybody can use it.

---

### Post by jleaman on 2009-12-12
i'm scared to go into that file LOL! 

Have no clue what to write and etc etc

---

