---
title: "9.04 complications"
date: 2009-05-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mleisher on 2009-05-27
I just installed 9.04 server for the first time, my third Ubuntu installation in all.

Problem 1: I have 20 years experience with setting up sendmail. Despite two weeks of fiddling with the distributed sendmail, I was never able to get it working. I ended up removing the debian setup and installed from source. Voila, ten minutes later, a working sendmail.

Problem 2: I thought I might give Postfix a try for the first time. Same problem as with sendmail. No matter what I did, it wouldn't work. Installing from source worked immediately.

Problem 3: I have several years of experience with dovecot. I tried to change Postfix to use the distributed dovecot to deliver mail. Couldn't get it work. Once again, installing from source worked pretty much out of the box.

Problem 4: I migrated some lists from an older mailman distribution to 9.04. After a couple weeks I finally discovered I had to manually construct and compile the aliases in /var/lib/mailman/data/ as well as /etc/aliases to make it work with Postfix. Never did find anything about that on the web.

For desktops, I have come to prefer Ubuntu over most other distributions, but on the server end some basic things seem to be getting so complicated and scattered that I will be moving our department to some other server distribution in the future.

---

### Post by LepeKaname on 2009-05-29
I have a script to setup postfix/dovecot with clamav+spamassasin in about less than 5 minutes... You can check it here:

[http://www.alepe.com/about_computers/about_linux/setting_up_a_mail_server_in_ubuntu.html](http://www.alepe.com/about_computers/about_linux/setting_up_a_mail_server_in_ubuntu.html)

Read the tutorial and you will know how to do it by your self... if you have any question you can either PM, send me an email or post your question here... 

I hope it is useful.

---

### Post by mleisher on 2009-06-04
Thanks! When I get time I'll try another install and see if it works.

---

