---
title: ".htaccess alias not working... I think"
date: 2007-10-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-25
I'm doing my first steps into .htaccess right now in the hope to make the PHP webdesign a little easier but I'm not really managing to get things right. The rewrite module is on, so is the alias module and .htaccess is the standard "AccessFileName".

Now I have tried lots and lots of different ways to get an Alias working.
For testing I try to Alias a non existing file pod26.mp3 to the existing file Podcast_26.mp3 but for some strange reason, I keep on getting error 404's :?

I know this looks rather stupid but I really can't manage to get it working, so can anyone help me please ?

---

### Post by whit on 2007-10-25
Do you have AllowOverride on? That is, something like:

<Directory />
    AllowOverride All             
</Directory>

in httpd.conf?

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-25
Post your config (your virtualhost and .htaccess files) and your error log and we can take a look.

Mathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-25
Thanks whit, your tip got me one step closer, now apache found my .htaccess but it is displaying an internal server error now (error 500).

I tried putting the Alias in both me document root and the targetted directory but I keep on getting these strange errors: 

[Thu Oct 25 22:59:27 2007] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /home/bert/Mijn webs/.htaccess: Alias not allowed here
[Thu Oct 25 22:59:43 2007] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /home/bert/Mijn webs/.htaccess: Alias not allowed here
[Thu Oct 25 22:59:58 2007] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /home/bert/Mijn webs/.htaccess: Alias not allowed here
[Thu Oct 25 23:02:51 2007] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /home/bert/Mijn webs/.htaccess: Alias not allowed here
[Thu Oct 25 23:02:52 2007] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /home/bert/Mijn webs/.htaccess: Alias not allowed here
[Thu Oct 25 23:13:00 2007] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /home/bert/Mijn webs/TCT/TCT podcast downloadcounter/TheCavernToday/.htaccess: Alias not allowed here
[Thu Oct 25 23:13:40 2007] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /home/bert/Mijn webs/TCT/TCT podcast downloadcounter/TheCavernToday/.htaccess: Alias not allowed here

I use the following .htaccess files: 

Alias /TCT/TCT%20podcast%20downloadcounter/TheCavernToday/pod26.mp3 /TCT/TCT%20podcast%20downloadcounter/TheCavernToday/Podcast_26.mp3 #in the document root
Alias pod26.mp3 Podcast_26.mp3 #in the targetted directory

Any idea what might cause the problem ?

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-25
As it says - alias not allowed here (in the .htaccess file) - see the 'Context:' line at [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_alias.html#alias](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_alias.html#alias)

Whilst you're there, check out the Redirect directive instead (note the point about having to use a full path URL in the 'destination' of the redirection)

You could always put the Alias in your site config, but I guess there's a reason you wanted to use .htaccess files.

Mathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-26
Well MJN, I indeed have a reason why I want to use .htaccess.
What I want is that people think they're downloading a .mp3 fiile but as a matter of fact they are downloading the output of my download.php file. But because we don't have access to our apache conf files, it has to be done using .htaccess

I think this also makes clear why redirects aren't an option...

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-26
I see.
 
Your alias statements above don't appear to map onto any PHP scripts though (indeed there's no mention of download.php)?
 
Can you give an example of what the user might type in (with full URL path) and what you want the server to respond with (with full file path)?
 
I'm not sure why we can rule out redirects but then I'm not entirely sure what the goal is (my misunderstanding I'm sure).
 
Mathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-27
Okey, so the user should type in [http://www.thecaverntoday.org/Podcast_26.mp3](http://www.thecaverntoday.org/Podcast_26.mp3) but apache will send him the output of [http://www.thecaverntoday.org/download?phpfile=pod26](http://www.thecaverntoday.org/download?phpfile=pod26) right ?

That's what I want, but I'm getting afraid that it's not possible :(

---

### Post by aznboy on 2007-10-27
no...I don't think that's right...Alias Directive doesn't do that...at the same time I'm still not sure what your trying to achieve...if you want to serve the files through php to restrict access or hide the file location then you set that up through php....if your using Alias Directive it maps the direction to a local filesystem, not a file...they should have examples at apache mods to show you what each mod does

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-27
> **Bert_2 said:**
> Okey, so the user should type in [http://www.thecaverntoday.org/Podcast_26.mp3](http://www.thecaverntoday.org/Podcast_26.mp3) but apache will send him the output of [http://www.thecaverntoday.org/download?phpfile=pod26](http://www.thecaverntoday.org/download?phpfile=pod26) right ?

That's what I want, but I'm getting afraid that it's not possible :(

Don't be too quick to throw the towel in! :)

What's wrong with the following?

[B]Redirect /Podcast_26.mp3 [http://www.thecaverntoday.org/download?phpfile=pod26](http://www.thecaverntoday.org/download?phpfile=pod26)

[/B]Alternatively, on the assumption you've got multiple mp3's that you wish to redirect use the following:

[B]RewriteEngine On
RewriteRule ^Podcast_(.*).mp3$ download?phpfile=pod$1

[/B]MathewMathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-28
@aznboy: it's quite simple what I try to achieve, the PHP script gathers download infromation for me so I can now how many people have downloaded our podcast on a specific day on which operating system and what browser they used. It's just to have an idea of how many people and what kind of people are listening ;)

@MJN: will the user then view the .mp3 or the .php file ?

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-28
They will get the output of the php file. If the php file doesn't deliver the mp3 then you're going about this the wrong way.

Mathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-29
Sorry, I meant, whether the client would see .mp3 or .php in the address bar (this simply is to make sure that nobody will have problems when they right click->save the file), okey ?

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-29
You could be answering these questions yourself by trying it! ;) Best way to learn!

The rules are rewriting URLs so it's anyone's guess as to how different browser would handle the redirect in a Save As situation, however as we haven't specified a redirect code it should silently do so and still allow the browser to handle it - try it!

I can't help feel like you're going about this the wrong way though. Why don't you utilise the logs as a method of determining who's downloading what? There are many Apache log analysers out there.

Mathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-31
Well, I tried that first, but as the site is visited by over 100 unique user a day and that it contains a forum with constant discussion, it takes over 10 minutes to get the accesslogs analysed.

but if this doesn't work I'll use a AddHandler rule and put my PHP code in .mp3 files. Those will get parsed then, but the user won't see it.

Thanks for your help and I'll try the information you gave me above when I'm back home (I'm on vacation right now and my external version of ubuntu, ubuntu installed on an external USB harddisk, isn't really equipped to test such things ;) )

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-31
100 users a day doesn't sound like much, but if the logs are taking 10 minutes to parse try either grepping out the relevent bits (i.e. the .mp3 requests) and/or running the analyser more frequently (mine runs every 3 hours, not so much to keep the processing down but to provide nearer real-time data).
 
Mathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-31
Well, if you have a look at thecaverntoday.org and you check how many images there are on that page, you will understand that that gives lots of GET stuff for accesslogs, not to speak about the consumption of the form with all it's iframes, pages, post's etc...

But I'll think of something. Thanks again ;)

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-31
That's nothing, really.
 
Do let us know how you get on as I'm sure others will benefit from it (it seems nearly all casual server operators want to know what visitors are upto!)
 
What analyser(s) have you tried so far?
 
Mathew

---

### Post by Bert_2 on 2007-10-31
I wrote something in PHP myself, it read the accesslog, line by line, and checked for .mp3 stuff, if it found a .mp3 line, it would count it in (total, browser, OS, type of downloading etc.) and then move on to the next line. But it just didn't work.

Right now I use my own super cool download counter, with ACP. The ACP gets all lines from the database (well, not all of them, some data is ignored in the SQL itself, like multiple IP's in the same 10min.) and then starts calculating total, percentages etc.

Right now I'm editing it for the first REAL version which I hope to release soon under the GNU GPL, but it lacks some functionality such as non .php extentions, but I have multiple ways to fix that precise problem. Also, the code needs more flexibility, easier way to add stuff, auto RSS editing, admin functionality instead of manual database editing and the most important thing: JpGraph build graphics, 'cause image just say more about such things then plain numbers ;)

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-10-31
If you wrote it yourself then only you can say why it's taking so long to parse! I guess you must have your reasons to roll your own rather than using an existing solution so I'll leave you to it - will keep an eye out for it!

Mathew

---

