---
title: "8.04  -&gt;  10.04   via SSH?"
date: 2010-08-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by raccer on 2010-08-30
Has anyone had success with this?

I just rented a godaddy dedicated, the ubuntu variety comes loaded with 8.04...(& I need PHP 5.3)

Followed the directions here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades")

I did have to change my sources.list, everything after that went as expected (not like i'd know what to expect)

At one point it asked if I wanted to update my grub/menu.lst to the release version, or use my old one, I updated it.

Once the upgrade completed, I checked the menu.lst again to ensure it was gonna boot 10.04 (as warned by the guide)

However once I sent reboot, I couldn't SSH back in, I waited 5m, 15m, tried again, still couldn't SSH then I had the server power cycled via my godaddy control panel, and still nothing, attempts on port 22 timed out & other ports were refused.

I think I overlooked something because, from what I've read here and there this is technically possible, I also just found this guide here:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-upgrade-ubuntu-9.10-karmic-koala-to-10.04-lucid-lynx-desktop-and-server]("http://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-upgrade-ubuntu-9.10-karmic-koala-to-10.04-lucid-lynx-desktop-and-server")

The first user comment (above link/guide) seems to have a tip for what I'm trying.

Anyways had the server re-provisioned via my control panel & I'm about to try again, only this time.... uh, check the SSH settings post upgrade/pre restart? And anything else you guys suggest?

Thanks in advance for any tips or suggestions!

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-08-31
There shouldn't any problem with sshd in doing this. It's probably something else that is preventing the upgraded server from booting correctly after. Certainly I've used ssh/sshd between many versions and OSes and not had version issues.

If you had any firewalling then disable that during the upgrade/reboot process in case of issues there. Something like that or something preventing a clean boot is the most likely culprit. If you can get KVM IP / console access during the reboot you would be able to see what happens as it reboots but not all hosting providers offer this. Some charge a lot for it. Some offer it free but only as requested.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-08-31
Did you just purchase a name from them or do you rent server space? Where is the actual web server located?

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-08-31
Amazon offers servers in 4 regions: US East, US West, Europe - Ireland, Asia - Singapore. When you sign up and get an account you have all that is needed. They will bill you once a month on your credit card for usage. In this rather simplistic use scenario you would pay for per hour that you have a server active, and for any bandwidth consumed. For typical web browsing the bandwidth is quite neglible but of course, doing big downloads and torrents could cost quite a bit. The rates are all posted on the Amazon AWS info pages.

You can enter a command to start a server, do your ssh command to use it, and enter a command to stop the server - only paying while it is active. You can access via a given temporary IP or use a temporary dns name they assign. There is also a web based control panel for point/click controlling of servers. I find it easier to use commands once you understand how it works.

They have regular hourly rates depending on server size/speed. For this use the most basic "Linux small" size is more than adequate. Regular fee is 8.5 cents/hour, however, they offer "Spot Price" instances where you pay a current bid price for unused servers. This is ideal for proxying and almost always the current price is about 3 cents/hour.

Once you have an account you can use the control panel to set up a KEY to use for access, and a default firewall (security group) to attach to your server. Both those steps are needed and done once only (for any given region).

I usually use a Ubuntu 10.4 AMI (Amazon Machine Image) which is pre-configured ready to use but you can also create your own custom images with not too much extra work. The US east coast AMI for Ubuntu 10.4 is ami-1437dd7d. See here for others, [http://alestic.com](http://alestic.com)

Amazon doesn't allow running open public proxies. But there is no reason a private proxy for your own use would be frowned upon. And your IP at any time would be one amongst hundreds of thousands of IPs owned by Amazon. Once your machine is stopped the server image is discarded (as far as I know, I don't think they would keep them around for long as other users want that resource).

---

### Post by raccer on 2010-08-31
Hi guys!

Yes, it's a dedicated server. No I'm not talking about a domain name. I have no clue where the server is physically, probably in AZ as that's where godaddy HQ is.

My upgrade attempt #2 had the same outcome, this time I did not restart SSH during the upgrade, however as I still couldn't connect post reboot, I'm thinking it's something else.

I can post any (pre/post)-upgrade files if anyone is wants...

Bkk, good idea on the ip/kvm, I'll email them & see what they say.

---

### Post by raccer on 2010-08-31
Ive been bouncing between various tutorials, blogs, and of course The Ubuntu Server Community! WooHoo! 

[INDENT]*(really, if I didnt find this forum, and get the noobtastic help I need, I'd still be clicking my way through life in Win7)*[/INDENT]

I seems that it is possible to get PHP >= 5.3, loaded up on Hardy Heron LTS, I didn't want to go this route, as I'd prefer to learn my way through Lucid LTS as its the current LTS.

So I think I'll be working on this for a couple of hours, again if any tips or resources can be recommended, please do!

Thanks!

---

### Post by prkns on 2010-10-23
Were you able to resolve this issue? I've gone through the Hardy to Lucid upgrade a couple of times with no luck.

---

### Post by nilli29 on 2010-12-15
use this site [http://repogen.simplylinux.ch/](http://repogen.simplylinux.ch/) which will generate a new sources of repos for you, the overwrite the contents of you sources.list with the generated content.

sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list




then run these commands
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

---

### Post by nilli29 on 2010-12-16
found something else of interest you update kernel with out reboot will k-splice command instructions to install is here [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/install-ubuntu-kernel-updates-without-rebooting-using-ksplice-uptrack.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/install-ubuntu-kernel-updates-without-rebooting-using-ksplice-uptrack.html)

good luck with upgrading you ubuntu to 10.04

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-12-16
> **nilli29 said:**
> use this site [http://repogen.simplylinux.ch/](http://repogen.simplylinux.ch/) which will generate a new sources of repos for you, the overwrite the contents of you sources.list with the generated content.

sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list




then run these commands
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

That's not the right way of upgrading between releases.

See [here]("http://www.ubuntu.com/desktop/get-ubuntu/upgrade").

You can do the upgrade in a screen session.

---

### Post by nilli29 on 2010-12-16
charles A
how do you install screen I read up on it, it sounds powerful but I had problems installing it on ubunut 8.04.  I tried doing the recommended way to upgrade using the link you provided but it automatically restarted the server with godaddy dedicated server when this happens you cant ssh back to your server it seems like the ssh process is killed during this upgrade.

 but if you know of a way of installing screen on ubuntu 8.04 I would rather do it your way

apt-get install screen does not work

---

### Post by nilli29 on 2010-12-16
charles A
how do you install screen I read up on it, it sounds powerful but I had  problems installing it on ubunut 8.04.  I tried doing the recommended  way to upgrade using the link you provided but it automatically  restarted the server with godaddy dedicated server when this happens you  cant ssh back to your server it seems like the ssh process is killed  during this upgrade.

 but if you know of a way of installing screen on ubuntu 8.04 I would rather do it your way

apt-get install screen does not work

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-12-16
screen is installed by default in Ubuntu. You'd just need to start a session by running it:

```
screen
```

I learned about it [here]("http://www.rackaid.com/resources/linux-screen-tutorial-and-how-to/").

---

