---
title: "10.04 upgrade broke php"
date: 2011-01-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by penguin_patrick on 2011-01-01
I have resolved this issue, though I'm not exactly sure how.

On 2 servers, both 10.04, I have ran a sudo apt-get upgrade and updated several packages.  Both times I didn't pay very close attention to the packages, so I don't know exactly which ones were included.

Anyway, 2 different server boxes stopped serving PHP files after the upgrade.  Both servers just prompted to download the file. On both servers I re-installed PHP5, to no avail.  On this last server (a production box) I did a sweeping upgrade to 75 items in webmin ( the first server was using CL apt-get). I searched, and found that the php5.conf and php5.load links were not in mods-enabled.  So I added those, but still I was getting the download prompt.  After installing php5 from apt-get the download prompt stopped, but I got blank pages, so at least I knew I did something.  

On my production server, there are 4 virtual servers.  Oddly, my webmin kept working, maybe because it's https, i dunno.  

Anyway, I kept comparing config files to my dev server (also 10.04, but has survived the upgrades) and found that the phpmyadmin conf file wasn't in the list of apache2 config files.

So I perfomed a apt-get install phpmyadmin, and now apache2 is serving php files again.  All seems to be fixed.  

I'd love to know what exactly fixed the problem, but I don't really have the time to delve into the depths of all the php/apache (and maybe webmin / phpmyadmin) configuration. 

I'm posting this so maybe someone else that's having this problem may find this solution helpful.

---

