---
title: "10.04 LTS Memory &amp; CPU Utilization spikes!"
date: 2010-10-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by shuzaimi on 2010-10-21
Hi everyone,

I have a Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and about 40 ThinClients running LSTP in a school's computer lab. Everytime the users start to use applications, the server's memory utilization increases, while the swap memory is quite free. I have 12GB of memory on that server.

Help is highly appreciated. I enclose screen shots for reference as well. TQVM.

---

### Post by johnycage on 2010-10-21
I dont see anything unusual, can you elaborate the problem/your concern?

---

### Post by shuzaimi on 2010-10-21
Well, I have 16 GB of Physical RAM on the server, while the system monitor only shows 2.9GB. out of 8 CPU that i have on board the server, a few of it suddenly reaches 100% utilization when ThinClients connect to it. Where is the rest of my RAM...

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Nizumzen on 2010-10-21
> **shuzaimi said:**
> Well, I have 16 GB of Physical RAM on the server, while the system monitor only shows 2.9GB. out of 8 CPU that i have on board the server, a few of it suddenly reaches 100% utilization when ThinClients connect to it. Where is the rest of my RAM...

Thanks in advance

Are you running the 64 bit version of Ubuntu Server?

---

### Post by mrnelson1986 on 2010-10-21
> **Nizumzen said:**
> Are you running the 64 bit version of Ubuntu Server?

sounds like 32-bit from the RAM issue...

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-10-21
+1, since it's right at 3gb that makes sense if you're running 32-bit shuzaimi.  You need to run a 64-bit OS if you want to use more than 3gb of RAM.

---

### Post by dtfinch on 2010-10-21
Odd that it didn't automatically install the PAE kernel to use more than 3gb in 32-bit. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE)

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-10-21
> **dtfinch said:**
> Odd that it didn't automatically install the PAE kernel to use more than 3gb in 32-bit. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE)

I didn't realize PAE allowed up to 64gb of RAM on a 32-bit system, that's awesome.

So OP, when you do a ```
uname -r
``` what do you get?

---

### Post by shuzaimi on 2010-10-21
Thanks a lot gentlemen for the information that made my life easier :guitar:

---

### Post by Nizumzen on 2010-10-23
> **mrnelson1986 said:**
> sounds like 32-bit from the RAM issue...

That was why I asked the question.

---

### Post by hantechbl on 2010-10-23
You've got the 32-bit kernel, which allows at the top 4gb of ram to be addressed.  What I would do is try to find the 64 bit kernel, but backup before you do that.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-10-23
You'd have to reinstall x64 system hantechbl...

Did you not see the post about PAE?

---

