---
title: "10.04 - Cheatcodes and Experiences"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by TheFuturian on 2010-05-11
Hi All,

After a slightly bumpy ride attempting the _[upgrade process]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading")_ I have made the decision to setup my new LTS server from scratch and migrate across each service that I need from my old server one by one. I'm sure with some tweaking it would be possible to succeed with an upgrade, however it is my hope that taking this approach will help increase my understanding of this much loved distro.

I have just noticed that the new _[server guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/index.html")_ is available, and will be using this as my bible over the coming weeks. I do have a couple of quick tweaks that I find useful that I wish to share. Firstly I like the **_choice_** to be able to either have usage of gnome at startup or to disable it. To install the GUI I used :-

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-core gdm indicator-applet-session
```

If you want to be notified of system updates whilst logged into Gnome don't forget:-

```
sudo apt-get install update-notifier
```

To enable/disable the GUI at startup:-

```
sudo mv /etc/init/gdm.conf /etc/init/gdm.disabled
```
```
sudo mv /etc/init/gdm.disabled /etc/init/gdm.conf
```

10.04 uses _[Upstart]("http://upstart.ubuntu.com/index.html")_ as the init daemon, so this is slightly different to previous releases however the result is the same. To manipulate GDM display resolution *(VMWare)* I manually created a /etc/X11/xorg.conf to include:-

```

Section "Screen"
  Identifier    "Default Screen"
  Monitor       "Configured Monitor"
  SubSection "Display"
    Virtual   1024 768
  EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Another useful note about VMWare is that if you are going to install VMWare Tools then GCC and other compiler related packages need to be installed first:-

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

With these first hurdles complete I will be progressing to move the following services off my old server onto the new:-

[LIST]
[*]LAMP (Selected during installation)
[*]Opsview
[*]Webmin
[*]Postfix (SMTP over SSL, Amavisd-new & ClamAV)
[*]Dovecot (IMAPS)
[*]OpenSSH Server
[*]Squid
[/LIST]

It is my intention to post back my experiences and any further "cheats" as I go along. One other thing I currently have to add is a thread related to manipulating native "Bash" resolution:-

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1467946]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1467946")

I would be interested to hear other people's experiences/cheats and look forward to any responses :D

---

### Post by TheFuturian on 2010-05-11
**_Installing Opsview_**
[Opsview Installation Notes 1]("http://docs.opsview.com/doku.php?id=opsview:apt")
[Opsview Installation Notes 2]("http://docs.opsview.com/doku.php?id=opsview3.0:ubuntu-installation") *(If using the example "apache_proxy.conf" then /etc/apache2/ports.conf also needs to match the port number used)*
[Migration of Opsview Settings]("http://docs.opsview.com/doku.php?id=opsview-community:migratinghardware")

_**Sun's Java Runtime Environment**_
To install JRE (Required for Opsview) I had to uncomment the following lines within /etc/apt/sources.list:-

```
## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from Canonical's
## 'partner' repository.
## This software is not part of Ubuntu, but is offered by Canonical and the
## respective vendors as a service to Ubuntu users.
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu lucid partner
deb-src http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu lucid partner
```

_**Synaptic**_
When installing Synaptic I noticed that a package named "unattended-upgrades" had been included. By default the package appears benign. It seems to be controlled by "/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/10periodic" and does not include any _["Unattended-Upgrade"]("http://www.vanutsteen.nl/2008/06/09/unattended-upgrades-on-a-ubuntu-hardy-server/")_ option by default.

---

### Post by gobbledigook on 2010-05-12
hi!

would just like to say that i appreciate you documenting your experiences and linking all the important stuff :)

i'm not ready to migrate just yet as i use xbmc... and this having trouble on 10.04 at the mo' so just gonna chill for a bit...

keep it up!

:D

---

### Post by TheFuturian on 2010-05-13
Thanks for the vote of confidence gobbledigook, it's appreciated :cool: It's always nice to know someone has read all the crap you've typed out :P

So, I've migrated my Opsview configuration today using the above guide(s)... "How'd you get your files from one server to the other?" I hear you ask, well firstly I turned on password authentication on the SSHD service on my old server:-

```
**_/etc/ssh/sshd_config_**
# Change to no to disable tunnelled clear text passwords
PasswordAuthentication yes
```

This was neccessary as I normally only allow Public Key Authentication. With this option enabled I was able to install and connect using filezilla as root from my new server:-

```
sudo apt-get install filezilla
gksudo filezilla &
```

Using this technique the file/folder permissions were preserved, I just had to make sure the file/folder ownerships were recreated where required, i.e.:-

```
cd /usr/local/nagios/var/archives
sudo chown -R nagios:nagios *
```

The next step for me is probably going to be squid as it should be quick and easy. I don't have any configuration, just use it as a local passthrough. I've already done OpenSSH by using my existing keys, this will leave:-

[LIST]
[*]Webmin
[*]Postfix (SMTP over SSL, Amavisd-new & ClamAV)
[*]Dovecot (IMAPS)
[/LIST]

I'll probably post back my Webmin experience before I start looking at Postfix & Dovecot. These two bad boys are intentially being left to last as they are quite meaty (Especially when taking AV scanning into consideration).

---

### Post by TheFuturian on 2010-05-13
I've very easily setup a vnc server that's working pretty well so far... Firstly:-

```
sudo apt-get install xllvnc
```

Then edit **/etc/gdm/Init/Default** and add the highlighted line to the bottom of the file:-

```
[SIZE="1"]     elif [ -n "$XKBSYMBOLS" ]; then
        $SETXKBMAP -symbols "$XKBSYMBOLS"
      fi
    fi
  fi
fi
[/SIZE]
**/usr/bin/x11vnc -o /var/log/x11vnc.log -safer -xkb -localhost -nopw -forever -bg -auth /var/lib/gdm/:0.Xauth -display :0**

[SIZE="1"]exit 0[/SIZE]
```

Works very nicely with GDM, restarts the session when you logout and only allows connection via an encrypted ssh tunnel \\:D/

---

### Post by krunge on 2010-05-13
> 
**/usr/bin/x11vnc -o /var/log/x11vnc.log -safer -xkb -localhost -nopw -forever -bg -auth /var/lib/gdm/:0.Xauth -display :0**

Works very nicely with GDM, restarts the session when you logout and only allows connection via an encrypted ssh tunnel
Looks good!

A comment and a question.

Since you are running it from /etc/gdm/Init/Default, GDM sets $DISPLAY to the correct X display, and so you don't need '-display :0'.  The same goes for $XAUTHORITY (at least that is my experience), and so you shouldn't need the '-auth ...' either.  Why not try removing them.

My question is I thought recent GDM stopped using /var/lib/gdm/:0.Xauth and set it to a (random?) filename down in /var/run/gdm.  Can you verify that your GDM still using /var/lib/gdm/:0.Xauth?  Thanks.

---

