---
title: "9.04 64 Server boot problem"
date: 2009-10-23
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2009-10-23
I don't have much hair left.

My system started with (names invented to aid description):
"Alpha" 34GB ATA HD with an XP installation,  bios boot priority 2
"Beta" 160GB unpartitioned SATA HD,  bios boot priority 1
"Gamma" 160GB XP SATA HD,  bios boot priority 3

1) I physically disconnected Gamma to protect it.
2) I installed ubuntu 9.04 server 64-bit edition on Beta. I used guided LVM and an encrypted home directory. All fine and dandy. Very nice OS and no pulse audio so Skype works with my Logitech webcam :)
3) I rebooted, this time reconnecting Gamma. The ubuntu fails to boot after leaving the grub menu. "Waiting for root", times out into a prompt I don't understand.
4) When I reboot after disconnecting Gamma again ubuntu boots ok.
5) When I disconnect Alpha, ubuntu fails to boot as before.


What do I have to change in ubuntu to make it "other HD present or not" tolerant?
 :-k Brian

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2009-10-23
Here is the screen output when the boot fails.

My menu.lst contains this as the default option:

title      Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-server
uuid     93d152....b48d
kernel  /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-server root=UUID=93d152...b48d ro quiet splash rootdelay=90
initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-server
quiet



I added the rootdelay=90 myself as I read in a forum that this helped some folks.
The fstab file has the matching UUID for the / partition.

BTW those bios warnings occur when it successfully boots up too.

I am really worried about this because I don't want to create a time-bomb for myself. That is, I want to be able to add and remove HDs in the future without disabling ubuntu or forcing me to reinstall it or something hideous like that.

Any help appreciated.
Thanks.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2009-10-23
So now I have tried again with ubuntu server 9.10 64 bit. The same problem occurs. This is furstrating having read a long thread where developers appeared to be working on this around release 2.6.30 and this 9.10 release is 2.6.31-14.

I then went back to square one and installed 9.04 DESKTOP 32 bit. This DOES NOT have this problem. The OS boots whether the other SATA disk is connected or not.

So I am left speculating about why the 64-bit server fails when the 32-bit desktop version works.

Any ideas?

Is this a 32-bit vs 64-bit bootloader difference?
Is this a desktop vs server difference?
Or something else?
Is this a known failure mode and is anyone working on it?

I would like to use the server version. I'm running out of ideas. What should I do next?

Many thanks,
Brian

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2009-10-23
I have now tried the ubuntu 9.10 server with no encryption and it fails to boot as before. I also tried ubuntu 9.04 desktop 64-bit version and it works fine.

So I reckon the problem is not encryption related nor is is 32/64 bit related. There must be some significant difference in the boot-loaders between desktop and server versions.

I would really appreciate it if anyone can shine some light on this for me.


My motherboard is a Gigabyte GK8N Pro SLI

---

### Post by windependence on 2009-10-24
It's not a "problem", it's the way Linux has worked for years. You just got lucky that 9.04 worked the way you expected. You can't just add and remove hard drives without problems unless you use external USB or firewire drives. Who pulls and reinstalls hard drives all the time anyway? 

I know there is a way to make this less of a problem but it escapes me right now. I'm sure someone will post it. Remember, Linux != Windoze.

-Tim

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-10-24
As Tim (windependence) says leave all the drives connected during installation. 

You're making things confusing by using nonstandard device id's. Lets use the standards.

Windows C: = /dev/sda
Windows D: = /dev/sdb
Windows E: = /dev/sdc

You have XP on drive C: or /dev/sda, you  want to install Ubuntu on drive D: or /dev/sdb. When you get to the partitioning step, I would suggest using the manual option and setting up your partitions the way you want on drive D: or /dev/sdb. You don't need LVM, unless you want to span several drives so that they look like one drive. For now I would suggest you forget about an encrypted /home partition until you get familiar with the system.

During partitoning you can ignore drive C: or /dev/sda and drive E: or /dev/sdc, as Ubuntu will be able to acces both drives after installation. One of the last steps of the installation, is installing grub, it should be installed on the first partition of the first drive. Once the installation is finished reboot, and you should be done.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2009-10-24
Tim,
Thanks for putting things into perspective. I'm struggling to accept that it is normal in the linux world that adding a new HD breaks the OS. Do I understand you correctly?
Brian

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2009-10-24
> **cariboo907 said:**
> 
You have XP on drive C: or /dev/sda, you  want to install Ubuntu on drive D: or /dev/sdb. When you get to the partitioning step, I would suggest using the manual option and setting up your partitions the way you want on drive D: or /dev/sdb. You don't need LVM, unless you want to span several drives so that they look like one drive. For now I would suggest you forget about an encrypted /home partition until you get familiar with the system.

I find the Windoze labels confusing too. The problem with sdx is that the x is not absolute but is relative to which device you tell the bios to boot first and which boot order you specify. This confused the hell out of me when I first encountered grub. Absolute rather than relative references would cure 95% of all grub problems I've read about. I notice that ubuntu now uses uuids in grub.

My original setup was XP64 on sda, ntfs volume on sdb and ntfs on sdc (I originally bought sda and sdb to use as a RAID but found that XP64/Gigabyte RAID was a disaster). sdc is just an old IDE drive I had. So I discover linux about a month ago and now there is no going back, as it were. So I decide to install ubuntu on sdb, migrate XP to sdc and then wipe sda to use as linux data space.

Step 1: back all data up to external HD
Step 2: Install XP64 on sdc
Step 3: Install ubuntu on sdb (with sda unplugged to protect it from harm in case I change my mind - doesn't matter about grub menu as sda will eventually be linux data)
Step 4: Plug sda back in so I can use ubuntu to move data onto sdb and then to reformat sda - ubuntu won't boot!

As I said to Tm I simply cannot believe that it is normal for a linux OS to fail to boot when a new HD is added to the system, especially a hot-pluggable SATA drive. And why should it work on ubutnu desktop 9.04 but fail on ubuntu server 9.04 (and 9.10)? Especially a server OS where it is very likely a new HD will need to be added or swapped out at some future point.

It is not acceptable that an OS is broken by changing extra HDs. Right?

Brian

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2009-10-25
I have now done a load of trawling and I am hypothesizing that the issue is related to this article and the associated bug filings: [http://atlanticlinux.ie/blog/?p=137](http://atlanticlinux.ie/blog/?p=137)

I am not certain but many circumstances fit. First, my SATA drives used to be configured for "fake" RAID. Second, when I booted up the ubuntu server it always reported missing blocks. Thirdly, the bug report talks about degraded RAID causing ubuntu server to bomb after about a 30 second delay - whch sounds right. [B]The thing that concerns me most is that this bug may not have been fixed properly and the new 9.10 release is due out in days.
[/B] 
I have had to reinstall ubuntu desktop 9.04 - I use my machine to work! So unfortunately I am not going to be able to verify that the suggested work-arounds fix the problem on my set-up. Essentially the bug is that ubuntu does not diable the RAID module when asked by the user in the installation menu and then gets confused by degraded RAID info from the bios/HDs.

---

### Post by windependence on 2009-10-25
This is why you shouldn't use the GUI. At the command line you know for sure the command was executed or the config file was changed properly. With the GUI you can't always be sure.

-Tim

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2010-07-14
Doing a little housekeeping: I am marking this as solved.

Since my original post I had a more severe problem when upgrading to 10.04. The fix was to uninstall dmraid from ubuntu so that it would not automatically react to legacy fake raid information on my disks during boot-up. I also used cfdisk to remove raid labels.

I think ubuntu should give the user an option to either rebuild or disable fake raid during boot. Otherwise the novice (ie: me) will get in lots of trouble when installing ubuntu on a legacy raid system.

---

