---
title: "9.10 Ubuntu Server Installation Issues"
date: 2009-12-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by f@rfromhome on 2009-12-21
Hey Folks,

I'm new here and to the linux environment.  I'm having a bunch of random issues that I thought you guys might be able to help me with.  

Installation:


[LIST]
[*]Downloaded the .iso (9.10 64-bit) from here and installing it on my server.  It has 4gb of RAM, 2.33 Quad Core, ASUS P5N-E SLI LGA 775 Nvidia nForce 650i Mobo.
[*]I have 5 hd's in the box.  (4) 500 gb SATA drives and (1) 160 gb IDE drive.
[/LIST]
I'm installing the OS on the dedicated IDE drive.  I put the other 4 hds in a RAID 5 array through the BIOS.  Note: that the SATA controller is built into the motherboard. When I go through the install, it says that it found the RAID array and would like to activate them.  I say sure and continue with the install.  

Detailed setup.  

PRI IDE: 160 gb PATA HD by itself on an IDE cable and set as master.
SEC IDE: CD-ROM drive by itself on an IDE cable and set as master.

(4) 500 gb SATA drives hooked straight into the mobo.  

The BIOS recognizes all drives.

I've tried to install with and without the RAID array, both times with the same errors.  

The errors I'm getting during the install process:

Problem #1

During the "base installation", it stops halfway through and asks to put in the 9.10 Server Cd... which is already in the drive?  I thought it could be a bad cd or something so I downloaded another copy of the iso, burned it at a slower speed, etc with the same result.  Then, I replaced the CD-ROM drive with another Plextor CD-ROM and sometimes it works, other times, I get the same error.  When I get the error, it will not let me open the drive, nor go back or past.  It is just stuck and nothing happens when I hit enter.  I am forced to CTRL ALT DEL it and start over.  

Problem #2

On the few times it has completed the install, it says, Installation complete, please remove cd-rom from drive and boot from hd.  So, I pull the cd out, hit enter, and it restarts.  It tries to boot from hd but doesn't do anything.  It's just a black screen with a blinking "_" .  You cannot hit enter or anything and I've let it sit for a long time to see if anything happens.  The only option is to CTRL ALT DEL and the same thing happens when it tries to boot again.

I thought it could be the version of Ubuntu Server so I tried 9.04 with the same result.  The hardware is less than 2 years old and had been running fine with windows before.  

Also, I've reformatted all of the drives multiple times with Dban to make sure I had a fresh install.  I must have tried to install ubuntu 10 times by now.  I've searched all over and can't find anything specific to my hardware so I figured I'd ask you guys.  

I've heard so many great things about Ubuntu Server and can't wait to get it working.  

Any ideas?  Any comments would be greatly appreciated.  

Thanks!

-Matt

---

### Post by joker535 on 2009-12-21
I would remove the 4 SATA drives and then just install the OS to the IDE drive. If the problem is still there it is related to the IDE controller or one of the IDE drives. If the problem goes away, you know its related to the SATA controller. If thats the case, you could just add a ubuntu compatible sata card and go from there.

Just a suggestion, but have you tried any other  Linux OS on this exact hardware setup? I have run into odd issues like this before and I tried a different distro and it worked fine. I would try CentOS and see if it works. Its not that the hardware support is better, its just different.

Good Luck

Bob

---

### Post by mars76 on 2009-12-21
Hi,

  I installed 9.10 on my new server build ( Intel S5000PAL + E5310) and during the installation everything went well and i got 

Installation complete, please remove cd-rom from drive and boot from hd. 

When it restarts. It tries to boot from hd but doesn't do anything. It's just a black screen with a blinking "_"

Not sure why this is happening..

When used an existing Drive which had Win XP installed on it it booted into Windows fine.

I will try Open SUSE10.3 installed har Drive and will post back my findings..

 The Image i used for installing 9.10 is "ubuntu-9.10-server-amd64.iso". Though i have EMT64 Intel based processor i guess this is the Right image for Intel platform as well.


Thanks
Mars

---

### Post by f@rfromhome on 2009-12-22
I unhooked all of the SATA hd's and still had the same issue about asking me to put in the cd.  I tried the cd rom on both ide controllers and still no luck...

Hmm...what to do, what to do...

I guess I could try to install it from a usb drive.  Does anybody know how to do that from a mac?  Thanks!

-Matt

---

### Post by jpatino on 2009-12-29
I'm also experiencing problem #2 above.  I do have a RAID 1 SATA setup, but have had no problems installing other distros such as Fedora and openSUSE.  I will try disabling my RAID during installation and see if that helps.  Having the server work without RAID or in IDE is not an option.
 
Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by dobledosis on 2009-12-29
I have an intel i7 with a x58 PRO-E MB. Ubuntu doesnt let me install grub or lilo, it stops there. :S (i have a raid setup)

 Debian lenny dsnt detects the raid

---

### Post by jpatino on 2010-01-01
Found why my server wouldn't boot after installation.  I swapped a bad hard drive before installation without realizing  the BIOS hard drive boot order was changed.   Problem fixed.  Thanks.

---

### Post by steven.jones on 2010-01-02
Not all raid controllers are real raid controllers....ones on the motherboard are not well regarded.  Do some digging on your motherboard/controller.  A proper raid controller like a PERC5 with a sata multi-cable might be the way to go.

regards

---

### Post by noway2 on 2010-01-03
Just a point from personal experience.  If you want to have RAID capability, it is MUCH easier to configure the RAID support during the initial install than in it is to attempt to add it later.  The RAID support is built into the initramfs image that runs the system and it can be a real pain to try and get a system that has been configured without it to recognize a raid drive afterwards.

---

