---
title: "12.04 LTS - No Command Promt after Installation"
date: 2012-12-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Stephan H on 2012-12-26
Hello,

I've just installed 12.04 LTS server. 
All went well until I was asked to take the CD out and restart the system. The screen remains black, no command promt so can't go on.

Installed it twice but still the same. What could it be?
I'd exclude a hardware problem as I had a desktop version installed on it before but then re-partitioned all HDDs.

Any ideas would be much apreciated...

Stephan

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2012-12-26
Have you tried tty?

Ctrl + Alt + F1

---

### Post by Stephan H on 2012-12-26
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Have you tried tty?

Ctrl + Alt + F1


Yes, nothing happens :(

---

### Post by d4rk0wl on 2012-12-26
Are you getting output to the monitor? Or is the monitor telling you that the cable is disconnected?

---

### Post by Stephan H on 2012-12-27
> **d4rk0wl said:**
> Are you getting output to the monitor? Or is the monitor telling you that the cable is disconnected?

Yes the monitor is connected. It worked well with the desktop edition which I removed. It does con plain abt too high frequency but it did that before and one can adjust it. Was planning to install KDE GUI later. 

Stephan

---

### Post by bario22 on 2012-12-28
open your computer and take power from motherboard
put it back and try again.
i shoud work

---

### Post by Myoldmopar on 2012-12-28
Can you try a grub boot disk and see if it complains about anything?  When you say you get no command prompt, how far does a boot actually get?  If you can't really tell because the screen changes too fast, you may need to adjust BIOS settings to turn off splash screens so you can see any system messages flying by.  

Just throwing out ideas...good luck!

---

### Post by NigelRen on 2012-12-28
Another idea would be try to boot from a boot recovery disk and get it to rebuild the grub boot.  Could be that it's not showing you the boot menu.

---

### Post by d4rk0wl on 2012-12-28
To add to the chain of ideas, I have run into a similiar problem installing Lubuntu on my Acer Netbook. I needed to tell GRUB to create a custom resolution before booting.

Upon boot try spamming the shift key and see if you are able to return a grub menu. What is the hardware you are installing on?

---

