---
title: "10.04 Charter Cable, SMC 8014"
date: 2010-07-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jimmyray on 2010-07-26
I am sure this has been answered somewhere. Please point me in the right direction. Very slightly more experienced than a newbie.

Problem:
Ubuntu Server 10.04 very basic install
eth0 with all the right details in "interfaces:
   > auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address (static address given by Charter)
        netmask (charter give)
        network (automatically defaults to x.x.x.addess-two)
        broadcast (automatically defaults to x.x.x.addess+one)
        gateway (given by Charter)

resolv.conf has all the DNS entries and have tried OpenDNS servers also.

Cannot ping anything including the gateway.

Tried the whole set up using Windoze Vista to make sure my cables and such were working and it works fine. Also used a Linux Mint box to try and connect and it failed there to. This makes me think that there is something in the Ubuntu (Mint is a Ubuntu based distribution) base config that is holding up this.

Have used the Ubuntu 10.04 box to connect with DHCP to another ISP without problems so the network card drivers are fine.

Any ideas would be greatly appreciated.

jimmyray

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-07-26
Well there must be some value that you're not entering in correctly here.

I'm assuming you don't have a router, you're putting this server directly into a cable modem?  I would recommend having a router inbetween your modem and server, and put these settings in the router...

Now that doesn't mean this shouldn't work - it should.
Your "network" value should be the start of your subnet.  Mine, for example is 192.168.0.0.  My gateway is 192.168.0.1.  You may need to ask Charter what that is.  The b-cast would also need to be given by charter (or you can sort it out from the network mask...), mine is the last IP in my subnet - 192.168.0.255.  I've never put a computer directly onto the WAN in the fashion that you are doing...

---

### Post by jimmyray on 2010-07-26
Thank you for the response.

The cable modem is actually a router a SMC 8014. My understanding from the guy that put this in was that it was to refer all requests to my Ubuntu box. I'm glad to know that the network setting seemed strange to you also. I have run a couple of systems like you mention and I had some doubts about that setting. I will recheck this. Also ran some more diagnostics and found that it could not ping my router. Now the question is should it be able to ping the SMC 8014 or my Ubuntu box?

Will check my settings and maybe change the network setting to my subnet address.
jimmyray

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-07-26
Set your Ubuntu box to DHCP and see what happens.

---

### Post by jimmyray on 2010-08-02
Sorry for not responding sooner. Had too much paying work to do.

Trashed the box and started over this time using Ubuntu 8 and still the same response. The windoze box somehow makes the connection.

Set-Up:

Cable in to SMC 8014

Cat 5 from that to Ubuntu box eth0

Ubuntu set as mentioned above. 
Have changed countless files (and restored the originals countless times) including hosts, resolv.conf, interface, etc...

Should the gateway address given by Charter be bound (ie a virtual entry) on the same interface and then the actual gateway (2nd nic card) be given the internal -lan- gateway address such as 192.168.1.1?  I'm beginning to think that it may be that the requests cannot find the charter given gateway address because it represents the actual hardware (SMC 8014).

Or does this make any sense?

Thanks,
jimmyray

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-02
> **jimmyray said:**
> Trashed the box and started over this time using Ubuntu 8 and still the same response. The windoze box somehow makes the connection.

So what is the configuration settings for the network card on the Win box?  There has to be something different between how your Win box is setup and how the Ubuntu box is setup.

Unless, of course, your provider does MAC authentication...?

---

