---
title: "7.10 Error While Loading Shared Libraries VMWare Install"
date: 2008-02-17
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by deactivated-30Jul2012 on 2008-02-17
I've followed this guide:

[http://x86virtualization.com/virtualizationnews/howto-install-vmware-server-on-ubuntu-710-part-2.html](http://x86virtualization.com/virtualizationnews/howto-install-vmware-server-on-ubuntu-710-part-2.html)

While installing on Ubuntu Server 7.10 I get to the final step where I have to enter my serial number (which I obtained for the correct version). It tells me that it's invalid just after spitting out an error.

    /usr/lib/vmware/bin/vmware-vmx: error while loading shared libraries: libX11.so.6: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
    The serial number XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX~(real numbers removed)~ is invalid.


Thoughts, musings, ideas? Thanks for any help.  

The serial number is not the issue, because I am positive I have the correct one and also tried a few others.  It's getting rid of that error that I'm having an issue with.

I tried 

sudo apt-get install ia32-libs 

But I'm not sure that's what it needed and it error'd out on me and couldn't find package.  

Latest VMWare:

VMware Server 1.0.4
Latest Version: 1.0.4 | 9/18/07 | Build: 56528
VMware-server-1.0.4-56528.tar.gz

---

### Post by faulkes on 2008-02-17
The error you are seeing is related to VMWare not being able to find the libX11.so.6 library file.  The server edition does not ship with X installed by default.  IIRC it should have installed it as a dependency, however if it did not, you should be able to install it manually via.

```

sudo apt-get install libX11-6

```

Faulkes

---

### Post by deactivated-30Jul2012 on 2008-02-19
Thanks, there were a few other libraries missing for some reason as well that I installed and that seemed to clear it up.

---

