---
title: "Problem: NXDOMAIN (server can't find ...)"
date: 2010-09-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by NotFromBrooklyn on 2010-09-10
Foxes, I don't know what's the problem. I've been told I don't need to install Bind on my server, so I didn't, but I can't access my web page from Internet.


I have static IP.


/etc/resolv.conf
 

 # Generated by NetworkManager
 domain localdomain
 search localdomain
 nameserver 192.168.0.1
 

 NSLOOKUP:
 

 nslookup 127.0.0.1  
 Server:        192.168.0.1  
 Address:    192.168.0.1#53  
 

 1.0.0.127.in-addr.arpa    name = localhost.  
 

 nslookup for  localhost, localdomain, localhost.localdomain
 Server:        192.168.0.1  
 Address:    192.168.0.1#53  
 

 ** server can't find localhost.localdomain.:** [COLOR=Red]NXDOMAIN  [/COLOR]**
 

 
ping for localhost, my LAN IP, google.com, 74.125.95.103 OK

ping for my WAN IP 100% packet loss

---

### Post by NotFromBrooklyn on 2010-09-10
No problem, I reached the solution myself.

---

### Post by morgue on 2010-09-23
Mind posting the solution?

---

### Post by NotFromBrooklyn on 2010-09-25
I did a lot of things, guided by book like:
Mike Meyer's Management of nets
The official book of ubuntu server
and other I took from the faculty.

At the time I stoped, I noticed that it was working, but I really don't know what I did, because I make a lot of things.

---

### Post by vijay79 on 2013-05-03
server can't find nxdomain

---

### Post by lisati on 2013-05-03
> **vijay79 said:**
> server can't find nxdomain

If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.

---

