---
title: "the ability to edit files generated by W7 on the linux box"
date: 2016-03-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jamesr on 2016-03-02
HI Folks,

I know that I am doing something stupid, but after a recent update, I cannot create on a new server, the ability to edit the file on the server box that was created by a windows box.

Linux box (samba server)
directories:-     mnt/shared/allusers
                      mnt/shared/lakesh
etc.

Windows 7 client

I can create and edit files on the shared directories. All good. i.e. full access. from the Windows side.

Linux box
I cannot edit a file created by W7 on the Linux box I receive a permission error message.

Versions of software , (x)ubuntu 14:04 LTS & W7 professional.
This on a system that I have created to do testing, so it started as 14:04_3.

My older Samba servers did not seem to have a problem with this, but this might be old age affecting "my" memory cells.

I believe that the problem is related to the permissions of
create mask = 0774
and
directory mask = 02775

I have included smb.conf which has been generated from a file called smb.conf.master using the testparm command
```
[global]
	workgroup = PHOENIX
	server string = %h server (Sam_Xub)
	map to guest = Bad User
	obey pam restrictions = Yes
	pam password change = Yes
	passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
	passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
	unix password sync = Yes
	syslog = 0
	log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
	max log size = 1000
	printcap name = cups
	dns proxy = No
	usershare allow guests = Yes
	usershare max shares = 30
	panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d
	template shell = /bin/bash
	idmap config * : backend = tdb

[homes]
	comment = Home Directories
	valid users = %S
	create mask = 0700
	directory mask = 0700
	browseable = No

[printers]
	comment = All Printers
	path = /var/spool/samba
	create mask = 0700
	guest ok = Yes
	printable = Yes
	print ok = Yes
	browseable = No

[allusers]
	comment = All Users
	path = /mnt/shared/allusers
	valid users = @users
	force group = users
	read only = No
	create mask = 0774
	directory mask = 02775

[vgsci]
	comment = vgsci group
	path = /mnt/shared/vgsci
	valid users = @vgsci
	force group = vgsci
	read only = No
	create mask = 0774
	directory mask = 02775

[lakesh]
	comment = lakeshore  group
	path = /mnt/shared/lakesh
	valid users = @lakesh
	force group = lakesh
	read only = No
	create mask = 0774
	directory mask = 02775

```

I seem to remember that there was a simple change, but I cannot find my notes.

I can also supply the the full master file if that would help.

Best Wishes
Jim R

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-03-03
First, for create mask don't use 7s. That means RWX (or 4+2+1=7). You don't need ALL created files to be executable, they don't need X unless we are talking about specific files like scripts that need to be executed, etc. So in general for files you would use 664 and for directories 775. The directories do need the X because for a directory that means 'Search', in other words you are allowed to open/browse the directory.

Now, that being said, with your current file mask 774 and folder mask 775 it is normal that a user not belonging to @users or @lakesh can't edit the files. A user not belonging to those groups will have only read access (the 77[COLOR=#ff0000]4[/COLOR]).

On the other hand, if the user that is trying to make the modification does belong to those groups, then it's not working as it should be. Create a test file and check its permissions to make sure it's created with the permissions you intended. Then also check if the user(s) belong to the group(s) you expect them to...

If all looks good but it doesn't work, it needs deeper investigation. Right now do the basic simple checks first...

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2016-03-03
@darkod--
"0775" is the default suggested create permission in the Samba Doc's. So he is within their suggested maximum permission range.

Is the Linux userName user a member of the default sambausers group or an equivalent sub-group? I see users, vgsci and lakesh as force group's ... those groups have Linux permissions in those directories right? (Just checking, cause Linux Permission take precidence over Samba permissions...)

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-03-03
I understand it is within the range, I just wanted to comment that the 7 and the 5 in a file mask makes files executable, which you rarely need. I have seen that confusion plenty on the forum when people do chmod 777 when they want write access for all, and in fact that makes all files executable too.

For only write access you better do chmod a+w or chmod o+w. But that is not within the scope of this thread... :)

The 775 is completely a different matter for a directory mask.

---

### Post by jamesr on 2016-03-03
Hi Folks,

 Thanks for the fast responses. I would like to answers your responses in order.
Darkod
> First, for create mask don't use 7s. . I was aware that 7 = RWX, but I was only following the recommendations in the SAMBA documentation.

I would like have full Root access, full Group access, World as RW  but yes I like your little note > RWX (or 4+2+1=7).  I have to remember that binary to octal conversion and I obviously remembered it incorrectly  It should have been 4 or 6 for the world.

The user groups are users, lakesh and vgsci, and currently the appropriate Windows PC are members of those groups and also the main login user of the Samba PC ,so I thought that I would be able to edit the files from both,  the windows PCs (yes I can) and also the Linux PC (no I cannot).

I thought that I had checked the permissions on the current file  but I will recheck using a test file and send the result.
thanks for the useful suggestions.

MAFoElffen
I use the groups mentioned above, perhaps, I should change from the general group "users" to "allusers" or the default "sambashare" which is only set up on a pc running Samba. Users is the catch-all for the "allusers" directory where all files are shared. Lakesh and vgsci are sub-sets of the users that relate to products that I work with and are archived independently.
But this gives me a clue that I only checked the permissions from the GUI not CLI i.e. using ll
Thanks

Darkod
I also use some of the directories to store Windows executable files because it is easier to install additional programmes on another Windows PC. Which happens on a too frequent basis when a new version of Windows is introduced or forced upon us by Microsoft. OR when another programme I need i.e. Quickbooks needs a more powerful PC to run the latest version. I also use the "allusers" directory as a way of keeping the latest versions of Windows software for certain scientific instrumentation which is part of my business.
Do you recommend 'chmod'ing individual files on the server because that seems to me, at least, a recipe for disaster, especially with one member of my household.
Thanks again

I am looking forward to more of your replies especially after doing the tests tonight.

---

### Post by jamesr on 2016-03-03
Hi Darko or is it Darkod, & MAFoElffen,

I think that I have found my stupid mistake, see the permissions outputs starting with root and going through the directory tree. 
```
root@Kats2:/mnt# cd /
root@Kats2:/# ll
total 100
drwxr-xr-x  22 root root  4096 Feb 22 23:12 ./
drwxr-xr-x  22 root root  4096 Feb 22 23:12 ../
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root  4096 Feb 22 23:11 bin/
drwxr-xr-x   3 root root  4096 Feb 28 08:50 boot/
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root  4096 Feb 11 17:50 cdrom/
drwxr-xr-x  16 root root  4480 Mar  3 09:58 dev/
drwxr-xr-x 146 root root 12288 Mar  3 17:49 etc/
drwxr-xr-x   7 root root  4096 Mar  3 09:06 home/
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root    33 Feb 22 23:12 initrd.img -> boot/initrd.img-3.19.0-51-generic
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root    33 Feb 16 21:51 initrd.img.old -> boot/initrd.img-3.19.0-49-generic
drwxr-xr-x  23 root root  4096 Feb 16 21:45 lib/
drwx------   2 root root 16384 Feb 11 17:47 lost+found/
drwxr-xr-x   3 root root  4096 Feb 11 18:01 media/
drwxr-xr-x   4 root root  4096 Feb 17 11:34 mnt/
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root  4096 Aug  5  2015 opt/
dr-xr-xr-x 201 root root     0 Mar  3 08:49 proc/
drwx------  10 root root  4096 Mar  1 18:04 root/
drwxr-xr-x  27 root root   840 Mar  3 08:55 run/
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root 12288 Feb 22 23:11 sbin/
drwxr-xr-x   2 root root  4096 Aug  5  2015 srv/
dr-xr-xr-x  13 root root     0 Mar  3 08:49 sys/
drwxrwxrwt   4 root root  4096 Mar  3 17:49 tmp/
drwxr-xr-x  11 root root  4096 Feb 12 18:03 usr/
drwxr-xr-x  14 root root  4096 Feb 11 22:53 var/
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root    30 Feb 22 23:12 vmlinuz -> boot/vmlinuz-3.19.0-51-generic
lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root    30 Feb 16 21:51 vmlinuz.old -> boot/vmlinuz-3.19.0-49-generic
root@Kats2:/# cd mnt
root@Kats2:/mnt# ll
total 16
drwxr-xr-x  4 root root 4096 Feb 17 11:34 ./
drwxr-xr-x 22 root root 4096 Feb 22 23:12 ../
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 Feb 12 22:39 cdrom/
drwxr-xr-x  7 root root 4096 Feb 29 13:41 shared/
root@Kats2:/mnt# cd shared
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared# ll
total 40
drwxr-xr-x 7 root root  4096 Feb 29 13:41 ./
drwxr-xr-x 4 root root  4096 Feb 17 11:34 ../
drwxrwxrwx 3 root root  4096 Feb 29 22:20 allusers/
drwxrwxrwx 2 root root  4096 Mar  2 08:55 lakesh/
drwx------ 2 root root 16384 Feb 11 17:29 lost+found/
drwxrwxrwx 2 root root  4096 Feb 29 22:26 mondotmp/
drwxrwxrwx 2 root root  4096 Mar  1 23:16 vgsci/
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared# cd lakesh
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/lakesh# ll
total 12
drwxrwxrwx 2 root    root   4096 Mar  2 08:55 ./
drwxr-xr-x 7 root    root   4096 Feb 29 13:41 ../
-rwxrwxrw- 1 Len7484 lakesh  144 Mar  3 09:10 from_W7_to_lakesh.txt*
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/lakesh# cd ..
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared# cd vgsci
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/vgsci# ll
total 8
drwxrwxrwx 2 root    root  4096 Mar  1 23:16 ./
drwxr-xr-x 7 root    root  4096 Feb 29 13:41 ../
-rwxr--r-- 1 Len7484 vgsci    0 Mar  1 23:16 From W7 to vgsci.txt*
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/vgsci# 

```

Where "ll" is an alias i.e.  alias ll='ls -l'

I noticed that in the listing of directory /shared and onwards user is root and not the appropriate group i.e. should it be root, lakesh & vgsci, or am I incorrect in my suggestion. I also noted that the 2 files generated in different directories had different permissions? But the one in "lakesh" has the correct permissions but still could not be edited by root on Kats2. I seemed to remember that there was a little wrinkle to make the directories/files changeable by root but I could not remember what it was. Is this it, that I need to change the group ownership of the files.

I am looking forward to your replies.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-03-04
Any folder (including the folder shared) can have only one user owner and one group owner. So you can't make three owners of shared for each group. But you could give W access to all on the shared folder, and the subfolders allusers, lakesh and vgsci already have W for all. For these three folders you could change the group ownership to the corresponding group.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2016-03-04
For permissions, in precedence, you have Linux Permissions > Samba Permssions. So Samba can restrict or add a restriction to a Linux permssion, but cannot add acess to what a Linux permission has already blocked.

If the ownership is root, then a wheel member could read, but not write, until they elevated their own permissions...

Just me:
I set my Samba Shares directories ownership to the [COLOR=#008080]sambashare[/COLOR] user group. All Samba Users are a part of the [COLOR=#008080]sambashare[/COLOR] user group by default. Then I restrict the shares from there via my smb.conf. This template, allows for a member of sambashare to have access to all Samba shares, that do no have additional group restrictions added. Putting a group restricition in the smb.conf, then restricts that section to the specified group or user. (finer detail).

But: If I want only want to grant exclusive restricted access of a subdirectory to a limited group, then I change the permissions of that subdirectory to the ownership of a groupname for that section, then add membership of selected users to that group. 

My thoughts on the second part of that is for security of confidential data and protection from rouge external smb mounts (from outside of Samba)...

To others, if there is a better way, I am open to that. But that is just the way I've done it...

---

### Post by jamesr on 2016-03-04
Hi Folks,

Thanks for the help because  as I said previously "I must be doing something stupid or had forgotten something".
I had forgotten to change the groups ownership, see previous directory permission listing

I thought that I changed directory "lakesh" group permissions but in the 'll" printout, it still showed as root root, so back to the GUI approach and checked the permissions. The group was still root, so I changed all directories to the appropriate groups. Then check permissions again with '"ll" because I have had cases where it does not seem to work from the GUI. The sympton is that it shows as changed but if you leave long enough, you can watch it revert back to the original. 

see the final outputs below.```
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared# ll
total 40
drwxrwxrwx 7 root users   4096 Feb 29 13:41 ./
drwxr-xr-x 4 root root    4096 Feb 17 11:34 ../
drwxrwxrwx 3 root users   4096 Mar  4 11:31 allusers/
drwxrwxrwx 2 root lakesh  4096 Mar  2 08:55 lakesh/
drwxrwxrwx 2 root users  16384 Feb 11 17:29 lost+found/
drwxrwxrwx 2 root users   4096 Feb 29 22:26 mondotmp/
drwxrwxrwx 2 root vgsci   4096 Mar  1 23:16 vgsci/
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared# 

root@Kats2:/mnt/shared# cd lakesh
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/lakesh# ll
total 12
drwxrwxrwx 2 root    root   4096 Mar  2 08:55 ./
drwxr-xr-x 7 root    root   4096 Feb 29 13:41 ../
-rwxrwxrw- 1 Len7484 lakesh  144 Mar  3 09:10 from_W7_to_lakesh.txt*
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/lakesh# cd ..
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared# cd vgsci
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/vgsci# ll
total 8
drwxrwxrwx 2 root    root  4096 Mar  1 23:16 ./
drwxr-xr-x 7 root    root  4096 Feb 29 13:41 ../
-rwxr--r-- 1 Len7484 vgsci    0 Mar  1 23:16 From W7 to vgsci.txt*
root@Kats2:/mnt/shared/vgsci# 

```

Then checked the file edits again. They worked as expected.

Darko you commented 
```
For these three folders you could change the group ownership to the corresponding group. 
```but as you see above I had already changed permissions, before checking the forum. Thanks again.

MAFoElffen
> For permissions, in precedence, you have Linux Permissions > Samba Permssions. Thanks for the reminders.

Thanks to you, both, for your answers, I think that I will have to sort what I am doing wrong when using the CLI to change the group name of a directory which is why I use GUI approach. You, both made me slow down and think what I should be doing.

Thanks again

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-03-04
FYI, changing user or group ownership is quite easy with the CLI, and very precise too. For example you want to control the owners of /mnt/shared. You can change both user and group with:
```
sudo chown username:groupname /mnt/shared
```

If you want it to be recursive (all subfolders) add -R after the chown.

You can change only the group with:
```
sudo chgrp groupname /mnt/shared
```

That's all you need for ownership control.

---

### Post by jamesr on 2016-03-07
Hi Darko

Thanks again

I will mark the problem solved.

---

