---
title: ".htaccess halp"
date: 2006-04-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by peanut butter on 2006-04-16
.htaccess files dont seem to work on my apache 2 server. this is nothing critical but i would like to be able to use them.i am attaching my apache2.conf as a txt file(wont accept .conf). thanks in advance.

---

### Post by fdoving on 2006-04-16
Look for AllowOverride in the apache config

'AllowOverride All' allows all overrides in .htaccess files.


- Frode

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-04-16
I didn't look at your config, but you didn't post enough information.  What was in the .htaccess file?  Did it have correct permissions?

---

### Post by peanut butter on 2006-04-16
Thanks so much fdoving, it worked i just made a special folder only thing and put allowoveride all under it and now it works.
i had set the permissions of .htaccess to 777 what are the minium permissions for a htaccess and htpassword file?

---

### Post by hfranco on 2006-04-16
I wrote a How To on configuring your website using .htaccess in linux with apache.

The only difference with this tutorial is just replace "service httpd restart" with "/etc/init.d/apache2 restart"

[http://wiki.ehow.com/Configure-Your-Website-Using-Htaccess-in-Linux-with-Apache]("http://wiki.ehow.com/Configure-Your-Website-Using-Htaccess-in-Linux-with-Apache")

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-04-16
***Permissons on .htaccess should never ever be 777.***

It shouldn't even be writable by anyone except the person who is editing it.  Readable by apache, though.

---

### Post by dgrafix on 2006-04-17
there seems to be a lot of instances of allow override, which do i change, all of them?

the override all... what does it mean

whats it overriding? passwords? users? permissions?

---

### Post by fdoving on 2006-04-17
I recommend reading [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/howto/htaccess.html](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/howto/htaccess.html)


- Frode

---

### Post by dgrafix on 2006-04-17
Ok thanks to fdoving

i think ive solved my problem, mabe its the same as you guys have.
Theres a file in there somewhere called default-000 which none of the how tos even mention!!

Cant beleive ive wasted so many hours on this ](*,) 

Anyway, the way i sorted it (dont know if this is right!) is this:

open that file above and set (use locate to find it):

document root /var/www/html/ (html or whatever you want)

set directory /var/www/ to allowoverride none and get rid of the indexes and change allow from all, and secure it for storing .htpasswd 
like this: 
	<Directory /var/www/>
		Options FollowSymLinks MultiViews
		AllowOverride None
		Order allow,deny
		deny from all
	</Directory>

then make a new directory block for /var/www/html to allowoverride all like this:
	<Directory /var/www/>
		Options FollowSymLinks MultiViews
		AllowOverride All
		Order allow,deny
		deny from all
	</Directory>

now you should be able to put a new directory in there ie 'secure' with this in the htaccess:

AuthUserFile /var/www/.htpasswd
AuthGroupFile /www.null
AuthName "Authorization Required"
AuthType Basic
require valid-user

now make your password file with htaccess in /var/www

set permissions on the .ht stuff to 644

then that worked for me :)

**Please can an expert check this to make sure theres no big problems with it**.
one question i have tho is what permissions should i set for the .ht files so there is no chance of web access to read them.
Also as /var/www/ as this is not the document root does that mean it is secure from web access?

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-04-17
First, why did you create a /var/www/html directory?  This isn't RedHat.  /var/www is your HTML root.  You put your global HTML files there.

***Others really should not follow these instructions, as they break the way Apache is intended to work on Ubuntu.***

> one question i have tho is what permissions should i set for the .ht files so there is no chance of web access to read them.You can't.  You have a Files directive protecting them by default.  I would place them outside the webroot whenever possible however, probably in /etc/apache2.

I'm also pretty sure your host access configuration is still all screwed up.

---

### Post by peanut butter on 2006-04-17
also about not being able to read .htaccess files, just put them in the protected directory.

and lord hunter, i think he ment html being the directory he wantedto protect

---

### Post by dgrafix on 2006-04-17
I created it because i am developing a website that needs that setup (correct, for a red hat server).

html is the document root on my hosted service, and the htpasswd is in var/www. 

This server is designed just for my lan for dev reasons. On the hosted site i have no access to server conf so this needs to be right for me.

It would be nice to know though that if i ever wanted to run my own service i could, or at least prehaps as im on a very fast con. host some downloads, to help keep bandwidth costs down.

---

### Post by ilovenicotine on 2008-02-08
> **dgrafix said:**
> 
Theres a file in there somewhere called default-000 which none of the how tos even mention!!

It seems like this is an Ubuntu thing. And it is the secret to get this to work.
Mine is called 000-default in /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/
and it's actually a link to /etc/apache2/sites-available/default

Most people edit the apache2.conf or httpd.conf to say:
AllowOverride All

but what happens is apache executes config file in a specific order, probably:
apache2.conf, http.conf, then default

so whatever one is run last sets the rule. default has AllowOverride set to None so it doesn't work unless you change it or remove that line and set if in one of the others.

---

