---
title: "IP Tables"
date: 2012-02-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by brent1975 on 2012-02-20
Hello, I have looked at the server guide on server firewalls and as it goes over it a bit I am still not confident on what I am doing with them. Here is what I am wanting to allow
I am running ubuntu server 10.04
SSH 
SAMBA
4444  - sockso port so I can stream music at work
80
and then deny everything else.

The guide goes over using the UFW and I used that on another server for a couple of years and seemed to work fine. I also know that UFW is like a front end to IPtables. I guess what I am trying to get to is to get to a point that I understand iptables and just use them directly. any information for a novice firewall would be great.

Thank you,

---

### Post by kevdog on 2012-02-20
I struggled too learning iptables (I'm still learning by the way), but I really found no shortcut.  What I would do, would be to read a little, then look at some example iptable scripts (they are all over the place), and then look up the sections you don't know in the scripts.  Usually tutorials for ipscripts start with teaching you all the tcp/ip and upd and icmp packet headers and what you can filter by.  Although this information is important, by the time you finish doing all this reading, you can't remember one thing vs another.  The best I would say is to do a little reading, look at examples, look up the filtering statements you don't know, and then when your comfortable, start the process again.

Now as far as what you want:
It's very easy to open up this listening ports.  However rather than just opening up the ports to the entire world, would like like to filter the port in any way -- by connecting IP, usename, MAC address, time of day, etc.  Really iptables is a way to set up multiple filters to allow in or out as few users as possible.

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-02-20
Best way to learn IPTables is to do it in a VM so you can test without crippling your connectivity.

like anything the more you do it the easier it will be.

Do it for you currently need to and for other ports/services/traffic etc to practice and get a grip on things  everytime you make a change take a snapshot or something.

Easy to cripple your system/connectivity if you do it on a live machine.

Happy IPTabling ;-)

peace

---

### Post by brent1975 on 2012-02-21
After doing some good bed time reading on iptables I finally got it figured out and set up. 

```
 Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Tue Feb 21 06:12:02 2012
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [6012:421419]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 137:139 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 4444 -j ACCEPT           
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Feb 21 06:12:02 2012
```

4444 being my media server so that I can listen to music at work!  :)

I also added  at the end of my etch0 file under /etc/network/interfaces to do this for me

```
pre-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
post-down iptables-save > /etc/iptables.rules
```

Thanks for the advice for just reading.... Makes much more sense now and pretty easy to do.... of course mine are straight cut and dry.... I have a box sitting in the closet with two nics I may turn into a router and play with all of the more advance tables and forwarding and see how that works too...

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-02-21
> **brent1975 said:**
> After doing some good bed time reading on iptables I finally got it figured out and set up. 

```
 Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Tue Feb 21 06:12:02 2012
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [6012:421419]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 137:139 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 4444 -j ACCEPT           
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Feb 21 06:12:02 2012
```

4444 being my media server so that I can listen to music at work!  :)

I also added  at the end of my etch0 file under /etc/network/interfaces to do this for me

```
pre-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
post-down iptables-save > /etc/iptables.rules
```

Thanks for the advice for just reading.... Makes much more sense now and pretty easy to do.... of course mine are straight cut and dry.... I have a box sitting in the closet with two nics I may turn into a router and play with all of the more advance tables and forwarding and see how that works too...

cool.

remember to mark the thread as solved using thread tools.

Cheers

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2012-02-21
A trick that I learned a while ago for testing iptable rules remotely without loosing connectivity is to have the existing working set of rules in a file and create a new on with the changes to test then in a second ssh connection run the commands to flush and load the new config, have a sleep command to have it wait an amount of time it will take you to test and then flush and reload the working rule set.

For example if you have /etc/iptables.rules with the existing/working config and /etc/iptables.rules.new with the new ones to test and it will take you 5 minutes (300 seconds) to test run the following command:
```
sudo iptables -F;sudo iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules.new;sleep 300;sudo iptables -F;sudo iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
```
This requires that you either have sudo set up to allow you to run the commands without a password or that the sudo password cache is longer than the sleep time in the command.

---

