---
title: "12.04 MySql extension not loading"
date: 2012-07-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by chiefguerra on 2012-07-08
Please help! I've been going at it for two days and I can't get it to install, keep getting the ol message below. I tried everything and believe it's a bug in 12.04.

  Running on my own Ubuntu 12.04 server. MYSql, PHP, Apache installed. Already uncommented the extension in my php.ini. The module is installed and can see the mysql.so file. Already ran phpinfo() [http://guerraysaenz.us/test.php](http://guerraysaenz.us/test.php)
[]("http://guerraysaenz.us/test.php")
  Your PHP installation appears to be missing the MySQL extension which is required by WordPress.


  Apache error log:

PHP Warning: Module 'pdo_mysql' already loaded in Unknown on line 0 [Sat Jul 07 11:59:23 2012] [notice] Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) DAV/2 SVN/1.6.17 mod_fcgid/2.3.6 PHP/5.3.10-1ubuntu3.2 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ruby/1.2.6 Ruby/1.8.7(2011-06-30) mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.1 configured -- resuming normal operations PHP Warning: PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626/modulename.extension' - /usr/lib/php5/20090626/modulename.extension: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory in Unknown on line 0 PHP Warning: PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626/pdo_sqlite.so' - /usr/lib/php5/20090626/pdo_sqlite.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory in Unknown on line 0 PHP Warning: PHP Startup: Unable to load dynamic library '/usr/lib/php5/20090626/msql.so' - /usr/lib/php5/20090626/msql.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory in Unknown on line 0 PHP Warning: Module 'PDO' already loaded in Unknown on line 0 PHP Warning: Module 'pdo_mysql' already loaded in Unknown on line 0

---

### Post by chiefguerra on 2012-07-08
Any help in here?  I've already submitted through askUbunbu and still haven't received a response.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-07-08
How did you install Apache, MySQL and PHP?

I've set up several WordPress installations on Ubuntu and never come across this error.
I've never had to uncomment any lines in php.ini either.

Exactly what edits have you made to any configuration files?

---

### Post by chiefguerra on 2012-07-08
I installed it when I installed Ubuntu. The only changes I made were in my php.ini file. I agree with you and hard to understand why I'm facing this issue and wish I could rectify it.

---

### Post by chiefguerra on 2012-07-08
I currently have a couple of websites running with no problem, to include using php, MySQL and apache. I guess Ubuntu 12.04 doesn't really like Wordpress!

---

### Post by chiefguerra on 2012-07-08
Really wish I could get some help. Contacted Wordpress and was told it was pretty much a server issue.!!!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-07-08
sudo apt-get install php5-mysql

---

### Post by chiefguerra on 2012-07-08
I thought that as well and ran it, but it already has the latest version.

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
php5-mysql is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 10 not upgraded.

---

### Post by armandoroggio on 2012-09-05
May I suggest that you try to update php?

sudo apt-get install php5

---

