---
title: "18.04.2 LTS Switch from GA to HWE Kernel"
date: 2019-02-15
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by learning-curve on 2019-02-15
This ***is*** possible to do now, after the release of 18.04.2, but has anybody done it yet? 

Quick background ref data```
# cat /proc/version
Linux version 4.15.0-45-generic 
~

# apt-cache depends linux-generic-hwe-18.04
linux-generic-hwe-18.04
  Depends: linux-image-generic-hwe-18.04
  Depends: linux-headers-generic-hwe-18.04

# apt-cache depends linux-image-generic-hwe-18.04
linux-image-generic-hwe-18.04
  Depends: linux-image-4.18.0-15-generic
  Depends: linux-modules-extra-4.18.0-15-generic
  Depends: linux-firmware
  Depends: intel-microcode
  Depends: amd64-microcode
  Recommends: thermald

apt-cache depends linux-headers-generic-hwe-18.04
linux-headers-generic-hwe-18.04
  Depends: linux-headers-4.18.0-15-generic
```

If you have done it, care to share the exact CLI code / any other info, as to how you did it?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2019-02-15
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

replace 16.04 kernel with 18.04 one.

i did it on one of the desktops with 14.04 (in search of better drivers). However, only the 18.04 LTS seems to have resolved the sound issue that i battled with since 10.10. i am not touching stuff that works well.

i also did a HWE on server. not sure actually what improved there in my case.

---

### Post by learning-curve on 2019-02-15
> **mastablasta said:**
> [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)
  ~ replace 16.04 kernel with 18.04 one ~  Thanks :) Had already read that item, but couldn't see a specific 18.04 (where the HWE is the 18.10 kernel) reference - yet... Maybe we're just a bit early as 18.04.2 was only released yesterday, so it might be a while before anybody does exactly what we're thinking about

---

### Post by ricardosilva on 2019-02-16
I had upgraded from Ubuntu 18.04.1 to Ubuntu 18.04.2, but kept 4.15 kernel. Therefore I came to the forums to find out how to upgrade the kernel to 4.18.
I tried to make the transition, according to 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack")

and apparently it installed the 4.18 kernel (vmlinuz -> boot/vmlinuz-4.18.0.15-generic)

But I still get:
uname -a
Linux RICARDO-HP 4.15.0-43-generic #46-Ubuntu SMP Thu Dec 6 14:45:28 UTC 2018 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

so now, I am a little confused... which kernel am I using?

---

### Post by ricardosilva on 2019-02-16
P.S. - My reason for upgrading is that the bluetooth driver for my laptop was only included in kernel >= 4.17

---

### Post by learning-curve on 2019-02-16
> **ricardosilva said:**
> I had upgraded from Ubuntu 18.04.1 to Ubuntu 18.04.2, but kept 4.15 kernel. Therefore I came to the forums to find out how to upgrade the kernel to 4.18.
I tried to make the transition, according to 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

and apparently it installed the 4.18 kernel (vmlinuz -> boot/vmlinuz-4.18.0.15-generic)
But I still get:
uname -a
Linux RICARDO-HP 4.15.0-43-generic #46-Ubuntu SMP Thu Dec 6 14:45:28 UTC 2018 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
so now, I am a little confused... which kernel am I using?Interesting. A couple of questions *ricardosilva*? The page you've added a link to was written back at the 16.04 release era (albeit it does show the 18.04 future data in images later on the page. So as per our original post, what exact code did you use to achieve your change? Can see that you're using a desktop too and we're running a server so it may/will be different but still interested to see which way you applied the change. Secondly, did you fully re-boot after the change? We use Canonical Livepatch which applies kernel changes without a re-boot, but normal 'reports' don't show the correct kernel detail until after a re-boot, which is why we ask in, just case that may be the same in your case?

---

### Post by learning-curve on 2019-02-21
Okay, Update. The page you posted *ricardosilva *has now been updated to include 18.04 LTS and refers to the 18.04.2 point release plus the relevent instructions (Desktop and Server). So the question has been answered and to be fair, other than the release number (18.04 not 16.04) in the code, it's the same as it was previously (and probably what you used yourself anyway) We'll do ours this weekend and update again.

---

### Post by bluexmas on 2019-02-22
is there a good reason for production servers to switch to 4.18 kernel provided by hwe? how stable this version is? does it bring some performance improvements?

---

### Post by learning-curve on 2019-02-22
> **bluexmas said:**
> is there a good reason for production servers to switch to 4.18 kernel provided by hwe? how stable this version is? does it bring some performance improvements?On the (now updated to include 18.04) page posted previously by *ricardosilva* ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack#Ubuntu_18.04_LTS_-_Bionic_Beaver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack#Ubuntu_18.04_LTS_-_Bionic_Beaver)) it's stated that server users have the choice, but other users receive the HWE Kernel etc by default with 18.04.02. There are many, existing online opinions, both + and - for server admins to go with the rolling HWE choice, so in the end, it does appear that it comes down to personal choice / your hardware kit / the software packages and/or other items that you're using etc. In our case, after doing some pre-checks, adding the HWE Kernal then a re-boot and making several tests afterwards, it's all fine. We don't have the reporting issues *ricardosilva *appears to have had, after his switch to the HWE Kernel either ```
cat /proc/version 
Linux version 4.18.0-15-generic (buildd@lcy01-amd64-029) (gcc version 7.3.0 (Ubuntu 7.3.0-16ubuntu3)) [#16]("https://support.plesk.com/hc/requests/16") ~~
```

---

