---
title: "9.10 server edition, no internet connection, help creating local repository"
date: 2010-03-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jokitka on 2010-03-18
This is my first foray into Ubuntu linux. Ive just installed 9.10 karmic server edition. This server will have no internet connection. It's an HP proliant DL360 G6. I want to install the Proliant Support Pack. It has missing dependencies, i.e. libc6-i386. In order to install the dependencies I want to set up a repository on local disk. I followed instructions (as much as possible) from here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Offline/Repository](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Offline/Repository)
 
On another system that has an internet connection I downloaded all the files Release, Release.gpg, Content files for my architecture, Packages.bz2, Packages.gz, Release, etc. for main, restricted universe, for karmic, karmic-security, karmic-updates. I added the appropriate stements in sources.list. Using either aptitude or apt-get update from the command line (there's no GUI, it's server edition), it looks like I successfully updated the package list. It now shows 27000+ uninstalled packages.
 
But here is the problem, and the question: I can't install anything. It always fails to find files in .../repositoy/pool/...
 
Of course, since I never created the directory .../repository/pool/. The instructions don't mention it. Can't find any documentation anywhere that says anything about the /pool/ directory. I could create the directory, but what is supposed to be in there? 
Where have I gone wrong? What do I need to do to get this working?
 
Thanks for any help. (Please!)
 
Here is output of apt-get install libc6-i386:
 
[FONT=r_ansi][SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi][SIZE=2]# apt-get install libc6-i386[/SIZE][/FONT]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Reading package lists... Done[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Building dependency tree [/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Reading state information... Done[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]The following extra packages will be installed:[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]libc-bin libc6[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Suggested packages:[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]glibc-doc[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]The following NEW packages will be installed:[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]libc6-i386[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]The following packages will be upgraded:[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]libc-bin libc6[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]2 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 97 not upgraded.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Need to get 0B/8,661kB of archives.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]After this operation, 9,392kB of additional disk space will be used.[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Do you want to continue [Y/n]? Y[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Err file: karmic-updates/main libc-bin 2.10.1-0ubuntu16[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]File not found[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Err file: karmic-updates/main libc6 2.10.1-0ubuntu16[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]File not found[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Err file: karmic-updates/main libc6-i386 2.10.1-0ubuntu16[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]File not found[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Failed to fetch file:///mnt/Ubuntu/repository/pool/main/e/eglibc/libc-bin_2.10.1[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]-0ubuntu16_amd64.deb File not found[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Failed to fetch file:///mnt/Ubuntu/repository/pool/main/e/eglibc/libc6_2.10.1-0u[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]buntu16_amd64.deb File not found[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]Failed to fetch file:///mnt/Ubuntu/repository/pool/main/e/eglibc/libc6-i386_2.10[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi].1-0ubuntu16_amd64.deb File not found[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]E: Unable to fetch some archives, maybe run apt-get update or try with --fix-mis[/FONT][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][FONT=r_ansi]sing?[/FONT][/SIZE]
[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by jokitka on 2010-03-18
I forgot to mention in the original post, I downloaded everything from ubuntu websiite repositories into parallel directory structure on USB hard drive, then mounted the USB drive in /mnt on the new karmic 9.10 server where I want to install.

---

### Post by jokitka on 2010-03-23
OK, got it working. Got the proliant support pack and the 12 packages on which it depends installed. Rough outline of what I did:

- as mentioned in the original post, I started by following instructions (as much as possible) from: [[COLOR=#003366]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Offline/Repository.[/COLOR]]("javascript:openExternal('https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGet/Offline/Repository.')") Downloaded all the files Release, Release.gpg, Content files for my architecture, Packages.bz2, Packages.gz, Release, etc. for main, restricted universe, for karmic, karmic-security, karmic-updates, from ubuntu website repositories into parallel directory structure on USB hard drive, then mounted the USB drive in /mnt on the new karmic 9.10 server where I want to install. I added the appropriate statements in sources.list. Using either aptitude or apt-get update from the command line I updated the package list. But that was insufficient. Trying to install at that point it always failed to find files in .../repository/pool/...

- next, use apt-get install hp-health (the name of the proliant support pack), to find the (high level) names of the dependencies it needs. It still can't install at this point. Then for each dependency, use apt-get show -v pkg-name to find the (lower level) names of the actual .deb package files and the paths to them (in the appropriate pool subdir) on the ubuntu web site (file tree starting with [[COLOR=#003366]http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/[/COLOR]]("javascript:openExternal('http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/')") .

- Take the USB drive back to system with internet connection, download those appropriate bits onto parrallel structure on the USB drive. 

- Take the USB drive back to the Ubuntu system. Then apt-get install hp-health was able to find all the dependencies on the USB drive and install them.

Maybe there is an easier way, but this worked.

---

