---
title: "7.04 Feisty + Citadel, Can't send email from PHP &amp; Apache 2"
date: 2008-01-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by BPrize on 2008-01-24
I'm hoping someone here can help me, since the php.net & citadel.org sites have been useless (or maybe its just me).

I have a server running 7.04 feisty fawn with Citadel 7.24 and the current LAMP install.  Before Citadel I was able to use simple php scripts to send email from one of my web applications by the following:

[FONT="Courier New"]$message = "this was the message";
$from = "From: [email]admin@domain.com[/email]\r\n";
$subject = "this was the subject";
$to = "destination@domain.com";
mail($to,$subject,$message,$from)[/FONT]

...and everything worked fine.  I installed Citadel and I understand that it disables basically all your apps (unless you put it on a different port, yada yada yada) and listens on the ports that were assigned to them.  When I try and use the above script to send messages from PHP/Apache now, I get nothing.  I checked in /var/log and mail.err and mail.log stopped updating when Citadel was installed and the apache logs have no errors either.  I can't seem to locate any type of error log that would give me any useful information.  Is there something that needs to be changed in the php.ini to have it send mail through Citadel?  I would assume that since it listens on port 25 it would send the message through there automatically.  

Does anybody have any suggestions whatsoever?  I'm at a loss with this and really don't want to uninstall Citadel.

---

### Post by Wizard of Aahz on 2008-01-24
BPrize,

For addititonal help you might want to go to the citadel support room on the home of citadel, [uncensored.citadel.org]("http://uncensored.citadel.org").
 
 Someone there should be able to answer your questions.

-Aahz

---

### Post by artcancro on 2008-01-25
> **BPrize said:**
>  Is there something that needs to be changed in the php.ini to have it send mail through Citadel?  I would assume that since it listens on port 25 it would send the message through there automatically.  

Does anybody have any suggestions whatsoever?  I'm at a loss with this and really don't want to uninstall Citadel.

You might want to read this:

[http://www.citadel.org/doku.php/faq:installation:does_citadel_have](http://www.citadel.org/doku.php/faq:installation:does_citadel_have)

This tells you how to get Citadel to act as a replacement for /usr/bin/sendmail for those apps that want to send things through it.

---

