---
title: "10.04 LTS /dev/sd[x] Chanes every boot"
date: 2011-06-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ralphmalph on 2011-06-13
I have just upgraded to 10.04 lts, 64 bit headless server and the config is 40gig IDE drive as boot drive and then I have two raid arrays both of 4 disks SATA connectors.

The problem I have is that I have configured my raid arrays and all works fine.  But if I reboot the server the device name of the boot disk changes, one boot it may be /dev/sda next boot it may be /dev/sdc.  Consequently the raid arrays can not be built.  I can assemble them manually and mount but it is frustrating.

Any way I can lock the device names of the hard disks.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-13
No, you can not.  You need to refer to them by their UUID instead.

---

### Post by ralphmalph on 2011-06-13
Thanks.  So do I just put the UUID into the mdadm.conf file or do I have to something else as well.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2011-06-13
> **ralphmalph said:**
> Thanks.  So do I just put the UUID into the mdadm.conf file or do I have to something else as well.
I haven't done raid before, and haven't had to config mdadm, but I usually have to refer to UUIDs in my fstab.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-13
Yes, mdadm.conf should just specify the UUID of the array, and not bother with the devices.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2011-06-13
> **psusi said:**
> Yes, mdadm.conf should just specify the UUID of the array, and not bother with the devices.

This thread seems pretty much wrapped up, but just to add my .02 - use UUID, not the /dev name.  As you found (ralphmalph), /dev names can change, but UUID's do not...

Just confirming what everyone else is saying in other words ;).

---

### Post by ralphmalph on 2011-06-13
I have changed the mdadm.conf so all it contains are these active two lines.

#DEVICE /dev/sdd1 /dev/sde1 /dev/sdf1 /dev/sdg1
ARRAY /dev/md0 level=raid5 UUID=9865da85-34cd-4539-ade7-a194c373e0e4 
#DEVICE /dev/sda1 /dev/sdb1 /dev/sdh1 /dev/sdi1
ARRAY /dev/md1 level=raid5 UUID=cc5bb6b3-0657-4852-ab38-903ed77fa54a 

I got the UUID from blkid when the arrays were built and mounted.

It still does not build them on boot and when I run mdadm --assemble --scan I get

mdadm: no devices found for /dev/md0
mdadm: no devices found for /dev/md1
mdadm: /dev/md/0 has been started with 3 drives (out of 4).
mdadm: /dev/md/1 has been started with 3 drives (out of 4).

could it be that I have to put UUID in the fstab as well.  Is mdadm reading another conf file.

TIA.

EDIT: If it is relevant these arrays were created under ubuntu 9.04

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2011-06-13
You should also have the UUID's mapped in fstab, yes.  fstab does the actual mounting of disks, mdadm just sets up your RAID array.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-13
mdadm.conf needs the UUID of the array, not the filesystem it contains.  Look at mdadm -E.

---

