---
title: "9.04 Server - brutally slow network...sometimes"
date: 2009-07-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by garfonzo on 2009-07-20
Hi folks,

I've got what might be a simple problem, but it has me stumped. I think I need to fill everyone in on the background to fully understand the problem. Bare with me...

========================

With my main desktop dieing (bad motherboard/CPU), I had to bring my file server up from the garage and into my office so I had a computer to use. This left my house without a file server. I dug up an old PC with a 933Mhz CPU and managed to get all the HDs attached, and installed FreeNAS. 

That worked wonders for about two weeks. At that point, the FreeNAS box went nutz and wasn't allowing access to it. I was having all sorts of problems and decided I'd rather have a Linux box that I would feel more comfortable tinkering with than FreeBSD. However, Ubuntu 9.04 wouldn't install for some reason on the 933 Mhz, so I used another old 733 machine I had.

So, now my setup is this:
"Server"
   - 733Mhz ,Ubuntu Server 9.04 (the 933Mhz died, had to use the 733)
   - Gigabit network card
   - wired to gigabit D-Link wireless N router
   - Houses all music, files, and movies (all shared with computers around the house).
"Jukebox": 
   - Something fast CPU, with Win XP
   - wireless G
   - used to watch movies from, and to listen to music
"Desktop":
   - Fast CPU, Win XP
   - wireless N

========================

Now down to the problem. I seem to be having brutally bad transfer speeds between my "Jukebox" and the Linux server. I know that my bottleneck is the Wireless G card in the Jukebox, but it shouldn't be as bad as it is. On the Jukebox, I can't stream music files to play in WinAmp because there is too much lag. This previously wasn't a problem at all. 

On my desktop (wireless N), to add around 20GB of music to my WinAmp library (not transfering files, just adding to libraby) it took about 20 minutes. To do the same on my JukeBox (wireless G) it took about 4 hours. That is quite a difference! I know that it is N versus G, but again, it shouldn't be that bad. Then, playing that music on the Jukebox was not possible. The tracks were endlessly "skippping" due to lag.

I'm rather stumped as to where to search. I feel that the difference of network speed is due to this "new" 733 server, but I'm not sure where to look. 

Any ideas?

---

