---
title: "9.04 Virtualization server needs postfix?"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Pnuts on 2009-05-06
I just want to make sure im not missing something here.

I installed Ubuntu 9.04 Server and chose openssh-server and virtual machine host as the 2 packages to install. I plan to host multiple virtual servers for mail, web, etc on this server.

Following the instructions here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/serverguide/C/jeos-and-vmbuilder.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/serverguide/C/jeos-and-vmbuilder.html) im doing an apt-get install python-vm-builder as instructed. Included in the required packages to install is postfix?

Obviously it is needed as it is required to install the python-vm-builder right? So is there an alternative guide I can follow to keep installed packages to a minimum or should I just go with it as is? I have no idea what options to even choose with the postfix setup that auto launches if I do this.

any suggestions or alternatives are welcome.

---

### Post by windependence on 2009-05-07
I think you may be a bit confused.

I think what you want to do is run multiple web sites and multiple mail servers on one machine, is that correct? If so, you don't need to do anything with the virtualization stuff or JeOS. There are virtual machines and there is virtual hosting. Two different things. I think what you want to do is virtual hosting where you run many web sites on one server. This is not virtualization. Virtualization is where you run many servers on one machine. To run more than one website on Apache, you don't have to run multiple Apache servers, you just have to run virtual hosting on Apache.

If what you want is to host multiple servers on one box, you would probably be better off using VMware ESXi on one box and host your servers on that. ESXi does not require a host OS, it runs directly on your hardware, and your machines run on top of it. No Ubuntu necessary in this situation.

-Tim

---

### Post by Pnuts on 2009-05-07
Perhaps I’m going about this the wrong way? Let me see if I can better describe what it is I’m trying to do.

I have a machine I would like to use as a server that hosts multiple virtual servers. Basically a multi-core system with 8gb RAM and 5x 320gb.

I want one of the VM's to host a public website. A second VM will act as a kind of sand box for me to mess around any try to learn more things within Linux better. A third VM will include anything that I found useful when messing around on the 2nd box such as DNS, network time server, etc. Possibly a fourth functioning as a mail server.

The reason I want to do this is for several reasons.
-Conserve power usage instead of having multiple machines running
-Maintain separation of the servers in case one crashes, is hacked, etc. the others remain functional (save the host machine)
-Maybe to provide a buddy his own VM to mess around with without harm to my stuff.

I decided to use KVM because it seems to be the default in Ubuntu and it makes use of CPU VT.

Maybe there is a different guide out there on getting the images created and running? I just hadn't planned on installing a mail server to do this. I simply want a dedicated VM server.

-Pnuts

---

