---
title: "6.06 LTS Update Plans"
date: 2007-05-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Alexander Thiel on 2007-05-10
Unfortunately, the current Ubuntu Server 6.06.1 does not install on recent HP ProLiant Servers (see, for example [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=357739)](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=357739)).

I just wanted to know if an update of the 6.06 LTS distribution is scheduled that fixes the known problems.

I understand that "long-term support" for 6.06 Server means that the distribution is updated to install and work correctly on current hardware up to 2011. Is that true? That would make Ubuntu the distribution of choice as base for our products.

However, the ProLiant G5 Series is out for quite a while (actually, most vendors don't sell the G4 variant anymore) and I have not found quite some posts about problems installing 6.06 on these systems on the web, but no information about an update for 6.06 LTS.

I have an unused ProLiant DL380 G5 handy, so if someone could point me to a pre-release of the 6.06.2 installation image, I would be happy to do some beta-testing.

Cheers,
  Alex

---

### Post by baastie on 2007-05-10
Hi,

There has been a post / discussion about updating the clamav package in Ubuntu version 6.06.1.
Some state that a package of this importance should be upgraded if you would like to use the LTS version till 2010, other state that that shouldn't be the case and if you have to upgrade you should take the next LTS version.

New hardware question is somewhat the same as should we update this package yes or no...,

Anyway i don't think Canonical is going to make an update for LTS 6.06.1 for clamav. I don't think
they are going to make the LTS 6.06.1 version workable for new hardware, since it is a released version.
And that you should either go for a current not  TLS version or wait for the next LTS version.


Maybe someone has a better answer or maybe Canonical can help you on how to best use you LTS version 
in the long run,

Cheers,

---

