---
title: "Delete 1TB File"
date: 2017-07-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by weiln on 2017-07-07
All,

I'm running a PoC to begin migrating our SQL Server instances from Windows to Ubuntu. We're running 16.04.2 LTS with / formatted EXT4 and our data directories formatted as Btrfs. Since this is a database server and our PoC includes testing out our data warehouse, I'm dealing with some very large files of 1TB+. As part of the PoC we're running I/O tests, but we're running into one big problem: deleting very large files.

To give everyone an idea this is what we're running:
Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS (Ubuntu 16.04 64bit / Linux 4.4.0-83-generic)
vmWare 6.5
Cisco UCS b200 m4
8Gb FC
PURE Storage FlashArray

I just deleted a 1TB test file generated by FIO, and all 4 of my VM's took about 20 minutes to delete the file. I don't understand how this is possible that it takes this long? Windows deletes the file in seconds on the same hardware. We've also seen this on our backup server and I learned it was faster to zero out the file then delete it, but even that took about 20 minutes. The two commands that ran in similar times:

rm test
cat /dev/null > test; rm test

Running Glances during the FIO testing and during the "rm" shows that the "rm" command is writing to the device, and appears to be zeroing out the entire 1TB file but this seems like a very inefficient way to dealing with the situation. I'm not an expert by any means, but why doesn't "rm" simply delete the pointer/header/whatever instead of writing 1TB?

What options do we have to deal with deleting very large files, since we can't have it take this long?

---

### Post by Michael_McKenney on 2017-07-07
It is unlinking each block as it deletes.   Windows does it differently.

---

### Post by QIII on 2017-07-07
Hello!

Deleting a file in Windows only flags the storage area as writable so that the OS knows it can be used.  In Linux, a simliar process is generally used from graphical file managers when sending a file to trash.  In both cases the file exists until overwritten by something later on.

From the command line, the rm command (short for "remove") physically removes the file by overwriting it -- which takes more time than changing the value of a flag.  The file is gone.  You can't go "Oops!" and restore it.  This is analogous to using the SDelete utility from Windows Sysinternals.

---

### Post by weiln on 2017-07-07
Thanks! I'm off to do more research now...

---

### Post by acingram on 2017-07-11
> **QIII said:**
> From the command line, the rm command (short for "remove") physically removes the file by overwriting it -- which takes more time than changing the value of a flag.  The file is gone.  You can't go "Oops!" and restore it.  This is analogous to using the SDelete utility from Windows Sysinternals.

That is not even remotely true. All rm does is remove references to the file in the filesystem -- it does not overwrite it. That would be srm.

I would suspect that the real reason would be related to btrfs being a copy-on-write filesystem, which could add quite a bit of extra complexity.

---

### Post by QIII on 2017-07-11
You are correct, of course.  This is why we use tools like srm, shred and SDelete -- they overwrite.

I thank you for the correction of the obvious oversight.

---

