---
title: "10.04 email server setup issues"
date: 2010-11-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by tangerine0469 on 2010-11-04
OK, so i thought i would a be a smarty pants and try my hand at hosting my own services. i have used Ubuntu in the past as a quick fix when windows has one of its lovely fits and would like to keep up on using it. its free and the community is generally awesome. that and i sort of cant afford to but windows server 2008...or a proper server for that matter...but i have been assured what i have is OK.

i am running all of this on the following:
dual core amd
2 gigs of ram 
160gig hd
ubuntu 10.01 lts

its nothing fancy but this is just going to be used as a starter until i can afford to build a proper one.

i have successfully hosted my single domain name on it as well as an ftp server on it just before i started to install and configure the email.

so my problem is such, i have followed both the official server guide which gets me only so far and then i went through this link: [http://library.linode.com/email/postfix/dovecot-mysql-ubuntu-10.04-lucid#install_required_packages](http://library.linode.com/email/postfix/dovecot-mysql-ubuntu-10.04-lucid#install_required_packages)

now i keep coming up with this error when i check my log after trying to send a test email:
"Nov  4 10:48:15 ubuntu postfix/proxymap[2813]: warning: mysql query failed: You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near ''root@mail.computercrashers.com"' at line 1" 

my knowledge of Linux server and MySQL are still a bit limited so any help would be greatly appreciated. also i can ssh into my server so i can work on it prety much all day long if need be.

Thanks
--john Stapleton

---

### Post by JDorfler on 2010-11-04
First, Ubuntu Server is a proper server, and your set up isn't nothing to be ashamed of.  In fact, looks like all you need is a little more HDD space and you will be good to go.  Most real companies use Linux as their server OS, not Windows.  In fact, the only folks I know that really use Windows Server as their main server is the US Government.  

I run two servers myself that I have built for media services, file storage, file back up, print and scanner services, a jabber server, a proxy server with adzapper, a media transcoder, a central repository for other Debian based PCs on my private network so I don't have to redownload updates, and now I'm working on using it to have internal mail server and mail collector.  

Anyway, I'm sorry I can't really help you on your original question.  I was looking for the same answers you were.  However, your comment about how you were getting down on your set up set me off so to speak.  You have nothing wrong with what you have and it should last you years running a Linux server.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-11-04
First, I'd never run MySQL for a simple mail server.  Looks like you chose a particularly complex arrangement.

All you need is for Postfix to accept mail for your domain.  It will deliver mail for [email]user@example.com[/email] to /var/spool/mail/user.  Then run dovecot for IMAP, and you're good to go.

Perhaps if you had hundreds of accounts using an SQL back end makes sense, but it's way overkill for a simple email server.  You might start with [this](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/postfix.html).

---

### Post by kustomjs on 2010-11-04
I am running postfix+mysql+dovecot and its working correctly.  Only thing I am running for mysql is for the users email,domain,forwarding,transport but mail is stored in vmail as for dovecot I am running pop3 and imap.

---

### Post by tangerine0469 on 2010-11-05
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> First, I'd never run MySQL for a simple mail server. Looks like you chose a particularly complex arrangement.
 
All you need is for Postfix to accept mail for your domain. It will deliver mail for [EMAIL="user@example.com"]user@example.com[/EMAIL] to /var/spool/mail/user. Then run dovecot for IMAP, and you're good to go.
 
Perhaps if you had hundreds of accounts using an SQL back end makes sense, but it's way overkill for a simple email server. You might start with [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/postfix.html").
 
that was what i followed when i firstdecided to set up email on this machine. when i ran into the dead end thats when i moved to the other tutorial.  Also consider that while this server in particular will only host at most a dozen email addresses i do intend on moving forward and hosting more than that when i build my next server. i am going to try and start a hosting business hosting local companies email and sites so i really wouild like to use the mysql to keep what training i have to go through simple. not to mention i am studying for linux+ and server+ so either way this is going to be seriously helpful towards that.

---

### Post by tangerine0469 on 2010-11-05
> **kustomjs said:**
> I am running postfix+mysql+dovecot and its working correctly. Only thing I am running for mysql is for the users email,domain,forwarding,transport but mail is stored in vmail as for dovecot I am running pop3 and imap.
 
going off of the error i posted how would i check to see what the error is and how to fix it? i am getting used to the command line but mysql is an unknown for me still.

---

