---
title: "13.10 Joomla not working on LAMP Server"
date: 2014-01-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by alpage2 on 2014-01-28
For several years, I have been installing joomla on a LAMP server running on my ubuntu PC and laptop, and using it as a development environment. Up to ubuntu 12.10, it always worked fine, but in lubuntu 13.04 and 13.10, it no longer seems to work.

The LAMP server appears OK - I get the index.html file on my browser when pointing to 'localhost', but when I attempt to install joomla, it successfully redirects the browser to the installation subdirectory, but stalls there with a blank page.

Is anyone else having this problem? - Any pointers to solving it would be much appreciated!

Thanks in anticipation
Alan

---

### Post by Chauntae on 2014-04-14
having this same problem.... No idea what the problem is :(

---

### Post by MystaMax on 2014-04-14
[QUOTE=alpage2]Any pointers to solving it would be much appreciated![/QUOTE]

If you set up a separate vhost with its own log file, check it out and see what it says. Otherwise, take a look at /var/log/apache2/access.log and error.log for any clues.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-04-14
Web service installation scripts are usually pretty simple--copy a bunch of files to the correct web path, set environment variables,  set up the database backend, then start services using a control script.  I would print out that installation script and run it line by line (manually) and see where it fails.  If you are still having problems or can't find the problem, try installing as a "stack" using [http://bitnami.org/stacks](http://bitnami.org/stacks).

If you run the control script manually, what fails?

---

