---
title: "8.10 Server on an Intel D945GCLF2 Issues &amp; Observations"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kingnubian on 2008-11-14
Got my spanking new D945GCLF2 (Dual core Intel Atom 330) motherboard and wasted no time getting 8.10 up & running but I ran into some roadblocks. Here is the system specs.

Intel D945GCLF2
1gig DDR2 667Mhz
Samsung F1 750GB SATA2 Hard Drive (Sold)
Aopen Micro Case 200W PS

Initially it took 2 tries to get 8.10 installed as the system would lock up, in a strange way detailed below, during the install.

The chipset & psu fan would still spin but the power led would go out & even more strange the cdrom I was using would no longer open or close. The hard drive would still spin. I swapped power connections between the cdrom & HD with the same effect. It would take pulling out the power cord while resetting the cmos jumper to get the system to boot again. 

I did some searching & found some posts detailing that this board doesn't seem to like some newer NCQ capable SATA2 hard drives which was solved by adjusting a setting in the bios pertaining to hard drives to "Legacy" as opposed to normal or automatic.

To be honest I didn't get to try this out as the hard drive was sold just this evening so I was unable to test this out. 

I then booted up 2 different distros, Linux Mint & Helix, which would boot to a functional desktop but within 10-15min the system would spontaneously reboot on its own. :confused:

Next I ran memtest & this turned up no errors after some time.

Did some more reading & found more than one forum post talking about issues with the onboard nic that the D945GCLF2 has. I went in the bios and disabled it and reloaded Helix & have been stable for almost an hour now. Will leave it on all night to see what happens.

In retrospect when I did initially have 8.10 server installed I managed to transfer 40+Gb of data to the server last night but when I tried to get all this data off the server again it locked up hard.  

The onboard nic isn't a great loss at all. The available 8.10 driver doesn't support the setting of Jumbo Frames level MTU's like 9000. I've already ordered an Intel Pro/1000 Gigabit nic which I understand is very well supported including the setting of higher MTU's. 

This is a great little board despite my initial issues. Seems a perfect fit for a very capable home server. 

I'd love to hear other people's experiences with this board.

---

### Post by kingnubian on 2008-11-18
With further testing it seems that any ide cdrom I use causes the system to go into what looks like sleep mode eventually from which I cannot wake the syetem up. The power light(green) turns off and the HD activity light stays on constantly. Tonight I will try using and SATA based Dvdrom drive to see what happens.

P.S. I have changed the ahrd drive to a seagate 1Tb model.

---

### Post by jacksonz123z on 2008-11-24
The only problem  I had was the onboard nic.  Initially after I installed 8.04-1 networking worked but on reboot I could not connect.  All I could do was disable the onboard LAN and luckily I had a legacy nic that worked.  I updated Hardy and the (?)latest drivers worked with the onboard nic.  Hopefully, there is a more elegant solution somebody else has found.
I am really pleased with this CPU/board.

---

### Post by kingnubian on 2008-11-24
> **jacksonz123z said:**
> The only problem  I had was the onboard nic.  Initially after I installed 8.04-1 networking worked but on reboot I could not connect.  All I could do was disable the onboard LAN and luckily I had a legacy nic that worked.  I updated Hardy and the (?)latest drivers worked with the onboard nic.  Hopefully, there is a more elegant solution somebody else has found.
I am really pleased with this CPU/board.

After lots of testing it seems that the power supply had a faulty 5v rail that was causing the issues. Now all is good & I really appreciate what this board can do even more. . 

I did replace the onboard nic, disabled it in the bios, with an Intel Pro/1000 which has allowed me the set an MTU of 9000 for my jumbo frames enabled network.   

Now the main problem is that Samba write performance doesn't come close to matching its' read numbers, 2-7MB/s vs 50MB/s. From everything I've read this seems to be an issue since the Hardy release, I'm using 8.10 and the issue is still there, and one that I hope is solved sooner rather than later.

---

### Post by n008_linux_us3r on 2008-11-27
Hey guys, this is my first post. I have been playing with Ubuntu 8.04 and 8.1 along with Mint 5. I too just installed Ubuntu 8.1 on my new Atom 330D945GCLF2. I think this thing runs great! I had no issues at all. Of course its a little laggy once I installed Compiz Fusion but it works great. Its fast and again no issues on the install. Here are my specs:

D945GCLF2 Atom 330 Dual Core w/Hyper Threading
2gig Kingston DDR2-667
74gig Raptor 10,000rpm
Sony/NEC Dual Layer DVD Burner/CD Burner Combo
Super Case ITX MI-008 w/250watt PSU
17" Widescreen LCD Monitor

Software:
OS-1: Windows Vista Business 32bit SP1 (55g Partition)
OS-2: Ubuntu 8.1 (16g Partition)
On Ubuntu I have installed the following with no issues:
Adobe Reader
Open Office 3.0
Adobe Flash
VLC Media Player
Java
Compiz Fusion

I build gaming machines for a living so I keep a good eye out on the new improvements between Wine & Cedega (I know Cedega can be a bad word but I am in retail). I don't plan on gaming with this as it has some very weak 3D Graphics, good enough for Compiz though. I have another PC currently running 8.1, I just uninstalled 8.04 here are its specs:

Intel Q9300 OC'd 3.5GHz
4gig Kingston Hyper X DDR2-8500
2x 750gig SATA Seagate HDD's Raid 1 (WIndows XP Pro)
1x 250gig SATA Seagate (Ubuntu 8.1)
2x 1TB Seagate HDD's Raid 0
EVGA 780i Ultra SLI Mobo
Nvidia 280 GTX 1gig Video Ram
Creative X-Fi Gamer Extreme Edition
2x NEC Dual Layer DVD Burner's
28" LCD Widescreen Hanns-G

I installed Cedega and Wine on this machine and it runs great too, well I don't want to get off track. If anyone needs any help I would be glad to give some input.:)


Chris

p.s. here is a screen shot of my ATOM 330 Desktop

[IMG]http://comtekservices.net/public/Atom_330_Ubuntu_8_1_small.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by kingnubian on 2008-12-04
Now more time & testing has passed so I'll move this along.

Upgraded the D945GCLF2 to bios 0106 from 0103 & still had major file transfer issues. FTP or Samba write speeds were well below that of reads, vista->linux, by a factor of 10x. Tweaking the samba.conf was my next task and all the tweaks could not solve the issues much except for eventually pegging the read/write speed at ~3Mb/s max. 

Now on th getting deeper into the issue. "Hdparm -tT /dev/hda" showed that performance was not only sub par but that DMA was not set to ON. Now everything I tried in the boards' bios did not improve things at all.

After a few days of this tweaking madness I noticed that a new bios , Version 0122, was made available at Intel's site and proceeded to upgrade the D945GCLF2's bios. 

The first thing I noticed after completing the bios upgrade was that hdparm now indicated that DMA was now set to "On". 

Transfer rates, reads & writes, have now improved to between 20 & 50Mb/s without the constant stalling of larger file tranfers!!

I'll complete a full reinstall & update my progress further.

---

### Post by pfisker on 2009-01-08
the problem with the onboard nic is related to a badly detected driver for the realtek chip during install.. the driver loaded is r8169 but should in fact be r8168.. 
you can solve this but it does involve performing a manual compile of the missing driver
[http://forum.linuxmce.org/index.php?action=printpage;topic=6253.0](http://forum.linuxmce.org/index.php?action=printpage;topic=6253.0)
brgds, fisker

---

### Post by windependence on 2009-01-08
I have one of these running Ubuntu with NO issues whatsoever. Of course mine is running on a 160GB IDE drive, SATA 22 speed DVDRW, 2 GB ECC RAM. Open SUSE also works but must be installed from the DVD and not the live CD because of graphics issues. I have two NICs, onboard and Intel in the PCI slot. Both are working fine. You must not be using the ifup method for Nic config.

-Tim

---

### Post by kingnubian on 2009-01-08
> **pfisker said:**
> the problem with the onboard nic is related to a badly detected driver for the realtek chip during install.. the driver loaded is r8169 but should in fact be r8168.. 
you can solve this but it does involve performing a manual compile of the missing driver
[http://forum.linuxmce.org/index.php?action=printpage;topic=6253.0](http://forum.linuxmce.org/index.php?action=printpage;topic=6253.0)
brgds, fisker

Haven't checked back this thread for a while. I solved the onboard nic issue with the proper driver but actually ended up not using it anyways since I have an Intel Pro/1000 GT card.

Updated to the latest bios, actually the one before the latest as of today, and it solved some major issues such as HD DMA not being turned on and being unable to switch it on. Now hard drive transfers have improved. 

Seems I may have an issue with my SMC gigabit ethernet switch. I have a mix of fast ethernet & Gigabit ethernet devices plugged into the switch & lately have noticed that network transfer rates eve between the two Vista boxes have slowed to 10/100 speeds. 

Overall though I'm real happy with the motherboard.

---

### Post by Zillion on 2009-01-30
With the Realtek NIC and a Sweex 1Gb switch I got copy over lan speed like 34 MB/s max (measuring with Bmon). I did not try other an other driver.

I now ordered a Intel pro/1000 GT card and will swap the Sweex switch for a 3Com switch with jumbo rate support. I hope I get better speed than. What speed do you guys get?

---

### Post by kingnubian on 2009-02-07
> **Zillion said:**
> With the Realtek NIC and a Sweex 1Gb switch I got copy over lan speed like 34 MB/s max (measuring with Bmon). I did not try other an other driver.

I now ordered a Intel pro/1000 GT card and will swap the Sweex switch for a 3Com switch with jumbo rate support. I hope I get better speed than. What speed do you guys get?

I have an Intel Pro/1000 GT and a Linksys SMCGS8 8 port 10/100/100 switch and my transfer rates are maxed at ~14meg even with Jumbo Frames support setup at each workstation.

Strangely between the two MS boxes, vista64 & vista32, transfers are over 65 Megabytes/sec. This is really a frustrating issue.

---

