---
title: "9.04 JeOS?"
date: 2009-04-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by bartcramer on 2009-04-19
Just a small question: will 9.04 also ship as a JeOS version? And if I have a 8.10 JeOS version as a virtual machine, can I just upgrade that one too, without making a clean install? 

Thanks for your time!

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2009-04-19
The Jeos name was discontinued I believe. I read that on the Ubuntu server page. They will ship a "minimal server" version. That is the recommended upgrade path for Jeos. Version 8.04 was the LTS (long term support) version so most people running servers prefer to keep on that version and just do security updates against it. I believe that LTS is good for 5 years whereas if you upgrade to a non-LTS version you get a much shorter lifetime. I'm not sure when the next LTS will be but I do recall there being a roadmap on the Ubuntu site that indicates that. You may want to keep upgrading from 8.10 until you get to the next LTS one and then stabilize there. Generally for servers the idea is to keep stability high and just update for security patches. That is what 8.04 was intended for. Anyway, as implied, yes, you can keep updating/upgrading from version to version if you like. It will give you security updates as well as package version updates too. For the server use,

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

to keep a single version up to date.
And off hand right now I forget what the command for upgrade to new version is. I'm sure someone will kick in here.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2009-04-20
From 8.10 onwards JeOS comes as part of the Server install CD, just hit F4 at the install screen and select 'Install a minimal virtual machine'.

---

### Post by bartcramer on 2009-04-27
I downloaded the 9.04 server edition, but after hitting F4, there is only Normal I can choose from. I believe I remember that the F4-way was also the way I did it, when installing my 8.10 VM. 

The only option I can think of atm is to install the VM anyway as normal server, using no installs, and then use the vm-builder python script. But that is rather cumbersome...

Anyone an idea?

---

### Post by tyfighter on 2009-05-01
Does anyone have the upgrade command for an Ubuntu JEOS 8.10 machine?  I have a virtual machine I'd like to upgrade to 9.04.

Thanks.

EDIT: I found it
sudo apt-get install update-manager-core
sudo do-release-upgrade

---

### Post by techread on 2009-05-01
Perhaps you'll find the following link interesting...I just ran onto it, because I also want to install a minimal VM out of 9.04.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/serverguide/C/jeos-and-vmbuilder.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/serverguide/C/jeos-and-vmbuilder.html)

---

### Post by learningcurb on 2009-06-04
Just a FYI, I was doing some reading on vm-builder and it sounds like there are still some bugs to be ironed out, so installing the through a VM might be more reliable.  But it does sound like it will be a useful tool when it matures.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vm-builder](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vm-builder)

---

### Post by deadgoon on 2009-06-28
> **bartcramer said:**
> I downloaded the 9.04 server edition, but after hitting F4, there is only Normal I can choose from.

I too had this problem.  I hit F6, selected expert mode, and went ahead with installation.  On the first screen I aborted the installation and rebooted.  When it came back up, I was able to select minimal install from the F4 menu.  Weird.

---

