---
title: "14.04 LTSP Server - client gets image, but can't login"
date: 2014-09-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by vocoder42 on 2014-09-03
I am having this problem and i'm not sure how to troubleshoot it. 

Ubuntu 14.04 LTSP, idesk + fluxbox.  using samba/winbind for AD authentication. 

For testing purposing i'm running the server in VirtualBox.  

The thinclient gets the image and shows the login screen - if i type my username and password, a popup box says 'verifying password' for a few seconds, screen goes black, then login screen reloads.  On the server I've looked in both auth.log and syslog - nothing at all in auth.log and in syslog it shows the client getting the image but thats it.  

I have run ltsp-update-sshkeys and ltsp-update-image, still same issue.  

the thin client is a shuttle Xs35V2 with 2gb ram (it uses intel gma 3150)

and i can login to server using my AD creds so i know that part is working (both local login + ssh)

and here is what i see in syslog (nothing in auth.log related to the ltsp client)

```

Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1484]: virststyle ipliteral
Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1484]: connect from 192.168.10.172, assigned file is /opt/ltsp/images/amd64.img
Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1484]: Can't open authorization file /etc/ltsp/nbd-server.allow (No such file or directory).
Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1484]: Starting to serve
Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1484]: Size of exported file/device is 805793792
Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1484]: Disconnect request received.
Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1048]: Spawned a child process
Sep  2 17:48:11 ltsptrusty nbd_server[1048]: Child exited with 0

```

any ideas?  any ideas how i can troubleshoot this? I have a server running 10.04 which works perfectly, and I set this server up the same exact way (making a few minor modifications since samba/winbind packages are a bit different in 14.04)

edit: update - if I drop to tty on the client, I am unable to login with my AD account, HOWEVER i am able to login with the root account + password I created when I chrooted to the ltsp image.  This same login does not work in the GUI ,jut when I drop to TTY.  

If I look at syslog on the client, I see this (not sure if could be related?)

block nbd9: NBD_DISCONNECT
block nbd9: Receive control failed (result -32)
block nbd9: queue cleared

i saw a thread on here from a few months ago where a person had the same issue - they said they solved it by installing the ltsp server from the ubuntu desktop cd, but i don't want that.  i installed a bare minimum server and then only installed the packages i needed.  

perhaps i am missing some package that is required?

---

### Post by vocoder42 on 2014-09-03
update: nevermind, error on my part.  Turns out I copy and pasted lts.conf and forgot to change the ip address of the old server.  DOH.

---

