---
title: "6.06 LTS Lamp Server, what is the best way for mailserver?"
date: 2006-08-31
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jka/v on 2006-08-31
I'm just now configuring a 6.06 LTS lamp server.  I intend to use webmin as the controlling gui for it.

Couple of questions:

1.  I want this box to do just the following:
      a.  Mail server running postfix for my company
      b.  Ip routing, to route ip's to my webserver (windows server 2003 box), and another box.
      c.  Firewall to protect everything behind it

I presume that installing the Lamp option, and configuring webmin will pretty much give me the above?

Should I do this differently than just a vanilla Lamp install?  I've read through the guide at howtoforge about 20 times ;) and don't need the ispconfig stuff  Tried using it once, just wasn't intuitive for me.

I also presume that setting up Bind9 from webmin, and configuring the ip's to route through the box is possible?  Not exactly sure how to do this just yet, if anyone has a quick guide to that, I would greatly appreciate it!

Also, in webmin, if anyone's used it, I am having a heck of a time figuring out how to setup mailboxes, and host virtual domains properly...  A newbie primer for that would also be greatly appreciated!

Please let me know what you think, I've taught myself how to use Ubuntu, and how to do many things with it, but linux as a server is still new to me.

Thanks ahead of time!

---

### Post by jka/v on 2006-09-01
Anyone have any feedback on this?

Should I install just 6.06 LTS Server, and then webmin, and have it add apache and so forth?

Just looking for the best way to achieve what I put above, and would greatly appreciate any help...

---

### Post by Uluen on 2006-09-01
Personally, I wouldn't set this up for a company if I didn't know what I was doing. I'd use something like ClarkConnect for a while first, if the company didn't depend on it.
The wrong MX/DNS records can do strange things to (possibly important) mail ;)

---

### Post by jka/v on 2006-09-14
Granted, though I do understand more than the basics.  It's just different enough from windows that it's giving me troubles.

I'd still love a guide to installing what I've asked about, or if someone knows a place where I can get detailed information.  Unfortunately the webmin docs don't go in-depth enough on the configuration of postfix details.

Thanks, I appreciate it!

---

### Post by fredanthony on 2006-09-14
Take a look at this, it helped me a great deal:
[http://flurdy.com/docs/postfix/](http://flurdy.com/docs/postfix/)

---

### Post by jka/v on 2006-09-15
Thanks, I've read through that a few times.

I'll run through it today.

---

