---
title: "6.06 LTS Instal in Expert Mode6.06 LTS Install in Expert Mode — Differences to Normal"
date: 2008-01-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by make_root on 2008-01-08
Hi there

Two days ago I got to a preinstalled 6.06 and was very confused that there was a Root-Account and no User with which you work, using sudo.
After several hours I found out, it was due to the install option "Expert mode" and a few hours more I had a User added with the normal sudo functionality.
During the process I came across 3 groups which I started investigating on a little more, but still have some questions…
After install there was the Group "adm:x:4:" which I thought was short for admin, not true it seems, but what is it then?

In order to make sudo work I needed to add a system group "admin" which was mentioned in in the sudoers file (/etc/sudoers), but not existing in the group file.
On the other hand I also read information refereeing to the to the group "wheel", but it was not existing in the group file either — hence I went and created the group "admin", seeming a more appropriate naming convention for my purpose;-)

Anyone here who could enlighten me on this? And maybe other "abnormal" behavior I could be running into with this "Expert mode Install"?

Tanks in advance!

Cheers
make

---

### Post by make_root on 2008-01-14
Hi

Hmmm — kind a wondering if this is the wrong Thread for my question?

And maybe off topic, but there is one other thing I cann't figure…

```
-*/1 * * * *    uptime |grep -v "load average: 0.00, 0.00, 0.00" >> /var/log/uptime.log
```
does not work becouse of the option [SIZE="4"]**-**[/SIZE]*/1 (ist's the dash/minus) — which I'd like to set to keep this cron from showing up in the logs.

Any ideas?

Cheers

---

