---
title: "12.04 server: random kernel crash"
date: 2012-07-11
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by cartographer on 2012-07-11
Hi, I'm relatively new to linux and this is my first post. I have set up a home server on an old ecs pm800 mobo, i386 architecture Intel pent 4. Almost daily the server goes down. from what I can make out of the logs the kernel is crashing and nmbd has returned error signal 11 at least 3 times. I don't know what this means or if this is the problem (the nmbd error). What I do know is that on reboot the system informs me the 8 inodes have been deleted. The server is running apache2, php5, Mysql, and Samba and resides on two hardrives linked with a LVM. Does anyone have any ideas why it keeps crashing?  (oh, I already disabled the bios powersaving settings)

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2012-07-11
The 1st thing I would check is the actual hardware to see if it is failing.
 
Check both hard drives using smartmontools and then check the RAM using memtest86+
 
Once you verify the hardware is not messing with you, the next step is to look at the OS configuration / drivers.
 
LHammonds

---

### Post by alecm3 on 2012-07-11
You need to paste the contents of /var/log/messages immediately before crash. 

Also, connect a monitor (console) directly to the server, and disable its sleep:

```
sudo setterm -blank 0 -powersave off -powerdown 0
```

After it crashes, there might be an interesting console dump. Copy it, or take a picture of it, and attach it here.

---

### Post by cartographer on 2012-07-11
when you say messages are you asking for dmesg? /var/log/messages doesn't exist. I do have a file in /var/crash

---

