---
title: "10.04/8.04 Server Edition with Vortex86DX"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by HABalloonGirl on 2010-06-09
Hi,

I'm attempting to install the server edition of Ubuntu on a PC104 Board based on the Vortex86DX.  I have so far attempted 10.04 and 8.04, which is supported on the Vortex site.

During the install from CD of the 10.04, I get the error message, No network interfaces detected.  The PC104 has an ethernet cable plugged in and connected and is fully capable of internet access-I have booted Puppy on the same board with internet access.  From other posts, it looks like 10.04 can be used with this particular chip but that some need to change the irqpoll setting.  If I proceed with the installation, can this setting be changed later?  Should I be getting this error message during the install?  If I do need to change irqpoll once the OS is installed, where can that be done?  Or is the message caused by something different?

I have also tried an install of 8.04.  During the install from that CD, I get the error message 

(right after pressing install from cd)
CPU: Your system may be unstable
ACPI: No DMI BIOS year, acpi=force is required to enable [end of my screen]

(after some hardware detect screens)
No common DC-ROM drive was detected.

You may need to load additional CD-ROM drivers from a driver floppy.

From what I've read, it seems like the 2 issues are unrelated.  It is also worth noting that my cdrom drive is attached over IDE.    

More generally, can a 10.04/8.04 version be installed or do I need a kernel specific to the vortex chip?  I've tried X-Linux booted from USB, but I need to install the system to an attached SATA SSD, which Xlinux does not seem to recognize as being attached.  

I would love to be able to use the 10.04 kernel most.    

Thanks much.

---

