---
title: "8.04 Slow Bash Prompt With LDAP Authenticated User"
date: 2008-08-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by OffbeatAdam on 2008-08-20
Hey There Everyone,

I've done quite a bit of searching for information on this topic, it may simply be that I am having an issue with th search terms but in any case... I thought I would make a post for a potentially faster resolution while I continue searching. Apologies if this has been answered before.

Currently in our office we have quite a few (150+) Ubuntu 6.06 LTS 32 & 64bit systems. They are all configured for LDAP authentication and are working great.

My issue remains with 8.04. We have begun testing and deploying 8.04 in our environment as we have found that it is faster, and many of the packages provide updated and greater functionality over those in 6.06.

I have successfully authenticated against our LDAP authentication servers, however in doing so I noticed an odd issue spring up. With users authenticated by LDAP, the process prior to the prompt showing up takes longer to finish (the portion of the login process where bashrc, profile, and so on are executed). Local users continue to authenticate and pop up with the prompt instantly.

I have not modified these files too greatly, other than adding a few additional exports for required environment variables within our environment (ie, export http_proxy for internal systems on our 10.0.0.0/8 space).

The LDAP configuration is partially copied from our 6.06 configuration, and partially re-done as we felt with a new system it may be smart to start over and configure it 100% properly. I have also tested with our old method, with the same results. Overall, the total changes are not all that big, and for the most part - it is very close to eachother.

I'm trying to figure out what the cause of this issue is, and why it takes a while for the bash prompt to show up.

The exact point that it slows down is after the MOTD, before the bash prompt.

Any ideas?

I can post any configuration files you think may help, I just did not want to clutter the post with data that wouldn't help and would rather post what you WANT to see versus everything, since that can turn into a number of files (some 70+ lines long).

Thanks for your help ahead of time!

Adam

---

### Post by OffbeatAdam on 2008-08-26
Been a few days... anyone have any ideas?

If you need me to post some of the files I'd be happy to.

---

### Post by kcnnc on 2008-10-12
Have you (or anyone) found the cause or solution to this issue?

---

