---
title: "suggestions about hardware for first server"
date: 2011-10-31
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-10-31
Hello everyone!

I have recenlty decided to try to set up a server; first thing I did, I bought a cheap but reasonably "powerful" pc on ebay. I now have a dell optiplex gx 520 (that cost me around 70€). It's probably not the best structure for a server: very small, I imagine it won't be very cool nor very quiet, but being this just "an experiment" I do for fun, I don't think this should matter too much.
What really bothered me when I first opened the case was to find out that it only has ONE s-ata controller!!! Since I was planning to do some RAID (again, just to learn and experiment) I don't know what to do! Is it possible to add sata controllers? Or could I install ubuntu server, and then take out the IDE dvd-drive to substitute it with a hard drive?
Otherwise I was thinking the best thing to do would be to try to set up a server there just to see how it works, then resell this pc and buy one that suits my needs better.

Any suggestions?
Thanks in advance,

---

### Post by Jonathan L on 2011-10-31
> **sowdust said:**
> I have recenlty decided to try to set up a server; first thing I did, I bought a cheap but reasonably "powerful" pc on ebay. I now have a dell optiplex gx 520 (that cost me around 70€). It's probably not the best structure for a server: very small, I imagine it won't be very cool nor very quiet, but being this just "an experiment" I do for fun, I don't think this should matter too much.
What really bothered me when I first opened the case was to find out that it only has ONE s-ata controller!!! Since I was planning to do some RAID (again, just to learn and experiment) I don't know what to do! Is it possible to add sata controllers? Or could I install ubuntu server, and then take out the IDE dvd-drive to substitute it with a hard drive?
Otherwise I was thinking the best thing to do would be to try to set up a server there just to see how it works, then resell this pc and buy one that suits my needs better.


Hi Sowdust

I'd say use what you've got.  That GX 520 looks fine to me for learning about configurations and running applications.   Certainly you can add SATA ports, or use USB disks.  You'll learn lots more by solving the problems generated by compromises than you will by having perfect kit.  I have often used old computers from Ebay for various projects, usually very successfully: including lots of GX series computers.

If you really want to play with RAID, you'll want removable disks  anyway, so you might consider some kind of external disk chassis, perhaps with USB 2.0 interface.  Again, you'll learn more by having ten old 40Gbyte drives lying on your desk than you will with a lovely new disk array.  

When you've had some education with that, the things I'd say to look out for are get one with two ether ports, as many servers are on a management LAN as well as a data LAN, and space for the disks you need.   And pay attention to power usage and noise as it will be on contiuously.  

Hope that's of some use.

Kind regards,
Jonathan.

---

### Post by jmsgz on 2011-10-31
I also am not a professional and just "do it to learn"
I purchased a couple older HP-DL360's and a HP-DL-380
nice heavy hardware with raid of 0,1,5 up to 2-6 disk drives
and a tape slot. All scsi hot swap hd's so you can get a few old
cheap 9 gig drives and mess around. Dual power supplies and
dual ethernet cards and roms. I like them because they are good solid
hardware. They are pretty fast also without any optimum
software can easily transfer 10mbs on my local lan. 
Cons, loud and heavy and take up room and power.
Very compatible with Ubuntu and OpenBSD which i really like. 
So just my two cents. Was able to purchase for no more than $100 ea .....
Some you get cheaper on Craigslist and some are just parts. 
Generally expandable to at least 8 gig. Also can add pci and
pci x slot cards, usbs and decent graphics. no sound as they
are professional grade servers.  ...
units originally sold for 3-7K so they are a deal now. 
............ have fun.............

---

### Post by sowdust on 2011-11-01
Thanks to both of you. You convinced me: I'll use what I've got and  try to make the best of it. I'll probably stick to the hardware I have first, and once I managed to configure a stable system and be comfortable with it, I'll think of upgrading the hardware :)

---

