---
title: "8.04 vs 8.10 for new servers"
date: 2008-11-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jegt on 2008-11-06
Hi

I'm about to install ubuntu on 10 new servers. Do I dare to install 8.10 or should I stay with 8.04 for a while until any undiscovered bugs in 8.10 are found and fixed?

I'm going to run virtual servers with KVM on 6 of the servers and would really like to be able to use the new KVM features in 8.10. 

/ Jonas

---

### Post by BUGabundo on 2008-11-06
Usually for servers I would go with a more stable and more tested version (so 8.04.1 LTS)
on the other hand ibex (8.10) added lots of new features to improve virtualization, plus it seems to fixs some bugs that would affect you.

If you want a better answer I would popup on #ubuntu-server @ freenode and ask.
or you could email the team: [email]ubuntu-server@lists.ubuntu.com[/email].

Good luck, and let us know what u decide. i t may help others.

---

### Post by cmittle on 2008-11-06
I would go with 8.04.  I'm not sure about the possible bug fixes that BUGabundo mentioned, but I'd pick it because 8.10 is only a few days old and it's bound to have a few bugs, and 8.04 would be a little more stable.  Also the added benefit of 8.04 being an LTS release is that much more of a +.

---

### Post by Robstarusa on 2008-11-06
I'd stick with 8.04 unless you absolutely must have the features in 8.10.  You will get a longer support life out of 8.04, and it already has been out several months.

---

### Post by t.s on 2008-11-25
I agree with BUGabundo...
Gather the information first.
And if you want to use an LTS version, don't use 8.04. Use 8.04.1 instead (8.04 is well known for it's buggy-ness)

cheers.

---

### Post by djdarrin91 on 2008-11-25
8.04 without a doubt. for now anyway:)

---

### Post by gtdaqua on 2008-11-25
> **jegt said:**
> Hi

I'm about to install ubuntu on 10 new servers. Do I dare to install 8.10 or should I stay with 8.04 for a while until any undiscovered bugs in 8.10 are found and fixed?

I'm going to run virtual servers with KVM on 6 of the servers and would really like to be able to use the new KVM features in 8.10. 

/ Jonas

If any of the servers you configure are going to be "critical" in terms of availability, then you should better use 8.04 LTS even if 8.10 increases performance or enhances virtualization. 

With LTS, you dont get frequent updates to packages unless they address a security issue. For e.g. zimbra installation relies on Ubuntu 6 or Ubuntu 8.04. There is a workaround but that is not recommended. 

Package maintainers prioritize LTS releases so they are not badly affected. 

Do a bit of homework around these lines and decide. Remember, for "critical" servers, choose LTS no matter what the other versions offer.

---

### Post by mitchroberts on 2008-11-26
I use 8.04lts with terminal services works great i don't know
about these bugs there talking about mine has been great.
i have not seen 8.10 so i cant say anything there if you 
would like a tested version i would go with 8.04

---

