---
title: "11.04 nouveau errors after installing"
date: 2011-05-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by bigmonmulgrew on 2011-05-21
Hi
Just installed ubuntu server 11.04 to have a play with.

Ran through the installer and selected to setup as a virtual machine host.

When booting I get 3 errors

```
[     7.847619] [drm] nouveau 0000:00:0d.0: ======= misaligned reg 0x0060081D ===
[     7.847624] [drm] nouveau 0000:00:0d.0: ======= misaligned reg 0x0060081D ===
[     8.651603] [drm] nouveau 0000:00:0d.0: unknown connector type: 0xff!! ===
```

Any insignt into what may be causing this would be well appreciated.

It may be also worth noting that I dont see the grub screen. My monitor reports "out of range"
I also did have ubuntu server 10.10 on here previously which installed without issue. (It wasnt actually being used for anything)
I'm currently trying a reinstall hoping the errors will go away but any info would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by bigmonmulgrew on 2011-05-21
Well reinstall is now finished and I get the same result except that the numbers at the top are different.

[     10.798617]
[     10.798623]
[     11.591495]

The rest of the error message is the same.

It may be worth noting that there is now a second HDD connected.
Both are WD 250gb SATA drives.
I'm using 1GB of RAM
an AMD 240e CPU
a gigabyte motherboard

---

### Post by Scannerprincess on 2011-06-06
Hello,

I'm sseing the same type of errors in my 11.04 server install. Some details:

o  same messages (but with different timestamps, of course)
o  AMD Athlon II X2 260
o  ASRock N68C-S UCC motherboard
o 1 GByte of DDR3
o 30 GByte PATA disk

Karin

---

### Post by ebirah on 2011-11-01
You could try installing the proprietary driver (rather than using nouveau) and see if that works, using jockey-text.

---

