---
title: "Broadcom NetXtreme (BCM5761) doesn't work?"
date: 2012-01-12
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-12
Hey all,

Has anyone else run into this, or have any suggestions what to try in order to fix it?

I researched my purchase before getting one for my server to make sure it was Ubuntu compatible, [which it was](http://www.ubuntu.com/certification/catalog/component/pci:1681:14E4-NETWORK).

So I decided to pick up a HP FS215AA Gigabit Ethernet Card which uses the broadcom NetXtreme BCM5761 chip.  

For the life of me I can't get it to work.

lspci shows that the card is there:

03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM5761 Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 06)

But it never shows up in ifconfig as a device I can configure.

I searched these forums and found [an old dead thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1342342) from someone with the same issues 

I'd really appreciate any suggestions.

Thanks,
Matt

server specs:
Ubuntu Server Edition 11.10 (Oneiric)
AMD E-350 (Asus E35M1-M PRO board)
4Gb RAM.

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2012-01-12
Can you post the output of this?

```
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```

---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-12
> **rubylaser said:**
> Can you post the output of this?

```
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```

Sure thing.

Thank you very much for trying to help:

```

# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x10ec:0x8168 (r8169)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="f4:6d:04:d6:05:17", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x14e4:0x1681 (tg3)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:10:18:b2:00:ae", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth1"

```

It's currently connected to the network using eth0, which is an absolutely dreadful on board Realtek RTL8111C chip which isn't able to keep up with my NAS needs.

Thanks again.   I look forward to your advice.

--Matt

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2012-01-12
It looks like you have a second NIC showing up as evidenced by your output.  First, make sure you have a working network cable hooked up to your new NIC, and then  edit this file?

```
sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
```

and paste this at the bottom...
```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

```

and then do this...
```
sudo ifup eth1
```

Now, if all has gone well, you should be able to see your NIC in ifconfig.

---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-12
> **rubylaser said:**
> It looks like you have a second NIC showing up as evidenced by your output.  First, make sure you have a working network cable hooked up to your new NIC, and then  edit this file?

```
sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
```

and paste this at the bottom...
```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

```

and then do this...
```
sudo ifup eth1
```

Now, if all has gone well, you should be able to see your NIC in ifconfig.

Thank you.

I will definitely try this later and let you know if it worked :)

---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-12
I got this error message.

```

# sudo ifup eth1

Rather than invoking init scripts through /etc/init.d, use the service(8)
utility, e.g. service smbd reload

Since the script you are attempting to invoke has been converted to an
Upstart job, you may also use the reload(8) utility, e.g. reload smbd
ssh stop/waiting
ssh start/running, process 1246
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
```


Just going to try to reboot instead as it looks as if its part of the startup scripts.

---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-12
> **mattlach said:**
> I got this error message.

```

# sudo ifup eth1

Rather than invoking init scripts through /etc/init.d, use the service(8)
utility, e.g. service smbd reload

Since the script you are attempting to invoke has been converted to an
Upstart job, you may also use the reload(8) utility, e.g. reload smbd
ssh stop/waiting
ssh start/running, process 1246
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
```


Just going to try to reboot instead as it looks as if its part of the startup scripts.


And what do you know.   It worked!

Thank you very much.

A follow up question if I may:

If I now intend to go to the bios and disable the on board network interface, does the broadcom card (which now is eth1) automatically become eth0, or does it stay as eth1?

It is a headless box and I don't have a monitor or keyboard within reach of it, so I want to make all the changes and not wind up with no active ethernet interfaces, and not be able to ssh in...

Is there a way to specify in /etc/network/interfaces which hardware ethernet chip is which Eth* interface?   Maybe by mac address?

Much obliged.

--Matt

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2012-01-13
If you do turn off the onboard NIC, I'd just do this.

```
sudo rm /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```

Then, edit your /etc/network/interfaces file and delete all of the eth1 stuff I just had you add.  Then reboot, and you should be all set :)

---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-13
> **rubylaser said:**
> If you do turn off the onboard NIC, I'd just do this.

```
sudo rm /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```

Then, edit your /etc/network/interfaces file and delete all of the eth1 stuff I just had you add.  Then reboot, and you should be all set :)

Thank you very much!   I owe you one!

Been using Linux for over a decade now, but never had to configure a box with two NIC's before, probably why I hadn't run into this before.

Thanks again :)

--Matt

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2012-01-13
No problem :) and please don't forget to mark the thread as solved under the thread tools at the top.

---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-13
> **rubylaser said:**
> No problem :) and please don't forget to mark the thread as solved under the thread tools at the top.

Will do, thanks.

---

### Post by mattlach on 2012-01-21
So, disabling the on board ethernet worked fine, but the system remembered which mac address was which ethx device.

So my NetXtreme card now wound up as eth1, even though eth0 was gone.

I solved this, and I'm posting about it here in case anyone else is interested.

It turns out this information is stored by udev (in many cases it makes sense, so that the same device gets the same device ID every time and doesn't confuse the hell out of you.)

In order to make my NetXTrememcard eth0 like I wanted it to be (so I don't get confused and forget down the road) I had to do the following.

First run ifconfig and check what the mac address is of the NIC I want to be eth0.

Then edit (using sudo) /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules

Change the name field of the device matching the mac address I want to be eth0 to eth0,  change any other device previously named eth0 to another untaken eth name.

Then edit /etc/network/interfaces again, and make sure the settings I want now are on eth0 instead of eth1.

Hope this helps someone down the road.

---

