---
title: "Need some help setting up samba"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kjarli on 2009-01-19
Hi, i setup my server on a laptop, drama with wireless etc, but it's working :)

Now i'm trying to get samba working. What i want is the following:

\\tosti\web\ points to /var/www/
This, i got working.

Now when i enter, i can see everything without logging in.
What i want, is a forced login, so only i can get in there from my windows (or server ofcourse), how do i make that happen??

When i try to edit the standard index.html generated by apache install, i get file in use with Notepad++
Creating a new txt file gives me permission denied.

This is my setup:
```

[web]
comment = www directory on %N
path = /var/www/
valid users = kjarli
public = no
writeable = yes
printable = no
create mask = 0765

```

Can anyone help me on thisone?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-19
My interpretation has been wrong many times, but ...
Samba can tighten permissions on a directory, but not loosen them. /var/www (by default) is owned by root.  Samba cannot grant access. However, you can change ownership - or move DocumentRoot to a directory you can access. (Access, in this case, meaning write). More info [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP#Virtual%20Hosts").

---

### Post by mbeach on 2009-01-19
you may want to look into adding something like the following, however, its not necessarily the best solution.  Probably be better to change the ownership of the files/folders in /var/www/ to your user id.  

```

[web]
comment = www directory on %N
path = /var/www/
valid users = kjarli
public = no
writeable = yes
printable = no
create mask = 0765
**force user = www-data**

```

As for being able to see everything when you log in, is it possible that you are using the same username and password on your windows machine as you are your server?  If so, there's a pretty good chance that's why you are not getting a prompt for username/password.  Or, have you logged in once already, and Windows is just remembering the credentials?

---

### Post by kjarli on 2009-01-20
Hm yes makes sense, you mean fully under my control?
chown kjarli /var/www
chmod 765 /var/www

And what does force user = www-data do?


edit:
I still don't have to login, could that be because me windows credentials are === with those on linux?

---

### Post by MeneM on 2009-01-20
Hi, Could you post the entire config?

What does "security =" say? share, user or server?

Other than that: <[http://www.samba.org/samba/docs/man/Samba-HOWTO-Collection/]("http://www.samba.org/samba/docs/man/Samba-HOWTO-Collection/")>

---

