---
title: "127.0.0.1 not localhost?"
date: 2013-01-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by bolus on 2013-01-04
Hi There,

I have to do some work on a server, but I can't figure out how this works. There are 2 servers: 1 www-server and one sql-server. A php application is running on the www server which uses mysqli to connect to 127.0.0.1. I though this had to be localhost, but it's not. It's the second server, the sql server. How can 127.0.0.1 not be localhost? I checked the /etc/hosts file, it says:

*127.0.0.1 localhost localhost.localdomain*

I checked iptables --list, but nothing is there:

[I]Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination[/I]

Does anyone know how the www server is connecting to the sql server using 127.0.0.1?

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2013-01-04
I'm having a hard time understanding what you are asking.

Do you have two physical machines inside the same LAN each with unique IP Addresses?  Does one machine host the web server and the second machine host MySQL server?

Either the web server also has it's own mysql service running or the web application has configurations pointing to the second server.  

I may help to know what the web application is, to point you to the configuration file which contains the mysql connection information.

What task are you trying to complete?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-01-04
is there maybe an ssh tunnel set up between them? that way the database client would look like it's connecting to localhost:portX but that would be tunneled to sqlserver:portY

not sure if that would show up in iptables

---

### Post by bolus on 2013-01-05
> Do you have two physical machines inside the same LAN each with unique IP Addresses?  Does one machine host the web server and the second machine host MySQL server?

Yes that is what I mean, ectually they are virtual machines, but I don't think that matters. 

Something I tried on the webserver:

mysql -h127.0.0.1 -uuser -p
Execute some query
Logon to sql server and check the changes.
Changes are there.

How can I check for ssh tunnel?

---

### Post by spynappels on 2013-01-05
Run the following and post the output:

```
ps -ef | grep ssh
```

---

### Post by NigelRen on 2013-01-05
Have you checked to see if there isn't in fact a database running on the web server?  
Try running '/etc/init.d/mysql status' on the web server. If this comes back with something indicating there is a mysql process running - then it's running on a local database.
Alternatively - make some changes on the database on the web server and then log into the database server and see if the changes are on the database.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2013-01-05
> **NigelRen said:**
> Have you checked to see if there isn't in fact a database running on the web server?  
Try running '/etc/init.d/mysql status' on the web server. If this comes back with something indicating there is a mysql process running - then it's running on a local database.
Alternatively - make some changes on the database on the web server and then log into the database server and see if the changes are on the database.

There is a chance that MySQL clustering means that changes made on the web server mysql instance (if it is running) are reflected on a slave instance running on the mysql server or vice versa.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2013-01-06
nvm

---

### Post by sandyd on 2013-01-06
> **spynappels said:**
> There is a chance that MySQL clustering means that changes made on the web server mysql instance (if it is running) are reflected on a slave instance running on the mysql server or vice versa.

That would mean that the mysql instance would be doing block syncs, as there is theoretically no latency between two servers on the same switch

---

### Post by bolus on 2013-01-07
> ps -ef | grep ssh

root@www1:~# ps -ef | grep ssh
root       474     1  0 08:09 ?        00:00:00 /usr/sbin/sshd -D
root      4724   474  0 11:20 ?        00:00:00 sshd: root@pts/0    
root      4828  4798  0 11:21 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto ssh

I don't exactly know what this means, but I guess there is no ssh tunnel to the sql server?

---

