---
title: "Trouble with iptables"
date: 2007-04-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by cdean on 2007-04-05
I'm attempting to write my own iptables script for a [little project](http://www.cs.westminster.edu/~cdean/capstone) on which I'm working. I started out with my own, hand-written one, but it wasn't working as I thought it should. So, I tried out a generator and it produced this:

```
#!/bin/ash -x
#
# Generated iptables firewall script for the Linux 2.4 kernel
# Script generated by Easy Firewall Generator for IPTables 1.15
# copyright 2002 Timothy Scott Morizot

###############################################################################
# 
# Local Settings
#

# sysctl location.  If set, it will use sysctl to adjust the kernel parameters.
# If this is set to the empty string (or is unset), the use of sysctl
# is disabled.

SYSCTL="/sbin/sysctl -w" 

# To echo the value directly to the /proc file instead
# SYSCTL=""

# IPTables Location - adjust if needed

IPT="/sbin/iptables"
IPTS="/sbin/iptables-save"
IPTR="/sbin/iptables-restore"

# Internet Interface
INET_IFACE="eth0"

# Local Interface Information
LOCAL_IFACE="eth1"
LOCAL_IP="10.1.1.1"
LOCAL_NET="10.1.1.1/8"
LOCAL_BCAST="10.255.255.255"

# Localhost Interface

LO_IFACE="lo"
LO_IP="127.0.0.1"

# Save and Restore arguments handled here
if [ "$1" = "save" ]
then
	echo -n "Saving firewall to /etc/firewall.d/iptables.save ... "
	$IPTS > /etc/firewall.d/iptables.save
	echo "done"
	exit 0
elif [ "$1" = "restore" ]
then
	echo -n "Restoring firewall from /etc/firewall.d/iptables.save ... "
	$IPTR < /etc/firewall.d/iptables.save
	echo "done"
	exit 0
fi

###############################################################################
#
# Kernel Parameter Configuration
#
# See http://ipsysctl-tutorial.frozentux.net/chunkyhtml/index.html
# for a detailed tutorial on sysctl and the various settings
# available.

# Required to enable IPv4 forwarding.
# Redhat users can try setting FORWARD_IPV4 in /etc/sysconfig/network to true
# Alternatively, it can be set in /etc/sysctl.conf
if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
then
    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
else
    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.ip_forward="1"
fi

# This enables dynamic address hacking.
# This may help if you have a dynamic IP address \(e.g. slip, ppp, dhcp\).
#if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
#then
#    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_dynaddr
#else
#    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.ip_dynaddr="1"
#fi

# This enables SYN flood protection.
# The SYN cookies activation allows your system to accept an unlimited
# number of TCP connections while still trying to give reasonable
# service during a denial of service attack.
#if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
#then
#    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/tcp_syncookies
#else
#    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies="1"
#fi

# This enables source validation by reversed path according to RFC1812.
# In other words, did the response packet originate from the same interface
# through which the source packet was sent?  It's recommended for single-homed
# systems and routers on stub networks.  Since those are the configurations
# this firewall is designed to support, I turn it on by default.
# Turn it off if you use multiple NICs connected to the same network.
if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
then
    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/all/rp_filter
else
    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter="1"
fi

# This option allows a subnet to be firewalled with a single IP address.
# It's used to build a DMZ.  Since that's not a focus of this firewall
# script, it's not enabled by default, but is included for reference.
# See: http://www.sjdjweis.com/linux/proxyarp/ 
#if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
#then
#    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/all/proxy_arp
#else
#    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.conf.all.proxy_arp="1"
#fi

# The following kernel settings were suggested by Alex Weeks. Thanks!

# This kernel parameter instructs the kernel to ignore all ICMP
# echo requests sent to the broadcast address.  This prevents
# a number of smurfs and similar DoS nasty attacks.
if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
then
    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/icmp_echo_ignore_broadcasts
else
    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.icmp_echo_ignore_broadcasts="1"
fi

# This option can be used to accept or refuse source routed
# packets.  It is usually on by default, but is generally
# considered a security risk.  This option turns it off.
if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
then
    echo "0" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/all/accept_source_route
else
    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_source_route="0"
fi

# This option can disable ICMP redirects.  ICMP redirects
# are generally considered a security risk and shouldn't be
# needed by most systems using this generator.
#if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
#then
#    echo "0" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/all/accept_redirects
#else
#    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_redirects="0"
#fi

# However, we'll ensure the secure_redirects option is on instead.
# This option accepts only from gateways in the default gateways list.
if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
then
    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/all/secure_redirects
else
    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.conf.all.secure_redirects="1"
fi

# This option logs packets from impossible addresses.
if [ "$SYSCTL" = "" ]
then
    echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/all/log_martians
else
    $SYSCTL net.ipv4.conf.all.log_martians="1"
fi


###############################################################################
#
# Flush Any Existing Rules or Chains
#

echo "Flushing Tables ..."

# Reset Default Policies
$IPT -P INPUT ACCEPT
$IPT -P FORWARD ACCEPT
$IPT -P OUTPUT ACCEPT
$IPT -t nat -P PREROUTING ACCEPT
$IPT -t nat -P POSTROUTING ACCEPT
$IPT -t nat -P OUTPUT ACCEPT
$IPT -t mangle -P PREROUTING ACCEPT
$IPT -t mangle -P OUTPUT ACCEPT

# Flush all rules
$IPT -F
$IPT -t nat -F
$IPT -t mangle -F

# Erase all non-default chains
$IPT -X
$IPT -t nat -X
$IPT -t mangle -X

if [ "$1" = "stop" ]
then
	echo "Firewall completely flushed!  Now running with no firewall."
	exit 0
fi

###############################################################################
#
# Rules Configuration
#

###############################################################################
#
# Filter Table
#
###############################################################################

# Set Policies

$IPT -P INPUT DROP
$IPT -P OUTPUT DROP
$IPT -P FORWARD DROP

###############################################################################
#
# User-Specified Chains
#
# Create user chains to reduce the number of rules each packet
# must traverse.

echo "Create and populate custom rule chains ..."

# Create a chain to filter INVALID packets

$IPT -N bad_packets

# Create another chain to filter bad tcp packets

$IPT -N bad_tcp_packets

# Create separate chains for icmp, tcp (incoming and outgoing),
# and incoming udp packets.

$IPT -N icmp_packets

# Used for UDP packets inbound from the Internet
$IPT -N udp_inbound

# Used to block outbound UDP services from internal network
# Default to allow all
$IPT -N udp_outbound

# Used to allow inbound services if desired
# Default fail except for established sessions
$IPT -N tcp_inbound

# Used to block outbound services from internal network
# Default to allow all
$IPT -N tcp_outbound

###############################################################################
#
# Populate User Chains
#

# bad_packets chain
#

# Drop packets received on the external interface
# claiming a source of the local network
#$IPT -A bad_packets -p ALL -i $INET_IFACE -s $LOCAL_NET -j LOG \
#    --log-prefix "Illegal source: "

#$IPT -A bad_packets -p ALL -i $INET_IFACE -s $LOCAL_NET -j DROP

# Drop INVALID packets immediately
$IPT -A bad_packets -p ALL -m state --state INVALID -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "Invalid packet: "

$IPT -A bad_packets -p ALL -m state --state INVALID -j DROP

# Then check the tcp packets for additional problems
$IPT -A bad_packets -p tcp -j bad_tcp_packets

# All good, so return
$IPT -A bad_packets -p ALL -j RETURN

# bad_tcp_packets chain
#
# All tcp packets will traverse this chain.
# Every new connection attempt should begin with
# a syn packet.  If it doesn't, it is likely a
# port scan.  This drops packets in state
# NEW that are not flagged as syn packets.

# Return to the calling chain if the bad packets originate
# from the local interface. This maintains the approach
# throughout this firewall of a largely trusted internal
# network.
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp -i $LOCAL_IFACE -j RETURN

# However, I originally did apply this filter to the forward chain
# for packets originating from the internal network.  While I have
# not conclusively determined its effect, it appears to have the
# interesting side effect of blocking some of the ad systems.
# Apparently some ad systems have the browser initiate a NEW
# connection that is not flagged as a syn packet to retrieve
# the ad image.  If you wish to experiment further comment the
# rule above. If you try it, you may also wish to uncomment the
# rule below.  It will keep those packets from being logged.
# There are a lot of them.
# $IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp -i $LOCAL_IFACE ! --syn -m state \
#     --state NEW -j DROP

$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp ! --syn -m state --state NEW -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "New not syn: "
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp ! --syn -m state --state NEW -j DROP

$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL NONE -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "Stealth scan: "
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL NONE -j DROP

$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL ALL -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "Stealth scan: "
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL ALL -j DROP

$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL FIN,URG,PSH -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "Stealth scan: "
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL FIN,URG,PSH -j DROP

$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL SYN,RST,ACK,FIN,URG -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "Stealth scan: "
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags ALL SYN,RST,ACK,FIN,URG -j DROP

$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags SYN,RST SYN,RST -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "Stealth scan: "
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags SYN,RST SYN,RST -j DROP

$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags SYN,FIN SYN,FIN -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "Stealth scan: "
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp --tcp-flags SYN,FIN SYN,FIN -j DROP

# All good, so return
$IPT -A bad_tcp_packets -p tcp -j RETURN

# icmp_packets chain
#
# This chain is for inbound (from the Internet) icmp packets only.
# Type 8 (Echo Request) is not accepted by default
# Enable it if you want remote hosts to be able to reach you.
# 11 (Time Exceeded) is the only one accepted
# that would not already be covered by the established
# connection rule.  Applied to INPUT on the external interface.
# 
# See: http://www.ee.siue.edu/~rwalden/networking/icmp.html
# for more info on ICMP types.
#
# Note that the stateful settings allow replies to ICMP packets.
# These rules allow new packets of the specified types.

# ICMP packets should fit in a Layer 2 frame, thus they should
# never be fragmented.  Fragmented ICMP packets are a typical sign
# of a denial of service attack.
$IPT -A icmp_packets --fragment -p ICMP -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "ICMP Fragment: "
$IPT -A icmp_packets --fragment -p ICMP -j DROP

# Echo - uncomment to allow your system to be pinged.
# Uncomment the LOG command if you also want to log PING attempts
# 
# $IPT -A icmp_packets -p ICMP -s 0/0 --icmp-type 8 -j LOG \
#    --log-prefix "Ping detected: "
# $IPT -A icmp_packets -p ICMP -s 0/0 --icmp-type 8 -j ACCEPT

# By default, however, drop pings without logging. Blaster
# and other worms have infected systems blasting pings.
# Comment the line below if you want pings logged, but it
# will likely fill your logs.
$IPT -A icmp_packets -p ICMP -s 0/0 --icmp-type 8 -j DROP

# Time Exceeded
$IPT -A icmp_packets -p ICMP -s 0/0 --icmp-type 11 -j ACCEPT

# Not matched, so return so it will be logged
$IPT -A icmp_packets -p ICMP -j RETURN

# TCP & UDP
# Identify ports at:
#    http://www.chebucto.ns.ca/~rakerman/port-table.html
#    http://www.iana.org/assignments/port-numbers

# udp_inbound chain
#
# This chain describes the inbound UDP packets it will accept.
# It's applied to INPUT on the external or Internet interface.
# Note that the stateful settings allow replies.
# These rules are for new requests.
# It drops netbios packets (windows) immediately without logging.

# Drop netbios calls
# Please note that these rules do not really change the way the firewall
# treats netbios connections.  Connections from the localhost and
# internal interface (if one exists) are accepted by default.
# Responses from the Internet to requests initiated by or through
# the firewall are also accepted by default.  To get here, the
# packets would have to be part of a new request received by the
# Internet interface.  You would have to manually add rules to
# accept these.  I added these rules because some network connections,
# such as those via cable modems, tend to be filled with noise from
# unprotected Windows machines.  These rules drop those packets
# quickly and without logging them.  This prevents them from traversing
# the whole chain and keeps the log from getting cluttered with
# chatter from Windows systems.
$IPT -A udp_inbound -p UDP -s 0/0 --destination-port 137 -j DROP
$IPT -A udp_inbound -p UDP -s 0/0 --destination-port 138 -j DROP

# Dynamic Address
# If DHCP, the initial request is a broadcast. The response
# doesn't exactly match the outbound packet.  This explicitly
# allow the DHCP ports to alleviate this problem.
# If you receive your dynamic address by a different means, you
# can probably comment this line.
$IPT -A udp_inbound -p UDP -s 0/0 --source-port 67 --destination-port 68 \
     -j ACCEPT


# Not matched, so return for logging
$IPT -A udp_inbound -p UDP -j RETURN

# udp_outbound chain
#
# This chain is used with a private network to prevent forwarding for
# UDP requests on specific protocols.  Applied to the FORWARD rule from
# the internal network.  Ends with an ACCEPT

# ICQ uses UDP 4000 - Instant messaging blocked
#$IPT -A udp_outbound -p UDP -s 0/0 --destination-port 4000 -j REJECT


# No match, so ACCEPT
$IPT -A udp_outbound -p UDP -s 0/0 -j ACCEPT

# tcp_inbound chain
#
# This chain is used to allow inbound connections to the
# system/gateway.  Use with care.  It defaults to none.
# It's applied on INPUT from the external or Internet interface.


# Not matched, so return so it will be logged
$IPT -A tcp_inbound -p TCP -j RETURN

# tcp_outbound chain
#
# This chain is used with a private network to prevent forwarding for
# requests on specific protocols.  Applied to the FORWARD rule from
# the internal network.  Ends with an ACCEPT

/etc/firewall.d/blocks.sh

# No match, so ACCEPT
$IPT -A tcp_outbound -p TCP -s 0/0 -j ACCEPT

###############################################################################
#
# INPUT Chain
#

echo "Process INPUT chain ..."

# Allow all on localhost interface
$IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -i $LO_IFACE -j ACCEPT

# Drop bad packets
$IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -j bad_packets

# DOCSIS compliant cable modems
# Some DOCSIS compliant cable modems send IGMP multicasts to find
# connected PCs.  The multicast packets have the destination address
# 224.0.0.1.  You can accept them.  If you choose to do so,
# Uncomment the rule to ACCEPT them and comment the rule to DROP
# them  The firewall will drop them here by default to avoid
# cluttering the log.  The firewall will drop all multicasts
# to the entire subnet (224.0.0.1) by default.  To only affect
# IGMP multicasts, change '-p ALL' to '-p 2'.  Of course,
# if they aren't accepted elsewhere, it will only ensure that
# multicasts on other protocols are logged.
# Drop them without logging.
$IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -d 224.0.0.1 -j DROP
# The rule to accept the packets.
# $IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -d 224.0.0.1 -j ACCEPT

# Rules for the private network (accessing gateway system itself)
$IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -i $LOCAL_IFACE -s $LOCAL_NET -j ACCEPT
$IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -i $LOCAL_IFACE -d $LOCAL_BCAST -j ACCEPT

# Allow DHCP client request packets inbound from internal network
$IPT -A INPUT -p UDP -i $LOCAL_IFACE --source-port 68 --destination-port 67 \
     -j ACCEPT
# Allow DNS client request packets inbound from internet network
$IPT -A INPUT -p UDP -i $LOCAL_IFACE --destination-port 53 -j ACCEPT

# Inbound Internet Packet Rules

# Accept Established Connections
$IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -i $INET_IFACE -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED \
     -j ACCEPT

# Route the rest to the appropriate user chain
$IPT -A INPUT -p TCP -i $INET_IFACE -j tcp_inbound
$IPT -A INPUT -p UDP -i $INET_IFACE -j udp_inbound
$IPT -A INPUT -p ICMP -i $INET_IFACE -j icmp_packets

# Drop without logging broadcasts that get this far.
# Cuts down on log clutter.
# Comment this line if testing new rules that impact
# broadcast protocols.
$IPT -A INPUT -m pkttype --pkt-type broadcast -j DROP

# Log packets that still don't match
$IPT -A INPUT -m limit --limit 3/minute --limit-burst 3 -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "INPUT packet died: "

###############################################################################
#
# FORWARD Chain
#

echo "Process FORWARD chain ..."

# Used if forwarding for a private network

# Drop bad packets
$IPT -A FORWARD -p ALL -j bad_packets

# Accept TCP packets we want to forward from internal sources
$IPT -A FORWARD -p tcp -i $LOCAL_IFACE -j tcp_outbound

# Accept UDP packets we want to forward from internal sources
$IPT -A FORWARD -p udp -i $LOCAL_IFACE -j udp_outbound

# If not blocked, accept any other packets from the internal interface
$IPT -A FORWARD -p ALL -i $LOCAL_IFACE -j ACCEPT

# Deal with responses from the internet
$IPT -A FORWARD -i $INET_IFACE -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED \
     -j ACCEPT

# Log packets that still don't match
$IPT -A FORWARD -m limit --limit 3/minute --limit-burst 3 -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "FORWARD packet died: "

###############################################################################
#
# OUTPUT Chain
#

echo "Process OUTPUT chain ..."

# Generally trust the firewall on output

# However, invalid icmp packets need to be dropped
# to prevent a possible exploit.
$IPT -A OUTPUT -m state -p icmp --state INVALID -j DROP

# Localhost
$IPT -A OUTPUT -p ALL -s $LO_IP -j ACCEPT
$IPT -A OUTPUT -p ALL -o $LO_IFACE -j ACCEPT

# To internal network
$IPT -A OUTPUT -p ALL -s $LOCAL_IP -j ACCEPT
$IPT -A OUTPUT -p ALL -o $LOCAL_IFACE -j ACCEPT

# To internet
$IPT -A OUTPUT -p ALL -o $INET_IFACE -j ACCEPT

# Log packets that still don't match
$IPT -A OUTPUT -m limit --limit 3/minute --limit-burst 3 -j LOG \
    --log-prefix "OUTPUT packet died: "

###############################################################################
#
# nat table
#
###############################################################################

# The nat table is where network address translation occurs if there
# is a private network.  If the gateway is connected to the Internet
# with a static IP, snat is used.  If the gateway has a dynamic address,
# masquerade must be used instead.  There is more overhead associated
# with masquerade, so snat is better when it can be used.
# The nat table has a builtin chain, PREROUTING, for dnat and redirects.
# Another, POSTROUTING, handles snat and masquerade.

echo "Load rules for nat table ..."

###############################################################################
#
# PREROUTING chain
#

#$IPT -t nat -A PREROUTING -i $LOCAL_IFACE -j NFQUEUE

###############################################################################
#
# POSTROUTING chain
#


$IPT -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o $INET_IFACE -j MASQUERADE

###############################################################################
#
# mangle table
#
###############################################################################

# The mangle table is used to alter packets.  It can alter or mangle them in
# several ways.  For the purposes of this generator, we only use its ability
# to alter the TTL in packets.  However, it can be used to set netfilter
# mark values on specific packets.  Those marks could then be used in another
# table like filter, to limit activities associated with a specific host, for
# instance.  The TOS target can be used to set the Type of Service field in
# the IP header.  Note that the TTL target might not be included in the
# distribution on your system.  If it is not and you require it, you will
# have to add it.  That may require that you build from source.

echo "Load rules for mangle table ..."

```

I put in the DNS line in the INPUT section, but it apparently doesn't work, as clients on the LAN cannot access the DNS server running on the box on which this firewall is running.

FYI: eth0 is WAN, eth1 is LAN. The LAN address space is 10.1.1.1/8. Hosts on the LAN should have full access to services running on the firewalled host (router, really), and the WAN shouldn't be able to get through except for DHCP traffic.

---

### Post by gombadi on 2007-04-05
One of the best methods to track down firewall problems is to use the counters in the firewall. i.e. do -


iptables -Z
Try the action that faills then
iptables -vnL >firewall.txt

This will take a copy of the current firewall including counters of all rules. Follow the path of the packet through the system and see where it gets dropped. The counters will are helpful to see which rule matched packets.


Another thing to remember is that the order of the rules is important. The first rule that matches is used. so -
$IPT -A INPUT -p ALL -i $LOCAL_IFACE -s $LOCAL_NET -j ACCEPT
means to accept any packets from the local network but the following rule

$IPT -A INPUT -p UDP -i $LOCAL_IFACE --destination-port 53 -j ACCEPT
means to accept dns packets from the local network but they have already been accepted by the first rule so the dns rule counters should show no hits.

Have fun.

---

### Post by cdean on 2007-04-06
It's not getting dropped anywhere, strangely.

```
Chain INPUT (policy DROP 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  lo     *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    3   183 bad_packets  0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 DROP       0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            224.0.0.1
    3   183 ACCEPT     0    --  eth1   *       10.0.0.0/8           0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            10.255.255.255
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp spt:68 dpt:67
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp dpt:53
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  eth0   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           state RELATED,ESTABLISHED
    0     0 tcp_inbound  tcp  --  eth0   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 udp_inbound  udp  --  eth0   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 icmp_packets  icmp --  eth0   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 DROP       0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           PKTTYPE = broadcast
    0     0 LOG        0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           limit: avg 3/min burst 3 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `INPUT packet died: '

Chain FORWARD (policy DROP 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
  338  309K bad_packets  0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
  136  6224 tcp_outbound  tcp  --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 udp_outbound  udp  --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
  202  303K ACCEPT     0    --  eth0   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           state RELATED,ESTABLISHED
    0     0 LOG        0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           limit: avg 3/min burst 3 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `FORWARD packet died: '

Chain OUTPUT (policy DROP 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
    0     0 DROP       icmp --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           state INVALID
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  *      *       127.0.0.1            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  *      lo      0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    3   208 ACCEPT     0    --  *      *       10.1.1.1             0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  *      eth1    0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 ACCEPT     0    --  *      eth0    0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 LOG        0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           limit: avg 3/min burst 3 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `OUTPUT packet died: '

Chain bad_packets (2 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
    0     0 LOG        0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           state INVALID LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `Invalid pkt (bad_packets): '
    0     0 DROP       0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           state INVALID
  338  309K bad_tcp_packets  tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
  341  309K RETURN     0    --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0

Chain bad_tcp_packets (1 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
  136  6224 RETURN     tcp  --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:!0x17/0x02 state NEW LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `New not syn: '
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:!0x17/0x02 state NEW
    0     0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x00 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `Stealth scan: '
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x00
    0     0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x3F LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `Stealth scan: '
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x3F
    0     0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x29 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `Stealth scan: '
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x29
    0     0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x37 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `Stealth scan: '
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x3F/0x37
    0     0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x06/0x06 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `Stealth scan: '
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x06/0x06
    0     0 LOG        tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x03/0x03 LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `Stealth scan: '
    0     0 DROP       tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp flags:0x03/0x03
  202  303K RETURN     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0

Chain icmp_packets (1 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
    0     0 LOG        icmp -f  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           LOG flags 0 level 4 prefix `ICMP Fragment: '
    0     0 DROP       icmp -f  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
    0     0 DROP       icmp --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           icmp type 8
    0     0 ACCEPT     icmp --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           icmp type 11
    0     0 RETURN     icmp --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0

Chain tcp_inbound (1 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
    0     0 RETURN     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0

Chain tcp_outbound (1 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
  136  6224 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0

Chain udp_inbound (1 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
    0     0 DROP       udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp dpt:137
    0     0 DROP       udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp dpt:138
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp spt:67 dpt:68
    0     0 RETURN     udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0

Chain udp_outbound (1 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0
```

They appear to be getting accepted. Hmm.

---

### Post by cdean on 2007-04-07
It's completely not the firewall. I tracked down the counts with ```
iptables -nvL
``` and every packet was getting accepted.

I then tried flushing all the rules and setting the policy to drop. It still wouldn't resolve DNS.

I messed around with some dnsmasq configs, and here I'd mistaken the command to add an extra file from which to get hosts entries for the command to specify a location for nameserver information other than /etc/resolv.conf.

It works now. Thanks for your help.

---

