---
title: "motd wont change Server 10.01"
date: 2011-04-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by idny on 2011-04-19
Hello,

Ive seen similar answers to this but it appears they cannot fix my problem.

I am trying to change the motd "message of the day" on my Ubuntu server 10.10,
But when i do sudo vi /etc/motd...

...i can change the text here, but as soon as I save and exit this file. It changes itself straight back.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by elliotbeken on 2011-04-19
i am having the same problem :(

---

### Post by iissmart on 2011-04-20
/etc/motd is generated by /etc/update-motd.d/00-header.

When you log in, it will display the full motd from *every* script in /etc/update-motd.d

---

### Post by Belfry on 2011-04-21
Same problem has appeared on two of my Xubuntu 10.04 boxes (one i686, the other x86_64) within the last week. I regularly logon via ssh and use the motd to tell when to run update-manager.

---

### Post by egpetrich on 2011-04-21
On my system, the only static (i.e. unchanging) part of /etc/motd is stored in /etc/motd.tail. One of the scripts in /etc/update-motd.d dumps out the contents of this file.

Somehow, my copy of /etc/motd.tail was replaced with the full output of motd. So I'm currently seeing two sets of system statistics when I log in: one current and one stale. Belfry, is this your problem, too? I intend to fix the problem by updating /etc/motd.tail. (My system even has a file /etc/motd.tail.old.)

---

### Post by Belfry on 2011-04-22
Yes. I didn't notice it before.

---

### Post by Belfry on 2011-04-22
I renamed /etc/motd.tail then ran:
```
sudo /usr/lib/update-notifier/update-motd-updates-available --force
```
And the motd appears fixed--for now.  I'll post back in a few days if it acts up again.

---

