---
title: "Under DOS attack? nf_conntrack: table full, dropping packet"
date: 2007-05-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by abondi on 2007-05-08
I have a server that handles web pages, mail traffic and also behave as a nat for my internal network.
It's not under heavy traffic (it's a home network) and I have only 2 computers connected at a time.
Many times, all my network traffic hangs and the server is not able to work anymore until the reboot.

The dmesg shows many logs like this:
```
Shorewall:rfc1918:DROP:IN=eth1 OUT= MAC=00:0e:0c:71:fa:43:00:0a:8a:ac:6a:80:08:00 SRC=10.0.0.165 DST=213.174.166.137 LEN=573 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=44 ID=0 DF PROTO=UDP SPT=53 DPT=32771 LEN=553
```
but the one that compares when network traffic hangs is this one:
```
nf_conntrack: table full, dropping packet.
```

I looked for it with google, and many suggests that it can be a trojaned computer inside the network. It can't be, server hanged this night when nobody was connected from inside. So I thought about a DOS attack (even if I can't figure out why...)

How should I behave? What can be the shorewall rules to avoid this problem?

Thank anybody for your help...

Andrea

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-05-09
Hi there,

This is nasty. :-(

Just in case you don't already know how to read the dmesg log entry you posted, it refers to a connection (a DNS query) between 10.0.0.165 and an address controlled by an Italian service provider.

You basically have two possibilities:
[LIST=1]
[*]A bug or serious misconfiguration
[*]A malicious attack
[/LIST]

Looking at the message you posted, I'm not completely convinced that it _couldn't_ have been generated by an *incoming* connection on port 53 (rather than an outgoing one). Are you absolutely certain you're not running an externally visible DNS service?

What's happening is that your computer is having to deal with more simultaneous network connections than it can handle. Each connection must be tracked individually (for NAT purposes), so your server can direct traffic properly. As a security precaution, your system will refuse to track more than a certain (very high) number of them at the same time. So, either the network connections being formed with your LAN aren't terminating properly (a bug or misconfiguration), or you're being attacked.

Some suggestions:
[LIST]
[*]You can use **netstat** to get a list of active network connections on any linux/mac box.
[*]**Ethereal** (**Wireshark**) is a nice packet sniffer, that will help you read network traffic.
[*]**iftop** is a useful little tool for monitoring bandwidth usage.
[/LIST]

Hopefully you will be able to use these (or other) tools to develop a picture of what's going on. Sorry I can't be of more help (I'm not a networking expert) ... but you have been waiting so long for an answer, I thought I would try.

---

### Post by iulianpojar on 2007-08-15
hey i have the same problem , i think it's a problem of nf_conntrack , it doesnt flush it's tables normaly, try to find a new kernel - that's what i am doing right now - where this problem is fixed. This problem apeared in the kernel 2.6.15 where ip_conntrack was replaced by nf_conntrack. And it is present in 2.6.16.xx :(

---

### Post by koenn on 2007-08-15
what your seeing is a DNS lookup **from** machine 10.0.0.165 **to** server 213.174.166.137. This is a DNS server, but I couldn't figure out what domain/zone it's handling. 

if 10.0.0.165  is an address you use (see also MAC address), this is probably harmless network traffic (although you may ask yourself what all those DNS queries are for) and your problem is just nf_contrack not being able to deal with all those connections (see also previous post about bug).

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-08-15
> **koenn said:**
> what your seeing is a DNS lookup **from** machine 10.0.0.165 **to** server 213.174.166.137.
 
No, check out the source/destination ports - it's a DNS **response **from 10.0.0.165 to 213.174.166.137 hence one assumes Andrea is running a DNS on 10.0.0.165.
 
Queries ('lookups') have a source port from the ephemeral range (>1024, depending on platform) and a destination port of 53. Responses from the DNS server to those queries have a source port of 53 and a destination of the original ephemeral port.
 
I'm not familiar with firewall operation however I presume from the Shorewall log entry that it is dropping this response. Why? Andrea, do you run a DNS service? If so, why are you blocking DNS responses? Or, specifically, why do you have rule (and what is it?) that is dropping these particular packets?
 
These entries could be a red herring so I wouldn't go barking up trees just yet.
 
Mathew

---

### Post by koenn on 2007-08-15
> **MJN said:**
> No, check out the source/destination ports - it's a DNS **response **from 10.0.0.165 to 213.174.166.137 hence one assumes Andrea is running a DNS on 10.0.0.165.
Mathew
yep, you're right - and I should wait till I'm fully awake before writing such things.

---

