---
title: "error deleting firewall rule"
date: 2007-06-12
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-12
Here is my iptables file

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Tue Jun 12 17:48:23 2007
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [63073:28790966]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [58578:29321444]
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jun 12 17:48:23 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Tue Jun 12 17:48:23 2007
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [7859:1489298]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [2777:168396]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [2777:168396]
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 3128 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jun 12 17:48:23 2007

```


trying to remove:-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128
 
When I run

sudo iptables -D OUTPUT 1 

I get

iptables: Index of deletion too big


if I attempt to delete using th rule text I get numerous errors about certain parts not being vaild.

I've benn searching and no solututions seem to work.

any ideas?

Thanks,

---

### Post by elst on 2007-06-12
> **prezbedard said:**
> 
iptables: Index of deletion too big


I wonder if the rule is actually in the live set. This command will tell what the current ruleset looks like:

```

sudo /sbin/iptables -L

```

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-12
You are trying to delete a rule in the OUTPUT chain, which is empty. That's why you are getting the 'index of deletion too big' error, there is no rule number 1 in the OUTPUT chain. The syntax of the iptables-save file is rather hard to read, you should look at your active rulesets with 'iptables -L -n' and 'iptables -t nat -L -n'. You also need to specify the nat table, by default iptables references the filter table.

Try 'iptables -t nat -D PREROUTING 1', then list the nat table again with 'iptables -t nat -L -n' to check that the rule has been deleted.

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-14
ok this is strange. I went in to run the suggested command and the iptables file was back to default without the 3 rules I put in it. Could this have anything to do with the fact someone shutdown the computer? I know the rule were working cause of the result I was getting with my testing.

also I noticed it changed the order of tables

> # Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Thu Jun 14 16:19:20 2007
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [1:108]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [1:108]
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Jun 14 16:19:20 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Thu Jun 14 16:19:20 2007
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [263:24493]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [115:12004]
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Jun 14 16:19:20 2007


---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-15
> **prezbedard said:**
> ok this is strange. I went in to run the suggested command and the iptables file was back to default without the 3 rules I put in it. Could this have anything to do with the fact someone shutdown the computer? I know the rule were working cause of the result I was getting with my testing.
also I noticed it changed the order of tables

Just remember the iptables-save file may have nothing to do with the currently loaded ruleset (except right after a reboot), esp. if you have been adding/deleting rules manually. I have found the best way to make changes is to flush and reload the entire ruleset via a script, that way there is consistency between the script and the currently active ruleset. When you want to make a change, just edit and execute the script. Also, the order of the tables doesn't matter.

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-15
[]

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-15
How would I go about doing a flush and reload the entire ruleset on the fly? Do you have a sample script for this? Scripting is not something I know much about.

Thanks,

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-15
I have a couple of scripts you can take a look at (see [http://geekpit.blogspot.com/2006/03/linux-iptables-firewall-scripts.html](http://geekpit.blogspot.com/2006/03/linux-iptables-firewall-scripts.html)); an example of flushing the rules/tables/counters is at the top of each. In Bourne shell it looks like this:

```

for table in filter nat mangle
do
	iptables -t $table -F
	iptables -t $table -X
done

```

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-17
Thx for the feedback and help. As always it is greatly appreciated. :D

---

