---
title: "12.04 with Squid Version 3.1.19"
date: 2012-07-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sdl007 on 2012-07-05
Hi Everyone

I recently deployed a new installation of Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.
I installed Squid 3 verison 3.1.19 with apt-get install squid3

I have a default config other than changing my acl's for my network range.

Now the majority of websites works just fine. Nice and quick too. But this one website, [https://www.my.commbank.com.au/netbank/Logon/Logon.aspx](https://www.my.commbank.com.au/netbank/Logon/Logon.aspx) is giving me absolute grief... It will not load or tries to load and times out. Sometimes it does load but times out when loggin in.

I know the site is fine on my infrastructure if I disable the proxy. Comes up right away and logs in fine. Just causes trouble when going through the proxy.

Now as it is an HTTPS page, it should not be cached. And it isnt. BUT, some aspects of the page are not HTTPS, so they are.

I tried to bypass the site completely with this acl:
acl commbank1 dstdomain .commbank.com.au
cache deny commbank1

I reloaded squid: service squid3 reload

Still experiencing the problem. I would of expected it to be totally bypassed as a result of the above acl.

Any ideas on how to resolve this issue or trouble shoot it further?

I realise I could bypass it at the browser, but dont really want to do it there if I can avoid it.

Thank you in advance
sdl007

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-07-05
Since you can't really do anything useful with HTTPS traffic in Squid, why not exempt it from the proxy by adding iptables rules to the proxy server like this:

```

iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80  -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128

```

Next, add the "transparent" keyword to the end of the http_port directive in squid.conf like this:

```

http_port 3128 transparent

```

and comment out or remove any references to HTTPS.  Restart squid with "sudo squid restart".

Now your clients will not need to have a proxy configured in their browsers.  Instead, all outbound HTTP requests will be intercepted and pushed through Squid.  HTTPS requests will be sent directly to the remote hosts.

Pretty soon, when Squid 3.3 is released, you'll be able to proxy both HTTP and HTTPS traffic transparently through Squid.  This takes a bit of trickery on Squid's part, since it has to forge the certificate on the remote HTTPS site.  The current version, 3.2.17, has the ability to do this now, but not transparently.  The next version should include transparent HTTPS proxying as well.  If you're curious about this, I recommend reading about ssl_bump in the [Squid Wiki](http://wiki.squid-cache.org/Features/SslBump).  The linked artices at the top of that page, listed as "More:" provide information on the certificate-forging methods in Squid 3.2 and the developments planned for 3.3 to allow for transparent HTTPS proxying.

---

### Post by sdl007 on 2012-07-05
Hi

Thanks for the reply. Unfortunately transparent proxy is not an option for me. I have various groups of people who use a proxy and those that dont.

I would rather like to find out why this site is a problem to squid and how to solve that problem.

Thank you

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-07-06
Can't help with that, but why not just configure the proxy settings on the machines that use one to proxy only HTTP?  I really see no value in pushing SSL traffic through Squid since it can't do anything useful with it.

---

