---
title: "10.04 performace issues after a few days results in unusable server"
date: 2011-05-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by whyza on 2011-05-21
Hey
I am running 10.04 server primarily as a mythtv backend server and nfs server for diskless clients. system software is up to date

Every few days the box develops performance issues. until the issue occurs, the server runs and performs well.

The easiest symptom to see of the problem is performing a ls on any directory and after hitting enter, I have about a 2 second wait before I get the output. over the network or via the console

syslogs report no abnormal activity.

This issue affects all applications. dhcp server response time slow, mythtv recordings resulting in zero file size, nfs server timouts...unusable

Disk IO is not the issue. Running software raid 5 and iostat shows minimal & normal disk.

CPU load is low on the i5 quad cpu

5 usb leadtek dvb tuners are connected.

a reboot resolves the issue

I have tried shutting down services one by one...ntop, dhcp etc to no avail

Any ideas on the issue or diagnostic steps to perform ?

rc2 has these services running

K20courier-pop@   S20arpwatch@            S20fancontrol@         S20openbsd-inetd@  S20snmpd@     S25mdadm@         S50rsync@          S99grub-common@
K20ntop@          S20clamav-freshclam@    S20hddtemp@            S20openntpd@       S20stunnel4@  S30nagios3@       S50saned@          S99monit@
README            S20courier-authdaemon@  S20mbmon@              S20polipo@         S20sysstat@   S40dhcp3-server@  S51mythtv-status@  S99ondemand@
S10syslog-ng@     S20courier-imap@        S20mythexport@         S20postfix@        S20tor@       S41apcupsd@       S70dns-clean@      S99rc.local@
S15bind9@         S20courier-imap-ssl@    S20nfs-kernel-server@  S20saslauthd@      S20winbind@   S50cups@          S70pppd-dns@
S19spamassassin@  S20courier-pop-ssl@     S20ntop@               S20smartmontools@  S24dovecot@   S50dansguardian@  S91apache2@

---

