---
title: "18.04.04 Server - Removing unneeded OpenVPN"
date: 2020-02-17
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-02-17
Hi all - I'm trying to clean up my 'journalctl -xb' output. One thing that's been bugging me is this: 

```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]Feb 15 21:36:25 server ovpn-server2[13177]: [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#CA3323][FONT=Menlo]**Options error: In [CMD-LINE]:1: Error opening configuration file: /etc/openvpn/server2.conf**[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]
[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]Feb 15 21:36:30 server systemd[1]: [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#CA3323][FONT=Menlo]**Failed to start OpenVPN connection to server2.**[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

I must have set a second "autostart" of an Openvpn process or instance when I was attempting to stack openpvn certificates (unsuccessfully I might add). 

Any suggestions on what commands to use to stop this bad process or instance and clear up my logs?

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-02-18
Are you still using openvpn for other connections or you have completely stopped using it?

If you have completely stopped using it, best to purge settings (not just uninstall the package):
```
sudo apt-get purge openvpn
```

If that error message is related to some code you put manually, you will need to try and remember where you did it. Finding it might be hard unless you have more details in the logs surrounding those messages you posted.

Usually you put manual commands in /etc/rc.local, cron jobs, etc...

---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-02-18
> **darkod said:**
> Are you still using openvpn for other connections or you have completely stopped using it?

If you have completely stopped using it, best to purge settings (not just uninstall the package):
```
sudo apt-get purge openvpn
```

If that error message is related to some code you put manually, you will need to try and remember where you did it. Finding it might be hard unless you have more details in the logs surrounding those messages you posted.

Usually you put manual commands in /etc/rc.local, cron jobs, etc...


Thanks Darko. 

Turns out I had to run this bit...
```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]sudo systemctl disable openvpn@server2.service[/FONT][/COLOR]

```

...to disable or stop this.

---

