---
title: "14.04.2 + Hyper-V"
date: 2015-04-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ryan152 on 2015-04-20
Hopefully a simple question for those that know their way around ubuntu more than myself. I have recently installed Ubuntu 14.04.2 on my 2008R2 Hyper-V server. All works ok, however I am getting some event logs generated at boot of this particular guest.

Ubuntu name is "Connect"

Hyper-V Heartbeat failed to connect to virtual machine 'Connect' because the version does not match the version expected by Hyper-V (Virtual machine ID 22F322E9-4E7C-4567-B734-C04A3C12ACDE). To fix this problem, you must upgrade the integration services. 

and

Hyper-V Volume Shadow Copy Requestor failed to connect to virtual machine 'Connect' because the version does not match the version expected by Hyper-V (Virtual machine ID 22F322E9-4E7C-4567-B734-C04A3C12ACDE). To fix this problem, you must upgrade the integration services.

How can I get the Heartbeat and Volume Shadow Copy working? I have checked this article [https://technet.microsoft.com/en-ca/library/dn531029.aspx](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-ca/library/dn531029.aspx) and performed the steps near the end. However, it should already be included as per the link that leads to [https://technet.microsoft.com/en-ca/library/a9ee931d-91fc-40cf-9a15-ed6fa6965cb6#BKMK_Core](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-ca/library/a9ee931d-91fc-40cf-9a15-ed6fa6965cb6#BKMK_Core)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-20
Never heard of any of those terms in my 20+ yrs on UNIX/Linux.  Sounds like a hyper-v issue to me 100%.  

OTOH, I'm next to clueless about most things from Microsoft, so I could be wrong.

---

### Post by ryan152 on 2015-04-21
Um...is the software built into Ubuntu 14.04 to work in a virtual environment.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-21
> **ryan152 said:**
> Um...is the software built into Ubuntu 14.04 to work in a virtual environment.

The answer is yes and no.  For HVM hypervisors, no extra effort or packages are necessary for Ubuntu to run under hypervisors that provide virtual hardware.  The normal install "just works."  
For some installations, mainly desktop VMs, it may be desirable after the base install is completed to install "guest additions" to more tightly tied the hostOS with the guestOS.  These "guest additions" are provided by the hypervisor team. They are NOT part of the guestOS installation. VMware Workstation, VMware ESX/ESXi, and Virtualbox each have "guest additions" which provide more seamless graphics and mouse integration and some added storage sharing (which isn't really needed thanks to NFS, but ...). KVM, another hypervisor which is part of the Linux kernel, doesn't have any "guest additions."

Linux has a number of other virtualization techniques for "containers" and "paravirtual" installations, but I don't think MSFT supports any of those. There are special kernel installations for both. Paravirtual usually runs under Xen in paravirtual mode with a specially created kernel for the guest OS which only works with Xen as the paravirtual provider in the hostOS and containers are always run under a Linux install with LXC (or some other "containers" like openvz or docker which make use of similar Linux kernel capabilities. These only work for x86 Linux installs.  After you get Linux working under hyper-V, you can play with containers in the OS you get working. Containers are closer to BSD-Jails created by chroot than they are to paravirtual or HVM methods.

So I think the questions are:
* does hyper-v require guest additions?
* which VM settings are required of hyper-v to allow Ubuntu Server 14.04 to be installed?

[https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn531029.aspx](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn531029.aspx) has many caveats for hyper-v support for different ubuntu releases. UEFI booting is only supported on "2012 R2" for example according to the chart there.  2008 R2 appears to have some important limitations of which to be aware. I don't know if any of this is the issue for your setup or not.

For other hypervisors, I'd ask that you post the XML "machine setup" file here so we could look at the settings (list of emulated hardware) that Ubuntu is to be installed into.

Sorry I'm not more help.

---

### Post by ryan152 on 2015-04-21
Both items in which I'm referring to are considered "core" components, of which are 'built-in'. And a part of the distro

**Built in**[COLOR=#2A2A2A][FONT=Segoe UI] &#8211; LIS are included as part of this Linux distribution. The Microsoft-provided LIS download package does not work for this distribution, so do not install it. The kernel module version numbers for the built in LIS (as shown by [/FONT][/COLOR]**lsmod**[COLOR=#2A2A2A][FONT=Segoe UI], for example) are different from the version number on the Microsoft-provided LIS download package. A mismatch does not indicate that the built in LIS is out of date.

Perhaps it is nothing to worry about
[/FONT][/COLOR]https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/2956569/en-us#appliesto

---

### Post by ryan152 on 2015-04-21
This only seems to generate those errors when hyper-v ubuntu guest is created, none of my other linux guests

---

