---
title: "10.04 ltsp fails and kernel panics, nbd errors"
date: 2011-04-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by qmax on 2011-04-07
Server is 10.04 server edition 
Linux ktulhu 2.6.32-30-server #59-Ubuntu SMP Tue Mar 1 22:46:09 UTC 2011 x86_64 GNU/Linux 
Clients are various intel-based boxen, 
in particular: D201 GLY2A 

Everything is installed with default setup. 
initramfs-tools/scripts/init-premount/udhcpc fixed 
(removed -c option, bug #505916) 

/opt/ltsp/i386/etc/initramfs-tools/initramfs.conf: 
MODULES=most 
BUSYBOX=y 
COMPCACHE_SIZE="512M" 
BOOT=ltsp_nbd 
DEVICE=eth0 
NFSROOT=auto 

After succesfull booting, terminal kernel panics soon after "mounting root device" 

In particular, the command 
mount -o ro -t $FSTYPE /dev/nbd0 /rofs 
produces error: "nbd0: unknown partition table" 
after negotiation: size=553944Mb, bs=1024, sz=553944

Subsequent steps produce errors like
SQUASHFS error: squashfs_read_data failed

and soon kernel panics.

What else to fix here?

---

### Post by nuno.sucena on 2011-04-11
Hi, I'm having the same "nbd0: unknown partition table", but it started only recently after upgrading the client to maverick, where the server remains lucid.

---

### Post by qmax on 2011-04-12
[s]That means that the problem localized on client.
However, pure connection from 10.04.1 with exact the same version of nbd-client desktop works well.
Upd: nope, mounting it also produces nbd0: unknown partition table in syslog

Probably something is wrong in scripts themselves, AGAIN.

In particular, I'm confused why the hell it connects to proxy on localhost instead of directly to server.[/s]

---

### Post by qmax on 2011-04-12
this seems to be some bug with nbd-client.
it is reproducable outside ltsp.

filed it here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/758689](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/758689)

---

