---
title: "22.04 Server on Dell r710 has started shutting down shortly after boot"
date: 2023-07-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by cthog on 2023-07-06
Hi Guys!

I'm not really well conversed in Ubuntu, I know just enough to be dangerous.  I've been running a homelab/server for several years now, mostly for running docker containers, game servers, etc.  I'm not sure what's happened recently, but my server is now shutting down shortly after boot, and I'm not even really sure how to start diagnosing it, so I figured I'd come here for help.  I've already replaced the power supplies, so pretty sure that's not it.  The system doesn't just lose power, either, I briefly see the GRUB Ubunto 22.04 screen as it's powering down, so I think something is sending a termination signal.  I'm reasonably sure it's not a hardware issue; I actually had this identical problem many years ago when 18.04 came out, and I updated to it--rolling back to 16.04 worked fine, so I suspect it may be kernel related.  I've started on the prior kernel, however, and still the same issue.  Can you kind folks tell me where to start on diagnosing this?

--Chris

---

### Post by lpoli on 2023-07-07
Hi Chris!

The first thing to check out is the System Event Log, which is on the server and is accessible before the booting process.
Here is the official doc from Dell: [https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/es-ar/000132405/poweredge-how-to-view-clear-system-event-log-sel?lang=en#2.Viewing%20System%20Event%20Log%20using%20System%20Setup](https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/es-ar/000132405/poweredge-how-to-view-clear-system-event-log-sel?lang=en#2.Viewing%20System%20Event%20Log%20using%20System%20Setup).

Also is a good idea to restore default configurations on the BIOS.

Personally, I don't think that it's a SIGKILL, but a kernel panic instead.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-07-07
As a start, when I am diagnosing crash issues, I use these queries:
```

sudo journalctl -b-1 | tail -n 400 | sort --reverse > ~/Documents/crash-01.log
sudo journalctl -b-2 | tail -n 400 | grep -i 'systemd | sort --reverse > ~/Documents/crash-02.log
grep . /var/log/syslog.2 | tail -n 400 | sort --reverse > ~/Documents/crash-03.log
sudo dmesg | grep -i -a50 'dump\|error|\warning\|trace' >  ~/Documents/crash-04.log
grep . /var/log/kern.log

```
Look at those 4 and see if you see anything that might look like a problem... Then ask here.

If you don't know if something is a problem, load snippets of them to pasetbins at paste.ubuntu.com and post the URL's of them here for us to review.

Another thing that will help us is to run the [UbuntuForums 'system-info' Script]("https://github.com/UbuntuForums/system-info") so we can see what we are recommending a solution for. Please post the URL of where it uploads the report.

---

### Post by lpoli on 2023-07-07
That comes after booting, he cannot still boot into, though.

---

### Post by ixeous on 2023-07-07
The symptom sounds like it may be a hardware issue.  I've seen systems shutdown like that due to temperature thresholds.  Usually an over heating CPU.  With Dell systems, you can boot into onboard diagnostics from the boot menu and run an extensive check to eliminate HW issues.  I would expect the issue to be there if the OS actually loads and after a few minutes it shuts off.  I know you said you don't think it's hardware, but I would run the diagnostic to eliminate that.  Also, if you think it is an OS issue, you could try to boot a Live image of another OS to see what happens.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-07-08
@ipoli --- The OP did not say how long it runs before it crashes. He just said "shortly after boot"... He never said that "it did not boot"...

Up until recently, I was a certified Dell, HP and Lenovo On-Site Warranty Tech... For Dell, my certifications include EMC PE Servers. I also personally own a Dell PE T710. It is running Ubuntu Server 22.04.2

No error codes on the LED BMC or IDRAC codes displayed right? Mine would do a hardware crash about once a year from some defect in the clock crystal. It would be fine after a reboot, so I never had it replaced. That problem was there previous to me, and is actually how I came to own that server. I bought it for $20 as salvage parts... It posted and has ran fine that way for years. LOL.

If you can boot from an Ubuntu LiveUSB then look at those same log files, near the end.

Helpful, if it does boot to USB would be t run the [UbuntuForums 'system-info' Script]("https://github.com/UbuntuForums/system-info") and post the URL where the report uploads to.

---

### Post by cthog on 2023-07-09
Thanks for the replies, everybody, sorry, I was out of town for a few days.  I *can* boot into system, it just initiates a shutdown at some mystery point.  I'm wondering if it is a faulty temperature sensor, or something like that.  I am currently running a hardware diagnostic through the PowerEdge diagnostics.  It's a full diagnostic, and since I have several 10tb hard drives, it's checking them as well.  So far so good, but I'd imagine it's going to be another day or so before it's done.  At that point, I'll try to run those commands and report back what I can.  Again, many thanks for the responses, and sorry for the late reply.

--Chris

---

### Post by ixeous on 2023-07-09
Also, after the diagnostic, there is an lm-sensors package.  It will give you the command "sensors" that will show the various readings.  I've used it on non-Ubuntu systems.  If you aren't sure when things are shutting down, you could try to run a cron job every 1-5 minutes outputting the sensors output to a file.  Then when you get back into the system, you can see what the OS is seeing happening.  Alternatively, there are live images that have various load testing and such where you can watch things like temp.  PartedMagic is one that was free several years ago, but they now charge for the download.  I'm sure that there is something similar around.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-07-10
Or even easier... In the Dell BIOS for that machine, go into the server logs in the BIOS. In those logs, it will be esasy to pick out a hardware error such as a temp sensor or overheat condition. As well as any other hardware related conditions. As I remember, the 710 had 4 CPU fans... another is getting into the iDRAC and look the the system logs in that.

That machine had a lot of redundant server hardware management features.

---

### Post by cthog on 2023-07-10
Hey folks,

My diagnostic finally finished, with the only error being something about the IPMI error 2900:0325.  According to a Dell technician on a different forum, however, that merely indicates that there was an error in a previous log, and isn't a current error.

Nothing at all in the IDRAC system log, since I cleared it previously (I had cleared it when behavior first started, and have booted/crashed many times since then.)

I have tried to boot the system now, but it seems to be incredibly sluggish, perhaps after spending a few days on.  This is looking more and more like a hardware issue.  I'm going to let it rest for a while then see if I can boot up ubuntu and run those tests.  I'll keep everyone posted.  Thanks again!

--Chris

---

### Post by cthog on 2023-07-14
Hey guys, just to close this out, I ended up replacing the r710 with an r730.  Out of curiosity, I just plopped the disks in, and it booted right up.  Normal operation (after amending network interfaces accordingly.)  So it looks like, despite the lack of errors, it *was* a hardware issue.  Also noticed that I can now see the Grub menu, which I never could before, but I'm assuming that was just the r710's lesser video capabilities.  Thanks again for your interest and efforts to help!

--Chris

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-07-14
No problems. Glad the newer machine is working for you.

The OP who starts the thread, needs to mark their own thread as "Solved". I guess that way they ensure that the solution was to their satisfaction. Marked as "Solved" lets other users find answers easier to their similar needs.

If you go to the "Thread Tools" in the upper right corner of this page, then select "Solved".

---

