---
title: "32b VS 64b"
date: 2009-08-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mike67 on 2009-08-28
I have a new server that I am going to use to replace 2 old RedHat servers.  There are 3 things I am going to migrate over to the new Ubuntu server.
1. e-mail server
2. several web domains, static html
3. A bunch of jsp pages currently on a different server from the static html pages.
 
My concern comes in with the jsp pages.  I would rather run 64bit, I have 4G of memory in the server right now, but another 4G sitting here that I can put in.
 
The jsp pages access a 32bit installation of MS-SQL standard server sitting on Win2003 Enterprise server.  
 
I cannot use 64bit OS on my Win servers or on any of my desktops as the software that is the primary user of the SQL server does not run on 64bit OSs.  I guess it probably is not overly rational as the reason I cannot use 64bit is because of the programming language, but it does make me a bit nervous mixing the 64bit Ubuntu server running jsp pages that access the 32bit MS-SQL DB.
 
I really dont want to do all the configuration work and say oppss  don't work I gotta start over. 
 
So is my concern justified?  Or am I being irrational and this will work just fine.
Thanks
Mike

---

### Post by tubezninja on 2009-08-28
A 64-bit server making MySQL calls and access to a databases on a 32-bit MS-SQL server shouldn't be an issue.  Just like it shouldn't care that your MS-SQL server is running on Windows while the web server is running linux.  The MS-SQL calls are going to be the same, and the responses should be just as valid.  You should be fine.

---

