---
title: "2022 build"
date: 2022-07-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by eduardoeltortuga2 on 2022-07-05
I have been using Ubuntu Server and an old computer that has been running 24/7 for 15 years.
Motherboard: MSI K8N Neo4
AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual core 4400+, 2 cores 
2 GIB of memory (Max of 4GIB)
17 Self hosted websites
Webmin and Virtualmin 

I want to run a eCommerce website, Wordpress and just some other websites..
I am looking at mini PC's, Dell PowerEdge T150 Tower Server or just a PC.
Does computer type matter or just CPU and a ton of RAM? Redundancy is not critical. 
I could use some *general* advice.
Thanks
Eddie

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2022-07-05
Move to a virtual server like those offered by [Linode]("https://www.linode.com/"). Let them provide the infrastructure so you can concentrate on the software and applications.

I stopped using my own physical servers some years ago. I've never looked back.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2022-07-05
> **eduardoeltortuga2 said:**
> I want to run a eCommerce website, Wordpress and just some other websites..
Consider the ramification of your WordPress site (or any site) being compromised with the www-data user, which would then have access to all the other folders such as your eCommerce site(s).
Also consider that your database ID/password for any site to be compromised.
Now make sure that each site uses different database credentials with no common pattern for ID/password...and that your backups are not accessible by a compromised web service.
Speaking of compromised web service, rather than have all your various websites use the same credentials, make them use different credentials so that if WordPress is compromised, it does not automatically make your eCommerce site or others accessible with that ID.  Research [Apache 2 ITK MPM](http://mpm-itk.sesse.net/)...however, there are other solutions to do the same thing.

LHammonds

---

### Post by eduardoeltortuga2 on 2022-07-05
Thanks to both of you! You are always a *big *help.
Have a great day

---

