---
title: "7.04"
date: 2013-11-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by bellalamb on 2013-11-04
I need to upgrade my server 7.04 with minimum downtime and no loss of data, 

what is best way to do this?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-04
Buy a new server, load 12.04, then manually migrate the services and data over.  That would be the "best way."  The migration path will be too much effort and have HUGE risks to your system and data.

Many things have changed in the OS, apps, services and hardware support since 2007.  **Some old hardware will not run the current Ubuntu Server releases at all.** Some HP and Compaq server lines are included. With a new box, you can test, test, test to ensure downtime is just the time for an arp to migrate the IP to the new server AFTER you have validated everything works perfectly.

Staying on LTS releases and upgrading in a timely way would be my next suggestion.  

Of course, your post doesn't really provide any details about the hardware, software, data, budget, or what "minimum downtime" means.  Is this a home box to play with or a $20B/hr critical financial industry box?

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2013-11-06
As stated, the fastest way is to buy a new server and migrate data.  A cheaper way is to buy a new hard drive, and use dd to make an exact copy.  (For when it goes wrong...)  Then put the old drive on a shelf (It is old and tired anyway) and start upgrading.  As you are on a non-LTS you will need 7.10 and 8.04.  From there you can skip to 10.04 and on to 12.04.  I would stop there, and migrate to 14.04 when the first point upgrade (14.04.1) comes out.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-11-07
The quickest way to upgrade, would be to backup all your data and do a fresh install of 12.04. Your biggest problem is that support for 8.04 ended in May of 2013, so now you can't follow the normal upgrade path of 8.04->10.04->12.04. You've waited to long to upgrade, so there really isn't a quick way to do it, other than a fresh install, then restore from backups.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-11-07
All good advice here. Backup and reinstall.

 As it appears you don't like to upgrade often (ever), I would recommend you aim to end up with 12.04 LTS which is supported until April 2017, by which time you can easily upgrade to 16.04 LTS which will be supported until April 2021. LTS intended for servers, production machines and ... people who don't like to upgrade. Good luck. ;)

(7.04. Jeez, that's six month prior to when first started using Ubuntu! There was a support question regarding 6.06 the other day, though, so that trumps this.) ;)

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2013-11-09
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Your biggest problem is that support for 8.04 ended in May of 2013, so now you can't follow the normal upgrade path of 8.04->10.04->12.04. You've waited to long to upgrade, so there really isn't a quick way to do it, other than a fresh install, then restore from backups.

Actually, you can upgrade from the CDs directly.  It is faster than a network upgrade as well.  As for getting them, you can usually find the old CDs on the mirrors.

---

