---
title: "20.04.3 + Samba 4.13 + SSSD - Stop working after it was fine"
date: 2021-11-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by pdiego.silva on 2021-11-24
Hello everyone,

I have 3 Ubuntu 20 servers in my company, all of them were using Samba 4.11 or superior with SSSD authenticating against my AD (Windows Server 2019 AD), with shares working fine. My smb.conf is configured for security = ads. I had ACL permissions in the shares using AD Groups.

I know I know, Samba 4.11+ was not supposed to work with SSSD. But I had it working fine for months.

2 weeks ago, at the same day, all shares stopped working for a reason I do not know. I had to reconfigure Server #1, which was my priority, to use Winbind (ugh) and let company users carry on with their lives. Now I have tested a bunch of different configs for Servers #2 and #3, several combinations of smb.conf and sssd.conf, but haven't been able to get them back and running again. I'm seeing 2 strange errors, on sssd status:


```
nov 24 12:19:31 MYSERVER.mydomain.local systemd[1]: Started System Security Services Daemon.
nov 24 12:19:40 MYSERVER.mydomain.local sssd[121856]: ; TSIG error with server: tsig verify failure
nov 24 12:19:40 MYSERVER.mydomain.local sssd[121856]: update failed: REFUSED
nov 24 12:19:40 MYSERVER.mydomain.local sssd[121860]: ; TSIG error with server: tsig verify failure
nov 24 12:19:40 MYSERVER.mydomain.local sssd[121860]: update failed: REFUSED
```

Which I don't think it's relevant, since SSSD is working fine (I can log into via SSH, and see users through the "id <user>" command).

And in /var/log/samba/ I have the classic winbind not running error:


[2021/11/24 12:03:06.253828,  0] ../../source3/auth/auth_generic.c:125(auth3_generate_session_info_pac)
  auth3_generate_session_info_pac: winbindd not running - but required as domain member: NT_STATUS_NO_LOGON_SERVERS

Which I believe is the main problem.

How can I force Samba to use SSSD? I don't understand why it simply stopped working out of nowhere, and the stranger thing is that all of the 3 servers happened at the same day. Could it be a Windows update or something?



I can post my .conf files but as I said, I have tried a lot of different combinations and none of them worked, and I believe it's simply because for some reason my Samba is trying to use Winbind, which he was not supposed to do since it was using SSSD from day 1 of installation.

Thanks for any help!!!

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2021-11-24
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms**.*

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2021-11-24
You are only looking at (or reporting) 1/2 of the puzzle.  Make sure you look at the domain controller's event logs for correlating messages.

I have had Windows updates break connections with Linux.  One way to test this is to check the Windows Update history to see if an update was applied just prior to connectivity breaking.   If you find a correlating patch, try removing the patch to see if connectivity is restored.  Then research that patch.

LHammonds

---

### Post by pdiego.silva on 2021-11-24
Hey Hammonds, first of all thanks for your help.

I did check the logs, couldn't find anything related to authentication. I also have checked my AD Administrative Center to check if Linux servers were okay, and everything seems fine. Like I said, SSSD is working, I can log into Linux with AD users, I can map AD groups on ACLs, "id <user>" command gets correct info about users and everything.

Somehow only the Samba shares stopped working with SSSD, which is weird. Here's my original smb.conf from when it stopped working:

```

[global]
        netbios name = MYSERVER
        server string = 'MYSERVER'
        dns forwarder = 192.168.0.201


        security = ads
        kerberos method = secrets and keytab
        dedicated keytab file = /etc/krb5.keytab


        realm = mydomain.local
        workgroup = MYDOMAIN


        log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
        max log size = 1000
        logging = file


        panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d
        server role = standalone server


        obey pam restrictions = yes
        unix password sync = yes


        passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u


        pam password change = yes
        map to guest = bad user


        template homedir = /home/%U
        template shell = /bin/bash


        idmap config * :              backend = tdb
        idmap config * :              range   = 3000-7999


        idmap config MYDOMAIN : backend = ad
        idmap config MYDOMAIN : schema_mode = rfc2307
        idmap config MYDOMAIN : range = 10000-9999999


        vfs objects = acl_xattr
        map acl inherit = Yes
        store dos attributes = Yes


        load printers = no
        printing = bsd
        printcap name = /dev/null
        disable spoolss = yes

[homes]
        comment = User home folders
        browseable = no
        read only = no
        create mask = 4755
        directory mask = 4755
        valid users = %S


[ExampleShare]
        path = /var/share
        available = yes
        browseable = no
        guest ok = no
        public = no
        read only = yes


        valid users = @"domain admins"


```

I have tried:

- Changing security to user
- Changing backend to rid
- Removing MYDOMAIN backend at all
- Removind "valid users" setting from the shares
- Removing workgroup setting
- All of the above combined, and also changes in sssd.conf

Everything always result into the winbind not running log message.

I had these shares working from domain joined stations and also from WORKGROUP stations (users connecting from their home PCs via VPN).

I can post more logs and .conf files if necessary.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2021-11-24
I will defer to others that actually run this kind of setup (I don't) but I recall needing to make sure the authentication method needed to be tied into PAM and if an update every reset the PAM configuration, you would need to stitch it back up.  It does not "normally" overwrite config files but scripts or people might say to not keep the original config and just use the newer config...which is a non-configured default.

If you have versioned backups, take a look and compare all your current configs to what they were a month ago (or some point in time before they stopped working)

LHammonds

---

### Post by hortimech1 on 2021-11-24
If you must use sssd (ugh) with Samba, then you must also install and run winbind, you must also use idmap-sss.

---

### Post by pdiego.silva on 2021-11-25
Good morning everyone,

> [COLOR=#000000]If you have versioned backups, take a look and compare all your current configs to what they were a month ago (or some point in time before they stopped working)[/COLOR]

I do, I have it for smb.conf, nsswitch.conf, resolv.conf, timesyncd.conf, but I've never changed any pam files, could you tell me which PAM config you mean? In every setup I run pam-auth-update and leave evrything checked (SSS authentication for example, and homedir creation).

> [COLOR=#000000]If you must use sssd (ugh) with Samba, then you must also install and run winbind, you must also use idmap-sss.[/COLOR]

lmao, I don't know why people hate sssd so much, I use it for a while now and I find it more simple to setup, easy to maintain and also more secure. Winbind allowing NTLM is a big down for me. Anyway, I tried to install idmap-sss package but couldn't find it. Also, as far as I know I can't run winbind with sssd since they share some libraries, isn't that right?

I appreciate all the help so far. Will look for aditional configs I may be missing, like the PAM ones.

---

### Post by hortimech1 on 2021-11-26
> **pdiego.silva said:**
> 

lmao, I don't know why people hate sssd so much, I use it for a while now and I find it more simple to setup, easy to maintain and also more secure. Winbind allowing NTLM is a big down for me. Anyway, I tried to install idmap-sss package but couldn't find it. Also, as far as I know I can't run winbind with sssd since they share some libraries, isn't that right?



I don't hate sssd, I just do not see the point to using it with Samba. From Samba 4.8.0 you must run winbind, so you have to configure sssd and Samba, you also have to use idmap-sss (part of sssd). It is much easier to just use Samba, just smb.conf to configure, plus you get all the things that sssd doesn't do, shares, ACL's etc.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2021-11-26
> **pdiego.silva said:**
> could you tell me which PAM config you mean?
[man pam.conf]("https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/focal/en/man5/pam.conf.5.html")

---

### Post by pdiego.silva on 2021-12-20
> **LHammonds said:**
> [man pam.conf]("https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/focal/en/man5/pam.conf.5.html")

Sorry for the late reply, I was on leave these last weeks.

My /etc/pam.d/samba looks like this:

@include common-auth
@include common-account
@include common-session-noninteractive

Anything I should change to bypass winbindd?

---

### Post by pdiego.silva on 2021-12-20
> **hortimech1 said:**
> I don't hate sssd, I just do not see the point to using it with Samba. From Samba 4.8.0 you must run winbind, so you have to configure sssd and Samba, you also have to use idmap-sss (part of sssd). It is much easier to just use Samba, just smb.conf to configure, plus you get all the things that sssd doesn't do, shares, ACL's etc.

I had setups with winbind before, and the amount of stuff I had to configure was the same or more than using sssd. sssd allows me to use shares and ACLs, I had it working perfectly in 3 servers. I have no idea what happened to make them stop.

If you know a setup with winbind where I can block NTLM please I'm accepting recomendations, I left winbind because of security.

Thanks!

---

