---
title: "10.04 LTS Server and Fake Raid Support"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by philefluxx on 2010-04-29
So I havent had much time to research but does 10.04 Server LTS have the dmraid active for installation on the raid array? I tried using the RC the other day but it did not see my array. 

I need to build a radius server for work and I just dont care much for FreeBSD (feels like you gotta be a C+ programmer to get anything to work right)

---

### Post by mkormendy on 2010-05-10
Yes I would like to know too .. I have a system that has FakeRaid and I cannot install Ubuntu on my system. ... doesn't anyone have a howto made yet with step by step installation?

---

### Post by philefluxx on 2010-05-11
I know there is a work around using a live cd to get dmraid to load. The only issue with that is sometimes when your server is rebooted it may not see the array and you will need to boot the live cd again. Unfortunately that wont work for a production box =/ Anyone know if 10.04 is supporting this during install?

---

### Post by jpichie on 2010-05-21
I really wish this community would be more helpful...
I have been trying to get 10.04 installed on my main rig now for a while.
I am running a 3x 500GB in RAID0 on an intel ICH9 chipset.
Ubuntu 10.04 sees the hard drives fine, and ls /dev/mapper returns all the correct partitions.
My problem is getting the boot loader (Grub2) installed.
It always errors out.
I really wish someone would let me know what I am doing wrong here, as it is supposed to work.

---

### Post by NaderNewman on 2010-06-04
This is something that I have struggled with since release 9.04. I don't know why Grub keeps failing but this is not a problem for Fedora distribution. I wish this could be fixed as I rather run one distribution on all of my systems.

---

### Post by jhetrick62 on 2010-06-04
In my opinion, it does not work, but then that was with my install parameters.  Without this, it is hard to use Ubuntu Server version for any heavy production boxes.

In my case, I was using a Biostar MB with 6 sata ports and 6 sata hds populating.  I wanted (2) to be mirrored for the OS each containing (4) partitions.  I need the last (4) drives to be striped for heavy storage capacity.

It did not see the drives in the same order upon reboot each time - yikes!  It did see them all as /dev/sdx though, but the sdd and sde kept swapping back and forth so it would not boot.

I did get a suggestion to define the raid devices by UUID which may have worked, but too late, I had already rebuilt on CentOS which btw, had no problem identifying the drives the exact same way on each reboot.  It also saw the first (4) drives as /dev/sdx while it saw drives #5 & #6 as /dev/hda and /dev/hdb which was actually much more preferable as they boot correctly every time.  I placed my mirrored OS drives there of course.

SO, if you are venturing to use dmraid on 10.04, I would suggest identifying the RAID arrays with UUIDs.

Goodluck,
Jeff

---

### Post by remi_2 on 2010-07-03
Facing the same fakeRAID problem I searched around and came across this:

[http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg2283546.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/ubuntu-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg2283546.html)

Hoping this will help.

regards

---

