---
title: "10.04 LTS - Chrome and lighttpd are not playing nice"
date: 2011-12-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sentry0 on 2011-12-19
Hello,

My users have recently started pointing out that the current version of Chrome is not working very well with lighttpd.  Things seem to work fairly well when the request is a GET, but I get a 324 (internal chrome error, no response from the server) on POSTs over HTTPS. The main issue I ran across is at [http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=101749](http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=101749) which I believe is affecting a wider group of users now.  A colleague of mine has the exact same problems on a site he maintains.  I suspect that Chrome is POSTing data over SSL in a way that is causing lighttpd to timeout or ignore the request.

Chrome has a significant portion of my userbase, followed by Firefox.  According to post #3 in this thread FF9 will likely behave the same.  FF is currently sitting at v8 with 9 coming sometime soon so it's probably only a matter of time before FF users get locked out of my site as well.

According to the issue that was raised on the chromium forums,  upgrading to lighttpd 1.4.28 seems to fix this issue.  **When is Lucid going (if ever) to see an update to a newer version of lighttpd?**

Thanks!

---

### Post by craigp84 on 2011-12-19
Backport it yourself?

---

### Post by sentry0 on 2011-12-20
I realize my options my question was if there is a chance that Lucid will be getting an update anytime soon.  Although I'm a long time Linux user, Ubuntu is not my distro of choice but this particular project is using it.  

FYI answers like "RTFM" and "do it yourself" don't help the community.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2011-12-20
> **sentry0 said:**
> 
FYI answers like "RTFM" and "do it yourself" don't help the community.

But in Linux, sometimes the "do it yourself" answer is the correct one....

---

### Post by sentry0 on 2011-12-20
My question was, and remains, will lighttpd ever see an upgrade from Canonical.

---

### Post by craigp84 on 2011-12-20
Apologies if my answer seemed kurt, on reading it again it is a bit short but to be fair it's accurate.

There wont be an official back port. Security updates are back ported but you wont see new features / version number bumps.

You're right that if you were to DIY it, you would be contributing to the user community.

Hope this helps

---

### Post by sentry0 on 2011-12-21
No worries.  It looks like there's been an update to the lighttpd that my colleague has confirmed fixes the problem.  

So thanks to the devs for fixing this issue (intentionally or not).

---

