---
title: "8.04 Following Ubuntu Postfix Tutorial Not Working"
date: 2008-07-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by skunkbad on 2008-07-08
I'm following along with the Ubuntu postfix tutorial located here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PostfixBasicSetupHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PostfixBasicSetupHowto")

When I get to the telnet part, it says that it has placed the mail in the queue, but when I switch users and use the mail command, it just says I have nothing.

mail.log has a bunch of "connection timed out" lines.

The odd thing is, ddclient and php can send email out, but I can't send email internally.

---

### Post by windependence on 2008-07-08
When you get to this step:

```
sudo postconf -e "mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8, 192.168.1.0/24"
```

The network has to actually be YOUR network addresses. The example may be different from your LAN.

-Tim

---

### Post by skunkbad on 2008-07-08
I finally got email to send locally using Maildir and fiddling with more of the tutorial.

One thing that is weird is that the emails show "undisclosed recipients".

I need a good postfix book. I saw one from no-starch press for $26 on Amazon. The ubuntu books I have, as well as what I'm finding online, leaves a lot to be desired.

Of all of the things I've done to make this server work, setting up email has got to be the most complicated. I'm sure once I've done it successfully I will think it is easier, but right now I have no clue what I'm doing.

---

### Post by windependence on 2008-07-08
This is the reason I use Zimbra. I had the same experience you are having and I was thinking "6 months down the road when the server pukes and mail isn't working, I ain't gonna remember none of this". Since then, I have been installing Zimbra on a VM on most of my setups. Sooooo much simpler.

-Tim

---

