---
title: "Cannot get mysql server to install and run"
date: 2011-09-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by wpflum on 2011-09-29
I'm going to pull my hair out over this.   I have a server install that was done using the prior version of ubuntu, I could not get the mysql server to install and run on it so I figured that maybe I had something messed up so I did an upgrade to 11.04???  I'm still not able to get mysql server to install and run.  I've tried this on a couple of other desktop versions of the latest ubuntu but still get a similar issue where the install appears to complete but during the setup I get a long pause when the system trys to start mysqld and fails but then the package manager comes back and says all is well.  If I try to start using service mysqld start I get an 'start: Unknown job: mysql'  which I also get if I go to the /etc/init.d directory and run 'mysql start'.  This all started out when I tried to install MythTV which tried to install mysql for it's database.  When I realized that the mysql server was failing I uninstalled all of the mythty and mysql components and tried to just install the mtsql server but I keep getting the same error when I try to run the mysqld server part.  When this failed the first time I ran a ps and greped for mysql and found nothing running so i know it is not starting at all.  

I've tried to uninstall everything mysql related and manually deleted all directories and config file left in place.  Then reinstalled mysql server and got the same thing.

I see lots of problems in my web searches relating to mysql but nothing seems to work for me.

Help!!!

---

### Post by judoka9999 on 2011-09-29
I'm not too sure on upstart, but I believe the error you are getting is saying there is no upstart job configured for mysql. Check for a file /etc/init/mysql.conf ?

If you do not have it, then try pasting this as root (for 11.04):
# MySQL Service

description     "MySQL Server"
author          "Mario Limonciello <superm1@ubuntu.com>"

start on (net-device-up
          and local-filesystems
          and runlevel [2345])
stop on runlevel [016]

respawn

env HOME=/etc/mysql
umask 007

# The default of 5 seconds is too low for mysql which needs to flush buffers
kill timeout 300

pre-start script
    #Sanity checks
    [ -r $HOME/my.cnf ]
    [ -d /var/run/mysqld ] || install -m 755 -o mysql -g root -d /var/run/mysqld
    /lib/init/apparmor-profile-load usr.sbin.mysqld
    LC_ALL=C BLOCKSIZE= df --portability /var/lib/mysql/. | tail -n 1 | awk '{ exit ($4<4096) }'
end script

exec /usr/sbin/mysqld

post-start script
   for i in `seq 1 30` ; do
        /usr/bin/mysqladmin --defaults-file="${HOME}"/debian.cnf ping && {
            exec "${HOME}"/debian-start
            # should not reach this line
            exit 2
        }
        sleep 1
    done
    exit 1
end script

---

### Post by wpflum on 2011-09-29
I was missing that file and adding in the one you posted at least gets me by the unknown job but now I'm getting 'start: Job failed to start'.   I tried looking at the mysql error log in the /var/log directory but it is empty.  

Question, what installs the mysql.conf file that I was missing??  I would assume it would have been the mysql-server meta I installed but since I was missing it I'm back to wondering if my apt-get or manager install of mysql-server is failing but not letting me know and that is leaving other stuff not set up correctly also.

ideas??

---

### Post by wpflum on 2011-09-29
Ok, I think I figured out what to fix, just not why it happened in the first place or exactly WHAT it was.  I got to thinking about missing config files and realized I didn't know if when I removed an apt through the package manager or using apt-get remove if it deleted all of the config files that had been created during setup.  Turns out it doesn't unless you use the purge option for apt-get or remove complete in the package manager.  I used the package manager and selected remove completely and then just to be on the safe side I ran 'sudo apt-get install mysql-backend'  the system trundled a bit and asked me for a password for the root user in mysql and then finished up nicely without the long wait like I was getting when it tried to finish up the other times.

Now I see mysqld running and mysql gets me a mysql error message about permissions so I'm assuming everything is working correctly now.  Next is to try and install the MythTv app again and see how far I get this time.

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by judoka9999 on 2011-09-29
The file is probably generated by a package script. As to when and how it was deleted, I can't speculate. There probably were other files, and purging the package was definitely the easiest thing to do if you don't care about the data.

Cheers,
Martin Gottesfeld

:popcorn:

---

### Post by wpflum on 2011-09-30
That definately seems to have fixed the problem as I was able to install the MythTV backend without a hitch, now I just have to figure out how to set it up :)

---

