---
title: "12.04 - Deleted /bin, mostly recovered but still having issues"
date: 2014-05-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by gyzer on 2014-05-05
My server is running 12.04 and is a server at home running DNS, smb shares, CrashPlan, Rsnapshot, FTP, SoftEther VPN Server, and Plex. A bit of a jack of all trades.

After 6+ years of using Ubuntu I made the cardinal mistake of running the rm command as root and mistyped and ended up deleting the contents of my /bin directory. In further stupidity I hadn't been backing up the /bin directory either.

With lots of searching I came across this: [http://serverfault.com/questions/297439/i-just-deleted-bin-whats-the-best-way-to-recover](http://serverfault.com/questions/297439/i-just-deleted-bin-whats-the-best-way-to-recover)

In one of the comments someone listed this command:

```
[COLOR=#444444][FONT=Consolas]dpkg-query -S /bin[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

I ran it and got a list of about 42 packages. I then proceded to packages.ubuntu.com and downloaded each of the listed packages, unpacked them on my PC via 7zip and took the contents of the bin directories inside each dpkg file and uploaded them to my server via Webmin (which totally saved my butt this time). After uploading them all I changed the permissions on all of the contents of /bin to 755. Virtually everything worked except for something to do with sed and possibly ps. If I renamed sed and ssh in I get several errors:

```
The program 'sed' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install sed
The program 'sed' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install sed
complete: usage: complete [-abcdefgjksuv] [-pr] [-DE] [-o option] [-A action] [-G globpat] [-W wordlist]  [-F function] [-C command] [-X filterpat] [-P prefix][-S suffix] [name ...]
```


If I ctrl+c I get out of this endless loop and can go about my business. If I keep sed set with the 755 permissions and/or not rename sed when I ssh in it asked for my username, accepts my ssh key and then closes the Putty SSH window.

I've tried running:

```
apt-get --reinstall install sed
```

But I get an error 

```
E: Sub-process /usr/sbin/dpkg-preconfigure --apt || true returned an error code (100)
E: Failure running script /usr/sbin/dpkg-preconfigure --apt || true

```

I'm not sure what is going on here but obviously something isn't right. I've double checked the size of the sed file in /bin on other 12.04 systems I have running and it checks out. 

Also I've found some issues with Webmin where the *Running Processes* section is showing 0 processes and the *Logical Volume Management *section is showing 0 volume groups which is wrong as well.

Any help on this issue would be appreciated. 

FYI I'm not in a position (time wise) to rebuild the server right now. It is an option but I can't rebuild it for at least a couple of weeks out to a month so I am ok with short term fixes.

---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-05-07
did you try ```
apt-get remove --auto-remove sed
```

That should remove everything and you can try to install again after that..worth a shot.

---

### Post by gyzer on 2014-05-07
Is sed required for installing packages using apt-get? I know doing dpkg I get an error listed in my original post. 

I'm worried I'm stuck in a catch-22 situation where I need sed working to update/install packages but I cannot reinstall sed because sed isn't working. I hope that makes sense.

---

### Post by kosmokramer314 on 2014-05-07
you may have more knowledge of how apt-get works than I do...that didn't even cross my mind and I don't know if that would cause an issue or not.

---

