---
title: "Postfix &amp; iptables"
date: 2009-09-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-07
Hi,

Iv'e just set up my mail server using postfix and dovecot and everything works perfectly until I configured iptables, after which postfix couldnt resolve MX records for other domains 

> 
Sep  7 21:54:29 localhost postfix/smtp[30587]: D687A16B9B39: to=<user@domain.com>, relay=none, delay=40, delays=0.05/0.01/40/0, dsn=4.4.3, status=defer
red (Host or domain name not found. Name service error for name=domain.com type=
MX: Host not found, try again)
The only way I could get mail to deliver outside of my server was by adding the rule 

>  iptables -R INPUT 10 -d (myserverIP) -j ACCEPTBelow is my current iptables set up,

> 
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         
 2019  340K ACCEPT     all  --  lo     any     anywhere             anywhere            
   16  1930 ACCEPT     tcp  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:10026 
  108 10144 ACCEPT     all  --  any    any     localhost.localdomain  anywhere            
    0     0 ACCEPT     all  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED 
 7832  622K ACCEPT     tcp  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:ssh 
 1503 83674 ACCEPT     tcp  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:imap2 
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:www 
  372  152K ACCEPT     tcp  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt:smtp 
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            tcp dpt: pop3 
   52  7687 ACCEPT     all  --  any    any     anywhere             mail.mydomain.com
    0     0 DROP       all  --  any    any     anywhere             anywhere            

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 45941 packets, 5413K bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         
I dont thin this is very secure but it's the only way I can get it to work, I've tried setting up the rule for just port 25 or by setting the source to my ip but nothing works.

Any advice greatly appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-07
Could you please post the output of:

```
iptables-save
```

Also, it seams to me that you are having troubles with name resolution. Tipically thats because you are blocking port 53 (DNS).

Try the following:

```
iptables -I OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT
 iptables -I OUTPUT -p udp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT
```

and see if that takes care of the errors in your logs.

EDIT: Also, make sure you have:

```
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp  -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT 
iptables -I INPUT -p udp  -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT 
iptables -I INPUT -p icmp -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT 

```

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-07
Hi,

I have tried adding the DNS ports to the output chain but it still doesnt work.  

> 
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Mon Sep  7 22:58:10 2009
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [71646:53866203]
:INPUT ACCEPT [71646:53866203]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [47419:5599221]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [47419:5599221]
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Sep  7 22:58:10 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Mon Sep  7 22:58:10 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [57693:52425431]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [46964:5543010]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 10026 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -s 127.0.0.1 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 143 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 110 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -d 213.229.69.158 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -j DROP 
-A OUTPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT 
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT 
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Sep  7 22:58:10 2009
thanks for the help

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-07
Your current firewall setup should not pose any problems in regards to name resolution. I have loaded your firewall rules on my system and could resolv any hostname without problems.

Try manualy resolvig the MX entries for some of the domains you are trying to send to.

```
host -t mx example.com
host -t mx example.com 208.67.222.222
```

Replace example.com with the domain name you are trying to send e-mails to.

Try this with and without the firewall rules activated.

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-07
Hi,

Your right its not resolving any domains at all when I take away the rule to allow all connections adressed to my server to my server.

> -A INPUT -d 213.229.69.158 -j ACCEPT 

I have put in the rules you suggested but it still wont resolve hosts.  

Thanks again

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-07
Lets try a simple firewall first and build from there:

```
iptables -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 143 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -j DROP
```

This should block everything comming in except for traffic destined for 25 and 143 (Your SMTP and IMAP). Any additional ports you may wish to permit should go just BEFORE the DROP rule.

EDIT: the second rule permits traffic responding to connections you initiated from the machine. For example when you interogate a nameserver to find out the IP address of a website, you connect on port 53 but the response could never get passed the DROP rule without telling the firewall to permit traffic comming from already established connections.

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-07
Don't forget to flush the previous rules before applying the new ones:

```
iptables-save > firewall.backup
iptables -F
```

If you wish to restore your old rules just run:

```
iptables-restore < firewall.backup
```

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-07
Hi,

I've flushed the firewall and set up below, I'm not local to the server so added ssh to the list just in case

```
# Completed on Tue Sep  8 00:25:52 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Tue Sep  8 00:25:52 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [57785:52431870]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [70539:7281431]
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 143 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -j DROP 
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Sep  8 00:25:52 2009


```

Forgot to add hosts are not resolving

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-07
Did it work for you?

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-07
No its still not resolving domains

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-07
Now that is strange. The only reason i can think of now that might prevent those rules from working correctly is if the "conntrack/state" module is not loaded...

You can try:

```
lsmod | grep "state\|conntrack"
```

They work as expected on my system. Sorry I can't be of further help :(.

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-07
Hi,

Had to install module-init-tools iun order to run lsmod but the search returned no results

Thanks

---

### Post by denver on 2009-09-08
That package should have been installed by default. Also, the lack of connection tracking and state matching could be the root of your problem. Pleas provide the output of:

```
uname -a
cat /etc/lsb-release
```

If you are on an Ubuntu system to load those modules you should try the following:

```
modprobe nf_conntrack
modprobe xt_state
```

If you own a VPS this procedure might be different depending on virtualization software used. OpenVZ for example uses the iptables modules loaded by the host system.

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-08
Hi,

ITs an openVZ VPS and I am getting an error when I try the modprobe commands.

```

root@sephiroth:~# uname -a
Linux sephiroth.ahwhocares.co.uk 2.6.18-128.2.1.el5.028stab064.4 #1 SMP Mon Jul 27 12:45:01 MSD 2009 i686 GNU/Linux


root@sephiroth:~# cat /etc/lsb-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=8.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=hardy
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 8.04"

root@sephiroth:~# modprobe nf_conntrack
FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.18-128.2.1.el5.028stab064.4/modules.dep: No such file or directory

root@sephiroth:~# modprobe xt~state
FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.18-128.2.1.el5.028stab064.4/modules.dep: No such file or directory


```

I am contacting my server hosts just now to see if they can help, from your reply I'm guessing this is something they need to sort out.

Thanks

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2009-09-08
Hi,

Thats everything fixed now , it was those modules.  Contacted support and they loaded the modules for me.

THanks for all the help

---

### Post by saracibar on 2010-09-11
Hi SpacialJam, I run into the exact same problem with my VPS and I was wondering if you could let me know what were the modules you asked to your server provider to load in the host system?
 
Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by spacialjam on 2010-09-13
Hi,

As my server was a openvz server I was unable to load the modules my self the server provider had to load them for me so I am  unsure where they got them from, sorry.

---

