---
title: "Copying a live os hd to compact flash"
date: 2009-07-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by schander on 2009-07-04
Hi all,

I setup a NAS with Ubuntu 8.10 server. The setup is as follows:
Compaq d530 (sff) p4.
Boot disk 16gb (really old)
1gb ram
2 x 750GB in raid 1 config formatted xfs.
I have recently purchased a 4gb compact flash card and converter to ide. I think there is too much heat generated by all the hd's so i was think that i could get rid of the OS disk and have it on a compact flash. This would also increase the air flow in the systems.

My question is what is the best way to move the os to the compact flash card?
The boot disk (sda1) is only 9% (1.3gb) full. So I should be able to get the entire OS & swap on the flash card.

I was thinking of using something like dd, however I'm a little green with this stuff :(

Thanks
Satpal

---

### Post by windependence on 2009-07-05
Leave your current drive in place.

Plug in your adapter and CF card in another IDE slot.

Boot from a live Linux CD of your choice. 

List devices:

```
fdisk -l
```

Note the device names for your old drive and new drive.

Now use dd to copy your old HD to your new one:

```
dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sdb bs=4096 conv=notrunc,noerror
```

Your devices above may be named differently than above, use the names from the fdisk command we did earlier.

Then, unplug your old drive and plug in your new CF adapter and card where the old drive was or set your bios to boot off the new CF card. If everything went right, you should get a good boot with the CF card. Don't forget to unload the live CD!

Good luck.

-Tim

---

### Post by schander on 2009-07-05
Tim,

Thanks for the answer. In theory it should work, however i've just realised that I only have 2 ide port, 1 for the original os hd and then 1 for the compact flash, leaves nothing for the cd-rom to boot from. I will have to use a live usb stick to boot from (although not sure if my pc boots from usb :( )
Cheers for the command anyway.

Thanks
Satpal

---

### Post by windependence on 2009-07-06
You should have two IDE channels per port. If not, like you mentioned, there may be other work arounds, or you could certainly do this on any other machine with enough ports.

If you need any more help just let us know.

-Tim

---

### Post by schander on 2009-07-06
> **windependence said:**
> You should have two IDE channels per port. If not, like you mentioned, there may be other work arounds, or you could certainly do this on any other machine with enough ports.

If you need any more help just let us know.

-Tim

Doh! Keep thinking sata with one drive per port, completly forgot about the two IDE channels per port.

Thanks
Satpal

---

### Post by windependence on 2009-07-06
Hehe, no problem. :-)

-Tim

---

