---
title: "8.10 server support for nvidia"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Oracles on 2008-11-02
Does the Ubuntu 8.10 server support the Nvidia driver.  'Installed the server but the driver won’t activate. Yes, we know that you serious server people don’t use the gnome desktop but for a server used as an occasional additional desktop computer it is desirable. Any comments are welcome.

---

### Post by sjwk on 2008-11-03
Similar problem to me  - a server install that I decided I did want a desktop on.  Nvidia drivers won't activate through the restricted drivers thingy, installing the packages manually also seems to result in X failing because of missing kernel modules.  Looking at one of my other machines running 8.10 desktop there is an 'nvidia' kernel module loaded which the server doesn't have.  Still hunting down where that module comes from since using apt-file to find nvidia.ko can't find it either!

Steve.

---

### Post by eighto2 on 2008-11-03
You can try using envy to get the drivers installed
I use it all the time:

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```

---

### Post by sjwk on 2008-11-03
That worked.. thanks.  Have to remember envyng - not needed it before, it's always just worked!
Steve.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-03
For those of you that need a gui to edit simple text files. Why not install a desktop system and then add the server components later. Have a look here for the differences between the two:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerFaq)

To add sever components go to System--Administration-->Synaptic Package Manager-->Edit-->Mark Packages By Task.

Jim

---

