---
title: "9.10 Initial install-can't install GRUB"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by wmarple on 2009-11-20
I am using a raid 0.  The server previously had server2003 on it and I'm trying to install the 32-bit version of ubuntu server 9.10 (fresh install, no dual boot OS).  I used a win98 boot disk to run fdisk and remove the old windows partitions.  The install seems to go fine until it reaches the point of trying to install GRUB at which point it halts at "Looking for other operating systems" and displays the Ubuntu Installer main menu.  I assume that there is still a problem with the old installs of windows server that's screwing with installing GRUB.  Any clues as to why this is happening would be appreciated.

---

### Post by darrenm on 2009-11-22
> **wmarple said:**
> I am using a raid 0.  The server previously had server2003 on it and I'm trying to install the 32-bit version of ubuntu server 9.10 (fresh install, no dual boot OS).  I used a win98 boot disk to run fdisk and remove the old windows partitions.  The install seems to go fine until it reaches the point of trying to install GRUB at which point it halts at "Looking for other operating systems" and displays the Ubuntu Installer main menu.  I assume that there is still a problem with the old installs of windows server that's screwing with installing GRUB.  Any clues as to why this is happening would be appreciated.

Same here. Just installed Karmic Kubuntu from the alternate CD. I'm running dmraid on a RAID 0 array and the installer won't go past looking for other operating systems no matter what I do. I've had to abort the install, now I'm at a Grub prompt, let's see what happens.

---

### Post by wmarple on 2009-11-22
I installed desktop 9.10 i386 and it worked fine on the raid array.  Not sure why.  My end goal is to have a sugarcrm server running so I think I'll just use desktop.

---

