---
title: "8.04 server stops responding briefly"
date: 2010-01-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jcbwalsh on 2010-01-25
I'm having a strange problem and haven't found anything similar here. I'm hoping someone has seen this before. 

I have several 8.04 servers running Apache and Moodle, all hosted on VMWare 3.5. Several of these have been running for a couple years, others are a few weeks old. Recently they have started randomly not responding to web requests for brief periods - usually 2-4 minutes. The server resources (CPU, RAM, I/O, network) do not appear to be overly taxed when this happens. We've checked the switches and firewall and they also don't appear to have any issues. When this happens we can ping the server fine, but cannot SSH in. We don't do anything and the problem resolves itself after a couple minutes. There doesn't appear to be anything relevant in the syslog, or Apache logs. At this point we're pretty stumped. If anyone has any suggestions I'd really appreciate it. Thanks!

---

### Post by computer13137 on 2010-01-26
That certainly does sound unusual.  I don't work too closely with VMWare but I'm familiar with it, and I run VirtualBox on my server here at home.

I find it really odd that you can still ping the server IPs.  I just have a few questions that came to my mind, and maybe your answers will spur conversation from someone more qualified to help.

1) Does your VM server have a single network interface?  Is there any correlation between the network card the VM is linked to and which VMs stop responding?

2) Is it consistently one or two VMs or do all of them experience this issue at some point in time?

3) What kind of network interface (bridged I'm assuming, or maybe physical interface) are you giving these VMs?  I'm not willing to rule out a problem with the virtual network driver.

That's all I can think of for the moment... I certainly hope you can get your issue resolved.  That sounds like it would be really annoying, especially since it's such an unusual problem.

-Kirk

---

### Post by jcbwalsh on 2010-02-20
I almost forgot to come back and post the resolution on this. The problem turned out to be overcommitment of the physical CPUs. The reason the Ubuntu servers were affected is that they were mostly 4 CPU virtual machines. We were able to bump a few down to 2 CPUs and turn off a couple servers that were no longer needed. Thanks computer13137 for the effort!

James

---

