---
title: "9.10 Server becoming &quot;idle&quot;"
date: 2010-01-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rituraj_tiwari on 2010-01-28
I am noticing really odd behaviour after upgrading from 8.10 to 9.10 (via 9.04). My server frequently becomes unreachable. I am using it as an application server, running Apache, JBoss and MySql. Once the server goes idle, all web connections time out. SSH also times out. Usually the server wakes up on second SSH attempt and then everything: Web, SSH etc seems to run fine.

This is a server machine with no GUI. Can anyone point me to power management or other such settings I can tune from commandline?

***** Update *******
I have disabled power management by adding kernel parameter acpi=off. I still have the problem. The first network connection after the machine has gone idle takes a long time. All later connections run pretty smoothly.
******************

Thanks for your help.
-Raj

---

### Post by rituraj_tiwari on 2010-01-29
Anyone? This is causing me some serious hardship.

Thanks.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2010-01-30
I'm running hardy server so I can't really help.  Did you check dmesg for errors?  Perhaps there is a network issue.

dmesg | tail -50

---

### Post by rituraj_tiwari on 2010-02-02
My network hardware is the infamous RealTek 8168B PCI Express onboard NIC. It seems that when I updated my OS, the machine started using a driver version r8169 that comes prepackaged with the release. I read posts saying this version has issues and that I should get the driver from realtek's site. I have now re-installed the latest (r8168-8.016.00) release of the driver and explicitly blacklisted the r8169 driver. Keeping my fingers crossed.

---

### Post by jflaker on 2010-02-02
Is the system truely idle'd?

You may want to experiment with some cron jobs to "touch" files via ssh from the computer which initiated the ssh session.  The session will stay open if the server sees activity

---

### Post by rituraj_tiwari on 2010-02-02
Thats a good question. Right now I am suspecting this was likely a driver foulup as opposed to an idle. I'll see how the machine behaves with the latest from RealTek and report here.

The problem manifests itself as a total freeze of network on the machine which spontaneously returns to normalcy within a few minutes. There are no logs or traces.

---

