---
title: "Connecting to wireless with a passphrase"
date: 2010-08-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by MacGoose on 2010-08-30
So I've connected to my wireless network with the command:

   iwconfig wlan0 essid Linksys

But I need to enter my wireless access' passphrase to connect to it.  The closest I've come is using:

   iwconfig wlan0 key s: PASSPHRASE

...which gives an invalid argument and I've resently found out that this passphrase command is not supported - yet.

Can anyone help my out here?  Where do one tell Ubuntu to use a passphrase to connect to a wireless network?

 - Ubuntu 10.04

, MacGoose

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-30
See [this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834) thread.  I know it doesn't list 10.04 as a 'tested' OS, but it should work.  You mainly just need to worry about the wpa-supplicant stuff and the /etc/network/interfaces file.

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-08-30
As noted above iwconfig doesn't support ascii passphrases yet. You can use **wpa_passphrase** to output a hex version of your ascii phrase.

If you are on an Ubuntu desktop I would suggest using **wicd**, as it handles all this quite well. Otherwise, the last post has a link to a decent tutorial that should work from the command line.

---

### Post by MacGoose on 2010-08-31
Thanx!  It looks like it should work by using wpa_passphrase.  Gonna test it out when I get home.

, MacGoose

---

### Post by MacGoose on 2010-08-31
I got home and tried it on my server.  It did not work.  I don't see why it fail.  I had no problem getting my wireless up and running when on the desktop version - I simply wrote in my passphrase and clicked ok.   But trying now to connect on the server version - nothing.

When running iwconfig, wlan0 gives information indicating that none of the settings in /etc/network/interfaces are processed or whatever.  Because even the essid is set to off.

Also using the key generated by wpa_passphrase in iwconfig key xxx gives an invalid argument even though it now is a hex code...

, MacGoose

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-08-31
I'd suggest following that other thread using the interfaces file and restart networking. 

I don't think it's enough to use iw_config as it just sets interface parameters. Something has to do the negotiation and I think that is usually wpa_supplicant. So alternately if you really want to do this manually then google wpa_supplicant and how to use it to aquire a WPA connection.

---

