---
title: "8.10 32bit server logwatch doesn't show log message"
date: 2009-01-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by felix680 on 2009-01-29
Hi,

I was using Fedora with logwatch for years and I was fully satisfied for receiving log files via email everyday.  Recently, I changed from Fedora to Ubuntu 8.10 (32bit Server) for some reasons and now I cannot get the whole log report, but the following message:

[INDENT]/etc/cron.daily/00logwatch:
Cannot find shared script combined log files
run-parts: /etc/cron.daily/00logwatch exited with return code 2[/INDENT]

What's wrong with the default settings of logwatch?  I use the default settings in both Fedora and Ubuntu but only Fedora works.  I think there is a bug in Ubuntu logwatch version that keeps me receiving the wrong message, or am I wrong?

Anyone please help.  Thank you in advance.

Felix:(

---

### Post by felix680 on 2009-04-20
Anyone?  Please help...:(

---

### Post by felix680 on 2009-04-28
Hi,

Anyone?  Please help!!  I am wondering if I am the only one to use Ubuntu 8.10 and only me has this kind of problem?????????????

So nobody use Ubuntu....

Felix

---

### Post by felix680 on 2009-05-07
Hello again,

Today it has been upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04, but the problem still persists!!!

Any advanced user please help!!!
:(

---

### Post by jborton on 2009-05-11
Hi! Sorry to hear of your problem.
 
the Logcheck available from APT for Ubuntu is rather old. I did apt-get remove logcheck and then downloaded and compiled logcheck from source. You *will* have to modify some of the ignore rules, but otherwise it works fine.
 
*Edit* Oops, I confused Logwatch with Logcheck (they do the same thing). I havent tried logwatch so I cant add anything.

---

