---
title: "8.04 with Transparent Proxy"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by quietas on 2008-06-10
Has anyone seen a walkthrough for 8.04 to set up a transparent proxy? Something along the lines of Squid with DansGuardian or other web config with content filtering.

---

### Post by adamos on 2008-06-10
edit squid.conf and add this line: http_port 3128 transparent

---

### Post by slimjim8094 on 2008-06-10
You need to forward traffic (localnetwork -> a port 80) to (from a port 80 -> to localhost port 3128) in addition to that. You also need to forward (internet -> a port 3128) to (from a port 3128 -> requesting computer).

File: /etc/ufw/before.rules
Add the *nat and following lines to the definitions, before the rest.
```
# rules should be added to one of these chains:
#   ufw-before-input
#   ufw-before-output
#   ufw-before-forward
#
*nat
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination 192.168.1.1:3128
-A PREROUTING -i ppp0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128
COMMIT
```

Replace eth0 with your LAN interface and ppp0 with your WAN interface.

This is in addition to the other poster.

---

### Post by atoponce on 2008-06-10
It would make most sense to do this with two servers, one running Netfilter, the other running Squid. As such, first make sure the Squid box is setup as a transparent proxy (assuming the box is on the 192.168.1.0/24 subnet):

```
acl localnet src 192.168.1.0/255.255.255.0
http_access allow localnet
httpd_accel_port 80
httpd_accel_host virtual
httpd_accel_with_proxy on
httpd_accel_uses_host_header on
```

In this example, the Squid box should *NOT* be running a web server.  On the Squid server, write a REDIRECT rule with iptables, so all the web traffic it receives is send to the Squid proxy:

```
iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128
```

Now, for the cool part.  On the gateway, write an iptables rule that will forward any and all outbound web packets to the Squid box running the proxy.  We take advantage of the mangle table to pull this off.  We'll assume that 192.168.1.1 is the firewall IP, and 192.168.1.2 is the Squid proxy IP:

```
iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -s 192.168.1.2 -j ACCEPT -p tcp --dport 80
iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -s 192.168.1.1 -j ACCEPT
iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -j MARK --set-mark 1 -p tcp --dport 80
ip rule add fwmark 1 table 2
ip route add default via 192.168.1.2 dev eth0 table 2
```

1) We don't want to create a nasty loop, now do we?
2) The gateway packets should not be sent to the squid proxy.
3) Mark the traffic that we want to redirect.
4) Add a rule to add all traffic with our mark to a custom routing table.
5) Create the custom route table that sends that traffic to our Squid proxy.

We have just created a scenario where we are redirecting our web traffic without the REDIRECT target.

I demo this a lot to students when I'm teaching RH253 classes.  After everything is setup, I can completely control their web browsing, giving them access and denying access to certain sites.  It's great!

Anyway, there you go.  That should be exactly what you're looking for, and it's pretty painless.  Demo courtesy of [Guru Labs]("http://gurulabs.com").  :)

---

### Post by HDave on 2009-03-18
Sorry to re-awaken this old thread, but I am having trouble getting this to work.  I only have one computer going so I can't have a different router, proxy, and filter machines.  I am just trying to get DansGuardian to work with UFW.

I have tinyproxy installed and listening to 3128 along with DansGuardian configured to 8080.  If I go into firefox and set the proxy to 127.0.0.1:8080 everything works great, but I cannot get iptables to let it work in a transparent way.

I went into the before.rules file for ufw and did the following:
```
# Added to enable redirection of http traffic to dansguardian/tinyproxy
*nat
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A PREROUTING -i eth1 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 8080
COMMIT
```

I've tried 50 different combinations of values...nothing has any effect!  Any help is very much appreciated.

---

### Post by jeo10_fr on 2009-04-22
Hi, 

your solution doesnt work because local packets dont go through PREROUTING chain.

you could use OUTPUT or POSTROUTING

-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 8080
[B]It won't work either, because you just created a packet loop !!!!

You have to break the loop by making the difference between user packets
and proxy packets. 

This could be done by user the iptables owner directive.


Try this (supposing tiny proxy run under uid 13) :

[/B]-A OUTPUT -m owner ! --uid-owner 13 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
[B]Regards,



[/B]

---

### Post by jeo10_fr on 2009-04-22
Complement: 

You can only use the OUTPUT chain (REDIRECT target cannot be use  in POSTROUTING, obviously). 

Since it's a **nat **operation, you can do it manually :

iptables -t nat -A OUTPUT -m owner ! --uid-owner 13 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080

or in before.rules :

*nat
-A OUTPUT -m owner ! --uid-owner 13 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080

But check the uid of tiny proxy.

Regards

---

### Post by piju on 2009-06-29
clients --> dansguardian --> squid --> internet

or

clients --> squid --> dansguardian --> internet

---

### Post by HDave on 2009-06-30
Finally got it working for myself with tinyproxy and dansgaurdian.  Trick was to figure out *who* was sending the packets:

```
*nat
	:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
	-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -m owner --uid-owner root -j ACCEPT
	-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 3128 -m owner --uid-owner dansguardian -j ACCEPT
	-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -m owner ! --uid-owner root -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
	-A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 3128 -m owner ! --uid-owner dansguardian -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
	COMMIT
```

---

