---
title: "9.10 Installation: Keyboard Stops Working"
date: 2010-02-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by KyleFx on 2010-02-25
Hi Guys,

I have an old dell server that I decided to try to install ubuntu server on.  My problem is that my keyboard stops working after making my initial selection of installer language and install option.  As soon as I select install, I receive a message stating that IRQ 14 has been disabled.  Next, I am faced with a screen asking me to select my installation language using the tab, space, and enter keys.  But to no avail, my keyboard no longer works.  No arrows, no tab, no space, no enter, ... even the num lock key will not toggle it's respective LED.  :(

I should note that I'm using a PS/2 mouse (there are no USB ports on this server).  I've also tried multiple PS/2 keyboards, and all act the same.  I've looked in my BIOS settings, and the only option I see is for enabling/disabling the on-board PS/2 keyboard.  I have not tried disabling that, because I have a funny feeling I would lock myself out of the server for good.  :P  I also tried non-graphical mode (at least I think that's what I did).  I held in the shift key while booting the CD, and selected no to using graphics.  At the "boot:" prompt, I just hit enter.

Any ideas?  This isn't critical really, but it would be nice if I could get this server working with Ubuntu.  :)

Thanks,
-Kyle

---

### Post by KyleFx on 2010-02-25
So I decided to try the noapic boot option, and it worked!  :)  It's available from the advanced options (F6) menu if anyone else runs into the same problem.  Installation isn't complete yet, but I'll post back if something else goes wrong.  ;)

---

