---
title: "10.04 LTS 64bit installation - can not boot up"
date: 2012-02-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by acgtek on 2012-02-28
This may be a common problem with the ubuntu server installation. 

Here is the error after fresh installed ubuntu 10.04 64bit LTS and reboot:

    Gave up waiting for root device. Common problems: -Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline) 
    -Check root delay = (did buy acomplia the system wait long enough?) 
    -Check root=(did the system wait for the right device?) 
    -Missing modules (cat /proc/modules;  ls /dev) ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/7e729b99-xxxxxxxxxxxxx does not exist. Dropping to shell!
    
    Busybox v1.13.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash) Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands

Followed the blog [here]("http://zeeis.me/ubuntu-error-gave-up-waiting-for-root-device/") to do apt-get update & apt-get upgrade. But the error is the same. 

Any idea about how to fix it? Thanks so much.

---

### Post by zeljkojagust on 2012-02-29
Boot your machine with LiveCD distro (Knoppix, Ubuntu Desktop), and check disks by executing the command:
```
fdisk -l
```

Mount your root partition in /mnt folder for example and list the contents of the following folder:
```
ls -la /mnt/dev/disk/by-uuid
```

Compare the listing and write down one that matches the result of "fdisk -l" command for root partition entry.

Now edit fstab file by executing the following command:
```
vi /mnt/etc/fstab
```

Locate entry for root partition and check if "UUID=" value matches the one you got when listing "/mnt/dev/disk/by-uuid". If not change it, and try to boot again.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-03-01
Welcome to the forums *acgtek*,

There is a newly introduced GUI tool, [Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair"), which is capable of fixing most of the common grub errors itself, and makes further troubleshooting much more easier if required.

You can install and run it from ubuntu live session as explained in the above linked page. If unsure what to do with it, please use its "Create Boot-Info Summary" button to generate the report, then post back the paste-bin link it gives you after clicking the button (would take a few seconds before producing the link).

---

