---
title: "8.10 setlocale error"
date: 2009-01-31
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by hob on 2009-01-31
I'm running 8.10 64bit server edition on a Dell PowerEdge 2950iii, two dual-core processor with 4 gigs of ram. The machine is currently set up as a virtual machine host, with KVM/virsh hosting three JeOS guests. It was running solid for three weeks, hosting the three guests with no errors or any problems.

Recently, (around 25 Jan 09) I've had a lot of trouble with this error:
```
user@server:~$ virsh list --all
setlocale: No such file or directory

```

No amount of reconfiguring the locale package seems to fix this problem. I've installed language-pack-en (which fixes the locales problems on the JeOS guests but not the host), but it still doesn't help.
```

user@server:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure locales
[sudo] password for user: 
perl: warning: Setting locale failed.
perl: warning: Please check that your locale settings:
	LANGUAGE = (unset),
	LC_ALL = (unset),
	LC_MONETARY = "en_US.ISO8859-1",
	LC_NUMERIC = "en_US.ISO8859-1",
	LC_MESSAGES = "C",
	LC_COLLATE = "en_US.ISO8859-1",
	LC_CTYPE = "en_US.ISO8859-1",
	LC_TIME = "en_US.ISO8859-1",
	LANG = "en_US.UTF-8"
    are supported and installed on your system.
perl: warning: Falling back to the standard locale ("C").
locale: Cannot set LC_CTYPE to default locale: No such file or directory
locale: Cannot set LC_ALL to default locale: No such file or directory
Generating locales...
  en_AU.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_BW.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_CA.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_DK.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_GB.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_HK.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_IE.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_IN.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_NG.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_NZ.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_PH.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_SG.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_US.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_ZA.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_ZW.UTF-8... up-to-date
Generation complete.
user@server:~$ virsh list --all
setlocale: No such file or directory
user@server:~$

```

When I just run the locale command, here's what I get, indicating that the LC_ALL locale is unset, giving me all these problems:
```

user@server:~$ locale
locale: Cannot set LC_CTYPE to default locale: No such file or directory
locale: Cannot set LC_ALL to default locale: No such file or directory
LANG=en_US.UTF-8
LC_CTYPE=en_US.ISO8859-1
LC_NUMERIC=en_US.ISO8859-1
LC_TIME=en_US.ISO8859-1
LC_COLLATE=en_US.ISO8859-1
LC_MONETARY=en_US.ISO8859-1
LC_MESSAGES=C
LC_PAPER="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_NAME="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_ADDRESS="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_TELEPHONE="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_MEASUREMENT="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_IDENTIFICATION="en_US.UTF-8"
LC_ALL=
user@server:~$ 

```

The only way it seems to fix this problem is to export the LC_ALL variable: (on a side note, where does this export command put things?)
```

user@server:~$ export LC_ALL=en_US.utf8
user@server:~$ virsh list --all
Connecting to uri: qemu:///system
 Id Name                 State
----------------------------------
  1 database             running
  2 mail                 running
  - web-devel            shut off


```
This export fix doesn't seem to last after reboots.

As I said at the top of this post, this happened about three weeks after install. The only thing that I can see that happened is the machine got rebooted several times (moving racks), and unattended-upgrades upgraded vim-runtime, vim-tiny, vim, and vim-common. I don't think vim caused these problems, but other than that, no packages were installed or upgraded.

[COLOR="Gray"]Another possibly related problem happens when starting up the three guest operating systems. When the machine boots, all three guests are set for autostart, but only two of them actually start. When I try to start the third by hand, I get this non-descriptive error that even confounds google:
```

virsh # start web-devel
libvir: QEMU error : internal error QEMU quit during console startup
bind() failed
error: Failed to start domain web-devel

virsh # 

```
It's easy to fix this error, though. Just shut down the other (running) virtual machines, start the web-devel guest first, then start the other two. Then all 3 of them run just fine (until reboot). Huh? Is this a bug in libvirsh?

[/COLOR]

So my question is two-fold: Where did this locale problem come from, and how do I fix it permanently? I guess I could just put the export command in my .bashrc file, but that seems cheap to me, and doesn't fix the root of the problem, and every user will need to do this. Isn't dpkg-reconfigure supposed to set LC_ALL that anyways?

---

### Post by hob on 2009-02-03
Well, I solved my own problem. It turns out that you must use the update-locale program for global locale updates:

```
sudo update-locale LC_ALL="en_US.UTF-8"
```

This command adds the LC_ALL entry to /etc/default/locale, but nothing changed until I rebooted the machine. After reboot, the locale program reads the /etc/default/locale file, and sets the locales according to this file. Still nothing shows up in /etc/environment. (you can probably just add the LC_ALL line to the end of that file?? maybe?)

Note: This was taken from the 3rd entry from the bottom [here]("http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.user/151481").

Note: The Ubuntu [help wiki]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LocaleConf") seems to say use the localeconf package, but no packages is not available from the repository. I'm presuming this is a very old page.

---

### Post by Francewhoa on 2009-06-12
Same here. Another solution is to install the following package:
```
apt-get install language-pack-en
```

---

### Post by kristan2000 on 2009-06-28
[I]I downloaded intel compiler c++ and fortran 11.0.081_32bit but when I try to complie I receive this error:
# because of this error : 'Catastrophic error: could not set locale "" to allow processing of multibyte characters'
unset LANGBuy online [Bentley Power Steering Rack]("http://www.powersteeringpros.com/Bentley_Power_Steering_Rack.htm") for wholesale prices from powersteeringpros.com. Select from a wide range of quality replacement Bentley Power Steering Rack 

export INTEL_LICENSE_FILE='/opt/intel/Compiler/11.0/081/licenses:/opt/intel/licenses:/home/asus/intel/licenses:/opt/intel/Compiler/11.0/081/licenses:/opt/intel/licenses:/home/asus/intel/licenses'
. /opt/intel/Compiler/11.0/081/bin/iccvars.sh ia32
. /opt/intel/Compiler/11.0/081/bin/ifortvars.sh ia32
=======================================================
[wasserbett]("http://www.wasserbettenhilfe.com")
[taxi from toronto airport to toronto]("http://www.torontoairportcab.com/html/services.htm")

[/I]

---

### Post by jonnajulee on 2010-12-27
> **hob said:**
> Well, I solved my own problem. It turns out that you must use the update-locale program for global locale updates:

```
sudo update-locale LC_ALL="en_US.UTF-8"
```This command adds the LC_ALL entry to /etc/default/locale, but nothing changed until I rebooted the machine. After reboot, the locale program reads the /etc/default/locale file, and sets the locales according to this file. Still nothing shows up in /etc/environment. (you can probably just add the LC_ALL line to the end of that file?? maybe?)

Note: This was taken from the 3rd entry from the bottom [here]("http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.linux.ubuntu.user/151481").

Note: The Ubuntu [help wiki]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LocaleConf") seems to say use the localeconf package, but no packages is not available from the repository. I'm presuming this is a very old page.

Hmmm that's good. ;)

---

