---
title: "Exim configuring needed Address rewriting with the Debian style configurations"
date: 2023-12-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mdlueck on 2023-12-13
I am in need of assistance to translate what I see suggested in Internet forum posts to what it means with Debian / Ubuntu style Exim configurations.

I need to put an outgoing Address rewrite rule. Hosting provider is objecting to delivering mail from [email]root@subdomain.domain.com[/email] type address. I have Exim configured to route all local mail to root, and root points to a real email address. However to our hosting provider, it really appears that the emails are generated by [email]root@subdomain.domain.com[/email]

I found the following posts on Internet suggesting how to correct this in administrative emails generated by our office Ubuntu Linux servers:

"Exim: Change sender address when sending mails out of local network"
[https://serverfault.com/questions/548826/exim-change-sender-address-when-sending-mails-out-of-local-network](https://serverfault.com/questions/548826/exim-change-sender-address-when-sending-mails-out-of-local-network)

which then lead to...

"Exim Internet Mailer - Chapter 31 - Address rewriting"
[https://www.exim.org/exim-html-current/doc/html/spec_html/ch-address_rewriting.html](https://www.exim.org/exim-html-current/doc/html/spec_html/ch-address_rewriting.html)


Specifically where would I put a configuration like this:
[https://serverfault.com/questions/548826/exim-change-sender-address-when-sending-mails-out-of-local-network#answer-548844](https://serverfault.com/questions/548826/exim-change-sender-address-when-sending-mails-out-of-local-network#answer-548844)


```
begin rewrite
myapp@myserver.mydomain   legal.user@myserver.mydomain   SFfrs
```


For now I have these Ubuntu Exim configurations set up as non-split configuration. Must I switch that to split mode in order to obtain ability to configure Address rewriting rules? I suspect the official Exim documentation does not mention such as that is a Debian specific style of Exim configuration.

Please kindly advise.

I am thankful,

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-12-18
IDK for sure. You did tickle my curiosity on that.

I read your links, but those don't really cover subdomains like you are describing, right? 

What about something like this?: [https://serverfault.com/a/936433](https://serverfault.com/a/936433)

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2023-12-18
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> What about something like this?: [https://serverfault.com/a/936433](https://serverfault.com/a/936433)

Thanks MAFoElffen, unfortunately that page is for re-configuring Exim to accept / receive mail, not send from a subdomain as if it is the main domain.

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2023-12-18
So I have made some progress.

In a test VM I have the rewrite rules working I believe correctly.

Steps I did:

sudo nano /etc/exim4/update-exim4.conf.conf

Inside that file, change this line to:

```
dc_use_split_config='true'
```

Exit and save, re-edit to validate change was saved.


sudo nano /etc/exim4/conf.d/rewrite/00_exim4-config_header

Add the following lines right below:
begin rewrite

```
root@hostname.subdomain.realdomain.com   realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
root@realdomain.com                      realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
```


```
sudo update-exim4.conf
```

to update the Exim setting with the changes made.


```
sudo service exim4 restart
```

to restart Exim with the new settings


Send a test email with mailx to root, and it comes actually from [email]realemailaddress@realdomain.com[/email]

This much works on the real server.


So next I refine it in the VM the rewrite rules. I change to:


```
root                                               realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
hostname                                           realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
subdomain                                          realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
```

As this way it is only seeking select keywords of the email address to trigger the rewrite. This syntax works perfectly in the VM.

However on the real server, it only rewrites the From address, not the To address.

Thoughts on what went wrong with the second set of Rewrite rules attempted on the real server?

**P.S. It seems to be operating that only in the VM does Exim match on partial string matches, while on the real server Exim expects to get an entire address match. Is that configurable in Exim, that one serer would be one way and the other the other?**

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2023-12-24
Well I tracked down finally the difference between the test VM and the real server. Someone suggested I run:

```
exim -bP
```

And compare the output.

That revealed the critical difference:

```
primary_hostname = xxxxxx
qualify_domain = xxxxxx
qualify_recipient = xxxxxx
```


On the real server they were fully qualified names, and in the VM they were just the hostname of the VM instance. Apparently I set up general server DNS better on the real server, not good enough in the test VM, and ended up with unintentional operating differences.

So in my VM, I decided to test the following rewrite rules:

```
root*                                              realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
*hostname*                                         realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
*subdomain*                                        realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
```

These failed.

Then I tried:

```
*                                                  realemailaddress@realdomain.com   FTfrst
```

And that works.

Bewildering why even with the added * characters, the parts of the full email address rewrite rules refuse to fire.

The apparently total wildcard rule will work for now.

Any suggestions why the bits of the email address with wildcard charter will not work?

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2023-12-25
I found the Exim user support email list... sent inquiry there, and learned something about Exim's Address rewriting rules. They expect to operate on a full email address, not a partial string match. So the "@" character being present is quite critical. Doh!


```
begin rewrite
root@*                                             [email]realemailaddress@realdomain.com[/email]   Eh
*@hostname*                                        [email]realemailaddress@realdomain.com[/email]   Eh
*@*subdomain*                                      [email]realemailaddress@realdomain.com[/email]   Eh
```


That rule syntax works like a champ!!!

At least hosting provider will be off our backs for a little while.

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2024-01-01
Michael Lueck wrote:> 
> SOLVED today!
> 
> 
> Michael Lueck wrote:
>>
>> Well in my test VM, the asked about rules did not fire correctly.


So it took a bit more learning...

Someone on the Exim list kindly shared this gem:


Andrew C Aitchison wrote:> On Thu, 28 Dec 2023, Michael Lueck via Exim-users wrote:
> 
> One asterix is allowed at the start of the username
> and one at the start of the host/domainame.



That is what I needed!

Updated the rules to the following:


```
begin rewrite
root@*                                             realemailaddress@realdomain.com   Eh
*@hostname                                         realemailaddress@realdomain.com   Eh
*@*.realdomain.com                                 realemailaddress@realdomain.com   Eh
```


And now all of the Exim command line tests return the [email]realemailaddress@realdomain.com[/email] address successfully.

Phew!

I am thankful,

---

