---
title: "Server timing out on SSH client connection (18.04)"
date: 2020-05-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-05-08
This all began when I was trying to use an FTP client (Filezilla) to access my file system on my server. I was not successful. 

Since then, every attempt to gain SSH terminal access to the server from the client (on a local network) times out after about one minute. There is never any mention in /var/log/auth.log. 

I can successfully ping the server from the desk on the local network, and also from the VPN subnet. The client also has full Internet access which is routed through the server's VPN. The only thing I cannot do is gain SSH shell access from the desktop box to the server, both running 18.04 (Server and Desktop, respectively). I have checked the router settings, and all I saw was that the desk box's LAN address apparently had changed at some point without me realizing it, and this Google Fiber network box doesn't seem agreeable when I try to assign a reserved IP to the desk, possibly because the Server already has it's own reserved local IP. I tinkered with my iptables on the server as well, to no effect. 

Suggestions and tips?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-05-08
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms for a more appropriate fit**.*

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-05-09
If the client changed IP that shouldn't matter unless you are limiting ssh access in the server iptables rules. Do you?

Having a server on private LAN behind ISP router makes it a bit redundant to run iptables on the server.

If ssh doesn't work, how do you access the server right now? Connect monitor and keyboard to it?

Try to check if ssh is running on the server and temporarily set iptables to allow all access. If you can, post an output of the iptables rules you have now on the server.

You can set the iptables INPUT chain to ACCEPT with:
```
sudo iptables -P INPUT ACCEPT
```

With that ssh access should work unless you have some explicit drop rules in iptables.

While you are at it, double check that server IP is what you think it is. You can do that by checking ifconfig output.

---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-05-09
Darko, thanks for the tips so far. I have ran ```
sudo ufw disable
``` some time ago now. 

I'll clarify something - I like to SSH into the server using my VPN subnet addresses, example: ssh user@10.8.0.1. I am unable to do this since yesterday. However I can ssh into the server using the LAN address, e.g. ssh user@192.168.1.3. 

My /etc/iptables/rules.v4 is below - much of it redundant I'm sure due to my inexperience when I began setting up this server. Again, ufw is disabled for now anyway. 

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.6.0 on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [5201:621715]
:INPUT ACCEPT [335:46633]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [1330:93863]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [1340:94981]
-A POSTROUTING -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o enp2s0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018
# Generated by iptables-save v1.6.0 on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [59956:9655721]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [137055:167632249]
-A INPUT -i enp2s0 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport CUSTOMPORT# -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i tun0 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i tun+ -j ACCEPT
-I INPUT -i tun+ -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -s 192.168.1.2 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -s 192.168.1.5 -j ACCEPT
-I INPUT -s 192.168.1.2 -j ACCEPT
-I INPUT -s 192.168.1.5 -j ACCEPT
-I INPUT -s 192.168.1.75 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -s 192.168.1.2 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport CUSTOMPORT# -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -s 192.168.1.5 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport CUSTOMPORT# -j ACCEPT
-I INPUT -s 192.168.1.2 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport CUSTOMPORT# -j ACCEPT
-I INPUT -s 192.168.1.5 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport CUSTOMPORT# -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i tun+ -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i tun+ -o enp2s0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i enp2s0 -o tun+ -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -o tun+ -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -s 10.8.0.0/8 -j ACCEPT


COMMIT
```

---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-05-09
also worth noting that both server and client can ping each other using LAN addresses, but neither can ping the other using VPN subnet addresses (10.8.0.1 and 10.8.0.2), but the VPN is definitely still up and running.

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-05-09
```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.6.0 on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [5201:621715]
:INPUT ACCEPT [335:46633]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [1330:93863]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [1340:94981]
-A POSTROUTING -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o enp2s0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
```

The first line in this section, is it really like in your post or it got pasted wrongly?

The *nat is at the end of that line? If it is, that an error. The first line starts with # and is a comment, it doesn't count.

The *nat should be in the next line, on its own. If you make modification to that file reload the rules by:
```
sudo iptables-restore < /etc/iptables/rules.v4
```

I suggest not to use ufw and use iptables directly instead. But if the above are really your rules, they are mainly pointless. You have INPUT ACCEPT and FORWARD ACCEPT policies so basically the rules don't protect you from anything.

And like I said, when the server is on private LAN 192.168.1.x then it has no direct access from the internet anyway. Only forward rules on your router can send traffic directly to it. So you don't need any FW on the server itself. Disable ufw and clean up iptables allowing all traffic.

Only thing you will need because of OpenVPN is the masquerade (for traffic to flow correctly between your enp2s0 and tun0). You add that in command line with:
```
sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -j MASQUERADE
```

In iptables rule file you can keep it simple too:
```
# Rule for traffic forwarding between interfaces
*nat
-A POSTROUTING -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
```

---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-05-09
Thanks Darko. 

That first line with the *nat, looks like I just pasted incorrectly. 

For some reason, when I ran ```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]sudo iptables-restore < /etc/iptables/rules.v4[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#222222]
```[/COLOR]
[/COLOR]
...my SSH connectivity through my VPN began working again. 

Worth noting, the server actually is available on the web, only for myself to access remotely. It's not inaccessible from outside. I do have SSH key files for logins though. I've long suspected my IPtables were crap, due to my prior-mentioned inexperience with Linux and server admin when I began piecing together this server a couple years back.

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-05-09
By not available I meant with private IP vs public IP. Any machine that has 192.168.1.x can't be accessed from the internet unless you forward traffic to it from your ISP router. So only the forwarded traffic actually reaches the server.

And you control those forward rules on the router. That is, in a standard setup...

While trying things probably some iptables rule got modified or deleted temporarily. When you applied them again it started working.

---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-05-09
Thanks again for the guidance, Darko. 

Here is my /etc/iptables/rules.v4 file now. Can you give me one more tweak/critique? I'm sure it's still not exactly perfect. By far. 

```
cat /etc/iptables/rules.v4# Generated by iptables-save v1.6.0 on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [5201:621715]
:INPUT ACCEPT [335:46633]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [1330:93863]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [1340:94981]
-A POSTROUTING -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o enp2s0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018
# Generated by iptables-save v1.6.0 on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [59956:9655721]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [137055:167632249]
-A INPUT -i enp2s0 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport 38205 -j ACCEPT


COMMIT


# Completed on Sun Oct 14 22:26:36 2018
```

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-05-10
Well, this part below basically says YES to all. That means actually iptables is in way disabled, it doesn't block anything.
```
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [59956:9655721]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [137055:167632249]
```

So this following rule has no meaning at all because even if it didn't exist the traffic to port 38205 would be accepted.
```
-A INPUT -i enp2s0 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport 38205 -j ACCEPT
```

If you really want iptables to block traffic you need to at least block traffic to INPUT and FORWARD chains. But in such case you need additional rules because with your example above if you block INPUT traffic you will block ssh too. You have no specific ssh rules.

Here is example from one of mine openvpn servers, note that it is on public IP (directly on internet). I have only few basic rules allowing ssh and openvpn traffic (including traffic between the NIC and the openvpn tun0):
```
*filter
:INPUT DROP [0:0]
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]

-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p udp --dport 1194 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i tun0 -s 10.8.0.0/24 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 22 -m state --state NEW -m recent --set --name SSH
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 22 -m state --state NEW -m recent --update --seconds 60 --hitcount 4 --rttl --name SSH -j DROP
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT

COMMIT

*nat
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]

-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -s 10.8.0.0/24 -j MASQUERADE

COMMIT
```

In this case the openvpn port is 1194. You will have to adjust for the port you are using. You will also need to replace eth0 with the name of your server NIC. Notice how I have INPUT DROP and FORWARD DROP which tells iptables to deny all traffic not explicitly allowed with a rule.

If you have question about some of the rules, ask.

---

### Post by vellofrell on 2020-05-13
thanks man, I have began to update these crap iptables rules I have set. this is especially helpful as I prep refining the settings and configs before I transfer the whole thing to new hardware. If something arises, I'll ask. thanks again.

---

