---
title: "18.04 Server Install Options"
date: 2018-06-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-06-24
Can someone please direct me to some description of the packages included in the different options presented in the server install like LAMP, email, SAMBA, etc?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-06-24
Like this? [https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/)

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-06-24
I had seen that. What I was looking for is a list of packages included in the different install options during the server installation

This is the list of options from the Debian installer.

DNS server: Selects the BIND DNS server and its documentation.
LAMP server: Selects a ready-made Linux/Apache/MySQL/PHP server.
Mail server: This task selects a variety of packages useful for a general purpose mail server system.
OpenSSH server: Selects packages needed for an OpenSSH server.
PostgreSQL database: This task selects client and server packages for the PostgreSQL database.
Print server: This task sets up your system to be a print server.
Samba File server: This task sets up your system to be a Samba file server, which is especially suitable in networks with both Windows and Linux systems.
Tomcat Java server: Installs Apache Tomcat and needed dependencies.
Virtual Machine host: Includes packages needed to run KVM virtual machines.

tasksel can give you a list of the 'tasks', but I haven't found a list of packages included in the tasks, like for example which MTA is in the email server or what is included in the Samba server. included in them.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-06-24
Ah ... so general descriptions aren't sufficient.

Install just the ssh-server, then you can manually run tasksel with each to see which packages are included.  <cntl>-c out to prevent further action and move onto the next tasksel item you are interested in.  Do this post-install.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-06-24
Also
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tasksel](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tasksel)

> Tasks are defined in .desc files found in /usr/share/tasksel.  Debian derivatives can easily add tasks. 

The default list available in Ubuntu can be viewed with this command-line: 
grep Task /usr/share/tasksel/ubuntu-tasks.desc

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-06-24
> **TheFu said:**
> Ah ... to general descriptions aren't sufficient.

Install just the ssh-server, then you can manually run tasksel with each to see which packages are included.  <cntl>-c out to prevent further action and move onto the next tasksel item you are interested in.  Do this post-install.

Using tasksel from a terminal I installed several tasks, but I was never shown a list of packages unlike apt.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-06-24
I don't have any /usr/share/tasksel on 16.04 desktop. I does exist on 16.04 server installs, however.

```
Task: mail-server
Description: Mail server
 This task selects a variety of package useful for a general purpose mail
 server system.
Key: 
 postfix
Packages: task-fields
Section: server
```

is an example section. Nice.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-06-24
post-got-stuck;)

---

### Post by pauljkean on 2018-09-03
I downloaded and installed 18.04 server but it doesn't give me the option for thing like LAMP, SSH etc that older installs did. 
Have I done something wrong or downloaded the wrong version or  ....

---

