---
title: "phpldapadmin &quot;Your install of PHP appears to be missing LDAP support&quot;"
date: 2010-07-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by SJI on 2010-07-19
Hi folks,

I've been trying to get phpldapadmin and slapd installed for a while now and i'm still getting nowhere with it.

Running on 2.6.32-23-server #37-Ubuntu SMP x86_64 GNU/Linux

using apt-get install slapd ldap-utils phpldapadmin 

Everything installs without error, but when I try to access the phpldapadmin page i'm being presented with "Your install of PHP appears to be missing LDAP support"

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Zeosa on 2010-07-19
try installing the php ldap module

```

apt-get install php5-ldap

```

then restart apache

---

### Post by SJI on 2010-07-19
php5-ldap is already installed.

dpkg -l|grep ldap :

ii  ldap-utils                      2.4.21-0ubuntu5                   OpenLDAP utilities
ii  libaprutil1-ldap                1.3.9+dfsg-3build1                The Apache Portable Runtime Utility Library 
ii  libldap-2.4-2                   2.4.21-0ubuntu5                   OpenLDAP libraries
ii  php5-ldap                       5.3.2-1ubuntu4.2                  LDAP module for php5
ii  phpldapadmin                    1.1.0.7-1.2ubuntu2                web based interface for administering LDAP s

---

### Post by ruffEdgz on 2010-07-19
That is good that you installed it but you might want to check the apache.conf file to make sure that module is being loaded.

Once you installed it without any errors, did you restart your apache service after the install (didn't mentition it on your first post so I want to make sure its been done to rule that out)?

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by SJI on 2010-07-19
The only reference i can find to apache.conf is a symbolic link from /etc/apache2/conf.d/phpldapadmin -> /etc/phpldapadmin/apache.conf

As that's a phpldapadmin file would it not be configured correctly after install?


I've restarted apache2. I've purged the slapd ldap-utils phpldapadmin and the associated installed files. Rebooted the machine and then reinstalled slapd ldap-utils phpldapadmin afresh. Unfortunately With the same results.

---

### Post by SJI on 2010-07-19
I needed to add the line in /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini

extension=ldap.so

And then the fix the error that's generated by phpldapadmin I had to change a line in /usr/share/phpldapadmin/lib/common.php

from:
error_reporting(E_ALL);
to:
error_reporting(E_ALL & ~E_DEPERCATED);

---

