---
title: "10.04 RAID5 over cifs occasionally hick-ups"
date: 2012-05-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by electrofreak on 2012-05-27
I have been running an md storage array for a few years now using a RAID-5 on four Samsung 5400RPM 2TB drives.

It originally had 3 drives, but I later expanded to the 4th drive.

```
md2 : active raid5 sdf1[3] sdd1[1] sdc1[0] sde1[2]
      5860535808 blocks level 5, 128k chunk, algorithm 2 [4/4] [UUUU]

```

OS is 10.04 LTS server: Linux sub 2.6.32-41-server #89-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 27 22:33:31 UTC 2012 x86_64 GNU/Linux

I mostly use the storage array over my local network, all gigabit, using cifs. I'm not sure where the hick-up comes from, cifs or the array itself.

But, occasionally, I'll be watching a movie, or even just transferring files, and it'll essentially pause for 5-10 seconds, then all of a sudden "catch up" and continue on fairly smoothly. There is never any message in dmesg or any logs that I've seen about why it had to hick-up like that. I'll just be watching a movie, then it'll pause for several seconds. If I'm by the server, I'll hear the drives being silent, essentially, and then when the movie resumes there will be lots of HDD thrashing.

It's always done this, but I've recently gotten to be fairly annoyed by it. I have no idea where the hick-up actually originates from (RAID, system in general, cifs). Additionally, read/write performance has never been steller... Almost never tops 50MB/s, usually more like 25MB/s over the local network. Watching a video is not a major stress to the I/O, so I don't believe it to be a stress senario that is causing it.

Any ideas on where to begin diagnosing the problem would be greatly appreciated. I'd like to be able to sustain a consistent transfer without these random blocks of inactivity.

---

