---
title: "8.04 Server file permissions not working as expected"
date: 2008-10-11
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by barrycom on 2008-10-11
I am running 8.04 Ubuntu Server edition.

I created a directory as root called testing
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 4096 2008-10-11 10:29 testing/

Changed the file permissions to be rw rw ---
drw-rw---- 2 root root 4096 2008-10-11 10:29 testing/

Changed the group ownership to be staff
drw-rw---- 2 root staff 4096 2008-10-11 10:29 testing/

but when a member of staff tries to access the directory they get 
-bash: cd: testing: Permission denied

Changing the file permissions to be drw-rwx--- allows the group access
drw-rwx--- 2 root staff 4096 2008-10-11 10:29 testing

This is not what I would expect. I would think that as long as the user is the owner or in the group that owns the directory they would be able to access the directory. Apparently members of the group are only allowed access if the execute permission is set.

Is this a bug?  Working as someone designed? Am I missing something here?

Anyone have a suggestion or explanation by any chance?

---

### Post by gpsmikey on 2008-10-11
I do remember reading somewhere recently that the "x" bit has to be set to be able to list the directory.  Didn't make sense to me either, but I do remember seeing that in one of my books.  One reference is in the book **"Beginning Ubuntu LTS Server Administration" Second edition**, pg 129, where he makes the comment ***"execute is used to alow a file to execute executable code.  If applied to a directory, it allows a user to access that directory with a command like cd.  Therefore, the execute permission is applied as a default permission to all directories on a Linux system."***

Yeah, I know, doesn't exactly makes sense to me either, but it is documented :)

mikey

---

### Post by barrycom on 2008-10-11
Well thats a start. Kind of a crazy (read lazy) way to control access.  Check the execute bit instead of the actual permissions.

Thank you kindly for going to the trouble of looking that information up!

---

