---
title: "12.04.1 reboot and shutdown problems?"
date: 2012-09-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ericmachine on 2012-09-14
Hi there,

My specs as below:-
2 x Intel Xeon SIX-Core E5-2620 2.0Ghz processors
- 1 x 60GB 2.5" SATA3 SSD (for OS/Apps Rapid Startup)
  - 2 x 1TB 3.5", 6Gb/s, 7.2K rpm NL-SAS HDDs(SET AS RAID 1)

I installed Ubuntu 12.04.1 server 64 bits LTS guided partitioning option on the SSD.

I managed to install 12.04.1 successfully. Can login and all worked well. 

But when I tried to "reboot", it seems like it shutdown. Then, I saw the monitor blinking. Waited 15 mins, but still nothing. There's lights on the server, HDD. But nothing moving.

So I kill the server by pressing the shutdown button.

Waited few mins and press the start button.

This time, I can see everything until it shows me the Ubuntu page, memory test screen. Then it redirects to a dark grey blank screen. It took forever and didn't manage to go into login screen.

So I killed the server again with the shutdown button. I waited longer before I started again.

I tried again, this time it managed to go into login screen. I tried login and it worked.

I tested with "shutdown -h now".. and the problems continues mostly on the dark grey blank screen. 

Is there a workaround for this issue?

Please help. Thank you.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-14
Forcing a shutdown may corrupt system, then a fsck can take a long time on a reboot especially with a large file system.

Holding down Alt and SysRq (which is the Print Screen key) while slowly typing REISUB
R-E-I-S-U-B to force shutdown
A good way to remember it is.
Raising Skinny Elephants Is Utterly Boring ...or
Reboot System Even If Ultimately Broken ...LOL.
[http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)
Another
sudo init 0

Generally pressing and holding Ctrl+Alt and
then PrintScr, R, E, I, S, U, B (Raising Elephants Is So Utterly Boring)
should do a clean reboot.
R gives back control of the keyboard, S issues a sync, E sends all processes but init the term singal, I sends all processes but init the kill signal, U mounts all filesystem ro to prevent a fsck at reboot, B reboots the system

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-09-14
The command "reboot" is an alias for "shutdown -r now".  What if you run that complete command instead?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-14
The reboot procedure is when system has locked up and you cannot even get to terminal to kill processes nor do a normal shutdown.

I only have had to use it once or twice. It even worked on a half booted system. But normally you should be able to get to a terminal, use top to see processes and then kill a runaway process.

---

### Post by ericmachine on 2012-09-14
So you mean is nothing to do with my hardware or ubuntu 12.04.1?

and i should never ever use either commands:-

reboot
shutdown -h now

and I should use your approach here:-

Generally pressing and holding Ctrl+Alt and
then PrintScr, R, E, I, S, U, B (Raising Elephants Is So Utterly Boring)

Is that how to properly restart the server the right way?

sometimes i have to restart due to apt-get upgrade command. 

any help? thanks.

by the way, what do you mean by > The command "reboot" is an alias for "shutdown -r now".  What if you run that complete command instead?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-14
No, if you can get to a terminal you should use that to shutdown normally.

The REISUB is just when the system totally freezes and clicking anywhere does not work. 

But you should never use power switch to shutdown. Of course if you cannot get to a terminal and REISUB does not work, then a forced shut down may be required. But often you then have to run e2fsck to repair file system.

---

### Post by ericmachine on 2012-09-15
yeah i tried to use either commands to reboot or shutdown. But faced the problems mentioned above.

Now my server is at the vendor side. I need him to test the REISUB first. I already emailed him the details and hope he can test it out.

I believe we didn't run the e2fsck command when we press the shutdown server button. Will get them to do that too.

Just want to check. So if everytime I run the "reboot" or "shutdown -h now" command and will always see the dark grey freeze thing, is that normal? Could that be hardware problem? Or just it is not recommended to reboot server. Do you also face problems like i face on my specs like mine? 2 x procerssors, 1 SSD (base install) and RAID 1 HDDs? If this happens most of the time with specs like this or above, then I need my sys admin to take note on this so we won't simply reboot servers for no reason.

just wondering, when you all do apt-get upgrade, you still have to reboot right?

---

