---
title: "10.04.1 sometimes ksoftirqd get 100% on one core"
date: 2010-10-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by nr1c0re on 2010-10-01
Hello everyone!

I've got router 9.10 ubuntu that routes 100mb/s+ traffic. It has no NAT or firewall enabled, only ipsec-tools and racoon with another peer over leased 1gb/s line. I've tested with iperf - about 950mbit/s over that link can encrypt this router.

Yesterday I decided to move to LTS version - 10.04.
I've made
apt-get dist-upgrade
reboot
do-release-upgrade
reboot

All good when I got less then ~10-20mbit/s. But when it get like 50+mbit/s ping increase from 1ms to 300-400 ms and i've got about 50% packet loss. If i get more traffic over that router - I have even more % of packet loss.

In top I see that one process ksoftirqd makes one core of cpu to 100% load.

I tryed to check what can be a reason of it with powertop:

In 9.10 and 10.04 normal operation I see folowing picture:
_________________________________________

Cn                Avg residency       P-states (frequencies)
C0 (cpu running)        (21.0%)
polling           0.0ms ( 0.0%)
C1 halt           0.0ms ( 0.0%)
C2                0.0ms (10.7%)
C3                0.2ms (68.3%)

Wakeups-from-idle per second : 6445.3   interval: 0.5s
no ACPI power usage estimate available

Top causes for wakeups:
  56.0% (  inf)       <interrupt> : eth1
**  41.5% (  inf)       <interrupt> : eth0**
   1.1% (  inf)       <interrupt> : extra timer interrupt
   0.7% (  inf)     <kernel core> : add_timer (smi_timeout)
   0.4% (  inf)            kipmi0 : schedule_timeout_interruptible (process_timeout)
   0.0% (  inf)       <interrupt> : ipmi_si
   0.0% (  inf)     <kernel core> : neigh_add_timer (neigh_timer_handler)
   0.0% (  inf)     <kernel core> : ipmi_timeout (ipmi_timeout)
   0.0% (  inf)     <kernel core> : neigh_periodic_timer (neigh_periodic_timer)
   0.0% (  inf)      <kernel IPI> : Rescheduling interrupts
_________________________________________

And when traffic rate increase in 10.04 i see folowing:

_________________________________________

  48.8% (847.6)   [eth0] <interrupt>
[B]  23.0% (400.4)   [kernel scheduler] Load balancing tick
  11.5% (200.4)   [kernel core] add_timer (smi_timeout)
   7.0% (121.2)   [extra timer interrupt]
   5.8% (100.0)   kipmi0
   2.2% ( 39.0)   [Rescheduling interrupts] <kernel IPI>[/B]
   0.6% ( 10.0)   [kernel core] ipmi_timeout (ipmi_timeout)
   0.4% (  7.0)   [ipmi_si] <interrupt>
   0.2% (  4.0)   [kernel core] usb_hcd_poll_rh_status (rh_timer_func)
_________________________________________

As you can see eth1 dissapears in 10.04 under heavy load in powertop and "[kernel scheduler] Load balancing tick" and other things takes more work.

Why is it so? What has changed from 9.10 to 10.04.1 in networking?
Any ideas?
Thanks in advance!!!

---

### Post by a9k3d on 2010-10-02
The most likely explanation for the symptoms is interrupt overruns. Possibly the eth0 driver is polling instead of using DMA. It is taking too long handling a packet and leaving no time for much else.

I'd check the driver for eth0. 
[LIST]
[*]Check the new driver has same name as the old driver. It could be that 10.04 auto-detected and installed a wrong driver.
[*]Check kernel change notes for that driver. Maybe a parameter was added that has to be configured for better speed.
[/LIST]
Maybe this article can help with the problem: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReschedulingInterrupts]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReschedulingInterrupts")
Also there has been some kernel changes in the load balancing: [https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=635813]("https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=635813") 

Good luck hunting this down. I am sure you don't want to be adding kprint's to the kernel to debug this.

---

### Post by nr1c0re on 2010-10-03
Thanks for you reply!

It's HP server with onboard broadcom - bnx2 driver.

On 9.10 all works very good.

More in depth:
Problem appears on 2 different servers, but all are HP with broadcom onboard. One server has 1 CPU with 4cores, second server has 1 CPU with 2 cores. Both servers has 2 broadcom NIC's.
I made CPU affinity to each NIC to pin interrupts of each NIC to dedicated core, that gave me additional speed up to 1gbit/s of IPSEC'ed traffic.
But making CPU affinity was a bit tricky. Those broadcom NIC's are not good with MSI/MSI-X interrupts, they can not migrate from one CPU to another when I change their (NIC) affinity in /proc/irq/*id_num*/smp_affinity.
I had to make
pre-up echo 'CPU_CORE_NUMBER' > /proc/irq/*id_num*/smp_affinity
post-up echo 'ff' > /proc/irq/*id_num*/smp_affinity

for each NIC to pin it's IRQ to core.

May be those "kernel sheduler/resheduler interrupts" got some problems with it...

Is there any other utilities except powertop to view what's happening there in ksoftirqd process in kernel?

---

### Post by psillithid on 2010-10-25
I'm seeing a similar problem on two of my Lucid boxes.

One was a clean install and I assumed it must've just been bad hardware in that server, but I've upgrade a Jaunty server to Lucid and it new exhibits the same problem.

On both servers the NICs are Intel Pro/1000's, running the e1000e driver.

It only seems to take 1Mbit/s over IPSec to send either server into a soft death. Load continues to grow, the system becomes practically unresponsive, and one core is 100% dealing with soft interrupts. Killing the IPSec tunnel stops the problem and the server recovers (after a while).

I was wondering if you found a solid work around for the problem, or got to the bottom of the cause?

---

### Post by nr1c0re on 2010-10-26
Still no resolution found.
Want to check out 10.10 server in a week. But it's not LTS :(
Will report soon.

---

