---
title: "14.04 Server on a G3"
date: 2017-03-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by alving on 2017-03-25
hi all

yes, the title is correct. im running Ubuntu server 14.04 on an OLD pretty blue g3.
(450MHz, 2 x 256K PC100, 40G, Rage128 & slot-load dvd)
been up and running for about a month now. NO clients yet.

installed ltsp-server.
when i run ltsp-build-client i get an error message saying:
ltsp-build-client ended abnormally.
unable to locate package linux-image-powerpc

i first got this error message when i ran the command ltsp-build-client normally.
googled problem, found out about mirrors.
typed the whole command uncluding the regular, security & update mirrors.
didnt help.  still get same message.
also tried mounting the original install dvd with no luck either.

i checked /etc/apt/sources.list, the mirrors are all listed.
i have been doing daily updates / upgrades as needed.
debating whether i should "do-release-upgrade" to 16.04 it keeps informing me of when i login.

havent had any problems with this at all, until i try to build the client.

any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by alving on 2017-03-29
after more reading...
tried,   ltsp-build-client --copy sources.list

then i did do-release-upgrade to 16.04.2. (only took about 2 1/2 hours)
ltsp-build-client (with & with-out) --copy-sources.list

still have NO luck.

does this make a difference?
my /etc/apt/sources.list shows...

#all the normal crap
#p2r3efyuqr3f
#;sldfjuv;wlerv
#;kljfv;ler
deb [http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports](http://ports.ubuntu.com/ubuntu-ports) xenial main restricted
deb-src [http://archives.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://archives.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) xenial main restricted
its the same for all of the entries in the file.  updates, security, backports...

would this be trying to find the source images in the archives and not through the ports?
should i change the deb-src line to the ports?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2017-03-29
You shouldn't need anything else, ltsp-build-client is installed when you install ltsp-server. The file is located in /usr/sbin. To run it use the following command:

```
sudo ltsp-build-client
```

---

### Post by katakaio on 2017-04-01
I'm not familiar with ltsp-server, but I am running 16.04 on a G4 and starting to learn the quirks! Out of curiosity, what kernel are you running now after the upgrade?
```
uname -r
```
Also, what message do you get if you try to install linux-image-powerpc-smp? (Xenial doesn't offer a non-SMP kernel for PPC, to my knowledge.) I assume it's already installed, but I wonder...

---

### Post by alving on 2017-04-06
i will let you know the uname -r and the exact ltsp-build-client error message.output when i get back on the G3.

im still kinda confused about the kernel, when i was doing the original install, it said it was installing the "SMP" kernel...  (Did they even know about SMP when this thing was built?)
how can i change it to so the ltsp-build-client looks for the SMP kernel instead?

P.S. - turns out they did know...   first used way back in 1961.

---

### Post by alving on 2017-04-06
ok.  now im even more confused...

when i boot / login the welcome message says:
Welcome to Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 4.4.0-70-powerpc-smp ppc)

uname -r = 4.4.0-70-powerpc-smp

sudo apt-get upgrade tells me the following 2 packages have been held back.
linux-headers-powerpc-smp & linux-image-powerpc-smp
all other updates install fine.

running the build-client now.   will post results when its done.

---

### Post by katakaio on 2017-04-08
@alving, that all checks out. You've successfully upgraded to 16.04.2, which uses the powerpc-smp kernel. (It works fine on non-SMP systems, btw.) The kernel upgrades are being held back, which isn't an error. If you want the latest and greatest (4.4.0-72-powerpc-smp at the moment), simply run:
```
apt-get dist-upgrade
```

You may or may not need to do this in order to fix your original ltsp-server issue, though. Let's see if the OS update did the trick.

---

