---
title: "ddclient"
date: 2006-08-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by lugos on 2006-08-16
Hello,

I installed Ubuntu 6.06 LAMP Server and Xubuntu desktop on my machine.  I set up an account with zoneedit.com and I typed in sudo apt-get install ddclient in the terminal but I got an error saying that ddclient could not be located (or something like that).  I also looked through the Synaptic Package Manager, but could not find it there either.  Am I missing something or doing something wrong?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks,
lugos

---

### Post by Uluen on 2006-08-16
Have you enabled the universe and multiverse repositories?

---

### Post by lugos on 2006-08-16
I don't know, which probably means I haven't.  How do I go about doing that?

---

### Post by chonger on 2006-08-16
To enable extra repositories,

[https://help.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/extra-repositories.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/serverguide/C/extra-repositories.html)

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/extra-repositories.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/extra-repositories.html)

---

### Post by lugos on 2006-08-16
Great!  Thanks for the links.  I typed in **sudo apt-get install ddclient** and now I am going through the configuration process, however I am stuck.  It is prompting me for "Interface used for dynamic DNS service."  What is it referring to when it asks for an Interface?  I will be using my Ubuntu Server to host my website.

I use a netgear router, should I enter 'netgear' at the prompt for 'Interface used for dynamic DNS service'?

---

### Post by cptnapalm on 2006-08-17
The interface it is asking about is the network interface.  In other words, which network card or whatnot to use to go online with.

The best thing, in my opinion, to do is to point it at a webpage which outputs your IP address when you go to it.  Dyndns, I think, has one of these.

Ah, here it is.  checkip.dyndns.org

You will need to set up your router to do port forwarding.  If everything goes through your Ubuntu server (other computer connections as well, for instance) then if you can just DMZ it.  Otherwise, you will need to open a port on the router for each service which you intend on running and point it at the internal IP address of your server.

---

### Post by lugos on 2006-08-17
Here's what my ddclient.conf configuration looks like:

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=zoneedit1
use=if, if=eth0
server=www.zoneedit.com
login=login_id
password='password'
[www.mydomain.com](www.mydomain.com)

But it sets the IP address at zoneedit to the IP address assigned by the router, 192.168.0.2, not the IP address assigned by my ISP.

I have enabled port forwarding on my router.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by lugos on 2006-08-19
I figured it out!  This is what my ddclient.conf looks like now and it works!  Thanks for the help.

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=zoneedit1
use=web
server=www.zoneedit.com
login=login_id
password='password'
[www.mydomain.com](www.mydomain.com)

---

### Post by gcnovus on 2006-09-09
I seem to have successfully installed ddclient - I used the synaptic package manager and it automatically ran me through a short setup screen (which simply edited the appropriate values in the .conf file).  I can't figure out whether it's working, though.  Is there some way to check the most recent update time and whether it was successful?

Thanks,
GCN

---

### Post by az on 2006-09-10
> **gcnovus said:**
> I seem to have successfully installed ddclient - I used the synaptic package manager and it automatically ran me through a short setup screen (which simply edited the appropriate values in the .conf file).  I can't figure out whether it's working, though.  Is there some way to check the most recent update time and whether it was successful?

Thanks,
GCN
Your router is supposed to be the dynamic dns client, not a box behind it.

You would use ddclient if you connected directlry to your broadband modem.

---

### Post by waltervalderrama on 2006-09-14
I am directly connected to the internet, i have a public IP (dynamic of course).

---

