---
title: "4.3GB transfer limit. Who's to blame? Apache? WebDAV?"
date: 2012-06-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-06-20
I'm running OwnCloud on my Ubuntu 12.04 server, along with Apache. I had my WebDAV share mounted via Nautilus and sent a 5.9GB file to it. It tanked twice @ 4.3GB on the nose. Afterwards I got an error citing my computer did not have enough memory to determine the cause of the error. I have 8GB of memory, and it was entirely maxed until I hit okay. Then things calmed down.

That said, where's the 4.3GB limit reside? Is that an Apache issue? Or is that the way WebDAV works? Is it adjustable or is this just the way it is?

EDIT - According to Apache's IRC, that hasn't been a limitation for quite some time. I noticed my memory quickly increasing when I pasted the file into the WebDAV directory within Nautilus. It continually rises @ about 100-150MB per second, and finally tanks @ 4.3GB on the nose with my memory around 90% used. The only error that comes up is:

Error in stream protocol: End of stream

EDIT II - Looks like it's a bug with Nautilus/GVFS, as it buffers the file prior to transferring, which is so far beyond confusing it's unreal. Why load the entire file into RAM before transferring it? Sounds like 1995 technology. Anyway, that's the issue with Nautilus, which is a show stopper.

SO NOW I'm trying to figure out davfs2. I can run a simple sudo mount -t davfs [http://myrandomserverurlhere.com/owncloud](http://myrandomserverurlhere.com/owncloud) /webdav (I created a /webdav folder on root). I can access the files, but I can't write. I assume I need to mount with rw permissions of some sort, no? I didn't see any of this in the davfs2 example I saw. Can anybody give me an idea?

---

