---
title: "10.04 to 12.04: /usr/sbin/brctl moved to /sbin/brctl caused OpenVpn script error"
date: 2012-09-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by aeg1s on 2012-09-14
Hi all,

Just wanted to post about a problem I found and resolved after upgrading from Ubuntu Server 10.04 LTS to 12.04.1 LTS.

After upgrading I had problems with getting OpenVpn Server running.  It had been working for several years previously.  I run a bridged connection that allows OpenVpn to assign IP's on my primary LAN.  It does this through invoking an up.sh and down.sh script referenced in my client.conf file...

First, I had to start running openvpn manually with "openvpn --script security 2" or I would get errors in /var/log/syslog

After fixing that problem, I got the following in /var/log/syslog:

WARNING: Failed running command (--up/--down): could not execute external program

I searched up.sh which I use for the bridge I found that it was calling /usr/sbin/brctl so I went to look for the file.  It was gone...  I reinstalled the bridge-utils package and it was still missing...  I examined the bridge-utils package and discovered the brctl was MOVED! Haha...  They really don't make this easy...  Would have been nice if they had at least left a symlink in /usr/sbin/brctl...  Anyway, the file is now in /sbin/brctl and if you change this reference in your up.sh and down.sh scripts (or whatever you chose to call them) everything seems to work fine...

Really though, I think they could have just made a symlink from the old to the new location...

Rob

---

### Post by aeg1s on 2012-09-14
Also, if you want to get OpenVpn back to automatically starting instead of using the --script-security 2 switch everytime you call up openvpn manually, you can add this to your client.conf file prior to the call for your external (up/down) scripts:

script-security 2
up "/etc/openvpn/up.sh br0"
down "/etc/openvpn/down.sh br0"

#the last two lines will be unique to your configuration...

Rob

---

### Post by rgl2020 on 2012-11-26
Thanks for posting your solution.  I've been trying to fix mine for 3 days with no luck until I saw your post.

---

