---
title: "12.04 Backup ideas"
date: 2012-06-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rwslippey on 2012-06-14
Hello..

I've got a server running locally that has a lot of important files on it for both myself and my family (family photos, legal documents, ect) I'm interested in starting a local (1TB USB Hard Drive) Backup and then later on an off site backup.

I also have a few databases I play around with that I don't want to backup via the network (they are just way to big) So being able to pick and choose what gets backuped locally (hard drive) and what gets backed up off site (over vpn and maybe ssh I would assume?) would be a plus.

Anyone have any good ideas on how to go about implamenting a good backup system?

---

### Post by spynappels on 2012-06-14
rsync will do all you want it to. Have a look at the rsync man pages and the Ubuntu Wiki:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/rsync](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/rsync)

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2012-06-14
If later you do want to backup your MySQL database, I made [this script]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11951852&postcount=8") for that purpose.

I also have a script for backing up files that are currently in use ([online]("http://www.zimbra.com/forums/installation/56367-my-notes-installing-zimbra-ose-ubuntu-server-10-04-lts-2.html#post241016")) that runs multiple times a day while the server is up and holding onto some files (locks).  I have another script that rsync's the files when the services are shutdown ([offline]("http://www.zimbra.com/forums/installation/56367-my-notes-installing-zimbra-ose-ubuntu-server-10-04-lts-2.html#post241017")) which I schedule once per day.  Using rsync in this fashion allows for the vast majority of the data to be copied to the target location and when the offline job is run, it is extremely fast because it only needs to sync the few files it could not access while the services were online and locking the files.  This allows for the least amount of downtime for your services...well, you could do LVM snapshots if you want to stay online all the time. :)

You can use rsync to keep a target folder in "sync" with a source folder.  You can also archive the target folder if you want to keep snapshots of the data at various points in time.

My offline script above also includes a "purge old data" function so that when the target drive becomes full, it deletes the oldest archives until there is enough room to copy the current archive.  A really slick feature if you have a dedicated location for your backups.  It will allow you to have as many backups as your drive can hold.

LHammonds

---

### Post by anonymouschief on 2012-06-14
Take a look at Backuppc as well: 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupPC]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupPC")

For a quicker setup, I vote for rsync, because there is nothing to setup. :).

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-06-14
> **LHammonds said:**
> If later you do want to backup your MySQL database, I made [this script]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11951852&postcount=8") for that purpose.

I also have a script for backing up files that are currently in use ([online]("http://www.zimbra.com/forums/installation/56367-my-notes-installing-zimbra-ose-ubuntu-server-10-04-lts-2.html#post241016")) that runs multiple times a day while the server is up and holding onto some files (locks).  I have another script that rsync's the files when the services are shutdown ([offline]("http://www.zimbra.com/forums/installation/56367-my-notes-installing-zimbra-ose-ubuntu-server-10-04-lts-2.html#post241017")) which I schedule once per day.  Using rsync in this fashion allows for the vast majority of the data to be copied to the target location and when the offline job is run, it is extremely fast because it only needs to sync the few files it could not access while the services were online and locking the files.  This allows for the least amount of downtime for your services...well, you could do LVM snapshots if you want to stay online all the time. :)

You can use rsync to keep a target folder in "sync" with a source folder.  You can also archive the target folder if you want to keep snapshots of the data at various points in time.

My offline script above also includes a "purge old data" function so that when the target drive becomes full, it deletes the oldest archives until there is enough room to copy the current archive.  A really slick feature if you have a dedicated location for your backups.  It will allow you to have as many backups as your drive can hold.

LHammonds
Nice scripts. I've heard of using --inplace for backing up stuff like VHDs but I don't really know what exactly it does outside of doing an "inplace" backup.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2012-06-19
> **CharlesA said:**
> Nice scripts. I've heard of using --inplace for backing up stuff like VHDs but I don't really know what exactly it does outside of doing an "inplace" backup.
Thanks.

The "--inplace" option, from what I understand, is to allow rsync to write files DIRECTLY to the target.  If you have extremely large files, it might be useful to prevent a temporary file being created and then replace the target once it is copied over.  However, there is the risk that if the connection is severed mid-stream, the target file will be broken since it was writing to the target file directly.  This is not something I would ever recommend doing though.  You might want it if you are trying to make a backup of a VM image while the server is down in order to get rsync to run as fast as possible, but I would recommend exploring other options first...such as doing a snapshot of an LVM containing the image...but that all depends on the setup.

Another potential problem with "--inplace" is that if you are using VMs where the images are dynamically allocated, thus only taking up they are actually using, an rsync with "--inplace" might cause the image to expand to the fully defined size of the image...thus wasting space rather than conserving it...but I have not verified this.

LHammonds

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-06-19
Thanks for explaining. I've never used it before.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-06-19
> **LHammonds said:**
> If you have extremely large files, it might be useful to prevent a temporary file being created and then replace the target once it is copied over.  However, there is the risk that if the connection is severed mid-stream, the target file will be broken since it was writing to the target file directly.

One of rsync's nice features, though, is its ability to recover from an interrupted transfer without having to restart copying the last file from the beginning.  In my experience it will find the .filename.whatever temporary file it created before the interruption and continue on from there.

---

### Post by bubylou on 2012-06-19
Personally i use rsync to backup my data to another machine on my network from a mounted directory. If you worried about the size of your files remember that rsync only backs up changes after the first initial backup. 
Another choice would be an archive rotation, perhaps using tar, but i think that would be overkill for a simple home setup.

---

