---
title: "8.04 Drupal 6.9 Install &amp; configure - Please help"
date: 2009-02-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mobcdi on 2009-02-02
I'm having no luck getting drupal up and running on 8.04 I have tried posting to the **[COLOR=Red][drupal forum]("http://drupal.org/node/364987")[/COLOR]** but didn't get any responses so I'm hoping the helpful ubuntu community might be able to rescue me 

I running up a steep learning curve as I'm new to ubuntu, apache2, webmin and drupal so please bear with me. 

I've managed to mangle together a virtual server on apache using webmin that points to my drupal files but when I start running through the drupal installation steps I get errors about sessions.( see my drupal forum post for the exact error)

Is there anyone around that is willing to help guide me through the steps to install & configure drupal 6 on ubuntu 8.04 using webmin & apache2

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-02-02
HI  -- Don't know a darn thing about webmin.  Is there a reason why you'd be doing a virtual server setup instead of just a straight-forward install?

I've done several localhost installations, without getting all fancy, without much ado.

---

### Post by Thirtysixway on 2009-02-02
I could probably help, but you may want to look at this first

[http://www.turnkeylinux.org/appliances/drupal6](http://www.turnkeylinux.org/appliances/drupal6)

I know it's not 6.9 but still good.  Do you have the latest version of php installed?

---

### Post by mobcdi on 2009-02-03
Thanks for the responses. To clear up the matter when I'm talking about "virtual server" I'm referring to the ability of Apache2 to be configured for run multiple websites on the same host and not in the virtual hardware kind of virtual server. The term virtual server in webmins apache2 module refers to apache's "virtual host" so sorry for any confusion. 

I'm using PHP5 and I am able to run phpinfo() but think my Apache2 virtual host configuration isn't correct.

I want to set up my drupal site as an apache virtual host so that I can if needed easily host other websites on the same hardware.

I also want to set up my apache2 server to use a different folder than the default location because users won't need physical access to home folders etc.

---

### Post by Thirtysixway on 2009-02-03
I'm not at home but I do this on my home server.  I'll be glad to post any configuration files you need to see.

---

### Post by mobcdi on 2009-02-03
In order to progress the issue I should add that root account is owner of the files & folders in the web root. And here is a copy of the Apache directives in /etc/apache2/sites-available/default that apply to the virtual host

ServerAdmin server@email
	
DocumentRoot /Base/Files/www/Drupal6
	<Directory />
		Options FollowSymLinks
		AllowOverride All
	</Directory>
<Directory /Base/Files/www/Drupal6>
		Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
		AllowOverride all
		Order allow,deny
		allow from all
</Directory>

	ScriptAlias /cgi-bin/ /usr/lib/cgi-bin/
	<Directory "/usr/lib/cgi-bin">
		AllowOverride None
		Options +ExecCGI -MultiViews +SymLinksIfOwnerMatch
		Order allow,deny
		Allow from all
	</Directory>

ErrorLog /Base/Files/Logs/Web/apache2/error.log

	# Possible values include: debug, info, notice, warn, error, crit,
	# alert, emerg.
LogLevel warn

CustomLog /Base/Files/Logs/Web/apache2/error.log "combined"
ServerSignature On

    <Directory "/usr/share/doc/">
        Options Indexes MultiViews FollowSymLinks
        AllowOverride None
        Order deny,allow
        Deny from all
        Allow from 127.0.0.0/255.0.0.0 ::1/128
    </Directory>
ServerName myserver.testdomain.net
ServerAlias [www.myserver.testdomain.net](www.myserver.testdomain.net)
IndexOptions 
DirectoryIndex index.php

---

### Post by mobcdi on 2009-02-05
> **Thirtysixway said:**
> I'm not at home but I do this on my home server.  I'll be glad to post any configuration files you need to see.

Thanks Thirtysixway, Any configuration files you are willing to share would be helpful

---

