---
title: "About installing ddclient"
date: 2006-11-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by satimis on 2006-11-25
Hi folks,

Ubuntu-6.06.1-LAMP-server-amd64

On installing ddclient, what shall I fill in on;
Interface used for dynamic DNS service:

TIA


B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by d.j.schroeder on 2006-11-26
If ifconfig reports your correct IP address (not a private 192.168.x.x) then you can use eth0 or eth1 or whichever ethernet adapter is connected to the internet.  If not you can use web and it will check the IP address from a web site designed for that purpose.

---

### Post by satimis on 2006-11-26
Hi d.j.schroeder,

Tks for your advice.

> If ifconfig reports your correct IP address (not a private 192.168.x.x) then you can use eth0 or eth1 or whichever ethernet adapter is connected to the internet
I'll try 'eth0' later.  I have only one NIC.

> If not you can use web and it will check the IP address from a web site designed for that purpose.
Please advise what is "you can use web" in more detail.  Whether type "web'?

TIA

B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by d.j.schroeder on 2006-11-28
In your ddclient.conf file you can specify:

> use=if, if=eth0

This will make it use the address that eth0 is reporting.  If this doesn't work, because the interface is asigned a private IP you can use:


> use=web

in the ddclient.conf file instead.  I actually don't know which site it goes to when configuraed that way but it seems to work fine.  That's what I've been using for a while.

By the way, if you only have one ethernet adapter it is probably eth0 not eth1.  Look at the output of ifconfig in a terminal window to know for sure.

---

### Post by CyberX on 2006-11-28
Hi.
If your server connects directly to the Internet and gets it's IP from your ISP, you may use
```
use=if, if=eth0
```
so that ddclient use the same IP address that your ISP gives to you.

But if you have a router or something else between your modem and your server, there will be a difference between the IP address that you ISP gives you [a real internet address] and the IP address of your server [a internal, reserved address, like 192.168.0.1].

I have a DSL connection and use a router to share my internet connection allover my home, via NAT. My server uses a static (fixed) IP address and the other computers all get a dynamic IP address (the router also works as a DHCP server).
In this configuration, ddclient must use talk with an outside system to find the internet connection IP address, so
```
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.org
```

I installed ddclient
```
sudo apt-get install ddclient
```

In Edgy the ddclient installation asks you some basic questions and then installs ddclient as a daemon. Just to be sure, I then edited the /etc/ddclient.conf and now it looks like this:

```
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.org
server=members.dyndns.org
login=****
password='****'
wildcard=yes
firstdomainpart.seconddomainpart.org
```

If you registered, for instance, something.gotdns.org, the wildcard=yes option assures that
- [www.something.gotdns.org](www.something.gotdns.org)
- ftp.something.gotdns.org
- mail.something.gotdns.org
- something.gotdns.org

all point to the same IP.

I found that wildcard=yes must apear before your domain name. If not, only something.gotdns.org gets resolved.

I hope my english makes sense :)

---

### Post by satimis on 2006-11-28
Hi d.j.schroeder,

Tks for your advice

> In your ddclient.conf file you can specify:
```

use=if, if=eth0
```

They are already there.

$ cat /etc/ddcliend.conf```

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=eth0
server=members.dyndns.org
login=xxx
password='xxx'
satimis.homelinux.com

```

> This will make it use the address that eth0 is reporting.  If this doesn't work, because the interface is asigned a private IP you can use:
```

use=web

```

I don't have 'use=web' on /etc/ddclient.conf

$ ifconfig```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:13:D4:FE:DA:87
          inet6 addr: fe80::213:d4ff:fefe:da87/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1533 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1847 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:1004777 (981.2 KiB)  TX bytes:287656 (280.9 KiB)
          Interrupt:217 Base address:0xe000

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:83 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:83 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:6216 (6.0 KiB)  TX bytes:6216 (6.0 KiB)

ppp0      Link encap:Point-to-Point Protocol
          inet addr:xxx.xx.xxx.xxx  P-t-P:xxx.xx.xxx.xxx  Mask:255.255.255.255
          UP POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1492  Metric:1
          RX packets:1349 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1611 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:3
          RX bytes:963989 (941.3 KiB)  TX bytes:219506 (214.3 KiB)

```

other noted with tks.


B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by d.j.schroeder on 2006-11-28
So is it working now?

I don't see an IP address associated with eth0 (other than the inet6 address).

---

### Post by satimis on 2006-11-28
Hi CyberX,

Tks for your detail advice.

I have 'ddclient' installed and running on this server.

Also I have 'satimis.homelinux.com' domain registered with DYNDNS.ORG

$ dpkg -l | grep ddclient```

ii  ddclient                                         3.6.2-6ubuntu1              Update dynamic IP address at DynDNS.org

```

$ cat /etc/ddclient.conf```

cat: /etc/ddclient.conf: Permission denied
satimis@ubuntu:~$ sudo cat /etc/ddclient.conf
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=eth0
server=members.dyndns.org
login=xxx
password='xxx'
satimis.homelinux.com

```

> If your server connects directly to the Internet and gets it's IP from your ISP, you may use
```
use=if, if=eth0
```
so that ddclient use the same IP address that your ISP gives to you.

But if you have a router or something else between your modem and your server, there will be a difference between the IP address that you ISP gives you [a real internet address] and the IP address of your server [a internal, reserved address, like 192.168.0.1].

My server is directly connected to broadband via an ADSL modem which is purely a modem I suppose.  No setup is necessary.  One end of the modem is connected to the server with a CAT5 cable and another end to telephone wall socket with a telephone cable.

> If you registered, for instance, something.gotdns.org, the wildcard=yes option assures that
- [www.something.gotdns.org](www.something.gotdns.org)
- ftp.something.gotdns.org
- mail.something.gotdns.org
- something.gotdns.org

all point to the same IP.

I found that wildcard=yes must apear before your domain name. If not, only something.gotdns.org gets resolved.

I don't have 'wildcard=yes' there.  Where shall I add it.  Tks.

Others noted with tks.


B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by satimis on 2006-11-28
Hi d.j.schroeder,

> So is it working now?
It is running but I don't know whether it is working.  How to check it?  What steps shall be performed for checking it? Tks.

> I don't see an IP address associated with eth0 (other than the inet6 address).
Whether your meant```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:13:D4:FE:DA:87
          inet6 addr: fe80::213:d4ff:fefe:da87/64 Scope:Link
....

```

Tks


B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by d.j.schroeder on 2006-11-28
Two ways to check it.

Have someone else send a ping to your satimis.homelinux.com which I just did.  They timed out, so no it doesn't look like it is working.

The other is to log on to dyndns and check your account.  It will tell you when it was last updated and with what address.

---

### Post by satimis on 2006-11-28
Hi d.j.schroeder,

Tks for your advice.

> The other is to log on to dyndns and check your account.  It will tell you when it was last updated and with what address.

Just log on DYNDNS.ORG

My account --> My service... --> Host Level Service --> Dynamic DNS

New IP Address: aaa.bb.ccc.ddd

it is exactly the same as on;
$ifconfig```

....
ppp0      Link encap:Point-to-Point Protocol
          inet addr:aaa.bb.ccc.ddd  P-t-P:219.78.150.254  Mask:255.255.255.255
....

```

Enable Wildcard [check]
MX [check]
Mailexchanger (option) blank


My server fails sending email.  I don't know whether ISP blocks port 25 or something else.  I have iptables stopped.

I'm now searching the whole World for a solution.

Tks.

satimis

---

### Post by satimis on 2006-12-04
Hi folks,

"satimis.homelinux.com" may have problem.

On browser running "satimis.homelinux.com"/"www.satimis.homelinux.com" can't display the homepage.


I have registered another free domain "satimis.freeddns.com"

$ sudo ping -c 3 satimis.freeddns.com```

Password:
PING satimis.freeddns.com (220.246.238.244) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from n220246238244.netvigator.com (220.246.238.244): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.033 ms
64 bytes from n220246238244.netvigator.com (220.246.238.244): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.033 ms
64 bytes from n220246238244.netvigator.com (220.246.238.244): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.034 ms

--- satimis.freeddns.com ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 2015ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.033/0.033/0.034/0.004 ms

```

On browser running "satimis.freeddns.com" displayed the homepage.

Pls advise what other tests shall I continue?  TIA

B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by kinemagician on 2007-11-20
I solved the same problems by following the instructions given in this link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613995&highlight=ddclient.conf](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613995&highlight=ddclient.conf)

---

### Post by satimis on 2007-11-21
> **kinemagician said:**
> I solved the same problems by following the instructions given in this link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613995&highlight=ddclient.conf](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613995&highlight=ddclient.conf)
Thanks for your advice.


B.R.
satimis

---

