---
title: "10.10 server installation stuck at user name entry"
date: 2010-12-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ODITSolutions on 2010-12-05
Hi all, my group collects old PCs, refurbishes them and donates them to schools in low income areas where the majority of the student are too poor to afford a home computer.  We foot all the bills for the installation and parts.  To reduce our personal cost we are trying to set up Edubuntu servers with other pcs acting as clients.  We are not familiar with Edubuntu so any help will be appreciated.  Right now we have tried to install Edubuntu server on two PCs but get stuck when it asks you to enter Name, User, Password for the administrative user.  We enter the info, the "green checks" appears, the password description is "Strong", but the "FORWARD" buttong remains disabled.  Are we missing something?  Please help us out as we wanted to install 5 PCs in the EARLY LEARNING CENTER in Pembroke Pines FL. before Xmas, we have all the equipment, but this problem is holding us up.
   Thank you for your attention

---

### Post by Maundler on 2010-12-16
I can't belive no one has helped you yet!!! And with  what you are doing!! Solidarity and all!! :) Anyway, I am not here to help, since I don't know what is the problem in your installation, but I am having the same problem myself!!! Have you found an answer for this?? Please let me know if you did, or someone please help here!! :)

---

### Post by Maundler on 2010-12-16
Well, anyway, I did some research, I thought to myself.. This can't be too hard, its not like there are many options, so I dig a bit more and as I figured it turned out to be a SILLY solution... In this case Linux is VERY sensible with case-letters on the Username... So try and type a username in low case letters and you can hit forward!!! :) 

Hope I was able to help you, although I would suspect you already have the answer!! :)

---

