---
title: "[18.04 Server] Disk I/O schedulers for IOT devices that are hard powered off often"
date: 2019-07-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2019-07-01
Hi all, I manage a fleet of IOT devices that are running stock Ubuntu 18.04 Server with mSATA SSDs and ext4 fs (no swap).

I am currently in a situation where they are often hard powered off (a situation I cannot control) usually daily and I am looking to tweak the I/O and fs setup to try to write things to disk as quickly as possible to try to minimize disk corruption/data loss as a few of our devices have had enough disk corruption to where the standard fsck on boot couldnt fix it on its own.

Currently for ext4 we are using `discard,noatime,nodiratime` mount options and the default I/O cfq scheduler.

Im currently considering setting the scheduler to `noop` and maybe dropping the ext4 max_batch_time mount option to 0.

I have only ever used the deadline scheduler on my laptops and servers so I am curious if anyone has had any downsides to using noop scheduler? Are there any other tweaks besides these I could use?

The workload on the IOT devices consists solely of Docker services and all of them are CPU bound and not disk I/O intensive.

Thanks,

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-07-01
This is perhaps the best written, non-trivial, question I've read here.   Good on facts. Good on the problem and attempted solutions.  Wish I had the technical knowledge to be directly helpful.

Have you looked at the file systems options using **tune2fs**?
Might Docker be double-caching writes? I know nothing about docker file system access.

Since you are having power pulled, has any thought been given to having the main power through through a battery/capacitor system that would have sufficient power to shutdown the device when the main power it removed?  Enterprise storage arrays do this for exactly this reason.  I know my laptop knows when it is on battery through ACPI, though I don't know whether IoT devices would have some way to know where power was coming.

Probably none of that is helpful. Sorry.

---

