---
title: "14.04 Server stuck in login loop"
date: 2016-05-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ewm on 2016-05-18
Hi, I have just done an update to my 14.04 LAMP server and now cannot log in. User name and password are accepted and there is a brief screen showing last login etc. The screen then goes back to login. I have spent hours reading about and trying the various "fixes" posted by many but cannot seem to get anything to work. I have looked at the log files but cannot see anything that stands out. I have looked for the ~/.profile file but could not find it! . Any advice would be appreciated.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-05-18
Often this happens when the permissions on your home directory are wrong. Try running
```

cd /home/username
chown username -R **.**

```
and see if that helps.  You might need to boot up in [recovery mode]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecoveryMode") to do this since you cannot log in.

---

### Post by ewm on 2016-05-18
Thanks for coming back to me, however running this command results in an error message saying chown: missing operand after username (I included the -R) I have used the ls -al command on this directory and it shows that all the files and directories are owned by the user. Any other advice will be welcomed.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-05-18
Did you include the dot at the end? It is not a typo...

Or alternatively, run:
```
chown -R username /home/username
```

Of course replace <username> with your username and add 'sudo' in front if you are not running that command as root.

---

### Post by ewm on 2016-05-19
Thanks Darko, Did not see the dot but have now run both commands as given but still stuck in login loop.
Eric

---

### Post by ewm on 2016-05-22
Tried all the online fixes but none seemed to work so I eventually re-installed the complete server and now my problems gone away

---

