---
title: "6.06 Server thru Smoothwall using DyDNS Problem"
date: 2007-03-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kinohead on 2007-03-24
Arrggg!

I am trying to install an Ubuntu server 6.06 on my home network and am having problems getting SSH up and going so I can remotely finish setup, as the server is in the basement and my main computers is 2 floors up in my attic office!

OK, cable modem to smoothwall 2 firewall/router to homenetwork segment (I hope to configure them on the homenet and then move them to the DMZ for safety) that runs into a simple network switch.  The switch feeds 2 workstations (windows xp) and a laptop (ubuntu 6.06) and the simple switch in the basement that only has my server hanging off it for now.  

I have registered with a free dynamic dns provider and will be mapping my IP to their domain name, 

Smoothwall provides DHCP, Firewall, port forwarding, and a lot of other services. My notebook and one of my workstations are dynamic (assigned by Smoothwall) and one workstation and the server are static.

In Smoothwall I have registered my server's static IP 192.168.0.250 and can sucessfully run apt-get and ping all the computers on the internal network AND Google as well on the Internet.

Now, I have been guilty of just using my homenet for the last few years just as a glorified, wired access point for the Internet, (haven't even networked the Windows boxen together) so understand I am not real UP on networking concepts...

The first problem came when installing the server and following the Official Server Guide, I was unable to get my static IP to work at all.  Default install using DHCP worked fine, but the instructions given on editing /etc/network/interfaces did not work for me UNTIL I went to HowToForge and used THEIR file editing instructions, which included adding the base network address and broadcast addresses to the static IP address, Netmask and Gateway address.

After I did this, viola! the static address works, but when I go to look at /etc/hosts, it lists my localhost.localdomain localhost IP correctly (127.0.0.1) BUT it also lists my server, FOOSERVER, as the loopback IP as well; why is that?

I tried just editing this file and sticking in the assigned static IP for the server, but then when I saved it, I could no longer SUDO and the server complained about not being able to locate the host!  I gave it the three finger salute, came back in recovery mode via GRUB and edited /etc/hosts to return it to it's original configuration, and was back where I started.

After that, I went ahead and used apt-get to install SSH server and client, as the HowToForge document said that I could now use PUTTY , but after installing PUTTY, I get a "connection refused" error.

Ok, this a mess;  I know I've left out important information, I just don't know what...

I assume once I get SSH working and can configure Apache and figure out port forwarding on Smoothwall for the DynDns account, it should all JUST WORK, but
I'm stuck now.

What did I miss?  Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by huygens on 2007-03-30
Yep, lots of information are missing, but we could still try to help you.

Let's first start simple with only your server and another machine on the same local network. Can you ping them each other?
If no, can they both ping the router (your smoothwall thing)
Or if yes, could you go to the server box and type the following command:
```
ps waux | grep sshd
```Do you see a line like this:
```
root      5879  0.0  0.0   5084   852 ?        Ss   09:20   0:00 /usr/sbin/sshd
```(numbers my vary, the important thing is that you see a line with /usr/sbin/sshd!)
Then you have SSH up and running. If not, (re-)perform the following step:
```
sudo apt-get install openssh-server
```If it tells you it is already install, perform:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure openssh-server
```Check again if sshd is up and running, it should now. You can always force it by
```
sudo /etc/init.d/ssh start
```or
```
sudo /etc/init.d/ssh restart
```Now, on your other machine, try to connect to your server, it should work (if it was able to ping it).

After, you will have to configure smoothwall to do port forwarding. If you choose that your external dynamic IP should "advertise" the default SSH port, then you should tell smoothwall to redirect any incoming TCP connection on port 22 to the IP address of your server on port 22.

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-30
That's a whole lot of story, too much thrashing, and not much on data.

Let's see if we can narrow this down.  You can't login into your home machine X via SSH, right ?

1) Is your SSH server running?
2) Can you connect to your ssh server locally
3) Have enabled port forwarding of port 22 to your SSH server's LAN IP address? External source IP = ALL, Source port=22, Destination IP=your ssh server's LAN IP.

That's about it.
MrC

---

### Post by kinohead on 2007-04-15
I am terribly sorry;  I have just lost my job and have been unable to pay any attention to this thread. Mr C. and hugyens!

I will return to the problem sometime in the future when I can spare the time -- many thanks for your response and attempts at helping...

Sorry.

---

### Post by huygens on 2007-04-15
I'm sorry to learn that :( I hope you will find many opportunities pretty soon!
Good luck,

---

