---
title: "(probably) DNS Problem"
date: 2012-07-22
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by BobMarso on 2012-07-22
I am a newbie to ubuntu and just installed server 12.04.  During the install I did not enter a dns address figuring the server would figure that out using the gateway address and address mask I provided.  The server has a fixed IP address.  Also, my client computer can find the server and access files indicating the server is properly connecting to the internal network.

My problem is when I try to run the following command: "sudo apt-get update".  I get the following error message, actually a lot of them with different addresses:

"W: Failed to fetch [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu)...  Something wicked happened resolving ' us.archive.ubuntu.com:http'  (-5 - No address associated with hostname)"

Based on the installation manual, I edited /etc/network/interfaces, commented out the line "dns-search mynetwork" and added "dns-search 68.16.6.30", the same dns address that worked with Windows Home Server.  I am still getting the same results.

Can anyone please help me?  Thanks

---

### Post by sandyd on 2012-07-22
> **BobMarso said:**
> I am a newbie to ubuntu and just installed server 12.04.  During the install I did not enter a dns address figuring the server would figure that out using the gateway address and address mask I provided.  The server has a fixed IP address.  Also, my client computer can find the server and access files indicating the server is properly connecting to the internal network.

My problem is when I try to run the following command: "sudo apt-get update".  I get the following error message, actually a lot of them with different addresses:

"W: Failed to fetch [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu)...  Something wicked happened resolving ' us.archive.ubuntu.com:http'  (-5 - No address associated with hostname)"

Based on the installation manual, I edited /etc/network/interfaces, commented out the line "dns-search mynetwork" and added "dns-search 68.16.6.30", the same dns address that worked with Windows Home Server.  I am still getting the same results.

Can anyone please help me?  Thanks
your server is at home, and not at a remote location right?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2012-07-22
I believe the dns configuration is stored in /etc/resolv.conf. Here is an example:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/network-configuration.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/network-configuration.html)

For the desktop Ubuntu 12.04, they've changed things so that /etc/resolv.conf gets re-written from somewhere, but I don't know of any documentation for what they do now. Perhaps you could set the file read-only after editing it.

---

### Post by BobMarso on 2012-07-22
Thanks SandyD and Cog.  The server is at home.  I am logging in using putty from a Win7 machine connected to the server over the network.  I editing using nano, and then restart the server.

After modifying /etc/network/interfaces, I restart and then open resolv.conf.  I found the changes I made in interfaces are now in resolv.conf.  Cog, I think that answers your question.

I verified I'm still getting the same error message.  Being a newbie, I'm not sure what to look at from here.  Any ideas?

Thanks again.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-07-22
Hi BobMarso.

Could you post the result of this commands?
```
cat /etc/network/interfaces

cat /etc/resolv.conf

nslookup ubuntu.com

dig ubuntu.com
```
Regards.

---

### Post by BobMarso on 2012-07-22
Papipe, here are the results.  Also, after seeing the ouput from your commands, I pinged each address from a Win7 cmd window.  All three search addresses responded in 50 ms or less.

bob@MarsoServer:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.123.244
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.123.0
        broadcast 192.168.123.255
        gateway 192.168.123.254
        # dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
#commented out by rfm after install     dns-search MarsoNet
        dns-search 68.6.16.30 68.6.16.25 68.2.16.30
bob@MarsoServer:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
search 68.6.16.30 68.6.16.25 68.2.16.30
bob@MarsoServer:~$ nslookup ubuntu.com
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

bob@MarsoServer:~$ dig ubuntu.com

; <<>> DiG 9.8.1-P1 <<>> ubuntu.com
;; global options: +cmd
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
bob@MarsoServer:~$

Thanks much for the help.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-07-22
Edit your interfaces so that the static section looks like this:
```
...
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.123.244
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    network 192.168.123.0
    broadcast 192.168.123.255
    gateway 192.168.123.254
**    dns-nameservers  68.6.16.30  68.6.16.25  68.2.16.30**
    dns-search  yourlocaldomain
```
The actual value for **yourlocaldomain** should be available on your router. It would be the search value you get on resolv.conf when you use DHCP.

Then restart your network:
```
sudo service networking restart
```
Let us know how it goes.
Regards

---

### Post by BobMarso on 2012-07-22
Papibe,

That was the problem.  I can now run apt-get.  My error was the dns-search and dns-nameserver lines.

Thank you!

---

