---
title: "Redirecting external ports to local ip"
date: 2014-05-15
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-15
Hi,

I have a ubuntu 13.10 server and a registered domain name. I have a web server on my 192.168.24.1 machine and a ftp server on my 192.168.24.2. 

Using iptables I want:

1) people who write : [http://mydomainname.com](http://mydomainname.com) to be redirected to 192.168.24.1
2) people who want to use my ftp (filezilla or something inputing mydomainname)to be redirected to 192.168.24.2

Thank you in advance for your answers!

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-05-15
Hi Felhazi_Andrei.

It looks like you are redirecting your domain to your home, or office, Right?

What you need to do is called '[Port Forwarding]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Port_forwarding")' and it is done in the router that connects you to the Internet. The specific instructions on how to do it depends on you router's brand and model. This is a good start point: [How To Open a Port on your Router]("http://portforward.com/english/routers/port_forwarding/").

If that is not exactly your situation, explain us a little bit more the actual network layout.

Hope it helps. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-16
[SIZE=3][FONT=arial][COLOR=#444444]My totpology: Internet --> Ubuntu 13.10 server(192.168.24.1) --> Switch --> ftp server (192.168.24.2)[/COLOR][COLOR=#444444] 

[/COLOR][COLOR=#444444]I just want the actual iptables rules to put in 192.168.24.1 to forward port 80 to localhost and ports 21, 22 to 192.168.24.2[/COLOR][/FONT][/SIZE]

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-05-16
Did you enable the server as a router? [Here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Router#Enable_IP_forwarding_and_Masquerading")'s a guide. The key is to enable forwarding:
```
echo "1" > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```
What are your current iptables rules?

If you add something like this should work, but you need to have your other basic rules.
```

iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp -dport 80 -j DNAT –to-destination 192.168.24.1:80

iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -j MASQUERADE
```
Is that what you're looking for?
Regards.

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-17
My server is already a router. I want to send all external ftp requests to my 192.168.24.2. That`s it. 

My current NAT:

-A POSTROUTING -j MASQUERADE
-A POSTROUTING -p tcp -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -m tcp --sport 20 -j SNAT --to-source 192.168.24.2:20

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-17
Generated by iptables-save v1.4.18 on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014
*nat
: PREROUTING ACCEPT [531:36290]
:INPUT ACCEPT [14:2485]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [571:36459]
: POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -j MASQUERADE
#-A POSTROUTING -p tcp -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -m tcp --sport 20 -j SNAT --to-source 192.168.24.2:20
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.18 on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [153:8421]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [826:98933]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 21 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 20 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP
-A FORWARD -s 192.168.24.0/30 -i eth0 -o eth1 -m conntrack --ctstate NEW -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014

---

### Post by spynappels on 2014-05-17
I think you need to add the following PREROUTING rule under PREROUTING ACCEPT in the nat table:
```
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -dport 21 -j DNAT –to-destination 192.168.24.2:21
```

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-17
I tried that, recieved the following:


Bad argument `21'
Try `iptables -h' or 'iptables --help' for more information.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2014-05-17
Hmm, you sure you only added the line I said and then re-applied the rules? I have no '80' in the line I pasted......

Your entire iptables-save file would look like this:
```
Generated by iptables-save v1.4.18 on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014
*nat
: PREROUTING ACCEPT [531:36290]
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -dport 21 -j DNAT –to-destination 192.168.24.2:21
:INPUT ACCEPT [14:2485]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [571:36459]
: POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -j MASQUERADE
#-A POSTROUTING -p tcp -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -m tcp --sport 20 -j SNAT --to-source 192.168.24.2:20
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.18 on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [153:8421]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [826:98933]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 21 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 20 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP
-A FORWARD -s 192.168.24.0/30 -i eth0 -o eth1 -m conntrack --ctstate NEW -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Apr 10 22:25:26 2014 
```

and would be applied using ```
sudo iptables-restore < /path/to/file
```

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-17
I wrote 80 by mistake sorry! It sait bad argument 21. 

I wrote that rule in my file and it gave that error when i tried iptables-restore. Any alternative for -dport?

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-17
It worked! I forgot to put --dport and I used -dport instead. Thank you for your time and effort, highly appreciated! Many thanks!

---

### Post by spynappels on 2014-05-17
No problem, don't forget to mark the thread as solved!

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-17
The rule worked. Thank you very much for your time and effort. It is much appreciated!

However, a new problem has arisen: when I try to connect from the wan with my external ip with [ftp://myexternalip](ftp://myexternalip) I recieve the following: Illegal port command.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2014-05-17
Are you trying to use active or passive FTP?

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-17
The problem appears with both types of connections, but i would like to use active

---

### Post by spynappels on 2014-05-17
Ok, what I think is happening is that the data packets from your FTP client are being dropped, or at least not forwarded to the FTP server.

What you need to do is set a (small) range of non-priviledged ports to be used by the FTP server, both for active and passive, and then forward these to the FTP server through the gateway box too.

You can check whether this is in fact happening by taking a network trace on the internal interface and on the external interface of the router box and checking each flow in the active (and passive) FTP session.

---

### Post by Felhazi_Andrei on 2014-05-18
Thank you, I will try that and update you on the progress if you are interrested

---

