---
title: "8.10 Server, Samba sharing CUPS printer"
date: 2009-02-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by loopyzort on 2009-02-21
I think I've searched everywhere for a solution and haven't come across one. This should be simple, but anyway. I'd like to use Samba to share the printer attached to my Ubuntu Server with all the computers on my network, and anyone who comes to my house. This includes windows, mac & linux machines. From what I gather, there are 2 ways to do this:
- CUPS & IPP
- Samba Printer Sharing

I got CUPS & IPP working, but it seemed a bit clunky when adding new printers, and the postscript drivers were used. I'd like to try Samba w/ automatic driver downloading. I'm having difficulty getting this going.

My network:
- Ubuntu 8.10 server w/ Samba & CUPS installed
- HP Printer attached
- Vanilla CUPS configuration set up & local printing works (lpr smb.conf works fine)
- Samba is used as a fileserver
- Windows & Mac OSX machine on the network can see the samba file shares w/o problems.

Here's my smb.conf:

```

#======================= Global Settings =======================

[global]
	log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
	passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
	obey pam restrictions = yes
	map to guest = bad user
	encrypt passwords = true
	public = yes
	passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
	passdb backend = tdbsam
	dns proxy = no
	server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)
	unix password sync = yes
	workgroup = lan
	syslog = 0
	panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d
        socket options = TCP_NODELAY
	usershare allow guests = yes
	max log size = 1000
	pam password change = yes
        printcap name = cups
	printing = cups
	load printers = yes

[printers]
        browseable = yes
        public = yes
	comment = All Printers
	printable = yes
	guest ok = yes
	path = /var/spool/samba
        writable = no

[print$]
   comment = Printer Drivers
   path = /var/lib/samba/printers
   browseable = yes
   read only = yes
   guest ok = no

[music]
	comment = read only music directory
	wide links = no
	public = yes
	path = /media/candy/Music
	max connections = 20

[sandbox]
	wide links = no
	writeable = yes
	path = /media/sandbox
	force directory mode = 777
	force create mode = 777
	comment = r/w space for everyone on the network
	public = yes
	create mode = 777
	max connections = 20
	directory mode = 777


```

This doesn't work. On a Windows machine, I can browse to \\print-srv and it magically displays my CUPS configured printer (by name), but I cannot connect to it or add it as a printer. The error is "Operation could not be completed. Either the printer name was typed incorrectly, or the specified printer has lost its connection to the server." This is odd, because I didn't even enter the name, it just found it at \\print-srv\myprintername

On my mac, it just doesn't detect anything.

Is this hopeless? Can someone help me set this up, or should I just return to IPP and deal with the quirky setup and postscript only drivers?

Thank you.

---

### Post by loopyzort on 2009-02-26
bump and update. okay, sorry to be uppity about this one.

i re-read both the samba and cups documentation at their respective websites and made a few changes to my smb.conf file.

For anyone who was wondering, the samba documentation is very good on exactly what has to be set up in the file (it's pretty finicky). Looking at it, I think my problem was in the [printers] block, where I had browseable = yes. apparently this doesn't mean what I thought it would.

anyway, now, my networked ubuntu and mac machines recognize the printer and print jobs (using postscript by default). i can override their drivers to the appropriate one and they seem to work well. windows xp still doesn't connect to the printer no matter what i try. when i browse the network, it sees the printer is available (it knows the name and everything), but i can't add it using the Add Printer Wizard or connect to it using the right mouse click "Connect...". This is the last piece I need to get my network printing set up w/ samba. Maybe I'll have to re-read the docs another time, but if anyone has any magical tips on how to get an XP client to connect to a samba-shared printer (using Postscript as the default driver at first), please let me know.

Thanks

---

