---
title: "12.04.2 system settings, landscape button password box times out to early"
date: 2013-02-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by MechaMechanism on 2013-02-03
Ubuntu 12.04.2 desktop.

Go to system settings, then click on management service.  Up pops a password box and I enter my password, but the password box goes away before I can finish typing.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-02-03
Landscape, is one of Canonical's for pay services. If you install it from system settings, it is only a 30 trial, after that you have to pay for the service.

If you have paid for the service, and you are having problems, I'd suggest you contact Canonical directly.

---

### Post by MechaMechanism on 2013-04-13
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Landscape, is one of Canonical's for pay services. If you install it from system settings, it is only a 30 trial, after that you have to pay for the service.

If you have paid for the service, and you are having problems, I'd suggest you contact Canonical directly.I did contact them directly, but never heard from them.  I suggest that people who are consumers take their money elsewhere or even better, use SSH.  I did like it, but you need to be a business apparently before they will talk to you.

P.S. I was going to buy the service, but it came down to a nice price for multiple static IP's with custom reverse DNS or Landscape and since I know my way around SSH, ps, htop and others, it was obvious.  If your running less than 5 servers, Landscape is not worth it.

---

