---
title: "8.04 Problems with Samba printer share"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by schnabea on 2009-01-05
Hey all,

I have a server setup running Ubuntu 8.04 server edition with Webmin. I have added a USB printer (HP PSC 1210 All-In-One) that I would like to be able to access from both Windows XP and Linux clients.

Currently I can print a test page from the Webmin hardware interface, but I cannot add the printer to an XP client. When I try, I get the error message "Windows cannot connect to the printer. Access is denied."

On my laptop running Ubuntu 8.10, I went to add the printer. Ubuntu scanned for and found the printer automatically and I was able to add it. But when I tried to print a test page, the printer status says "Processing... Unable to get printer status (Forbidden)!"

Can anyone help me get this set up? I have followed the various instructions for webmin and samba printer sharing that I have found, but cannot get it to work.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-01-05
It is likely that your Ubuntu firewall is blocking access to the printer.  Webmin has a plugin for the firewall - check it out.  You need to open port 631 TCP for IPP.

You can test it with telnet on the Linux machine:
$ telnet localhost 631

and CUPS should respond.

and from Windoze:
c:>\ telnet linuxmachineipaddress 631

You should get the same response, otherwise the firewall is blocking it.

Hope that helps!

Herman

---

### Post by schnabea on 2009-01-05
well I can connect with telnet from the cli of the server itself. When I run the telnet command from my windows box, it goes to a black box and the titlebar of the app says "telnet servername" so I suppose that means it is connected... if I hit enter or anything though it drops me back to the command prompt.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-01-05
The telnet response from Windows doesn't sound right to me.

If your server is behind a internet firewall, try disabling its local firewall and see what happens:
$ sudo iptables -F

Then try again.

Cheers,

H.

---

### Post by schnabea on 2009-01-06
Well that didn't change anything for me... thanks for the thoughts though. Any other suggestions?

---

