---
title: "12.04 server internet access via Iphone"
date: 2013-02-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jdallara on 2013-02-04
I have a box that I want to use as a network server, Celeron 2GHz, 512MB, 60G HDD.  I want to be able to connect my Iphone to this server for internet access.

1.) With Ubuntu 12.04 I just plug the Iphone in using the USB port and it links up automatically as a 'wired connection'.  How can it get it to do this with Ubuntu Server 12.04?  I can see it on the server via the lsusb command but that is all.

Once I have the Iphone connected, I want to be able to use the server as a router so that I can have both wired and wireless connections. And finally, I want to connect all my printers and scanners to the server so I can have a single location where all systems will have access to them (Print server).

2.)  What packages do I have to look for?  Are printers and the like PNP with Server 12.04 or does each one need to be manually installed.

3.)  Any hints on getting a NetGear WNA1000M USB wireless adapter working as a WiFi hotspot on a server?

I've looked at several HOWTO's and other tutorials, but they are many versions behind, i.e. server 6 & 8, and didn't really help as they were too specific to a particular setup.  Here is a little ascii diagram of #1:

Iphone-------| Server |<-------------->| Ubuntu desktop | (wired LAN)
                                |
                                -----------> WiFi   <----------------------> | Laptop |

I know that I'll have to set up routing, DHCP, IP masquerading, and bridging, but any help towards what packages I'll need would be a big help.

Thanks in advance,

Jon

---

### Post by jdallara on 2013-02-04
Diagram messed up, the WiFi link is off of the server, NOT the Iphone.

---

