---
title: "8.04 x86 Server is Slow in VMWare on 2x xeon host"
date: 2008-08-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by 3rods on 2008-08-04
I'm running 8.04 x86 server in a VMware machine on a Windows 2k3 server with 6GB RAM and 2 dual-core xeon 3Ghz processors, but response time is not what is expected for a machine with those kinds of specs. I set the virtual machine up with 2 processors, 2048MB or vRAM and a virtual SCSI hard drive. The only other job the host server is performing is serving a barely visited website with IIS.

When I migrated the VM from a dual celeron stand alone server with 256mb of RAM and 8GB SCSI drives to the new machine, I didn't notice a lot of difference. The gui (yes, the other admin needs the gui) is not very responsive and takes 3-5 seconds to clear the screen after I "X" close a window. Firefox, Xterm, nautilus, doesn't matter; 3-5 seconds to close out the window. Other processes seem sluggish as well - it's hard to explain, it's just sluggish. 

On the other hand, I can run a 8.04 Desktop image on my 2ghz C2D w/ 2GB of RAM and it's very snappy. 

Has anyone else come across this? Should I switch to a Desktop LTS image and just turn it in to a server - see how that goes? 

Anyone else running a desktop base as a server in a production environment?

---

### Post by windependence on 2008-08-04
I can see a couple of things and these are my opinion and experience with VMware so don't get bent out of shape over comments. :)

First off, you shouldn't be running anything on the host machine besides Vmware and your VMs. I am assuming you are running VMware server. Also, if it was me, I would NOT be running Windoze as the host OS. It's hoggy and slow for that as you have seen.

VMware has stated that the virtual processor thing is experimental in Server so run just one processor per VM as suggested by VMware. Don't worry, the scheduler is still using 2 CPUs, the machine just doesn't know it.

As of July 28th, VMware has released ESXi FREE! You no longer need to run a host OS because ESX is it's own OS. I would run your VMs on ESXi and also virtualize the IIS server you have on the host. (Why in God's name IIS?)

If you must run the host on Windoze, you will most likely have to give it tons or RAM to work, and don't forget the host machine needs RAM too, for Windoze I would want at the very least 2 GIG for the host and hopefully more.

When you load ESXi you'll see it's operating system is a modified Linux kernel. There is a reason it's not Windoze.

To answer your question, if you need a GUI, then yes, I would use the desktop version for the guest, it will probably perform better anyway.

-Tim

---

### Post by 3rods on 2008-08-04
> To answer your question, if you need a GUI, then yes, I would use the desktop version for the guest, it will probably perform better anyway.

That's pretty much what I thought. I was thinking I might have an edge on support too since most people are running 32-bit desktop and not server.


I know, I'd **love** to install ESXi and I was totally psyched when I read it was free last week, but I've only been at this job for a year and the other admin has been there 20+ years. He runs the Windows boxen. My Ubuntu VM is the first linux server in the company (they had HP/UX and have AS/400, though). The current admin thinks of Linux as a 'hacker' OS. Which, I guess it was years ago - different now. 

It's been a struggle getting everyone to understand OSS. They refer to it as 'the hippie solution'. So, I'm already fighting up-hill, I'd like our first server to go smoothly so next year I can get some real iron and run ESXi and buy some support from Ubuntu and VMWare. People seem to like paying for software, so I'm going to suggest they pay for support. I don't know why that is, like they enjoy paying for software or they expect to pay for it.

Anyway, thanks for the info. I tried the 1 CPU thing, made sure my HD was static sized, but it was still slow. I think you've put me on the right path though. I'm going to try out desktop, maybe even try my hand at rolling a leaner kernel. (or not...)

---

### Post by windependence on 2008-08-05
Well I know exactly where you are coming from. In one Fortune 500 company I worked for, the head of systems engineering came from Micro$oft. I don't have to tell you what that was like. We had Unix (IBM AIX and HP UX) and also AS/400 (I am an AS400 syseng) but for everything else it was Windoze. Paying for support gives them warm fuzzies inside especially when they don't understand the technology. Remember, you are threatening what they know best, and they are afriad they will have to learn all new stuff if you are successful.

The only thing that opened up the place I was at is that they were all of a sudden told their budget was 1.5 million whether they liked it or not and there was no going over. That opened up the door for some OSS for things like network monitoring and server monitoring. That is where you should try to get a foot in the door. It's not production stuff so they will be more open to it, and make sure yo give them a nice web GUI to use. 

Also, make sure you know what you are doing so they can't say "See, we told you it would break".

I will make a suggestion for you. Learn BSD. Start with something like FreeBSD. It's rock solid and it IS Unix. I have nothing bad to say about Ubuntu, but it is still a developing technology, especially on the server front IMHO. I have had good luck and bad luck depending on what I have deployed on it. On the other hand, *BSD has always been rock solid stable and results are predictable on the server. Of course, people will disagree with me, and this is just my experience, but there are 2.5 million web sites hosted on FreeBSD. The top 7 sites for longest uptimes are run on FreeBSD. [http://uptime.netcraft.com/up/today/top.avg.html](http://uptime.netcraft.com/up/today/top.avg.html)

Good luck converting everyone, and remember take it slow and don't give up!

-Tim

---

### Post by marl0we on 2008-08-05
Is vmware tools installed? That would make some difference. 

You don't say what you are using the vm for but I have a few tips for a simple ESX or VMWare server environment:

a) Create two template vm's with VMWare tools installed. One with 2 CPUs and one with a single CPU. It's rare that I actually *need* smp, but generally speaking it will be simpler to add to 2 CPUs than to bump a single up to 2 and recompile to a SMP kernel.

b) Limit your vm to just specific tasks, and resource it around those tasks. (Most of my vm's are 1 CPU with 256MB ram, and 4GB drives, but I bump up the ram for specific apps that need it such as Postgres/Mysql etc).

c) Just like windows setups - separate your data from the system, add a virtual harddrive for your data.

c) Seriously, run without a gui. I'm no Linux expert - I just persevere and document every part of my setup, and leave notes so that any Windows admin could step in and administer my vm (or use something like webmin if appropriate). The whole point of Ubuntu Server is that it needs so little resources compared to a greedy Windows install.

I went from a Server installation to the full ESX 3.5, but I'm looking forward to putting ESXi on cheaper boxes.
There's a good link about tested hardware here.
[http://www.vm-help.com/esx/esx3.5/Whiteboxes_SATA_Controllers_for_ESX_3.5_3i.htm]("http://www.vm-help.com/esx/esx3.5/Whiteboxes_SATA_Controllers_for_ESX_3.5_3i.htm")

Finally I have some notes about Ubuntu Server 8.04 that were written for VMware Fusion but should apply for VMware Server.
[http://blog.haydon.id.au/2008/07/vmware-fusion-ubuntu-server-8.html]("http://blog.haydon.id.au/2008/07/vmware-fusion-ubuntu-server-8.html")

---

### Post by windependence on 2008-08-05
I cannot find the link right now, but there had been some trouble with virtual smp on VMware server. They recommended using only one virtual CPU as the scheduler will still give you resources from all the cores you have on the host anyway. It doesn't work the way you would think. If you have a box with 4 cores, and you set up one VM with 2 CPUs and another with 2 CPUs, you are not "out of CPUs". You could theoretically set up a 2 CPU VM on a one CPU host, although I wouldn't know why, but the poin is you can. There have been some people who have had slowness with using the virtual CPU feature, and on the forums it was recommended to go back to just one virtual CPU. I'll see if I can find the post and post it here.

Marl0we is correct, however, I neglected to mention, especially with a Windows GUI on a guest, VMware tools will make a big difference, and he is correct on his other points as well. Try to run without the GUI. You may not be aware, you can run the VMware control panel GUI on another machine, your host does not have to have a GUI, in fact, you can create and manage VMs completely with the CLI if you want.

If you get stuck and need more help, just ask. I am a VMware partner, and I will be attending a VMware bootcamp in Sept. I should have more answers after the training. :)

-Tim

---

### Post by windependence on 2008-08-05
OK here is one:
> 
Adding additional processors to a virtual machine by using VMware's Virtual SMP is not always going to solve performance problems. Not all applications are able to take advantage of having multiple CPUs. Guest operating systems and applications should be analyzed to determine whether or not Virtual SMP would improve throughput.

If these applications are not multi-threaded or cannot use multiple processes in execution, adding Virtual SMP may consume valuable physical processor resources without actually offering the virtual machine any added performance benefit, and as a result, may take away resources from other virtual machines on the same physical host server.

Virtual SMP should be used sparingly. Running a virtual machine with a single virtual CPU will, in many cases, outperform the same virtual machine with Virtual SMP turned on. It is definitely a case-by-case scenario, and you should test each virtual machine environment. 

[http://searchvmware.techtarget.com/tip/0,289483,sid179_gci1277588,00.html](http://searchvmware.techtarget.com/tip/0,289483,sid179_gci1277588,00.html)

Still not the one I was looking for though.

Here is a really good article on tuning:

[http://peterkieser.com/technical/vmware-server-issues/](http://peterkieser.com/technical/vmware-server-issues/)

-Tim

---

### Post by 3rods on 2008-08-05
Nice, Thanks guys.

---

