---
title: "14.04 - what does the Virtualisation package install and impacts on network em1"
date: 2014-04-22
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by npinn001 on 2014-04-22
Hi,

So yesterday I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 14.04 on a new server. During install I ticked the Virtualisation package, however, I cant find any information on what exactly it installed.

I'm guessing it did KVM, but then what else would it have installed?

Secondly, I went to cconfigure a static IP after installing, and instead of eth0 as the interface, it was em1. This seems to be a more Red Hat/Fedora naming convention, so I wondered if this was due to installing Virtualisation? Anything I need to be aware of?

Lastly, the server seemed a bit buggy, in that it was slow to boot and shut down. In fact, when I typed sudo halt via ssh, it said it was shutting down but then 10 mins later the server was still on, not off. Any ideas?

Thanks all!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-04-22
I don't know the answer, but it is likely a meta-package ... list a package that contains list of dependencies.  You can see that inside the manifest file for the package installed. Those are located under /var/cache/apt/archives/  Using **dpkg --debug=40** should spit out the dependencies. I haven't tried it and I try to avoid meta-packages on my systems, since the whim of a developer can cause things to break in my server setup scripts. [http://blog.jdpfu.com/2014/02/28/1st-five-minutes-on-a-server](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2014/02/28/1st-five-minutes-on-a-server) explains.

I was wrong (again). ;)  Got this to work:
```
$ dpkg-deb -I  thunderbird_1%3a24.4.0+build1-0ubuntu0.12.04.1_i386.deb |more
```

It is likely to have installed KVM ... I don't know exactly.  em1 is a BSD-style network device. I've never seen that outside BSD to my recollection.  Virtualization almost always uses bridging on the hostOS to make networking available to client VMs.  The default bridge configured (if any) is for NAT, which isn't usually what someone running a server wants.  Manually configuring a bridge is necessary - bridge-utils is the package with the needed tools, but it will not modify your setup to provide a bridge. That must be done manually.  Here's a link to a presentation for beginning KVM virtualization that I gave a few weeks ago at our LUG: [http://blog.jdpfu.com/ALE/ALE-NW/2014_04-virtualization.html](http://blog.jdpfu.com/ALE/ALE-NW/2014_04-virtualization.html) ... it doesn't have any help for the metapackage, sorry.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2014-04-22
I have installed [Ubuntu Server 14.04]("http://www.hammondslegacy.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=40&t=200") but only selected "**OpenSSH server**" and when looking at **/etc/network/interfaces**, I saw the old "**auto lo**" and "**auto eth0**" entries I've been used to since 10.04 and 12.04

So it probably has a lot to do with the Virtualization package you selected.

LHammonds

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-04-22
> **npinn001 said:**
> I'm guessing it did KVM, but then what else would it have installed?Also libvirt, qemu and likely some other stuff. One big difference between a server installed with Virtualisation verses without is that dnsmasq will be installed with Virtualisation, and otherwise it is not.

> **npinn001 said:**
> Secondly, I went to configure a static IP after installing, and instead of eth0 as the interface, it was em1. This seems to be a more Red Hat/Fedora naming convention, so I wondered if this was due to installing Visualization? Anything I need to be aware of?As far as I know, it is unrelated to Virtualisation being installed or not.

But what about the comment from LHammonds? The web page refers to a virtual 14.04 server installation. Yes, my virtual 14.04 servers still end up with eth0. My physical servers that have been upgraded from earlier version also still have eth0. My physical server that was a fresh install of 14.04 has an interface name of p4p1. Have a look at the /etc/udev/rules.d directory, it has all changed and those persistent rules files (i.e. 70-persistent-net.rules) are no longer there.

> **npinn001 said:**
> Lastly, the server seemed a bit buggy, in that it was slow to boot and shut down. In fact, when I typed sudo halt via ssh, it said it was shutting down but then 10 mins later the server was still on, not off. Any ideas?No idea.

---

