---
title: ".Htaccess -- Internal Server Error"
date: 2007-07-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Ashly on 2007-07-24
Hi all. I've installed Drupal on my LAMP server, and it's created a .htaccess file.
```

SetHandler Drupal_Security_Do_Not_Remove_See_SA_2006_006
Options None
Options +FollowSymLinks 
```

This is giving me an "Internal Server Error", due to Apache not allowing the Options directive.

```
/srv/drupal/files/.htaccess: Option FollowSymLinks not allowed here
```

I've tried specifying "AllowOverride All" in the virtual host, but that's not allowed either.

```
Syntax error on line 4 of /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/002-drupal:
AllowOverride not allowed here
```

Anyone know a way I can fix this?

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-24
AllowOverride is valid only in a directory context.  Eg:


```
<directory ...>
    AllowOverride all
</directory>
```

MrC

---

### Post by Ashly on 2007-07-24
Mr. C. You are *fantastic*; I owe you one. The amount of time I wasted on that problem is absurd. :-)

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-24
My pleasure.

You'll get lots of mileage out of:

[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/)

Search for the keywords, like AllowOverride, and learn the basic configuration info at the top of the page.

MrC

---

### Post by valugi on 2008-05-27
I have a similar problem although the same resolution doesn't seem to work.

I added this to the default file in sites-available, where mysite.com is my developing folder:
```
	<Directory /var/www/mysite.com/>
		AllowOverride all
	</Directory>
```

My .htacces code is basic from Zend Framework

```
RewriteEngine on
RewriteRule !\.(js|ico|gif|jpg|png|css)$ index.php

```

The result is internal server error 500.

What do I do wrong?
Thanks

---

### Post by adamos on 2008-06-02
it should work. did you try to restart the server or force-reload afterwards? check if you have any allowoverride none in the conf file

---

### Post by angels on 2008-07-22
I have the same error and I solved it with setting the virtual host:

before that everything worked nice, except that whenever I restarted apache, there was a warn > [warn] NameVirtualHost *:0 has no VirtualHosts
if I would like to use .htaccess, I need to change Allowoverride None to All and if I did so, I couldn't access the site anymore (500 Internal error), so I thought that I have to set a virtual host to solve this

I followed the instructions on the ubuntu site 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP#Virtual%20Hosts]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ApacheMySQLPHP#Virtual%20Hosts")

btw, I haven't change the dir in the virtual host, I left the same as I had before 

I hope this helps to someone :)

---

