---
title: "9.04 Svr edition, add ssh-server to boot-menu(start up)"
date: 2009-08-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by VipX1 on 2009-08-27
My server does not start ssh-server application automatically. If I have a auto reboot from an update or just a very long power outage and my battery back-up runs out when the server reboots I will not be able to log in. This is a problem I never could find an answer to, how to add applications to the boot menu or start up.

I can do it on my desktop in Gnome but the server has no Gnome installed.
[B]
How do I add an application to the boot menu using only the terminal?[/B]

---

### Post by grantemsley on 2009-08-27
"sudo update-rc.d ssh defaults" should do the trick.

---

### Post by VipX1 on 2009-08-27
I entered the command mentioned above. The output said there was already links to ssh in rc.d but I rebooted the server anyway. It did not start ssh automatically.
I thought I saw ssh mentioned in the server application list as it was starting all the services.. Bind 9 failed 
Now my server i.p. has changed to an i.p. way up the range. I have an i.p. reserved in the DHCP server for the web server and it's very low in the range.. There's only 2 other machines on the network.. I'm going to make i.p. of the server static so I can go home now and leave it till tomorrow.

---

### Post by VipX1 on 2009-08-27
I fixed the eth0 i.p. and everything is ok. ssh starts with the boot or automatically...
I can see OpenBSDsecure shell server sshd in the start up and no it wasn't there yesterday so the command added it..
I must have some other error on my server which gave me the odd i.p. address. It's only a prototype anyway. When I have it the way I want it and I understand what I'm doing alot better I'll build the Ultimate one!
Thanks for the help..

---

