---
title: "8.04LTS - share non-NTFS usb hard drive"
date: 2008-09-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sandsjh on 2008-09-04
I have an external hard drive. I want to
[a] format it to use with linux
[b] automount it on reboot
[c] share it through samba
[d] let everyone has write permissions

I do not think it is available on Ubuntu, but I would like to keep "everyone" from deleting files from the drive. The drive will be used for workstation images. These workstations are for a company that does various jobs and no workstation is the same or can be provided with a "global image".

---

### Post by Biochem on 2008-09-05
Can it be done in two step?

For examples:
Create a folder that is write permission only (722) to use when you create a image and an access partition with read permission only (744). Someone would have to manually transfer the images once it's created.

Is there a reason why everyone needs to have write access? Isn't imaging the workstation the kind of job that is done once by an authorized technician?

---

### Post by sandsjh on 2008-09-06
I need to get A, B, and C done first :D

This particular client uses Yahoo SMB e-mail and the PSTs reside on the local machine, along with data they download from natural resource places. Unfortunately, those programs will not do anything "over the network" so the data is saved to the workstation. 

The image runs every night and updates files in X directories.

---

### Post by Biochem on 2008-09-07
> **sandsjh said:**
> I need to get A, B, and C done first 
Sorry if I skiped that part.
[LIST=A]
[*]I would use gparted (in the repo), I used it before to format a usb HD with Ext3 so I know it works. USB drive are usually /dev/sd? so any partition editor should work.
To know which drive is the usb drive just
```
sudo fdisk -l #before you plug the drive
#pluggin the drvie
sudo fdisk -l #The last entry should have changed and it is you  usb drive
```
[*]USB drive are usually auto mounted at boot time. If it's not, come back and tell us, you will have to edit /etc/fstab. 
[*]I have not much experience with samba but I remember playing once with a configuration tool for samba that was very easy to use. I think it was gsambad or gadmin-samba.
[/LIST]

> **sandsjh said:**
> This particular client uses Yahoo SMB e-mail and the PSTs reside on the local machine, along with data they download from natural resource places. Unfortunately, those programs will not do anything "over the network" so the data is saved to the workstation. 

The image runs every night and updates files in X directories.

Personally I would us a dedicated backup tool that support incremental or differential backup for that. You would save in bandwidth and disk space. I'm very happy with [bacula]("http://www.bacula.org"). It's a bit complicated to setup but once it's done does marvels. The version in the repo were not compiled with encryption capabilities so if you want them you will have to compile from sources but since it's not in your specification it's probably not a problem.

---

