---
title: "Apache is not working when Lan disconnects"
date: 2009-12-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2009-12-21
I am having Apache configured on localhost on which I have done some development work.
I am having some problem when I disconnect or remove lan wire from my PC my apache stops working if I type in browser 
```

http://localhost

```when LAN wire is not connected I get a message Firefox is currently in  Offline Mode offline mode and can't browse the Web.

but if I connect LAN wire and then do 


```

http://localhost

```I get a message [B]it works.
[/B]But why is all this getting affected with the presence or absence of LAN Wire ? 
That I am not getting.

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2009-12-21
This is not normal. Sounds like a mis-configuration. Can you paste your /etc/hosts and /etc/resolv.conf files. And also make sure you don't have Firefox set to use a proxy.

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2009-12-21
Ok this is /etc/hosts
```

127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.0.1       tapas-laptop
127.0.0.1       www.project_1.com
127.0.0.1       project_1
127.0.0.1       www.someproject.com
# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

```and /etc/resolv.conf

is 
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

```
resolv.conf keeps changing due to NetworkManagerGnome

---

### Post by oneloveamaru on 2009-12-23
This is a FIREFOX problem only. Firefox detected that you don't have any other network adapters connected other than the loopback and gave you this error.

You can try forcing Firefox back to Online mode by going to File, Work Offline. It should have a check next to it if it's actually in Offline Mode and when you hit it again, it should force Firefox back online. 

If you try to browse to a website not on localhost, it may put Firefox back in offline mode.

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2009-12-23
Hmmm,Ok I can not say clearly what had happened because after I did a reboot it is working.

---

