---
title: "18.04 Server iptables and firewall-cmd"
date: 2018-08-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-08-01
I recently installed my first Ubuntu 18.04 Server Edition, my previous Ubuntu server have been built up form the desktop edition of long ago and updated through many versions to 16.04.

I'm slowly working my way through the issues but one of the most preplexing is firewall.cmd. I've solved some of teh issues but I a little fussy on teh relationship between firewalld and iptables. From what I understand Firewall runs on top of IPtables  but other things i've read suggest that firewalld also takes over control of iptables and interferes with direct iptables commands.

Under 16.04 I set up an ip translation scheme to allow servers to have both a public and a private ip address. I accomplished this by setting up a iptables.rules which was restored upon reboot.
 here is an edited portion of that files.

```
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [66316:6289839]
:INPUT ACCEPT [33999:3265034]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [10562:903361]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [4:240]
-A PREROUTING -d 111.222.333.444/32 -j DNAT --to-destination 192.168.1.1
-A POSTROUTING -s 192.168.1.1/32 -j SNAT --to-source 111.222.333.444
-A POSTROUTING -o enp2s0 -j MASQUERADE
```

I've been reading up on firewall-cmd and it seem that I can use the firewall-cmd --direct to add these commands to the firewall but that they would not be permanent. 


I'm wondering how to accomplish this in 18.04

---

### Post by The Cog on 2018-08-01
Firewalld commands can be permanent by adding the --permanent flag to the commands. But don't mix firewalld and iptables - there is a good risk of conflict.

For permanent iptables rules there is a package called iptables-persistent and a corresponding iptables.conf somewhere in /etc (from memory).

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-08-02
> **The Cog said:**
> Firewalld commands can be permanent by adding the --permanent flag to the commands. But don't mix firewalld and iptables - there is a good risk of conflict.

For permanent iptables rules there is a package called iptables-persistent and a corresponding iptables.conf somewhere in /etc (from memory).

Thanks for the information. I've used iptables in the past and set up iptables.rules files that are loaded on reboot.

What I'm actually trying to accomplish is to implement these rules I developed for 16.04 and iptables on 18.04 I'm prefer to use firewalld firewall-cmd as that is the new standard, but I'm having difficulty figuring out exactly how to accomplish that.

As far as the --permanent flag, I've read that it can't be used with the --direct flag or at least does not work with the --direct flag. But it's also likely I misunderstood.

I've been searching the Internet but haven't found anything exactly on point.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2018-08-03
I don't regard firewalld as a "new standard". I think (not certain) that it is an import from Red Hat linux, and is their equivalent to Ubuntu's ufw. Both of these manipulate iptables, trying to simplify its use (but losing some flexibility in the process).

If anything, the "new standard" is nftables. There are plans to replace the original iptables commands with compatibility commands that actually manipulate nftables instead, but you can use nftables commands instead of iptables. I suspect that the latest Ubuntu already incorporates this.

[https://wiki.nftables.org/wiki-nftables/index.php/Main_Page](https://wiki.nftables.org/wiki-nftables/index.php/Main_Page)
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nftables](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nftables)
[https://linux-audit.com/nftables-beginners-guide-to-traffic-filtering/](https://linux-audit.com/nftables-beginners-guide-to-traffic-filtering/)

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2018-08-03
> **The Cog said:**
> I think (not certain) that it is an import from Red Hat linux, and is their equivalent to Ubuntu's ufw.
Confirmed.  firewalld was developed by [Thomas Woerner, Red Hat, Inc.]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Firewalld")

> **The Cog said:**
> I suspect that the latest Ubuntu already incorporates this.
nftables is NOT installed by default when using the alternative server 18.04 LTS ISO image (I do not use LIVE image so I do not know about that).

nftables 0.8.2-1 is available to install via apt-get in 18.04 though.

[Since version 3.13]("https://wiki.nftables.org/wiki-nftables/index.php/What_is_nftables%3F"), the Linux kernels are capable of supporting nftables.

LHammonds

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-08-03
By "new standard" I meant in Ubuntu server, especially since I'm moving from 16.04 based servers which were in turn build on old distributions. At lot of what i"m finding on the internet is several years old and I'm not sure it is current. But I'm slowly starting to understand it. I just wish I could find examples which are more on point to what I'm trying to do.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2018-08-03
I never do in-place upgrades of my servers.  I always build a new fresh server, install the apps and migrate the data/configs from the older server to the new.  When the new server takes over, the migration is usually about as fast as an IP swap.

Doing it this way, I can ensure that my server setup documentation is updated and correct for the current version of the system and I can test out the new software before affecting production and know without a doubt that the new OS and software will work before "flipping the switch"

The documentation I am referring to is in my sig.

**EDIT:** I just use UFW (front-end for iptables) for my firewall rules.  I don't have anything complex going on.

LHammonds

---

### Post by The Cog on 2018-08-03
> **LHammonds said:**
> Confirmed.  firewalld was developed by Thomas Woerner, Red Hat, Inc.
nftables is NOT installed by default when using the alternative server 18.04 LTS ISO image .

Thanks for the info.

---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-08-04
OK I think I found the answer to my problems:

```
firewall-cmd --permanent --direct --passthrough { ipv4 | ipv6 | eb } args
```
args = any iptables command 
The command below succeeds now for more testing
```
firewall-cmd --permanent --direct --passthrough -A PREROUTING -d 111.222.333.444/32 -j DNAT --to-destination 192.168.1.1
```

---

