---
title: "10.04 lamp server install- usage"
date: 2011-03-11
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jmore9 on 2011-03-11
Hello All !

I am wanting to install the 10.04 lamp server on a winxp pro machine with several hard drives all with ntfs.  Will the lamp server be able to use the ntfs partitions ?  Or do i need to change them over.

There is several hundred gigs of data on the hard drives and i do not relish the job of converting them.

Also can you just mount the ntfs shares that are on the windows machine with the ubuntu machine using a intranet type setup ?

Any pointers to how tos would be highly appreciated.  Thanks in advance for your time.

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2011-03-11
You should be able to mount the existing NTFS partitions.  However, NTFS is not a very good file system so a migration to another might be in order, when you feel like it.

If they are not on the same machine, then you may need [Samba](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Samba) to connect to the remote file system.

---

### Post by jmore9 on 2011-03-11
So i don't need to install the lamp server just the samba client on the linux machine ?  This will allow me to read and write the other machine's ntfs partitons ?  That would be simpler for me i think.
Thanks in advance for your time.

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2011-03-12
> **jmore9 said:**
> This will allow me to read and write the other machine's ntfs partitons ? 

Only if they are already set up for file sharing using CIFS/SMB, which is kind of what it sounds like you might be describing...

---

