---
title: "Re: setting up Crn job"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mjfroggy on 2010-05-07
I am trying to setup a file to run every minute via a Cron Job

my issue is that the cron job does not seem to work.

the file is a php file which updates a database when I go to the php file directly it works but the cron job does not seem to run

the php file is located within a folder I made that I call cronjobs at
/var/www/cronjobs

I chmode'd the file 755 which should make it executable
I do not have webmin or any other control panel setup on the server so I am trying to do this all on the command line

when I type in
cromtab -l at the command prompt I see

1 * * * * /var/www/cronjobs/email_notices.php

which is the file name and location where I have the file on the server. I am not sure what else to check to see why the cronjob is not working or even if it is running

---

### Post by sylvester_0 on 2010-05-07
That cronjob will run on the first minute of every hour. You'd want it too replace the 1 with a */1. Great examples here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron#Examples](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron#Examples)

You may also want to specify a user to run it as.

---

### Post by mjfroggy on 2010-05-07
thanks so I went into crontabs e- and then changed it to the below

*/1 * * * * /var/www/cronjobs/email_notices.php

but it still does not work??

---

### Post by HyperFlexed on 2010-05-08
I'm having the same issue with a wallpaper changer I wrote.

I tried specifying the user to run as, but this doesn't seem to be a well-specified syntax. /var/log/syslog looks strange when I try to specify a user to run as.

I have been running

```
sudo watch -n 1 grep CRON.*johnny /var/log/syslog

```

and got:

```
May  7 23:45:01 johnny-desktop CRON[5640]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  7 23:50:01 johnny-desktop CRON[5815]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  7 23:55:01 johnny-desktop CRON[6694]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  8 00:00:01 johnny-desktop CRON[7633]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  8 00:05:01 johnny-desktop CRON[8601]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  8 00:10:01 johnny-desktop CRON[9535]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  8 00:15:01 johnny-desktop CRON[10477]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  8 00:20:01 johnny-desktop CRON[11383]: (johnny) CMD (johnny^I/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)
May  8 00:25:01 johnny-desktop CRON[12306]: (johnny) CMD (/home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh)

```

The weird log entry at May 8 00:20:01 was when I tried specifying the user to run as.

if I try

```
$: /home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh
```

my wallpaper changes. The permission on the shell script is 755. I've also verified that my crontab file is properly formatted:

```
johnny@johnny-desktop:~/Wallpapers$ sudo cat /var/spool/cron/crontabs/johnny
[sudo] password for johnny: 
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/crontab.OqtI4S/crontab installed on Sat May  8 00:21:45 2010)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
# m h  dom mon dow   command
*/5 * * * * /home/johnny/Wallpapers/cronswitch.sh

johnny@johnny-desktop:~/Wallpapers$ 

```

just in case, here is my cronswitch.sh:

```
#!/bin/bash
#calls python script for cron job
gconftool-2 -t string -s /desktop/gnome/background/picture_filename /home/johnny/Wallpapers/`python selectrandomwall.py`

```

selectrandomwall.py just returns a filename (which is the wallpaper)


I can accept that I may have made a mistake, but I heavily suspect cron is acting funky. Since I can run cronswitch.sh and get the desired effect, I suspect this is some kind of permissions issue. There's no indication of such in the logs though, so I'm a bit perplexed.

**UPDATE:** I've even tried modifying the python call to reference the absolute path of the script. I can still run the script manually, but cron won't make it fire properly (despite CRON filling my system logs, telling me it has). I've tried everything I can think of.

Would there be any kind of log that would let me know if some kind of permissions conflict is holding up the show?

**Update 2:** I've now tried restarting the cron service to no avail. At this point I have no idea what to try next. My shell script works fine from the command line and from a panel icon. Cron is firing, but nothing happens. :(

---

### Post by mjfroggy on 2010-05-10
Hey HyperFlexed

Well although you are are trying to get cron to run a python script we are in the same boat. I have tried re-starting the cron service I have even rebooted the entire server. Still I can not get my servers cron service to run my php file. The only way I seem to be able to get my script to run is if I manually go to the script.

If it helps I am running Ubuntu 9

---

### Post by HyperFlexed on 2010-05-11
I'm also running 9.10.

This is extremely frustrating as CRON is supposed to be straightforward. If it isn't, I should be able to see in the logs what's up.

---

