---
title: "8.04.3 install problems, try 9.10???"
date: 2009-12-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ajk32 on 2009-12-21
Hi there,

What are the advantages of 9.10 server over 8.04.3?

I have been having problems with my basic file server for a while now: [HTML]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1346677[/HTML]

I have managed to boot a live USB and take all the data off to an external HDD (data safe, phew!) Now I want to reinstall ubuntu on a replacement HD. I've tried to install 8.04.3, but even though it's booted from a USB, it still asks for the installation CD halfway through the installation (no CDROM drive!) So I tried the alternate build. It seemed to install OK (although I think it was downloading from the internet, a network install perhaps?), but when I rebooted it somehow installed GRUB onto the USB stick, so I cannot boot the server unless the USB stick is in (took me a while to figure that out). Argh!

Should I just install server 9.10? Has this solved any of these problems? I thought version 8.04 would be better as it's supported until 2013??

This whole ubuntu thing has been very frustrating. I'm admittedly a linux noob, but I didn't think I was doing too badly. It just seems so difficult to find information on how to fix things...

Cheers! Andrew

---

### Post by Litachao on 2009-12-21
Can't tell you much about the feature differences between 8.04 and 9.10, except the later got all the fancy new packages. Then again 8.04 Server is on Long Term Support (LTS), so the packages are well maintained and adjusted to each other which might make that release more reliable, especially concerning server needs.

I myself am faring quite well with 8.04 - the only thing I couldn't get to run properly was the latest SOGo release, because I couldn't get the required latest versions of some packages, which weren't included in the Hardy repository. 

If you want to stick with 8.04, boot with GRUB off of your USB stick and then fix GRUB by installing it on your hard drive, like explained here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows#Recovering%20GRUB%20Manually]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows#Recovering%20GRUB%20Manually")

Hope that helps.

Cheers!

---

### Post by Vegan on 2009-12-21
9.04 brought some improvements in Apache2 that allowed me to use Java server pages with the Mono Project package.

I have noted that telnetd does not work any more with a fresh 9.10 install.

---

