---
title: "dhcp overwriting resolv.conf and hostname"
date: 2011-10-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by TheDigitalNinja on 2011-10-27
I have a set of Ubuntu 11.10 servers. The first thing I did when setting them up was set static ip's via /etc/network/interfaces

```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 173.255.204.XXX
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 173.255.204.1

auto eth0:0
iface eth0:0 inet static
address 192.168.169.XXX
netmask 255.255.128.0

```

and then set my hostname via both the command hostname and setting /etc/hostname

everyday I come back and find that my hostname has reset and resolv.conf is changed and starts off with "# Generated by dhcpcd for interface eth0"

"/etc/init.d/dhcp" nore "service dhcp" work to stop the dhcp server. 

I have never had this problem in the centos/rh world. What am I doing wrong?:confused:

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-27
Hi TheDigitalNinja.

Have you restart your computer after the change to the static address?

Could you check which dhcp processes are running by posting the result of this command?
```
ps aux | grep -i dhcp
```
BTW, why are you running dhcpd?

Regards.

---

### Post by TheDigitalNinja on 2011-10-27
ps output
```

root      2131  0.0  0.1   8428   564 ?        Ss   Oct13   0:00 /sbin/dhcpcd-bin -Y -N -H eth0

```
there is no /sbin/dhcpcd-bin on my server because my setup script uninstalls dhcp after setting up the systems network.....yet it still runs and over writes my files.

I don't want to use dhcp at all. But we use a cloud solution and linode starts off all their servers getting the ip via dhcp. This is what I'm trying to fix.

Also for what ever reason, killing dhcpcd-bin process kills the entire network on the server.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-27
> **papibe said:**
> It seems that you have this package installed (and running): dhcpcd. Which is very atypical (it is not the default client nor the usual server package).

Could you confirm this by running and posting:
```
apt-cache policy dhcpcd
```
Unless you are using it, I would just uninstall it:
```
sudo apt-get remove dhcpcd
```
After that I would check is the previous process is running. If it still is, just kill it, or restart.

Hope it helps, and tell us how it goes.
Regards.

EDIT: Please read SeijiSensei post first. I didn't realize until now that this wasn't regular Ubuntu install.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-10-28
Don't muck with Linode's use of DHCP.  I solved the resolv.conf problem by changing the permissions on the file to 0444 so it can't be rewritten by the DHCP client.  It seems to persist after rebooting my VM.

I'm running a CentOS installation on Linode so YMMV.  I think making resolv.conf read-only should work on any distro, though.

As for the hostname, did you configure reverse DNS resolution for your IP?  In the Linode Manager, go to Remote Access (I wouldn't have guessed that either), then select Reverse DNS.  You can then enter your fully-qualified hostname which will become the reverse lookup for your IP address.  Make sure the hostname is set in your Linux implementation as well, of course.

---

