---
title: "7.10 cant mount cdrom"
date: 2008-04-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-04-04
Hi all, I am wanting to set up a server to be the central point for my website development. I have just bought a brand new desktop yesterday, with no operating system on it. 

I first tried the 7.10 server edition, but I couldn't get past an error with finding the cdrom drive. It says that no common cdrom drive was detected, which is weird cos it is using the cdrom drive... 

so I googled a bit and found that other people had had this problem on 7.10, but that 7.04 didnt. So I downloaded 7.04 last night, have come in today to try it out, and I am getting stuck at the same point, with the same error... 

anyone know how I can get past this? I really want to get it set up this weekend so that it doesnt take up any time on working days.. 

THanks

Patrick

---

### Post by mfsales on 2008-04-05
ozPATT,

On one pc (HP Vectra - 866MgHz) successfully installed:
Ark Linux
Mandrake 8.0
OpenLX Edge
Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop

But was unsuccesful on the same pc:
Ubuntu 7.10 Server
openSUSE 10 

Both gave message you received.

Thought it might be cable problem but wasn't. Then I switched CD drive, still couldn't find CD.
Solved the problem using another pc (I've got serveral old HP Vectras availble to me)

Not the answer but thought it might be of interest to you.

M.F.

---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-04-07
that is pretty interesting.. 

Well I couldn't get anything to work, so I downloaded the beta of 8.04, and that ran fine :) Just got issues with it hanging at startup now, but thats further than the other two, so I am about to go and hunt the answer to this problem. 

Thanks for your input 

Patrick

---

