---
title: "13.04 64-bit installed to HD, not working hangs after mounting swap partitions"
date: 2013-06-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jezzman on 2013-06-09
Installing using unetbootin didnt work at all, not to USB stick, not to HD. The USB install got half-way before kicking me out on "locate files to install" part 4 or 5...
 
Installing by burning the 13.04-64bit-server.iso to Live CD then using that to install went OK, not perfect, but OK...

I have - Win 7 64-bit on sda1, ubuntu 32-bit 10.04 on sda2, ubuntu BackTrack 5 R3 32-bit on sda3, two swap partitons and sda6 is where I pointed the Live CD towards. I went ahead straight away with the install - for some reason I couldn't find the option to use as a live CD. I wanted to boot into a Live CD session and install from there, but like I say, I couldn't / wouldn't do it. The installer let me point to sda6 and eveything went pretty smoothly... I asked it to let me configure networking later, but everything else went OK.

On boot it got as far  as running the init-bottom scripts, mounting the swaps, then hung, echo-ing keyboard and rebooting on CTR-ALT-DEL (after repoting a "false signal" sent about 10 times) but nothing else works. I'm going to try reformatting the partition and then going "Live" and then using the "install" icon from the desktop, but I get an uneasy feeling it won't do a lot different...

The hardest part was wasting a day and a night trying to install to USB, HD etc. using unetbootin (it always works for Backtrack and most other systems) using RMprepUSB, all sorts of voodoo but they (understandably) hung, couldn't find the files needed. I have a 12.04 64-bit.iso also a 12.04 32-bit.iso hanging about so I might give it a go. BTW the 32bit 12-04 works fin in virtualbox, so I'm guessing the problem is my end... 

When the 13.04 64-bit.iso Live CD installed I think it may have had a problem near the end which I skipped, can't remember exactly what it was but it seemed to be OK - it didn't report and fatal install errors as in last nights unetbootin to USB / HD time-wastage!

I realise I CAN'T install 64-bit 13.04.iso into Virtualbox. And I dont really want to rsync a 32-bit 13.04 ubuntu to my HD - I  want the 64-bit please... Anybody else have any issues with live CD install of 64-bit 13.04? BTW I burned the CD at half-speed, verified it, etc. so it won't be the CD.

I'm gonna give it another go like I said from the Live Desktop..

Thanks if you read this/ any advice gratefullyy accepted. Bear in mind I have got most previous ubuntu / win 7 64 installs working fine before, after tweaking the settings a bit.. I just  need it to give me a shell then I'm OK from there?
J.

---

