---
title: "tightvnc server problem: not loading window manager?"
date: 2006-08-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kebes on 2006-08-09
I have a fresh install of Kubuntu 6.06 LTS (Dapper) and installed the tightvncserver package. However when I start a vncserver and log into it, I see a very primitive desktop environment: just a grey background with the mouse cursor looking like an "X" and a single terminal instance (Konsole). It should be familiar to all of you as the "barebones X window environment." In other words, when tightvncserver starts up, it is not loading the desktop/window manager. The VNC FAQ:
[http://lists.debian.org/debian-user/2004/01/msg04544.html](http://lists.debian.org/debian-user/2004/01/msg04544.html)
describes this as 'a grey rootweave desktop'. This mail thread:
[http://lists.debian.org/debian-user/2004/01/msg04544.html](http://lists.debian.org/debian-user/2004/01/msg04544.html)
describes the same problem I'm having, but the presented solution didn't work for me.


I have verified that the script "~/.vnc/xstartup" is being executed. This autogenerated script currently looks like:
```

#!/bin/sh

xrdb $HOME/.Xresources
xsetroot -solid grey
x-terminal-emulator -geometry 80x24+10+10 -ls -title "$VNCDESKTOP Desktop" &
x-window-manager &

```


And after running "vncserver :4" the log file "~/.vnc/computer:4.log" shows:

```

<snip>
Xvnc: dispatch: MaxClients = 1000
xrdb: No such file or directory
xrdb: can't open file '/home/kebes/.Xresources'
xsetroot:  unknown color "grey"
DeliverEventsToWindow: client index is zero for PWin 0x81b5708
Xlib:  extension "XInputExtension" missing on display ":4.0".
Failed to get list of devices
Xlib:  extension "XInputExtension" missing on display ":4.0".
Failed to get list of devices
<snip>

```

The file '~/.Xresources' indeed does not exist. Is this the problem? If so, how am I supposed to generate a valid file? I'm not too familiar with all the options in '/etc/vnc.conf' (all of which are currently commented-out), and I'm not sure if there is an option there I'm supposed to be setting.


I've used tightvncserver before (on Mandrake 10.1) without this issue. Any advice on how to troubleshoot this, and get vnc to load up a full desktop session?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by kebes on 2006-08-09
Looks like I found the solution. Rather trivial actually. For anyone else who encounters this problem, here's what I did. I found some hints at:

[http://www.linuxtopia.org/HowToGuides/VNC_setup_Linux_Windows.html](http://www.linuxtopia.org/HowToGuides/VNC_setup_Linux_Windows.html)

All I had to do was modify my "~/.vnc/xstartup" file, and change the last line from "x-window-manager &" to:
```
startkde &
```

That's to start-up KDE, obviously. If you're running Ubuntu and want to start up GNOME, then make the last line "gnome-session &".

Like I said: a very simple fix in the end. Hope that helps someone else.

---

### Post by paul6 on 2006-10-28
Helped me! Thanks!

---

### Post by flapane on 2008-01-13
How to change resolution on the viewer? If I use tightvnc or vnc to connect to tightvncserver, I see at 1024x768 while I would want a 1280x1024 desktop.
The server itself is already using 1280x1024 in local.

---

### Post by kebes on 2008-01-13
> **flapane said:**
> How to change resolution on the viewer? If I use tightvnc or vnc to connect to tightvncserver, I see at 1024x768 while I would want a 1280x1024 desktop.
The server itself is already using 1280x1024 in local.

The viewer shows whatever resolution the server is transmitting (the 1024x768 is the default). When launching the VNC server you can specify the resolution using the "-geometry" flag. So you would launch with something like:
```
vncserver :4 -geometry 1280x1024
``` 
([manual page here]("http://www.realvnc.com/products/free/4.1/man/vncserver.html"))

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by flapane on 2008-01-13
thanks! I have searching for this command from 2 days!

---

