---
title: "10.04 no longer booting after adding RAID 1 drives"
date: 2010-09-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by o1knives on 2010-09-30
I recently did a fresh install of 10.04 server (amd64) in an attempt to make a NAS.  I began with two 1TB drives with the following partition setup

sda1 /boot ext4
sda2 RAID 1, md1 - / ext4
sda5 RAID 1, md0 - LVM, two logical volumes, both ext4, 1 mounted at /mnt/network-storage the other at, as I remeber, /var/simias

sdb1 swap
sdb2 RAID 1, md1 - / ext4
sdb5 RAID 1, md0 - LVM same as above

The system was was working correctly so I decided to expand my storage.  I added two 2TB and two 500GB drives, created two more RAID 1 arrays, added them to my logical volume group, and extended the size of one of my logical volumes.  I then waited for the arrays to sync and the filesystem resize to complete, confirmed that the system appeared to be working, and rebooted.  I do not believe that I installed any additional packages or changed any system settings during that time.  Now, the system boots but the boot process appears to stop with a screen reading

fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
/dev/sda1: clean 205/244320 files, 38050/976384 blocks
/dev/md1: clean, 111474/915712 files, 875187/3662064 blocks (check in 5 mounts)
init: bridge-network-interface (eth0) pre-start process (650) terminated with status 2
init: bridge-network-interface (lo) pre-start process (739) terminated with status 2
init: ureadahead-other main process (949) terminated with status 4

I have tried booting from the install disk using rescue mode and can mount both sda1 and md1, can chroot into them, can execute commands, read files, etc.  I have looked through boot.log, dmesg, system.log and kernel.log and have not seen any obvious errors, so I am now at a loss for why the system is not booting.  I normally solve such problems through google, but since I can't seem to figure out what is causing this, I don't know what to search for.

While there is no critical data on the server as of yet, it would be nice if I didn't have to wipe it clean and start over.  Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

