---
title: "Assigning fixed IP address in 11.10 fails"
date: 2011-10-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ChrisRChamberlain on 2011-10-26
Using the code suggested in [http://www.ivankristianto.com/2009/10/howto-change-ubuntu-ip-address-from-dhcp-to-static/](http://www.ivankristianto.com/2009/10/howto-change-ubuntu-ip-address-from-dhcp-to-static/) succeeds in Ubuntu server 11.04, previous versions and this version, but causes a loss of internet connectivity in 11.10 version.

Would appreciate alternative code suggestions suitable for this version.

TIA

---

### Post by lisati on 2011-10-26
My personal preference is to use my router to set IP addresses on my local network, static or otherwise.

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-10-26
> **lisati said:**
> My personal preference is to use my router to set IP addresses on my local network, static or otherwise.


+1

It helps greatly with local DNS resolution if you set the router as local DNS server.

If you don't like this solution please post

/etc/network/interfaces

etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by ChrisRChamberlain on 2011-10-26
Thank you for your replies

/etc/network/interfaces```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.0.49
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.0.0
broadcast 192.168.0.255
gateway 192.168.0.1
```etc/resolv.conf```
# Generated by NetworkManager
```If you then add ```
nameserver 192.168.0.1 
```to this file, connectivity is restored.

But if you reboot, the code is removed.

Any way of preventing the modification of this file?

---

### Post by ChrisRChamberlain on 2011-10-26
```

```Rightly or wrongly decided to disable the Network Manager with```
sudo apt-get purge network-manager network-manager-gnome
```May not be the most elegant solution but it works.

Thanks again to volkswagner and lisati for your comments

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2011-10-26
Yes Network Manager will confilict with manually editing /etc/network/interfaces.

If you had wanted to keep NM, you could have setup the static ip within NM settings wizard.

---

### Post by ChrisRChamberlain on 2011-10-27
volkswagner

Thanks for that - was not aware there was a settings wizard.

Will go find

---

