---
title: "14.04 Testing Issues"
date: 2014-04-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by thufirhawat2 on 2014-04-28
I am considering upgrading my home server from 12.04 to 14.04, and so I took my backup hardware to the workbench and loaded it up. I have figured out almost all of the little differences that pertain to my environment, and have my backup server running identically to my production machine, except for three small problems. 

First, the somewhat inconsequential problem, whenever I restart the apache2 service, I get the message, "AH0058: apache2: Could not reliably determine the server's fully qualified domain name, using <Server's local IP here>. Set the 'ServerName' directive globally to suppress this message" This is just a minor irritation, and on my 12.04 server I fixed it by creating a file named httpd.conf in /etc/var/apache2 that had nothing but  ServerName localhost in it. I tried that on my 14.04, but it does not suppress the message. I know there are some subtle differences in apache2 between 12.04 and 14.04 like the document root, but this is one I have been unable to grok thus far.

Secondly, the s*lightly *less inconsequential issue, when I load my webpage from the test server (i.e. [http://webaddress/](http://webaddress/)), it works fine, but if I want to go to one of the non-default pages that are loaded in the var/www/html directory, I have to type in [http://webaddress/page1](http://webaddress/page1)**.html** instead of just [http://webaddress/page1](http://webaddress/page1) like I do on my production server. Obviously this isn't the end of the world, I am just curious as to why this is different between the two distros, seems like an odd change.

Thirdly, the problem of consequence, my swap keeps disappearing! I set my original production server up with 2X2TB drives and set a small partition (1GB on each drive) for swap, and then RAID1ed the rest for /. After I built that server, I read that if you are going to do RAID, it is advisable to RAID your swap space as well, so I was planning on implementing that change to my server as well while I am upgrading to 14.04. So when I set my test machine up, I set a RAID1 (md0) with a 100GB partition from each of my two drives for /, and then set up another RAID1 (md1) with a 2GB partition from each of my two drives for swap. After I installed all my packages and was putting the webpage and various services through their paces, I ran the top command to look for memory usage spikes, zombie processes, and any other weirdness, when I noticed that the swap said 0 used, 0 free, and 0 available. Running a swapon -s command printed this output ```
Filename    Type  Size Used Priority
``` with nothing listed. Running the free command gave me ```
total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       1006936     628304     378632      19288      13072     411880
-/+ buffers/cache:     203352     803584
Swap:            0          0          0
```
I was done writing my step by step procedure for reloading from scratch anyway, so I went ahead and reloaded 14.04 from scratch with the exact same RAID configuration as before. When I booted into the OS for the first time, I used top, swapon -s and free to verify that my swap space was indeed there, and it was. I reloaded my packages and settings again, and proceeded to work out some kinks with this new apache business, and today, I just logged in to continue troubleshooting some items, and my swap is gone again! I could find no other examples of this online anywhere, and am a bit baffled. When I have time later, I may reload again and not RAID my swap to see if the issue persists, but I have seen a lot of posts online that recommend RAIDING swap for Ubuntu server in general, but not specifically 14.04. Does anyone have any ideas? 

Thanks as always for your brilliant help!

---

### Post by thufirhawat2 on 2014-04-28
One issue down. On a hunch, I tried putting my ServerName localhost bit in the apache.conf file instead of the httpd.conf file under /etc/apache2. That cleared the message up when I restart the service and everything still seems to function fine.

---

### Post by thufirhawat2 on 2014-04-29
So I tested just taking the .html off of the filenames for the secondary pages in my host directory, and they now load without having to type .html at the end of the address in the browser. Kind of strange that they should change that, but this method seems to make it work. So the two minor issues are solved.

However, after hours of working at it, my disappearing swap problem is still bamboozling me. I looked in my /etc/fstab and found this:

```
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/md0 during installation
UUID=0d7779d2-ffd9-4125-815a-6724136b37b3 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/md1 during installation
#UUID=3392fbe5-9eb9-4332-b2f4-c990cd3aef3e none            swap    sw              0       0
#/dev/mapper/cryptswap1 none swap sw 0 0
```

So as I would expect because I configured it that way, swap was on md1 when the system was installed But at some point, the line where its UUID is set to be swap was commented out (I never edited this file or did anything that would make this change). Furthermore it looks like at some point this cryptswap1 business was set up, but also commented out. I first tried doing a swapon -U command with the UUID that is shown above for md1 and received some weird error, then I tried a sudo blkid /dev/md1 and the command did not return anything, it just went to another prompt, no error or anything. I then tried a sudo mdadm -D /dev/md1 and got the UUID of the raid device, and then tried a swapon -U with that, and got the same weird error "loctl something or other" as before.

Then I decided to look in /etc/crypttab which looks like this:

```
# <target name> <source device>         <key file>      <options>
cryptswap1 UUID=3392fbe5-9eb9-4332-b2f4-c990cd3aef3e /dev/urandom swap,cipher=aes-cbc-essiv:sha256
``` 

I tried changing /dev/urandom to /dev/md1, but that made no difference, so I changed it back, I am not entirely sure what this file is for or how it got setup, I just thought I would look there since my fstab somehow got that cryptswap line in there. I did encrypt my home directory, but I would not think that would apply to swap in any way, when it is on totally different partitions. 

So my initial setup was md0=sda1+sdb1 as RAID1 and had / installed. And md1=sda2+sdb2 RAID1 and configured as swap. I decided to try to fix the problem without reloading because I want to learn more about partitioning and RAIDing with the command line, as I never really fooled with it. So I decided to delete md1. I ran sudo mdadm --stop /dev/md1 it returned and said the array had stopped. I then tried sudo mdadm --remove /dev/md1 and it said it was removed. I read somewhere that you should "zero out the device blocks" or something along those lines., so I ran the command sudo mdadm --zero-superblock /dev/sda2 and got an error couldn't open device for write - not zeroing. Same on sdb. So I went into fdisk and just deleted those partitions, and went into the mdadm config and deleted md1 from there, as I saw that when I rebooted, I still got an e-mail about that array. After that, I rebooted, did not get an e-mail about that array, so I went it with fdisk and recreated sda2 and sdb2, made them Linux raid partitions, and went to create another raid, but got an error that those partitions were already members of an array md1 created on Sunday (when I loaded the server) so somewhere, there is still a reference to those two partitions being in the raid array I thought I deleted. So I decided to change the partitions to sda/b3 and try again, same error. 

So now I have tried to create new partitions sda/b2 and do a sudo mkswap /dev/sda2 and it said "Setting up swapspace version 1, size = 1953120 KiB
no label, UUID=6618b365-7f6a-4d86-8c5d-d79ddc24cb44." but when I do a swapon -s, I show no swap space. When doing a top command, I see no available swap. I tried putting that UUID in the fstab as swap and rebooting, still no swap. 

So I am totally at a loss. Does this have to do with my having encrypted my home directory as well as RAIDing the swap, or is it one of the two? Or does it have to do with having two RAID1s on the same two disks but with different partitions? I would like to figure this out before I move my production environment to 14.04, and I am not adamant about swap being Raided, I have just read that it is a better way of doing it, and once I find a problem or possible glitch, I like to at least try to figure it out. Any help would be appreciated, thanks!

---

### Post by thufirhawat2 on 2014-04-30
Ok, so I have narrowed down the problem to its cause; encrypting the home directory. 

Irrespective of any other setup option or drive configuration, if I encrypt my home directory during the initial server installation of 14.04, my swap will go missing and never return. I have not been able to find anything online that states encrypting your home directory makes swap go away or work differently, and on my 12.04 laptop, I have my /home encrypted and swap works fine. 

I do not know if this is a glitch with 14.04, or maybe I do not entirely understand swap and this is how it is intended to work when the home directory is encrypted, I just do not have enough information at this point. I am not that pressed about encrypting the home directory anyway, so I am just scrapping the idea. RAIDing swap and / without encrypting home seems to be working just fine on my backup hardware, so I am going to stick with that architecture. Hopefully this post will be a resource to anyone else who has this problem in the future, but if anyone figures it out, I would be interested to know!

---

