---
title: "12.04 Wont boot normally"
date: 2016-02-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2016-02-02
So I've got an install of 12.04 that's been running now for almost two years hosting an Informix db.  Recently the engineering department hired a consultant to upgrade some ProEngineer toolkit code and they requested clones of this vm as well as a ProE Automation one.  Anyway long story short I cloned them and they had been running fine for the past week until today.
The informix db vm we'll call IFMX is suddenyl giving the error:

[I]mount.nfs: Connection timed out
mountall: mount /netapp [514] terminated with status 32[/I]

[I]
cat /etc/fstab
netapp:/vol/vol0/custom /netapp    nfs    intr   0    0[/I]

Now after this it seems to halt.  No input response at all save the arrow keys which just flashed back and forth between the console output and the Ubuntu screen with the 4 dots.  I can power cycle it, and boot into recovery and drop to a root shell.  There mount -a works perfectly, no issues.  Full communication with the NFS server which is a Netapp.

How do I determine what's wrong here?
Thanks

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-02-03
Thread moved to the "*Server Platforms*" forum.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-02-03
Is the root partition on the nfs/netapp? Does it offer to continue booting even when it doesn't mount the netapp?

---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2016-02-03
Oh no the only volume I'm mounting off the Netapp contains user data. Everything else is local disk.  And no I've left it for up to 10 minutes and it winds up becoming unresponsive to the console.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-02-03
That's very weird. Usually it would ask you if you want to skip mounting with S and continue to boot.

Just for troubleshooting, have you tried commenting out the /netapp line in fstab and see if it boots that way. I know it's not a solution, but just to check.

Also what you can try is adding the _netdev option (yes, the underscore is part of it) to the /netapp options in fstab. Usually people recommend using _netdev for mounting devices depending on network connections because it tells the system to wait until the network is operational.

So, if your /netapp mount has the option 'intr', try with 'intr,_netdev' (no spaces). See if that helps...

---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2016-02-04
Here's my fstab as it currently sits.

```
root@TEST-INFORMIX:~# cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=82b9ec61-4847-4a94-9fe2-90b849cca7a0 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=7183019d-3a9b-4dda-86d8-b150fdf26038 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
netapp:/vol/vol0/custom /netapp  nfs    intr    0       0
/dev/sda3       /storage        ext4    defaults        0 0
root@TEST-INFORMIX:~#

```

However in this recovery root console mode the filesystem is read only.  Is this intended? Oh wait, nevermind I mounted / readwrite and made the change to fstab.

Ok same result with 'intr,_netdev'

So Im booting with the /netapp commented out to see what happens.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-02-04
Also, have you tried using the IP instead of netapp? This will rule out any possible DNS issues because you are telling it to look by name, not IP. I assume your storage device has static IP, in such case try with:
```
<IP>:/vol/vol0/custom   /netapp   nfs   intr,_netdev   0   0
```

---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2016-02-05
Ok so fater commenting out that line the boot process is halting at Stopping System V Compatibility...

I do have the netapp and it's IP defined in the hosts file, and ping have always been fine but I'll try it to just to see.

I got it! IDK how but it's working.  After much Googl-age I wound up installing KDM which then completed the boot up process but then I had the login loop and I hate KDE so I  removed KDM and installed GDM.  Still had the login loop, so I renamed and deleted .dmrc and poof it's working.  While I don't believe or see how this resolved the mount issue for whatever reason it works.

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/314259/login-loop-ubuntu-12-04]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/314259/login-loop-ubuntu-12-04")

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-02-05
Strange... So you installed a desktop environment on your server and that helped with nfs mounts??? Did you already have any DE or GUI installed earlier?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2016-02-06
I am a little confused and curious.

I modestly know a bit about X and the the Linux Graphics Layer. I know this just from trying to make it work (through system environment evolution) and being exposed to it since 1988.

Yes, most X login loops nowadays are caused by the .Xauthority file not owned by the owner. Around 2008, it was the same with .dmrc.

I have to admit that when you mentioned "going passed the 4 flashing dots" (the splash screen)... actually your quote:
> 
Now after this it seems to halt. No input response at all save the arrow keys which just flashed back and forth between the console output and the Ubuntu screen with the 4 dots.

which indicated to me that after your original problem, that it continued to process, without the nfs share, and hung on an X init problem...

You say that you have corrected that X ini problem and that it is now booting... but how about the original problem with you nfs share timing out?

Like Darkod had keyed in on, previous to the X init problem occurring, you had a problem with your NFS share... Indicated by this:
> 
mount.nfs: Connection timed out
mountall: mount /netapp [514] terminated with status 32

The following was what you showed, how it was defined in your fstab:
> 
cat /etc/fstab
netapp:/vol/vol0/custom /netapp nfs intr 0 0

and then you confirmed a common diagnostics indicato, that when you said:
> 
...boot into recovery and drop to a root shell. There mount -a works perfectly, no issues. Full communication with the NFS server which is a Netapp.

Indicates that it done through the recovery menu, then the timing is changed and allowed for longer, so if it booted then and didn't time out... then there was a timing problem, trying to mount your nfs share from fstab -and- that it did succesffully mount if given more time. NFS shares are "sensitive"... even more so than smb shares.

Yes, you had two problems, but ... So are you saying that it mounts fine now? No problems left to resolve? Because, like Darkod, I am confused by that...

You had
> 
netapp:/vol/vol0/custom /netapp nfs intr 0 0

Darkod recommended:
> 
<IP>:/vol/vol0/custom   /netapp   nfs   intr,_netdev   0   0

I recommend:
> 
netapp:/vol/vol0/custom /netapp nfs _netdev,bg,timeo=15, retrans=7   0 0

Now to explain the why--
_netdev says wait for the network to be up before the mount.
**bg** says background, or rather if it fails the first time, try to mount as a background process. What this the sideline results is, if the NFS mount fails, it will mow not hang the boot process <> The boot process will continue without it.
**timeo** is an option to reset the timeout. NFS shares are notoriously sensitive to timeout errors for some reason, when trying to mount from fstab. The defualt for an fstab timeout is 11 seconds.
**retrans** is an option that resets how many times it retries the mount. The default is 5 times...
**intr** was an option that is now (in the current version) as being set as a default. So not saying it in the fstab... is now set to this. You would use **nointr** to change from that...

---

### Post by silverbullet007 on 2016-02-08
I don't blame you guys for being confused, honestly I still am as well.

This was a gui install from the beginning, I
m not comfortable yet without one, however on the source server the gui very quickly became unreliable.  It's a VM running on ESXi 5.5 and since it's inception the database was operating as it should so I never looked into the gui issues.  Then engineering brings in a consultant to operate on some code toolkits and needed a close of the production server.  Which is what this 'server' is, I cloned it about two weeks ago and for the first few days I was told everything was good.
I did try Darkmods suggestion by adding the _netdev option with the same results. Then I spent more time on Google and surprisingly found other forums posts about this and it being somehow resolved by a display manager install.  

The original vm will boot to the 4 dot splash screen and stay right there so I could likely resolve that issue the same way I did on this clone.  However not knowing the full depth of dependencies and not wanting to risk Informix is why I left it half broken.  I didn't know about the timeo and retrans so I've added those to the fstab as well.

---

