---
title: "10.04 console issues with EXSi vm host"
date: 2010-08-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by darrylt on 2010-08-27
I have 300 ubuntu 8.04 systems running on IBM M2 servers and ESXi VM hosts.  To get enough lines on the console to be usable I set the vga option to 791 (1024x786).  This worked great on both the VM and servers.   I would like to upgrade these to 10.04 to take advantage of the updates and newer hw support for my new servers.

I was able to get the correct console resolution on the server by upgrading to grub2 and updating the appropriate files.  But when I attempt to use these changes on my VM host using an image created off of my server. This is the same process that I used with ubuntu 8.04. The console for all the VM ubuntu instances always goes to 800x600 no matter what changes I make in the grub files.  

Any ideas on why my previously working process no longer works with 10.04.  The graphics card in my servers is an ATI ES1000.  I have no control over what my customers use as the actual hw for the ESXi host which wasn't a problem with 8.04.

thanks
darryl

---

### Post by craigp84 on 2010-08-27
When you say you update the appropriate files, what did you update them with?

You say files, plural so i'm guessing you're using the handy update-grub script in conjunction with /etc/default/grub?

Sounds like you're influencing the gfxmode= but not adding a gfxpayload=keep on the line after?

EDIT: p.s. grub2 sucks still. I don't know anyone sane who would deploy it in production for at least another couple of years.

---

### Post by darrylt on 2010-08-27
craigp84,

Sorry, I should have been more specific.  I edited the /etc/default/grub file to set the gfxmode=1024x768 and then changed /etc/grub.d/00_header and added a gfxpayload=keep.  I also tried gfxpayload=1024x768.

I would prefer to continue using grub and not grub2.  But the vga option is not supported in ubuntu 10.04.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-27
Well if you want to stick with grub 'legacy' I would stay with 8.04.4.  It's supported until April 2013 on the server platform.

Grub2 is the standard bootloader in 10.04, and it'll probably be hairy to try and rip it out... Although I think if you do a dist-upgrade from 8.04 don't you get to keep grub-legacy...?

---

### Post by craigp84 on 2010-08-27
> **arrrghhh said:**
> Well if you want to stick with grub 'legacy' I would stay with 8.04.4.  It's supported until April 2013 on the server platform.

Grub2 is the standard bootloader in 10.04, and it'll probably be hairy to try and rip it out... Although I think if you do a dist-upgrade from 8.04 don't you get to keep grub-legacy...?

If it were my money, i'd go with arrrghhh's idea.

---

