---
title: ".htaccess not working on hosting website?"
date: 2018-05-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by hybridhubris on 2018-05-26
According to them the rewrite engine is on, freewha.com. I've tried putting it in the main directory and in a sub-directory to get password authentication. As soon as I type in the name and password I get "**[FONT=Verdana]500 Internal Server Error[/FONT]**" What could I be doing wrong?

This is the same code I'm using on my own server (+ a .htpasswd file) and it works fine.

```
AuthType Basic
AuthName "Private"
AuthUserFile .htpasswd
Require valid-user

```

---

### Post by spjackson on 2018-05-26
Just a few thoughts...

Do you have access to the raw error log? If so, that might give you a clue.

You could get that error if .htpasswd does not exist or is not readable by the webserver account. If no path is specified, it needs to be in the same folder as .htaccess.

If the site is not static html but is e.g. php, it is possible that authentication succeeds and the error comes further down the line. i.e. do you get the error if .htaccess does not exist?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-05-26
By default .htaccess is disabled on Ubuntu and most other distributions.  It is a kludge designed to enable hosting providers to grant their users some control over Apache options.  You should put any directives you would place in .htaccess inside the <Directory> stanza in the configuration for your virtual host:

```

<VirtualHost *:80>
ServerName www.example.com
DocumentRoot  /var/www/html
<Directory "/var/www/html">
AuthType Basic
AuthName "Private"
AuthUserFile /path/to/.htpasswd
Require valid-user
</Directory>
[stuff]
</VirtualHost>

```

.htaccess is disabled by the "AllowOverride None" directive in the /etc/apache2/apache2.conf file.  You can change "none" to "all" if you want to restore .htaccess functioning.

---

### Post by hybridhubris on 2018-05-27
Since it's a hosting website I don't believe I have access to any error logs or apaches config files? I put both .htaccess and .htpasswd in the same directory. My own server is also Apache 2.4 and it accepts the same files.

This is what the their specs states: > - apache 2.4 webserver with mod_rewrite (and many other modules) enabled, as well with .htaccess/.htpasswd support;

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-05-27
Can you really not see the error log for your virtual host?  An "internal server error" usually means some problem with locating files or files not having correct permissions or some other error at the operating system level.  My next guess is that you need to specify a path to .htpasswd.  Also are .htaccess and .htpasswd readable by everyone, or at least readable by the pseudo-user "www-data" that Ubuntu/Debian use?  Have you walked through the possibilities here:  

[https://www.1and1.com/cloud-community/learn/web-server/server-management/how-to-fix-http-error-code-500-internal-server-error/](https://www.1and1.com/cloud-community/learn/web-server/server-management/how-to-fix-http-error-code-500-internal-server-error/)  

It looks pretty comprehensive.

---

