---
title: "10.04 Server 32bit &quot;lost&quot; start on boot daemons"
date: 2010-08-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Medwyyn42 on 2010-08-06
Small server at work, currently running just as a test system. Has Apache2 for internal website. We suffered a short power outage and the system turned off. When restarted, the system boots with no issues and right into Gnome (manager needs to "see" things work), however it seems that many, if not all, of the autostart functions don't: apache2 doesn't start, network doesn't start, sql servers don't start, webmin, etc. I can go in manually and start them with no issues, except for the fact that my apache2/joomla site will not work (might be config issue, but worked with no issues before power failure). We're on an old P4 1.8 with 2GB ram and an single 80GB drive until management is satisfied enough to buy a new purpose built machine. After manually starting Samba I can browse the shared files from one of our many XP machines. Nothing is really popping out at me from the logs. Webmin has no effect on changing start at boot functions. Is there a command I can run to reset all of the init.d functions or Upstart functions? Any suggestions of where to look? I can reinstall if needed; I am not too far in and can backup website off the server if needed, but I like to figure out the issue(s).

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Medwyyn42 on 2010-08-07
A system update solved the issue. Still not sure what went wrong. All rc.d files were present.

---

