---
title: "ddclient not updating on dyndns.org help"
date: 2008-02-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by stock1232 on 2008-02-14
Ok so i downloaded the ddclient from Ubuntu Synaptic Package Manager. The file downloaded into usr/sbin/ddclient  I then checked the ect/ddclient.conf and placed the custom configuration from dyndns.org into ddclient.conf 

## ddclient configuration file
daemon=600                  # check every 600 seconds
syslog=yes                  # log update msgs to syslog
mail-failure=psustock1232@yahoo.com # Mail failed updates touser
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid   # record PID in file.

## Detect IP with our CheckIP server
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com/, web-skip='IP Address'

## DynDNS username and password here
login=stock1232
password= xxxxxxx

## Default options
protocol=dyndns2
server=members.dyndns.org

## Custom DNS hosts
custom=yes, amswebsitedesign.com


I changed the password to my log on for dyndns.org However my external IP address never updates??? I have to go to the site every so often and change in manually. Can anyone see what I have done incorrectly?

Thanks

---

### Post by stock1232 on 2008-02-14
PS I also restarted apache2

---

### Post by stock1232 on 2008-02-14
Another tidbit. If I log on in nautilus, the ddclient.conf shows up with the proper config. (the one from dyndns.org) However if I go to Places--Computer--Filesystem ddclient.conf is blank with a little orange icon at the top left of the file. What is going on?

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-02-14
did you put your configuration file in:

etc/ddclient
-or-
/etc/ddclient

there is a huge difference.
to be sure, enter the following command:
```
sudo cat /etc/ddclient
```
if your configuration file appears as shown above, then perform this command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure ddclient
```
when it asks you if you want to run this as a daemon, make sure you change the answer to yes.

that should make things work for you.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-02-15
if you can't get it to work, no-ip.com has also a client in the repos (noip2). Works fine for me.

---

### Post by stock1232 on 2008-02-15
ok I reconfig the ddclient like you said. Do I need to restart apache2? What is my next step in order to test it?

Thanks

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-02-15
apache has nothing to do with the dd-cllient... well, you have to check if your public IP got syncronized on dyndns

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-02-15
also ... remember that with the above configuration, it will take up to 10 minutes for your ip address to be updated.

---

### Post by stock1232 on 2008-02-16
my ISP changed the IP address sometime last night. When I went to check it this morning in dyndns.org, it still didn't update. After the steps I took above here is my conf file now.

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=web
server=members.dyndns.org
login=stock1232
password='XXXXXXX'
amswebsitedesign.com

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-02-16
you should change your /etc/ddclient.conf file to the configuration you had to begin with.

```
## ddclient configuration file
daemon=600 # check every 600 seconds
syslog=yes # log update msgs to syslog
mail-failure=psustock1232@yahoo.com # Mail failed updates touser
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid # record PID in file.

## Detect IP with our CheckIP server
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com/, web-skip='IP Address'

## DynDNS username and password here
login=stock1232
password= xxxxxxx

## Default options
protocol=dyndns2
server=members.dyndns.org

## Custom DNS hosts
custom=yes, amswebsitedesign.com
```
then restart the ddclient daemon:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient restart
```

the purpose of the dpkg-reconfigure command was to make sure that ddclient was added as a daemon.  this insures that the script is always running in the background.  i had forgotten that you'll need to also re-edit /etc/ddclient.conf after running dpkg-reconfigure.  my apologies.

---

### Post by Quads on 2008-02-17
> **dmizer said:**
> you should change your /etc/ddclient.conf file to the configuration you had to begin with.

```
## ddclient configuration file
daemon=600 # check every 600 seconds
syslog=yes # log update msgs to syslog
mail-failure=email@example.com # Mail failed updates touser
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid # record PID in file.

## Detect IP with our CheckIP server
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com/, web-skip='IP Address'

## DynDNS username and password here
login=my_user_ID
password= xxxxxxx

## Default options
protocol=dyndns2
server=members.dyndns.org

## Custom DNS hosts
#custom=yes, amswebsitedesign.com
```
then restart the ddclient daemon:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient restart
```

the purpose of the dpkg-reconfigure command was to make sure that ddclient was added as a daemon.  this insures that the script is always running in the background.  i had forgotten that you'll need to also re-edit /etc/ddclient.conf after running dpkg-reconfigure.  my apologies.


I had been struggling with getting this to work properly. 
Until reading this post. The information you shared / example config file, etc. work (so far, I have yet to bounce through a new IP or two)

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-02-17
> **Quads said:**
> I had been struggling with getting this to work properly. 
Until reading this post. The information you shared / example config file, etc. work (so far, I have yet to bounce through a new IP or two)

Quads, don't forget to add your host names into the configuration file like so:

```
## ddclient configuration file
daemon=600 # check every 600 seconds
syslog=yes # log update msgs to syslog
mail-failure=email@example.com # Mail failed updates touser
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid # record PID in file.

## Detect IP with our CheckIP server
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com/, web-skip='IP Address'

## DynDNS username and password here
login=my_user_ID
password= xxxxxxx

## Default options
protocol=dyndns2
server=members.dyndns.org

## Custom DNS hosts
#custom=yes, example.com

## Dynamic DNS hosts go here
[COLOR="Red"]your-dynamic-host.dyndns.org,another-dynamic-host.dyndns.org[/COLOR]
```

otherwise, your ip address will change but the update will not be applied to your dynamic domain.  always restart the ddclient daemon after making changes to the configuration file:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient restart
```

---

### Post by Ampi on 2008-03-15
I am not really sure if I can help, but I used the next command to update my IP as soon as I boot my computer.

```
$ ddclient chkconfig ddclient on
```

---

### Post by alphacrux on 2008-04-23
Hey I also was having this problem. After messing around with ddclient I figured out a few things. First ddclient will NOT update unless the ip changes. This can be bad as dyndns.com requires you to update at least once a month. What you can do is issue the command ```
ddclient -host your.hostname.org -force
``` to force an update. Unfortunately the ip won't update by issuing the same command without the force option unless the ip changes. I also found out that if you issue the force command twice within a certain period of time (I'm not sure how long, I think its on the order of hours or days though) then the ip will still not be updated. You will then get a warning about abusive updates and the ddclient daemon will stop running. You can check for this with the command: ```
/etc/init.d/ddclient status
``` My solution was to setup a cron event in which every 2-3 days around a certain time I will issue a force command so that my domain name doesn't expire. You will need to do this with root privileges as ddclient requires it. The easiest way to do this is to download gnome-schedule ```
sudo apt-get install gnome-schedule
``` Make sure its run as root i.e. do not run it from gnomes drop-down menus. Instead run it from the command-line with ```
sudo gnome-schedule
```

---

### Post by shawnerz on 2008-05-25
Thanks, alphacrux.  
I friend installed and configured ddclient a few years ago when I was a Linux newbie.  
Last month, I changed out a hard drive and re-installed ubuntu.  I also had to reinstall ddclient.  I didn't think it was working because I never saw updates at dyndns.  My IP address wasn't changing.  I used the "force" command and it worked.  Then, I turned my router off for several hours, turned it on and got a new IP address.  I saw the update at dyndns within a couple minutes.
Thanks for letting me know about the -force switch and the fact that you won't see updated info if your IP address doesn't change.
-Shawn

---

