---
title: "12.04 Fresh install Grub Error:unknown Filesystem."
date: 2012-06-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rwslippey on 2012-06-05
Hello,

I've just reinstalled Ubuntu 12.04 LTS multiple times and keep getting the following error.

Error: unknown filesystem.
grub rescue>


I've search but haven't been able to find any relavent solutions or even what caused the problem.

Any ideas?

Rob

---

### Post by rwslippey on 2012-06-05
Just a little more info on this. I've tried multiple CDs to complete the install, replaced the hard drive. reinstalled multple times. Manual partition table double and triple checked everything. Still same error accross the board.


Current configureation is as follows


2 hard drives

250GB
500GB


250GB is split in 50Mb /boot    8Gb swap
Free space is an LVM
500GB drive is an LVM

LVM is the usual Root, var, tmp, home

tried both ext3 and ext4

also erased everything accross the board and let the installer auto partiction in the disks... same deal.. I'm thinking it's a grub issue.


as usual  any help is greatly appriciated!

---

### Post by rwslippey on 2012-06-05
For anyone that ever runs into this issue in the future... I found the problem. 


While attempting to read online and research a grub fix after exhausing all other solutions I found a post that asked to boot into a live cd or usb... I happen to have a usb so I used it but my bios was configured to bypass usb (never used it on this before) so I went into a setup and then noticed that I was booting to my second drive (the one with just the LVM partition and no boot at all... swapped them around  first boot is first hard drive wityh the /boot and it works fine now...


and to think 6 hours on this for something so simple...  how'd I miss that before.. better yet how did my drives get swapped... I just replaced a smaller drive so that might be why..

Good luck:guitar:

---

