---
title: "o.o I think I bit off more than I can chew! (Installation Help)"
date: 2017-04-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by karendrae on 2017-04-14
So, my kiddos are super fans of Minecraft, and wanting to surprise them this Easter I decided to make them their own Server to play on. I've actually done it before on Windows, but a far more techy guy than me insisted that Ubuntu is the way to go for running a server. I'm stuck where it asks me:

If you need to use a HTTP proxy to access the outside world, enter the proxy information here. Otherwise, leave this blank.

The proxy information should be given in the standard form of 
```
"http:// [[user]] [:pass]@]host[:port]?"
```

HTTP proxy information (blank for none):


My only concern is that I am running a minecraft server...so I assume I need access to the 'outside world'. I could be entirely mistaken. Do I just put in my info? Even though I don't own a website or anything? my name, password, host thing (Not sure what that one is), and port which is usually 25565 for minecraft? or should I just skip this?

Give me a nudge in the right direction would you? :3

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-14
99% should leave it blank.  If you aren't required to use a proxy in your web browser settings, then you don't need them for that question either.  

In more secure corporate environments, the use of a proxy is extremely common. Nobody gets direct access to the internet.  In a library or school environment, where they filter/block whatever the govt thinks is offensive (and then some), it is also common.

At home, you would have setup a proxy server - something like squid. If you didn't do this - leave it blank.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2017-04-14
go with default options to install Ubuntu server.

then see this : 
[SIZE=2]https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-a-minecraft-server-on-linux
[/SIZE]
or this: 
[SIZE=2]https://www.vultr.com/docs/how-to-install-a-minecraft-server-on-ubuntu
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by karendrae on 2017-04-14
Thank you guys! <3.

---

### Post by Tadaen_Sylvermane on 2017-04-15
I wish you the best on your server adventure. There are many things you can do with a server other than Minecraft. Just having it running gives me the warm and fuzzys. Currently got 4 minecraft servers in lxd containers running along with a host of other services for my network. Makes me feel smarter than I am that I have my own server doing various things :) enjoy it.

---

