---
title: "16.04 LAMP showing 40% HD usage on 1TB HD's?"
date: 2017-07-22
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Heeter on 2017-07-22
Hey all,

Got a 16.04LAMP Server running postfix, and Owncloud 

The are 2 HD's 1 terabyte each running in a mirror raid array

Webmin is showing the HD are at nearly 40% capacity (306GB used)

I do know that other than the Regular LAMP postfix, mailman, dovecot setup, the owncloud server has 50gigs of data to itself. There should not be anything else working on this.

I don't have the faintest idea of where to look for all this stuff

Where can I start?

Regards

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-07-22
I would first check if you get the same info with df -h. I don't trust webmin.

To start looking into biggest folder size you can use something like:
```
sudo du -ah --max-depth=1  / | sort -hr
```

After you find a big folder that you want to investigate, you can run the command only against that folder instead of /. Or you can change the max-depth to go one level further, but you will get quite a lot results on screen.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2017-07-25
> **Heeter said:**
> 
Webmin is showing the HD are at nearly 40% capacity (306GB used)



it is advised against using Webmin on Ubuntu.

> [COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu]WebMin was in Ubuntu until 5.10 Breezy Badger, and was then dropped because it is not compatible with the way that Ubuntu packages handle configuration files, and caused unexpected issues with people's systems.[/FONT][/COLOR]

but main thing is it causes issues sometimes.

if you need a GUI to administer the server, then Ajenti or Zentyal are better supported.

Landscape, Sentora migh also work but could be overkill.

---

