---
title: "8.10 AMD64: After installation w. custom partitioning &quot;Missing Operating System&quot;"
date: 2008-12-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by NDLunchbox on 2008-12-03
I am rebuilding a Dell PowerEdge SC440.  It has two HDDs in it, 160GB and 80GB.  The box is a webserver that multiple users have shell accounts on.  I wanted to beef up the security and implement quotas and other measure to keep one user from accidentally hosing the machine, so step one was to do some more advanced partitioning.  I created the following Partitions on the 160GB Disk (the 80 is for backups):

SDA1	/boot		256 MB
SDA2	/		10 GB
SDA3	/usr		12 GB
SDA5	SWAP		3072 MB
SDA6	/tmp		4096 MB
SDA7	/opt		20 GB
SDA8	/var		30 GB
SDA9	/var/log	10 GB
SDA10	/var/www	30 GB
SDA11	/home		40 GB

I loaded used the "fix a broken system" option to get into a shell and run fdisk.  /boot has a star showing it is the boot partition, but when I cd into it, the directory is empty.  Same with most of the above directories even though they are shown as being mounted.

What am I doing wrong?  I though you just need to set the mount point and the installer will take care of the rest.

Is that too many partitions?  I'm thinking about cutting it down to just:

/
/var/log
/home
/tmp
and SWAP

---

### Post by NDLunchbox on 2008-12-14
Well, still no love on this.  I cut down the partitions to:
/boot		100 MB
/		36 GB
/var		80 GB
SWAP		3072 MB
/tmp		4096 MB
/home		30 GB
/var/log	6 GB

Still would not boot - so I tried using the default partitioning... STILL NOT BOOTING.

I thought maybe because this disk was once part of a server that had software RAID and then VMWare ESX 3i on it the MBR could be messed up or unrecognizable, so I installed Windows XP - no problems.

Again, tried to install 8.10 over it (wiping out XP) and now I am getting:
```
Error loading operating system
```

What is going on here?  Can anyone help?
Thanks...

---

### Post by Ferret-Simpson on 2008-12-16
Try Hardy. On my Proliant Systems, grub just insn't working on Intrepid. Hardy is not an issue.

---

### Post by NDLunchbox on 2008-12-16
Actually got it to boot (using defaults, going to try custom partitions again).

Here's what I think happened and what I did:

Either the VMWare ESX 3i installation (running VMFS on two disks) or the Software RAID the disk was part of before 3i was installed wrote something funky to the MBR.  Even installing Windows XP and then installing Ubuntu over it did not clear the problem.

Nuked the disk with DBAN and it seems to have cleared the problem.

---

### Post by NDLunchbox on 2008-12-16
Confirmed: A quick wipe with DBAN fixed the problem.  Must have been some, and I no longer got "Activate RAID" warning before the partitioning part of the Intrepid install.

---

