---
title: "12.04 Wont's Allow Me To Partition Disk"
date: 2012-07-23
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by MockY on 2012-07-23
I have tried both the regular install CD and the minimal CD for Ubuntu Server 12.04 64-bit, and the result is the same. Once the partitioner kicks in, this is all I get. 3 Options, one of which is blank. The blank one does nothing if selected and if I select "Finish partitioning and write changes to disk", it complains that no root file system is defined. I have tried 2 different hard drives, and also changed IDE mode to AHCI without any change. In other words, I have no way of formating the hard drive.

What's going on?
Attached is a screenshot.

EDIT: Exactly the same happens in 10.04

EDIT2: I now booted up a desktop version of Ubuntu, and low and behold, the hard drive is not detected. BIOS does, but not Ubuntu. Seems like Ubuntu doesn't support the controller, which is an absolute first for me. I have never in many hundred builds, have had a hard drive not detected. This is quite a disappointment I must say. The motherboard in question is Asus M5 A88-V EVO and it features a AMD SB850. So note to anyone who is considering buying a board with this controller: DON'T buy it! However, what's weird is that my previous board that I ran 11.10 (MIS 890GXM-G65) on, the hard drive was detected just fine so it seems like it is a hit or miss with this chipset.

---

### Post by koenn on 2012-07-23
> What's going on?
The installer doesn't see your disks.
I'd guess it's because it doesn't detect/recognize the disk controller or doesn't have the right modules ("drivers") for it.

---

### Post by MockY on 2012-07-23
> **koenn said:**
> I'd guess it's because it doesn't detect/recognize the disk controller or doesn't have the right modules ("drivers") for it.

Correct, but I find that very odd as this chipset is featured on another motherboard where it is detected just fine.

---

### Post by MockY on 2012-07-23
UPDATE:
I moved the hard drive to a different port, launched the installer, and this time it worked. But since I don't want the boot drive on SATA5, I moved it back to SATA1 again. This this it worked!

I'm proceeding with the install, but I'm a bit nervous that the board could in fact be defect. However, each and every time, the BIOS detected the drive correctly. One can hope that this wont be an issue once all updates are applied.

---

