---
title: "Possible resolvconf issue, or is it just me?"
date: 2012-07-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by bitmonkey on 2012-07-19
It may just be my configuration, but if so I'd like to figure out what happened to screw this up. I'm running 12.04 server recently upgraded from 11.04, problem was there for a long time on 11.04 and continued after 12.04 upgrade.

Some time ago, I stopped receiving alert emails from my server, I've got it configured with a gmail account and it had been working fine for months using "mail -s whatever [email]my@email.com[/email] < outputfile" or similar in scripts and so forth, then suddenly they just stopped. This was a while back, I never got round to checking it out until now.

Today I did check it out and it turns out the postfix queue is full of mail and lots of errors in the logs about a temporary failure in domain name resolution, so I went digging around and realised that postfix uses it's own resolv.conf in /var/spool/postfix/etc/resolv.conf generated by the script at /etc/resolvconf/update-libc.d/postfix.

My version of the resolv.conf that postfix uses was empty - it was just the "HEAD" section from where it's assembled by resolvconf, so no resolvers, no outgoing mail.

I ran /etc/resolvconf/update-libc.d/postfix by hand and I get a properly generated resolv.conf for postfix. I could then do a "postsuper -r ALL" to requeue the mail, and sure enough it gets sent as desired.

There's no way this can just be a one off, since my server gets rebooted with some regularity being a home box, so has probably been rebooted hence restarting resolvconf at least 10 times since the problem first manifested.

How can I debug this further? I notice in the /etc/resolvconf/update-libc.d/postfix script that there is a comment to the effect that it will only copy the file over into the correct location for postfix if "the service" (presumably meaning postfix itself) is already running, and that otherwise it will get picked up by the init script on start. Looking at "cat /etc/init.d/postfix |grep resolv" it gets mentioned and made part of a variable FILES, then later in the script something is done with FILES (my shell scripting is not good enough to follow that bit).

What is wierd is that "/etc/init.d/postfix restart" does update the file when I run it by hand.

Is something like upstart interfering with this? I'm not down with this upstart stuff and don't really understand it, I know it starts things when other dependencies are up, but does it trigger the scripts in init.d when it comes time to start them, or could it be using a separate script to start postfix at system reboot that means the resolv.conf isn't getting updated properly?

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-10-30
You were probably bitten by bug #980682 which has since been fixed.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postfix/+bug/980682](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/postfix/+bug/980682)

---

