---
title: "9.10 Server Edition - need help w/ experiment"
date: 2010-04-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by drreed on 2010-04-27
I've just installed 9.10 64bit server for testing purposes.

For this test, I want to run Sun's VirtualBox, and give the guest as much memory as possible.

I need to run Apache and MySql.

I put this thread here, in the hopes that someone has done something like this. I need just enough gui to run VirtualBox, no more.

I tried installing xinit, then VB and it whined about needing some libraries. which I fixed  with apt-get -f install

I installed gcc to compile the kernel, but it wouldn't run without some sort of a gui desktop environment (I guess, I don't really know, it just wouldn't load)

So I installed xfce4, which did the trick.

I think I could still pare this down a bit, to free more memory for the VB guest (which is Ubuntu desktop). I guess what I'm asking, is there a smarter way to do this? I only need to run VB, although I did install midori just to make this post easier.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2010-04-28
I'm sorry I can't help you beyond suggesting you look at bare metal hypervisors if the hit on perfprmance from the underlying OS is too great.
VMWare ESXi or similar might work better for you.

---

### Post by dudumomo on 2010-04-28
I'm not sure if you can install VB without a GUI interface...
May be you can check another VM.

But I you want to use only VB, why not installing the smallest GUI interface possible.
I don't know which one use the less memory, but fluxbox is quite light, you should have a try.

---

### Post by drreed on 2010-04-29
> **dudumomo said:**
> I'm not sure if you can install VB without a GUI interface...
May be you can check another VM.

But I you want to use only VB, why not installing the smallest GUI interface possible.
I don't know which one use the less memory, but fluxbox is quite light, you should have a try.


I was reading something about fluxbox just the other day, but I didn't realize it was a gui environment, I thought it was a window handler. I'll try it out and see how that works. 

I'm thinking now that I should reverse it, and install the server in the vb for testing, then I can reinstall it clean when I'm through, and just wipe-out the desktop I used for the test. It does mean I'll have more housekeeping when I'm finished, but I'd feel better about the server install if I hadn't added/removed a bunch of GUI stuff before putting it into operation. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2010-04-29
No need to install a GUI, you can use VirtualBox on a headless server:

[http://www.howtoforge.com/vboxheadless-running-virtual-machines-with-virtualbox-3.0-on-a-headless-ubuntu-9.04-server](http://www.howtoforge.com/vboxheadless-running-virtual-machines-with-virtualbox-3.0-on-a-headless-ubuntu-9.04-server)

---

