---
title: ".htaccess problem"
date: 2009-01-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Rhiknow on 2009-01-24
Anyone know why when I put a .htaccess file in /home/*/public_html it works fine, but when I put the .htaccess file in /var/www it doesn't work?!

I've a .htaccess file in /var/www and the server just serves /var/www/index.html -- I want the server to prompt for a password before giving me /var/www/index.html

This problem is driving me nuts. I've tried googling to no avail.

Using apache2 on ubuntu 8.10

Here's my .htaccess file:

```
AuthType Basic
AuthName "Password Required"
AuthUserFile /home/.htpasswd
Require user Rhiknow
```

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-01-24
It depends on the document root settings.

Note that you need not use .htaccess.  You can put all settings in the Apache configuration file.

Hope that helps!

Herman

---

### Post by Rhiknow on 2009-01-24
> **HermanAB said:**
> It depends on the document root settings.

Note that you need not use .htaccess.  You can put all settings in the Apache configuration file.

Hope that helps!

Herman

Hi, 

Thanks for your suggestions.

Document root settings eh?

I've added this line to the end of my /etc/apache2/apache2.conf

```
DocumentRoot /var/www
```

Did an "apache2ctl restart"

But it still doesn't work.

I'm absolutely stumped...

I'm a real amateur at this kind of stuff -- the old adage: "if you think a professional is expensive, try hiring an amateur" comes to mind...

---

### Post by Digital Ninja on 2009-10-03
i have this same problem, so if someone could help please? i'd hate to have to do everything online :(

---

### Post by jaychamp on 2009-10-03
Oops Ninja, didn't realize this was an old thread, hold on a sec while I revise.

---

### Post by jaychamp on 2009-10-03
> **Digital Ninja said:**
> i have this same problem, so if someone could help please? i'd hate to have to do everything online :(
Ok try this in your httpd.conf:

```
<Directory /path/to/passworded/directory>
     AllowOverride AuthConfig
     AuthName "You need to log in to access this folder."
     AuthType Basic
     AuthUserFile /path/to/.htpasswd
     AuthGroupFile /dev/null
     require user [username]
</Directory>
```I'm assuming you already created a .htpasswd file with a user/pass.  If you named it something else make sure to edit it.  Replace [username] obviously and take out the brackets.

Restart Apache

---

### Post by Digital Ninja on 2009-10-04
Oh wow, works like a charm.. Thanks so much!
:KS:KS:KS:KS:KS

Can you also try to help me with mod_rewriting? I actually can't even remember all the files I've edited trying to make it work by so many tutorials.. In the end I've only accomplished for my local server to pay attention to the .htaccess, but rather then working properly it just gives the internal server error if the .htaccess file exists (I know the .htaccess is written correctly because it works online)..

It would be great if you could explain what to do right after the initial Apache and PHP installation (I'll be installing a fresh Ubuntu soon anyway).

---

### Post by jaychamp on 2009-10-04
> **Digital Ninja said:**
> Oh wow, works like a charm.. Thanks so much!
:KS:KS:KS:KS:KS

Can you also try to help me with mod_rewriting? I actually can't even remember all the files I've edited trying to make it work by so many tutorials.. In the end I've only accomplished for my local server to pay attention to the .htaccess, but rather then working properly it just gives the internal server error if the .htaccess file exists (I know the .htaccess is written correctly because it works online)..

It would be great if you could explain what to do right after the initial Apache and PHP installation (I'll be installing a fresh Ubuntu soon anyway).
I don't really know because I'm a beginner myself, followed tutorials also, and I just happened to be working on passwording directories.   I don't use htaccess files at all

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-10-04
Just a note -- .htaccess is a bandaid mechanic to give users of VPS and other limited access web hosting solutions the ability to filter and/or reroute traffic. It's far better to "hardcode" your rules into <Directory> entries in apache2.conf.

Of course, making changes to the config file requires a restart of the web server, so .htaccess has the added benefit of letting you test rules in real time. Once you're satisfied with the results, you can transfer the rules into the main config, then scheduling a time to do a restart (if you require that kind of uptime).

---

