---
title: "JanusVM"
date: 2007-03-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by delbene on 2007-03-05
I'm trying to connect from my Ubuntu desktop to a JanusVM virtual machine ([http://janusvm.peertech.org/](http://janusvm.peertech.org/)). If I get it right, I have to create a VPN (with openVPN) to the VM, but I don't know how to set it up (specifically, the parameters to put in the config file).
[SIZE=-1]Could you please provide some help?[/SIZE]

---

### Post by coderman on 2007-03-08
Thanks to Kyle for this write up.  Be sure to pay attention to the "setting the JanusVM IP address" and "setting default route / DNS" parts.

---begin-cut---

OK.  I just ran this from start to finish.  Here's how I did it.

First off, your /etc/ppp/chap-secrets file MUST include the user you are connecting as.
In the default case with JanusVM, you want to make sure you have the following in /etc/ppp/chap-secrets:

guest            *               ""                    *

If you setup a different user inside JanusVM, you have to remember to change it on your linux box as well.

After you have added the user, next you need to setup your pppd config file. 
Here is the config file I am using (/etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM):
#########################
## PPTP Dialup script for JanusVM
remotename JanusVM
linkname JanusVM
ipparam JanusVM
# Make sure you set the IP correctly!!!
pty "pptp --loglevel 0 192.168.1.3 --nolaunchpppd"
# user/domain name.  default to setup
name guest
require-mppe
require-mppe-128
# if you set passwords for the above user change here
noauth
lock
bsdcomp 9,15
deflate 9,15
#replacedefaultroute
mtu 1492
mru 1000

After you have set the correct username or "name" value in your config, you then run pppd.

#> pppd call JanusVM

After a couple of seconds, you should be connected.  Two ways to check this are:

#> ifconfig ppp0
or
#> route -n

If the interface is up and running, you will see this is the route table.  Here is an example of mine:
#> route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
10.10.10.1      0.0.0.0         255.255.255.255 UH    0      0        0 ppp0
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0    U     0      0        0 eth0
127.0.0.0       0.0.0.0         255.0.0.0       U     0      0        0 lo
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0

At this point, by default route is still 192.168.1.1 .  I need to change this to 10.10.10.1 with:

#> route add default gw 10.10.10.1 && route del default gw 192.168.1.1

This removes the old default route and creates the new one to the VM.  This is what it should look like:
#> route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
10.10.10.1      0.0.0.0         255.255.255.255 UH    0      0        0 ppp0
192.168.1.0      0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
127.0.0.0       0.0.0.0         255.0.0.0       U     0      0        0 lo
0.0.0.0         10.10.10.1      0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 ppp0


Next you want to check your /etc/resolv.conf to make sure it is *NOT* using your local DNS server (192.168.1.1 or whatever)  Example:
#> cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by dhcpcd for interface eth0
search home
nameserver 192.168.1.1

it should look like:
#> cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by dhcpcd for interface eth0
search home
nameserver 4.2.2.2

The reason for this is because if the DNS query is bounced from your local router to an outside DNS, it is doing so in plaintext.  If you point it to 4.2.2.2 or whatever (not in LAN), JanusVM see's the request (because it is now being redirected to 10.10.10.1, not 192.168.1.1), and resolves it using Tor.  This way, not even your network admins or ISP know what sites you are going to.

That's how you get connected properly.

Now for disconnecting.

#> ifconfig ppp0 down
#> route add default gw 192.168.1.1

This will drop the interface (which automatically pulls the default route) and restores the default route.  After this you may want to edit your /etc/resolv.conf back to the internal DNS server, if you care about resolving localhost on your LAN at least.

And that's pretty much it.

---

### Post by delbene on 2007-03-10
I'm not able to replicate this procedure.

On my system there are several interfaces:

[I] eth0                 192.168.0.2
vmnet1  192.168.224.1
vmnet8  192.168.118.1[/I]

(I connect through eth0 to a gateway machine with IP = 192.168.0.1)

Now, if I download a clean install of JanusVM and run it, it connects as 192.168.0.135. So I use this */etc/ppp/chap-secrets*:

```
# Secrets for authentication using CHAP
# client    server        secret        IP addresses
guest        *            ""              *
``` and this */etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM*:

```
####################################
## PPTP Dialup script for JanusVM ##

remotename JanusVM
linkname JanusVM
ipparam JanusVM

# Make sure you set the IP correctly!!!
pty "pptp --loglevel 0 192.168.0.135 --nolaunchpppd"

# user/domain name. default to setup
name guest
require-mppe
require-mppe-128

# if you set passwords for the above user change here
noauth
lock
bsdcomp 9,15
deflate 9,15

#replacedefaultroute
mtu 1492
mru 1000
```Now, I run in the terminal[I]
pppd call JanusVM[/I]
getting no errors or messages.

But if I try to use
*ifconfig ppp0*
I get
*ppp0: error fetching interface information: Device not found*.

*route -n*
after the changes, gives me
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination       Gateway            Genmask           Flags Metric Ref Use  Iface
192.168.224.0    0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0   U       0         0    0      vmnet1
192.168.118.0    0.0.0.0           255.255.255.0   U       0         0    0      vmnet8
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0            255.255.255.0   U       0         0    0      eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.135    0.0.0.0               UG     0         0    0      eth0
```Also
[I]cat /etc/resolv.conf
[/I]finds
[I]nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220[/I]

But I'm still not connected through JanusVM, in fact if I check online my IP, it is still the same.

What it's wrong?

---

### Post by coderman on 2007-03-11
Hmm, can you try setting the debug level higher on pppd and see if there are errors during authentication?  (see the "debug" settings in peers script)

also, you may want to try a VPN tool like kvpnc/vpnc.  (apt-get install kvpnc)

and set the following in the graphical setup:
- remote IP
- name (guest or whatever you set in janusvm)
- require MPPE
- BSD/compression
- MTU 1492
- replace default route

---

### Post by delbene on 2007-03-11
After adding *debug dump* to */etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM*,
*pppd call JanusVM*
returns:

```
pppd options in effect:
debug           # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
linkname JanusVM                # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
dump            # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
noauth          # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
name guest              # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
remotename JanusVM              # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
                # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
pty pptp --loglevel 0 192.168.0.113 --nolaunchpppd              # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
crtscts         # (from /etc/ppp/options)
                # (from /etc/ppp/options)
asyncmap 0              # (from /etc/ppp/options)
mru 1000                # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
mtu 1492                # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
lcp-echo-failure 4              # (from /etc/ppp/options)
lcp-echo-interval 30            # (from /etc/ppp/options)
hide-password           # (from /etc/ppp/options)
ipparam JanusVM         # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
proxyarp                # (from /etc/ppp/options)
bsdcomp 9,15            # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
deflate 9,15            # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
require-mppe            # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
require-mppe-128                # (from /etc/ppp/peers/JanusVM)
noipx           # (from /etc/ppp/options)
```(this time the ip is 192.168.0.113, JanusVM is on dhcp).

The strange thing is that at least the dns resolution seems to pass through JanusVM. In fact configured this way, the browser works (not anonymized), but if I shut down the JanusVM, I have to revert to the old route table before the browser works.

---

### Post by coderman on 2007-03-12
ah, if the DNS is working but browsing is not anonymized it is a problem with your default route.

if you:
route del default gw 192.168.1.1  (or whatever it is for you)
and then
route add default gw 10.10.10.1 

you should be gold!  just remember to revert this once you kill the ppp.  we really need to script this for the linux side...

---

### Post by delbene on 2007-03-13
I tried, but it says that 10.10.10.1 is unreachable:
*SIOCADDRT: Network is unreachable*

I think this is correct, because I have no interface (virtual or real) set with this IP.

---

### Post by coderman on 2007-03-14
yes, if it was working you would have a ppp0 network device with the 10.10.10.1 address assigned to it.  are you able to install kvpnc?  (apt-get install kvpnc)

i'm taking configuration screenshots with kvpnc setup and will post them shortly.  hopefully this will resolve your problems!  thanks for your patience...

---

### Post by coderman on 2007-03-14
Hi, I've posted instructions for Ubuntu Edgy using Kvpnc (apt-get install kvpnc) here:

[https://peertech.org/docs/JanusVMLinuxKvpncUserGuide](https://peertech.org/docs/JanusVMLinuxKvpncUserGuide)

could you try this and let me know if it still isn't working right?

Thanks!

---

### Post by delbene on 2007-03-14
Thank you very much, following your instructions it works.

But I have to say that this is a sub-optimal solution:

1) I use gnome, and I don't like to mess with kde apps.
Doing so gave me the following problems:
a. the link it creates in the menu is wrong (it tries to use su-to-root)
b. it keeps asking about kwallet
c. I had to install separately pppd and pptpd
2) I use linux, and I don't like to mess with Microsoft protocols
3) I see that JanusVM is built with openvnc, so this would seems the ideal app to use. What about a prebuilt config file for openvnc?

---

### Post by coderman on 2007-03-14
hi delbene,

there is a forthcoming version that uses openvpn and will address each item you mention.  i'll post here once it is available.  the main difference is that the openvpn version relies on PKI and keys, while the PPTP can use name/pass authentication.

thank you for your effort and feedback!

---

### Post by alaaji on 2007-06-22
I've been trying to get this to work as well.  Any method besides kvpnc would be great as I use gnome as well.  Thanks for your effort coderman!

---

### Post by delbene on 2007-09-27
I saw the new release of JanusVM. Does it address the problem described in this thread?

---

### Post by alaaji on 2007-10-04
It looks like the new release uses openvpn so that should solve our problem.  I have to try it though.  Hopefully, I can get it to work.

---

### Post by delbene on 2007-10-04
If you could confirm that, and post a simple procedure I would be grate.

---

