---
title: "UEC 10.10 major problems... need help. Im learning"
date: 2010-10-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by life256 on 2010-10-30
[CENTER][LEFT]      Ok... some background first.
Been a long time Ubuntu user since 7.1 actually. I also had a short affair with Mint. I think that has blown over now :) and I still use Win 7 for most of my normal everyday activities... please dont hate. :P
I am not particularly looking to do anything productive "per se" in the immediate future with UEC.
I am really just trying to get a deeper understanding of linux in general as well as REALLY learn what I can can potentially do with my own private cloud and what it all means.
I have two older machines.
Let me preface all this by saying I am not interested in anything fast or efficient with these two machines. I understand that they do not support any VT and they are nothing fancy by any means... just what was laying around the office. Performance is not the goal here. Just getting it to work and me learning by those means.
1) amd sempron 2gb ram and 1tb Black caviar drive. This one is the CC, SC, and Walrus
2) Intel Pentium Dual core 2gb ram and 320gb drive This one is the NC
      I installed all this by using the 10.10 64bit server CD. I followed some online tutorials and had figure a few small things out between then and now.
I am running webmin on the CC and can get remote access that way. I am very happy about how smooth webmin is. Anyways...
[/LEFT]
I get this error after trying to discover my node
EC2_ACCESS_KEY environment variable must be set

I also get this long error after trying to install from the store via UEC webface

Command 'euca-upload-bundle' returned status code 1:
Checking bucket: image-store-1288476877
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/euca-upload-bundle", line 231, in <module>
    main()
  File "/usr/bin/euca-upload-bundle", line 214, in main
    bucket_instance = ensure_bucket(conn, bucket, canned_acl)
  File "/usr/bin/euca-upload-bundle", line 87, in ensure_bucket
    bucket_instance = connection.get_bucket(bucket)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/boto/s3/connection.py", line 275, in get_bucket
    rs = bucket.get_all_keys(headers, maxkeys=0)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/boto/s3/bucket.py", line 204, in get_all_keys
    headers=headers, query_args=s)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/boto/s3/connection.py", line 342, in make_request
    data, host, auth_path, sender)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/boto/connection.py", line 459, in make_request
    return self._mexe(method, path, data, headers, host, sender)
  File "/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/boto/connection.py", line 437, in _mexe
    raise e
socket.error: [Errno 113] No route to host


[LEFT]I figured this error had to do with my node not having the proper keys, but everything pings just fine and everything automatically installed with no problems. Am i missing something because everytime i try to make the dir for .euca it acts like it works and then when i try to cd it says it doesnt exist.
anyways as you can see maybe this is all way outta my league but i feel like ive done pretty good so far without any background experience period with clouds.


any help would be much appreciated! Thanks!
[/LEFT]
[/CENTER]

---

