---
title: "7.04 Server - LAMP install."
date: 2007-09-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Corvis on 2007-09-18
Sorry for the question in advance, but I'm stuck.  I installed 7.04 server with the LAMP option checked, well cause that is what I wanted. I've done a LAMP install before but it was the previous version of ubuntu. I know there should be a "www" folder that apache uses, but I couldn't find it. So i went looking for the apache folder... no luck there either.

Is there any reason why apache did not install? I'm just a little confused :(

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-09-19
Hi Corvis,

you must be talking about the directory /var/www.

---

### Post by Corvis on 2007-09-19
yes, that is exactly the directory I am talking about, and it's not there. Neither is the apache directory, although I'm not 100% sure where that is found.

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-09-19
By now you must have found them, but just for sure, run this in a console/terminal:

```
cd /var/www
ls

```The configuration files are in the /etc/apache2 directory.

---

### Post by Corvis on 2007-09-19
Nope, you are missing what my problem is.  There is no WWW folder. and no apache folder either to my knowledge.  In my defense i did select a LAMP install... but i'm not seeing the usual WWW folder or apache.

Here are some SS i took (btw I installed Xubuntu)

[IMG]http://www.frigginright.com/storage/corvis/images/var.jpg[/IMG]
and a view from terminal
[IMG]http://www.frigginright.com/storage/corvis/images/terminalview.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-09-19
You did "cd /var" and then "cd /www". That last command would bring you to /www, which, by default, doesn't exist.

One more thing, on Ubuntu Server, there isn't no GUI, how do you have one? Are you on a Ubuntu Desktop without LAMP installed and trying to access to the /var/www directory? Is the Ubuntu Server installed on another computer, 

Anyway, it is a *very strange issue*, never seen it. I would suggest you to do a fresh install of Ubuntu Server again.

---

### Post by Corvis on 2007-09-19
I installed the LAMP server which has no GUI, yes. but I installed xubuntu so that i would have a GUI to play around with, I'm much more comfortable with a GUI. 

just did 

> sudo apt-get install xubuntu desktop

and yes I think i will just do a fresh install since i just installed it a few days ago, not much progress lost and this way i don't have to actually fix it lol.

---

### Post by amphoterous on 2007-09-24
I am also interested in the answer to this problem. I did a fresh install of the Ubuntu Server 7.04 and chose the LAMP option. I tried making a www folder in var, but nothing happened.

---

### Post by MJWhiteDerm on 2007-09-24
I'm also interested in this problem, because I ran into it on an earlier install.   I gave up on that one and am now running a gui version of 6.06 on my "server" box.  I have a running feud with virtual hosting (see my posting on the other thread) and my frustration index at the moment is through the roof.

---

### Post by amphoterous on 2007-09-24
Ok I'm not really sure what the heck happened, but it looks like nothing from LAMP got installed... (maybe?!)

For apache, I did:
```
sudo apt-get install apache2
```

Now when I put a test.html in my /var/www folder it worked fine, so now I need to work on getting PHP/MySQL working.

*edit*

It looks like you still need to install everything separately.

I started following parts of this guide to get stuff working:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/perfect_setup_ubuntu704](http://www.howtoforge.com/perfect_setup_ubuntu704)

---

### Post by Ek0nomik on 2007-09-24
To make sure you have it all installed, run:

```
sudo tasksel install lamp-server
```

---

