---
title: "16.04 32 bit Installation Issue"
date: 2017-10-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jdaless on 2017-10-13
I'm attempting to install Ubuntu Server 16.04 32 bit onto a Dell Poweredge 2650. It's getting hung up loading libraries from the disk, and ends with an error along the lines of "loading partman-lvm failed" and then can not retry loading it. The same disk installed on a different machine, a Dell Poweredge 1950, so the disk itself doesn't seem to be the problem. Is there some issue with how old the machine is? Looking up the error only returns one result where two users got the same error trying to install Kali Linux onto VirtualBox. I'm not even sure how to troubleshoot this, any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2017-10-13
Try a 64-bit

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-10-13
Older thread.

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114608](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2114608)

What are specs of your server as they can be configured multiple ways.

---

### Post by jdaless on 2017-10-13
The boot sequence says two 2800 MHz processors, bus speed 533 MHz and a 512 kb cache, with bios v 2.7-1. I appreciate the link to that thread, but I can't eve get to the point where I choose how to install, as the error says: "The failing step is: Load installer components from CD". Checking the disk for defects yields no issues.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-10-14
Have you tried installing from USB?

---

### Post by jdaless on 2017-10-14
I did, the bios doesn't support booting from USB.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2017-10-14
> **jdaless said:**
> I'm attempting to install Ubuntu Server 16.04 32 bit onto a Dell Poweredge 2650.
I looked at Ubuntu's [certified hardware list]("https://certification.ubuntu.com/server/") and didn't see that particular PowerEdge server.  It might not work with the default driver set.

I know Dell PowerEdge 2850's were certified at some point (maybe circa Ubuntu 12.04) because I had several of them and Ubuntu Server installed on them just fine but I cannot find it on Ubuntu's site now.  I know 16.04 LTS will install onto a PE 2850 because I did it a couple weeks ago for my father-in-law and got a Dropbox-like service setup for him with it.  I have another stuffed in the corner of my office...probably with Win2003 on it since I have not touched it in a looooong time.

Looking at [Dell's site]("http://en.community.dell.com/techcenter/os-applications/w/wiki/3676.linux-os-support-on-dell-poweredge-servers"), they mention several flavors of Linux including Ubuntu but their [link to Ubuntu]("http://www.ubuntu.com/certification/server/make/Dell/") points to a defunct web page.  That particular page might have been where I found info for my 2850's

Maybe try installing [Ubuntu Server 12.04](http://mirror.pnl.gov/releases/12.04.5/) which was around that time period...if you can get it installed, then do an in-place upgrade to get it to 16.04.

Sorry I couldn't be more help.
LHammonds

---

