---
title: "DNS configuration woes"
date: 2014-03-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Sassy_Jack on 2014-03-28
Hello friends,

I'm upgrading my Ubuntu server from 8.04 to 12.04 and am experiencing DNS resolution problems--specifically, DNS resolution isn't working (error message is "connection timed out; no servers could be reached"). It seems that the management software used to configure DNS is different now, and I don't really understand it (I've always specified the DNS servers in resolv.conf). There seems to be a lot of threads related to DNS problems with 12.04, but my situation is different in that my server has 4 network interfaces, each of which I've configured with a static IP address.

Somebody will probably ask for the contents of my interfaces file, so I've included it below. I guess that the key point is that I've specified dns-nameservers for eth0 only, because it is attached to the subnet where the DNS servers are located. I haven't specified dns-nameservers for any other interface because essentially there are no other DNS servers on any other subnets.

What I want is for the DNS servers specified for eth0 to be THE default DNS servers for ALL DNS name resolution on this server regardless of, well, anything. 

There is probably a quick and easy solution for this. Can somebody please assist?


```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 10.1.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
        network 10.1.0.0
        broadcast 10.1.255.255
        gateway 10.1.254.254
        dns-nameservers 10.1.1.1 10.1.1.2
        dns-domain domain.local
        dns-search domain.local


auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
        address 10.2.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
        network 10.2.0.0
        broadcast 10.2.255.255
        # No gateway

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet static
        address 10.3.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
        network 10.3.0.0
        broadcast 10.3.255.255
        gateway 10.3.254.254

auto eth3
iface eth3 inet static
        address 10.4.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
        network 10.4.0.0
        broadcast 10.4.255.255
        # No gateway

```

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2014-03-29
That looks correct, but several things are redundant.  You you have address, and netmask, both network and broadcast are derived, so that could be conflicting.  I would start with;
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 10.1.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
        gateway 10.1.254.254
        dns-nameservers 10.1.1.1 10.1.1.2
        dns-domain domain.local
        dns-search domain.local


auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
        address 10.2.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
        # No gateway

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet static
        address 10.3.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
#        gateway 10.3.254.254
# You can not have two "default" gateways.

auto eth3
iface eth3 inet static
        address 10.4.1.254
        netmask 255.255.0.0
        # No gateway
```

Also, note that you have 2 default gateways listed.  I commented out one.

---

### Post by Sassy_Jack on 2014-03-30
Thank you for your reply.

Okay, so I don't need to explicitly define network and broadcast--that is good to know. 

I actually had some routing stuff at the bottom of the config file that I left out. So there really is only one default gateway.

up route add -net 10.1.0.0/8 gw 10.1.254.254 dev eth0
up route add -net 0.0.0.0 gw 10.3.254.254 dev eth2

There are no routing problems. To be more specific about the name resolution problem, I think I am having problems defining the _default_ name resolution servers. When I use nslookup, DNS name resolution works if I explicitly specify the dns name servers (e.g. nslookup [www.yahoo.com]("http://www.yahoo.com") 10.1.1.1) but not if I don't (e.g. nslookup [www.yahoo.com]("http://www.yahoo.com"))

Speaking of resolv.conf, is nslookup tied to resolv.conf in some way? There is nothing in resolv.conf right now (it just says "#Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)#  DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN"). If resolvconf is supposed to be putting the name servers that I define in /etc/network/interfaces in /etc/resolv.conf it doesn't seem to be happening. 

I don't know if I'm using dns-nameservers the wrong way in /etc/network/interfaces, or if I'm supposed to define my name servers in an entirely different file, or if there is something wrong with resolvconf. Can anybody help?

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2014-03-30
resolve.conf is dynamically generated.  You should have; (For a default serch extension of no-ip.org)

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search no-ip.org


If you do not, try a reboot with the proper /etc/network/interfaces file.

---

### Post by Sassy_Jack on 2014-03-31
Thank you for your reply.    

So what you are saying is that my /etc/network/interfaces file is wrong in some way. That narrows down the source of problem for me a lot, although I'm not sure what specifically is wrong in the interfaces file.    

I'm fairly certain the syntax is correct for dns-nameservers and whatnot. Maybe the problem is where dns-nameservers is defined? I can only think of two other possibilities:    

1) I define dns-nameservers, etc. under the loopback interface. I don't know if this can be done, but it sort of makes sense given that I am trying to create a 'global' definition for the name servers.    

2) I define dns-nameservers for all interfaces, eth0 through eth3. Although I _think_ that I already tried this and it didn't work.    

Will either of the above configuration scenarios work? Unfortunately I don't have access to the server so I can't verify for myself...

---

