---
title: "10.04 server hangs when RAID5 disk is removed"
date: 2010-07-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jordelver on 2010-07-20
Hi,
I've got a new Ubuntu 10.04 server install with a new 3 disk RAID 5. The boot disk is separate, not part of the RAID.

I was trying to practice what I would do if a disk died to recover the RAID, so I unplugged one of the three disks. The machine now just hangs on startup. It shows fsck at the top of the screen but doesn't got anywhere from there. If you press a key it shows the Ubuntu splash screen.

If I plug the disk back in, everything boots up normally.

So, my question is, how do I get the machine to boot with one of the RAID members missing? I know I can recover it using the Live CD, but it would be nice to be able to get back into the machine without the CD.

Thanks in advance :)

---

### Post by mattlandry on 2010-07-20
I have noticed the same issue, it's the only thing keeping me from using Ubuntu as my home server right now. A RAID array that does not keep going when a disk fails (unless someone is at the machine with a monitor and keyboard plugged in, reads the message on the screen and presses ENTER or the appropriate command) pretty much defeats half the reason for using RAID in the first place. 

One solution/workaround I found was to right a script that checks for a failed RAID disk on boot up and if it finds it, it forces the system to boot anyway. You can then set the script to run on startup. I forgot the exact command but I think it was a mdadm command.

I didn't bother with this though. I found it easier to just use another distro like OpenSuse or CentOS which actually handle a RAID disk failure properly.


I really wish Ubuntu would fix this issue as I have my own pet peeves with OpenSuse and CentOS and would really prefer to use Ubuntu if it weren't for the RAID thing.

---

### Post by mattlandry on 2010-07-20
I found some info on this bug and a possible fix ( I haven;t tried it myself yet). Here is the link.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdadm/+bug/462258](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mdadm/+bug/462258)


It says the following: 


Karmic release note:

Automatic boot from a degraded RAID array is not configured correctly after installation

Even if "boot from a degraded array" is set to yes during the install the system will not be properly configured to automatically boot from a degraded array. A workaround is to run dpkg-reconfigure mdadm and select again the option to boot from a degraded array once the system has rebooted after the installation (462258)


Hope this helps.

---

### Post by jordelver on 2010-07-21
Thanks for the response.

> A workaround is to run dpkg-reconfigure mdadm and select again the option to boot from a degraded array once the system has rebooted after the installation 

I done this now, but it still doesn't boot. I'm a bit confused about this anyway because my / is not on the RAID. Hmmm.

I'll have to keep digging :)

---

### Post by jordelver on 2010-07-21
Ok, so if I add ```
noauto
``` to ```
/etc/fstab
``` then the machine boots and the RAID array shows this:

> Personalities : [linear] [multipath] [raid0] [raid1] [raid6] [raid5] [raid4] [raid10] 
md0 : inactive sda1[0](S) sdb1[1](S)
      2930271872 blocks
       
unused devices: <none>

If I try to mount the array manually like this

> 
sudo mount -t xfs /dev/md0 /storage 
mount: /dev/md0: can't read superblock


it can't read the device.

So, I think it's hanging trying to mount /dev/md0. 

Can I specify a timeout or something?

---

### Post by jordelver on 2010-07-24
Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by fatbotgw on 2010-07-24
If the array is showing as "inactive" then you need to activate it.

I believe the command is:  mdadm -R /dev/md0

Then try to mount the array.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-07-24
> **jordelver said:**
> Anyone have any ideas?

I don't know if it is the same thing I was running into after kernel updates (and having to rebuild the drivers for my HW RAID card) but when that happens, does hitting "s" cause it to continue?

If that works, then it has to do with the kernel not finding the device listed in fstab. "s" skips it.

---

### Post by YorYor on 2010-07-25
Well, a RAID5 should still remain a valid and detectable "device" when one of the disks fail. Why do sda1 and sdb1 appear as (S) spares though? What's /proc/mdstat when you plug sdc back in?

---

### Post by jordelver on 2010-07-25
> I don't know if it is the same thing I was running into after kernel updates (and having to rebuild the drivers for my HW RAID card) but when that happens, does hitting "s" cause it to continue?

Haha, no we're getting somewhere! :) 

's' allows me to skip and the machine continues to boot.

So, in a disaster recovery situation, I can add another disk and resync the array. I've also managed to mount /dev/md0 using these commands:

```

sudo mdadm --run /dev/md0
mount /dev/md0 /storage -t xfs

```

The mdadm --run command makes the array active again so that it can be mounted.

I've now copied a file to the mounted array, shutdown the machine and plugged in the "missing" disk again. The array is now resyncing, but it looks like it will be fine.

> Well, a RAID5 should still remain a valid and detectable "device" when one of the disks fail. Why do sda1 and sdb1 appear as (S) spares though? What's /proc/mdstat when you plug sdc back in?

Not sure why they show as spares. If I plug the disk back in without mounting /dev/md0 the array looks normal and is active. I too would like the machine to continue mount the degraded array but I assume this approach is help you not destroy your data if another disk fails. I can live with that. I wonder what happens if you have more than 3 disks in the array?

Thanks everyone! :)

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-07-25
Glad that got it to boot. :)

I don't know if it's a bug or not that it doesn't display an error message.

---

### Post by jordelver on 2010-07-25
> I don't know if it's a bug or not that it doesn't display an error message.

I think it should at least display something! :)

Thanks

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-07-25
> **jordelver said:**
> I think it should at least display something! :)

Thanks

[Filed a bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/609864").. we'll see if it actually gets attention.

---

### Post by jordelver on 2010-07-26
> Filed a bug report.. we'll see if it actually gets attention.

Thanks for filing the report. We'll wait and see what happens.

---

