---
title: "[SOLVED] BIND9 - DNS zones recognized by nslookup but not ping"
date: 2008-01-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Pitt Stains on 2008-01-08
Hello,

I have set up a DNS server using BIND9 on my network.  The DNS server is at 10.10.10.60 (runs Ubuntu 7.10 Server).  The /etc/bind/named.conf.local file contains only one zone definition, for a zone called "foo.local".  In named.conf.options, I've entered my ISP's nameservers as forwarders.

On my desktop machine, I've set 10.10.10.60 as the only DNS server to query.  (In the GUI for Ubuntu 7.10, these settings are at System > Administration > Network, under the DNS tab.)

When I go to the command line and do:
```
nslookup foo.local
```
... I get the correct result (10.10.10.61).

When I do:
```
ping foo.local
```
... I get this:
```
ping: unknown host foo.local
```

However, pinging by IP is successful, i.e.,
```
ping 10.10.10.61
```

It seems to me that the DNS server is doing what it's supposed to; it's job is just to translate host names to IP addresses.  That leaves the desktop as the source of the problem.  I should also mention that pages load when I enter 10.10.10.61 into my web browser, but not when I enter foo.local.

Thanks for your help,
-Pitt

---

### Post by koenn on 2008-01-08
> 
On my desktop machine, I've set 10.10.10.60 as the only DNS server to query. (In the GUI for Ubuntu 7.10, these settings are at System > Administration > Network, under the DNS tab.)
I don't trust GUI's. Do
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
``` to check which dns servers the system (really) uses

---

### Post by Pitt Stains on 2008-01-08
> **koenn said:**
> I don't trust GUI's. Do
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
``` to check which dns servers the system (really) uses

I don't trust them either.  I may have actually edited this manually.  The output is:
```
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!



nameserver 10.10.10.60

```

---

### Post by koenn on 2008-01-08
hmm ...
foo.local is a domain, right ? you need to ping a hostname 
eg server01.foo.local

the return you get from nslookup is probably  just
- the server it's using foor the lookup
- the name server for the domain foo.local.

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-08
Just to add to that, don't use nslookup as its use has been deprecated given it can often give very misleading results.

Try **dig foo.local +trace** instead and see what that gives you.

Mathew

---

### Post by chivinou on 2008-01-12
I had the same problem and it was caused by this line in /etc/nsswitch.conf:
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

This caused all .local lookups to fail so I changed it to
hosts:          files dns

I have no idea what the implications of the changes are :???:

After the fact I found this bug report here for the same problem: [https://bugs.cs.uu.nl/browse/NIXPKGS-79](https://bugs.cs.uu.nl/browse/NIXPKGS-79)

Anyway, thanks for your post, I thought I was going crazy!

---

### Post by Pitt Stains on 2008-01-16
Well, I have a few updates here.  Sorry for the delay; I've been swamped at work.

First, setting up a zone record for foo.local fails because because the TLD (top level domain) "local" is not defined.  My previous experience with BIND was with world-accessible websites using TLDs like "com" and "net".  These are already defined by BIND -- or rather, BIND points you to the internet's root servers where the "com", "net", and other TLDs are defined.  (Someone feel free to correct me if I've mucked up the details.)

However, since I'm making up my own private TLD, I need to define it somewhere.  So, my zone file should have been for "local" instead of "foo.local".  In other words, my /etc/bind/named.conf.local file should contain this:

```
       zone "local" {
                type master;
                file "/etc/bind/db.local";
        };

```

instead of this:

```

       zone "foo.local" {
                type master;
                file "/etc/bind/db.foo.local";
        };


```

However, I also ran into a problem with the "local" TLD.  I don't know if "local" (like "localhost") is reserved by the operating system or what, but basically I was no better off than when I started: I could translate "foo.local" into the correct IP address, but I couldn't ping it or pull it up in Firefox.  I'd be interested in learning more about chivinou's findings with regard to the mdns4_minimal reference in the /etc/nsswitch.conf file.  If anyone knows what's going on there, please post!

I resolved this last problem by using "loc" as my TLD instead of "local", i.e., foo.loc instead of foo.local:

```

       zone "loc" {
                type master;
                file "/etc/bind/db.loc";
        };


```

---

