---
title: "Exim4 configuration with stunnel4 for sbcglobal.net address"
date: 2014-10-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by JimLS on 2014-10-05
Trying to set up Exim4 to use an sbcglobal (att) address.  From what I have read Exim4 does not support this - port is 465.  Want to be able to send command line email from scripts.  I have used stunnel with postfix this way so the problem seems to be exim setup.

I have used 
dpkg-reconfigure exim4-config

and answered the questions
Mail sent by smart host; received via SMTP or fetchmail
System mail name:  sbcglobal.net
IP addresses to listen for incoming SMTP: 127.0.0.1
Other destinations for which mail is accepted:  (blank)
Machines to relay mail for:  (blank)
IP address or hostname of outgoing smarthost:  127.0.0.1::2525
Hide local mail name in outgoing mail:  Yes
Visible domain name for local users:  sbcglobal.net
Keep number of DNS queries minimal:  No
Delivery for local mail:  mbox format
Split configuration into small files:  No

Stunnel is setup to use localhost:2525 for incoming and smtp.att.yahoo.com:465 as outgoing

I got "remote host address is the localhost" errors so tried to add the changes noted here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857541](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857541)
(with changes to site names and port numbers of course...)

I also changed split configuration into small files to yes since that is what they used.  I also removed the port (2525) from my answer above since I put it in the config file.

Now I get:
root@raspbx:/etc/exim4/conf.d/transport# dpkg-reconfigure exim4-config
2014-10-05 13:37:40 Exim configuration error in line 804 of /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated.tmp:
  option "port" unknown ("driver" must be specified before any private options)
Invalid new configfile /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated.tmp, not installing
/var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated.tmp to /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated

SBC/ATT has changed there requirements over time so I am having a hard time finding examples of what works.

If I can't solve this soon I can replace exim with postfix but figured I would give exim a shot since it seems to be the new default.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-10-09
Moved to Server Platforms.

---

